05 September 2021||New Delhi,||ECI declares bypolls, ends Bengal suspense||The byelection in the Bhabanipur Assembly constituency in West Bengal, from where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is expected to contest, will be held on September 30, the Election Commission of India announced on Saturday. The election to the Samserganj and Jangipur Assembly seats, also in West Bengal, and Pipli in Odisha too will be held on that date. The elections to the three seats were adjourned after the death of candidates and later deferred in view of the second wave of COVID-19. The counting of votes in all four constituencies will be held on October 3. The nominations are to be filed from September 6 to 13. The byelections to three Lok Sabha and 31 other Assembly seats have, however, been kept on hold. Ms. Banerjee, who lost from Nandigram in May, has until November 5 to get elected in order to continue as the Chief Minister. The commission, in a statement, said the Chief Secretaries of Odisha and West Bengal informed it that the COVID-19 situation in their States was under control. The West Bengal Chief Secretary said the State was ready to hold election and that floods had not affected the poll-bound constituencies. “He also informed that in view of the administrative exigencies and public interest and to avoid a vacuum in the State, byelection for 159-Bhabanipur, Kolkata from where Ms. Mamata Banerjee intends to contest elections may be conducted,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eci-declares-bypolls-ends-bengal-suspense/article36299038.ece
05 September 2021||Chennai,||Gold rush continues at Paralympics||India’s tryst with medals at the Tokyo Paralympics continued on Saturday, the penultimate day of the quadrennial championship. Indian athletes excelled in badminton and shooting, gaining a yield of two golds, one silver and a lone bronze. Overall, India stayed at the 26th position with a consolidated medal haul of four golds, seven silvers and six bronzes. Pramod Bhagat led the charge in badminton, clinching gold in the men’s SL3 category. In the final, Bhagat defeated Great Britain’s Daniel Bethell 21-14, 21-17 during a clash that lasted 45 minutes. With badminton just making its debut in the paralympic circuit, Bhagat also became the maiden champion in this segment. Meanwhile, India’s Manoj Sarkar secured the bronze in the same men’s SL3 badminton section. Sarkar defeated Japan’s Daisuke Fujihara 22-20, 21-13 in a duel that stretched across 47 minutes. In shooting, Manish Narwal excelled in the P4 mixed 50m air pistol SH1 competition. The 19-year-old scripted a Paralympic record, clocking 218.2 points and India’s cup of joy brimmed as Singhraj Adhana emerged second-best to win the silver at 216.7 points, while Russian Sergey Malyshev got the bronze. The Indian contingent has a lot to look forward to on Sunday especially in badminton and shooting. Suhas Yathiraj and Krishna Nagar compete in the badminton men’s singles SL4 and SH6 finals respectively. And in shooting, Sidhartha Babu, Deepak and Avani Lekhara will compete in the R6 - Mixed 50m Rifle Prone SH1 segment’s qualification rounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gold-rush-continues-at-paralympics/article36299029.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Samam mission seeks to achieve gender equality||The Culture Department on Saturday launched ‘Samam’, a wide-ranging, year-long awareness campaign focussing on gender equality. The drive, initiated at a time of increasing reports of dowry deaths and violence against women, aims at carrying the message to the grass-roots by tapping the power of visual media, literature, music and art. Addressing a gathering at the Mascot Hotel here through videoconferencing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who inaugurated the campaign, said: "Our reform movements came to a partial halt somewhere along the way. Many had assumed that all social inequalities will end with the achievement of independence. However, regressive, communal forces, wishing to send women back to the kitchen have always been working in the background. With the implementation of neo-liberal reforms in the 1990s, wealth became the hallmark of respect in society, giving respectability to practices such as dowry and turning women into commodities in the marriage market." He said that even in this social situation, there have been commendable interventions to counter this trend, including democratic decentralisation. Need for change "However, there is a need for change in improving participation of women in the labour force. We also have to change the general assumption that only women are supposed to do house work and the taking care of elders and children. For that, the government is now taking a creative path to bring about a change in mindsets," said Mr. Pinarayi. Culture Minister Saji Cherian, who presided over the event, declared singer K.S. Chithra as the ambassador of the campaign. "Women have come forward a lot from the days of the Manusmriti sloka, which said they do not deserve independence. Now, they have made their presence felt in every possible field. However, many of them lack safety, at workplaces, at home or even while travelling to work. They should be able to walk freely at any time of the day," said Ms. Chithra. Over the course of the year, the government will be honouring 1,001 women who have been achievers in various fields. At the inaugural event, 11 were felicitated, including folk singer Nanjamma, traditional healer Lakshmikutty Amma, athlete M.D. Valsamma, musician K. Omanakutty, former Director General of Police R. Sreelekha, actor Sethu Lakshmi, cinematographer Fousiya Fathima, Thiruvananthapuram Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran, ambulance driver Deepa Joseph and deep-sea fisher K.C. Rekha. Former Supreme Court Judge M. Fathima Beevi, who was unable to attend the felicitation, sent a message. Drive in schools, colleges Mr. Cherian said that short films, music albums, radio programmes, literary events and dance-music programmes will be produced over the course of the year. Committees have been formed up to the ward-level to ensure the campaign's reach. The drive will be organised in all schools and colleges once they reopen.  The government is taking a creative path to bring about a change in mindsets, says Pinarayi Vijayan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/samam-mission-seeks-to-achieve-gender-equality/article36299740.ece
05 September 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra reports 4,130 COVID-19 cases, 64 deaths||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 4,130 new COVID-19 cases and 64 fatalities, the State Health Department said. The total case tally has risen to 64,82,117, while the toll has reached 1,37,707. The State set a new single-day vaccination record by administering the COVID-19 vaccine to 11.91 lakh beneficiaries, an official said. The number of recoveries rose to 62,88,851, with 2,506 patients being discharged during the day. The State now has 52,025 active cases, with the case recovery rate at 97.02% and the fatality rate at 2.12%. Hingoli as well as rural parts of Chandrapur, Nanded, Akola and Nagpur districts and municipal corporations of Parbhani, Jalgaon and Dhule did not report any fresh case. Ahmednagar district reported the highest new cases at 730, followed by rural parts of Pune with 506 infections. Among districts, the highest number of fatalities were also reported in the rural parts of Ahmednagar district, where 17 people succumbed since Friday evening. Of eight regions, the Pune region saw the highest new cases at 1,560, followed by 951 infections in the Mumbai region. Nashik region reported 857 fresh infections, Kolhapur 547, Latur 146, Aurangabad 24, Akola 27 and Nagpur region 18. Pune region recorded the highest deaths at 20, followed by Nashik region with 19. Aurangabad, Akola and Nagpur regions did not report any fresh deaths. Mumbai region recorded 13 deaths, Kolhapur nine and Latur three. 413 cases in Mumbai Mumbai saw 413 new cases and four deaths, while Pune reported 218 infections and no fatality. Pune district has also the highest active cases at 15,469. With 1,72,875 new tests, the number of samples tested so far reached 5,46,60,825. A total of 3,02,196 people are in home quarantine and 2,013 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-reports-4130-covid-19-cases-64-deaths/article36299050.ece
05 September 2021||new delhi,||Talks with Taliban ‘reassuring’: Shringla||Four days after announcing that the Indian government has held talks with the Taliban in Doha, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said in Washington on Friday that the Taliban thus far had been “reassuring” and “reasonable”, but he stressed that the government continued to approach the new regime in Kabul cautiously. His comments came as the Taliban continued to work on government formation, which was delayed for the second day, amid reports of differences between various factions. “I think they [Taliban] have…made reassuring noises from their side. Our engagement with them has been limited, and it’s not that we’ve a robust conversation. But for whatever conversations we have had so far, the Taliban seem to indicate they will be reasonable in the way they handle things,” Mr. Shringla told presspersons, indicating that there had been more than one such engagement with the group. According to the government’s statements, the meeting with Taliban Political Office chief Muhammad Sher Abbas Stanekzai and Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal on Tuesday was held at the Indian Embassy at the Taliban’s request. Officials indicated that it was part of the Taliban’s desire to reach out to countries with an interest in Afghanistan. While giving no details of the Taliban’s requests during the meeting, the Ministry of External Affairs said India had brought up the safety of Indian nationals and Afghan minorities wishing to visit India, as well as India’s concern that Afghan soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities . Despite the sanguine approach, officials told The Hindu they are watching events surrounding the government formation in Afghanistan very closely for signals that could indicate more worries for India. To begin with, the delay in government formation by the Taliban could indicate that the Haqqani Network, which has often targeted Indian interests, is jockeying for a bigger role in the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/talks-with-taliban-reassuring-shringla/article36299025.ece
05 September 2021||Mangaluru,||Mixed response to weekend curfew in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi districts||There was a mixed response to the weekend curfew in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Saturday with many shops, apart from milk vending, fruits, vegetable, meat, and grocery shops, remaining open till 2 p.m. The schools and colleges, however, held online classes as directed the district administrations. While trade bodies and elected representatives are seeking relaxation of the weekend curfew in the two districts, Deputy Commissioners of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts K.V. Rajendra and Kurma Rao M. on Friday asked merchants to strictly comply with the norms or face penal action by the district administration. An audio conversation of a trade body representative with Dr. Rajendra went viral on social media where he is heard telling the former to have patience and comply with the norms for another week. “The positivity rate will certainly come down and we will seek removal of weekend curfew,” said Dr. Rajendra and added that officials are acting as per the directions of the State government. “If you (merchants) defy with the norms, we will be forced to take penal action,” he said. Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor on Saturday supported the demand by fellow legislators from the districts and said he too was in favour of removal of weekend curfew. When this came up for discussion during a review meeting conducted virtually by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday, Mr. Bommai reportedly asked officials from the two districts to further increase the daily tests and vaccination in their areas and said decision on withdrawal of weekend curfew will be taken shortly. On Saturday, several shops were found open in the morning in Mangaluru and Udupi cities. While shopping malls largely traded in grocery and other essential items, there were a few malls that allowed people to purchase readymade cloths and non-essential items. Only a few private buses operated in Mangaluru and Udupi. Most of the shops, except for milk vending shops, were closed around 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mixed-response-to-weekend-curfew-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-districts/article36299850.ece
05 September 2021||MYSURU,||Tobacco growers in State expect better prices for bright grade variety||Anticipating a higher yield of bright grade variety this year, tobacco growers in the State are looking forward to better prices for their commodity during the auctions scheduled to begin across auction platforms before this month-end. Large quantities of low grade tobacco last year had put paid to the hopes of growers. But this year, the farmers are expecting higher prices not only for growing bright grade variety in large quantities, but also owing to slump in the overall yield of the crop. Though the crop size fixed for the ensuing year was 97 million kg, sources in the tobacco industry estimate the yield to be in the region of 75 to 80 million kg. “We are expecting a good demand from the traders and tobacco industry this year. The shortfall in availability combined with higher volumes of bright grade tobacco is expected to drive the prices up,” said president of the Federation of Virginia Flue Cured Tobacco Growers Associations, Javare Gowda. Many parts of tobacco-growing areas in Mysuru district received less than optimum rainfall for the crop, leading to a decline in the yield. However, the percentage of bright grade variety is expected to go up substantially this year. Last year, many tobacco growers were hit badly as a large percentage of the yield was low grade. There were few takers for low grade and the price offered was abysmal. While the average price commanded for bright grade tobacco last season was Rs. 182.77 per kg, the low grade fetched an average of only Rs. 80.88 per kg. Medium grade tobacco, however, had been sold for an average of Rs. 138.76 per kg. Out of the 88 million kgs of tobacco sold last season, almost 40 million kgs was graded as low. Barely, 13.5 million kg was regarded as bright. The Tobacco Board has set September 26, a Sunday as the date for start of auction season, Mr. Gowda said the farmers had urged the board to advance the start by two days to September 24, which is an auspicious day. Meanwhile, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, in a statement, said he had suggested to Tobacco Board chairman Raghunath Babu to hold a meeting of tobacco farmers and traders before September 20. An interaction between farmers and traders is aimed at harmonious transaction of business during the auctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tobacco-growers-in-state-expect-better-prices-for-bright-grade-variety/article36299637.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Chirayinkeezhu goes smart||An Intelligent Property Management System (IPMS), which enables the conversion of all basic information of a panchayat to Geographical Information System-based micro-level land use information and socio-economic data of the residents, was launched at Chirayinkeezhu grama panchayat on Saturday. Apex Body for Coir vice president Ananthalavattom Anandan inaugurated the system by flying a drone for the survey of resources. Data are collected with the help of the latest technologies such as drone, differential GPS and laser tapping. This information will be made available on a web portal for easy retrieval. Accurate information The IPMS is a system that enables accurate resource information, local planning, development, welfare planning, implementation and monitoring through a single website. The IT initiative of the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society, UL Technology Solutions (ULTS), developed the system. Complete land use data of the panchayat and statistics of wetlands, wastelands, paddy fields, watersheds, rivers, ponds, lakes and other water sources will be compiled. Buildings, roads, bridges, service providers, electric lights, posts, water supply pipes and taps will all be embedded on the map with information, including photographs. The correct boundaries between the wards and other local bodies will also be recorded. Tax assessment Accurate information on property area, owner information, building area, floors and number of rooms will be collected without field survey. Based on this, tax assessment can be done accurately. This is expected to help prevent corruption in tax estimation and evasion and increase tax revenue. Collecting basic health information, socio-economic information, including pension and ration card information of the residents, will make it easier to identify beneficiaries and formulate welfare schemes.  Data are collected with the help of the latest technologies such as drone, differential GPS, and laser tapping||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chirayinkeezhu-goes-smart/article36299935.ece
05 September 2021||GUNTUR,||List of directors of 47 corporations released||While continuing with its agenda of social inclusiveness and widening the social base, the YSRCP government has appointed 481 directors to 47 corporations, prioritising women and weaker sections, according to Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser (public affairs). “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has again showed his commitment towards social justice and women empowerment by filling the 481 posts with women (52%) and SC, ST, BC and minorities (58%),” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy, who, along with Home Minister M. Sucharitha and BC Welfare Minister Ch. Venugopala Krishna, and MLAs and MPs, released the list of directors on Saturday. Stating that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy personally made these appointments by considering all aspects, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said no previous government had ever taken up such a task. “Former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had used the BCs, SCs, STs and minorities only as a vote bank. In contrast, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been striving for the uplift of the weaker sections to ensure they are a part of decision making process,” he said. Mr. Venugopala Krishna alleged that the TDP government had betrayed the BCs. “The YSRCP government has stood by the weaker sections. It has provided them almost Rs. 1,04,240 crore through DBT and another Rs. 1,40,438 crore through non-DBT schemes,” he said. Ms. Sucharitha said, “The Chief Minister has given a lion’s share to women reflecting true empowerment. Women have been prioritised in the nominated posts and the Cabinet. Many schemes focussed on empowering women. All the 31 lakh house site pattas have been given in the name of women.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/list-of-directors-of-47-corporations-released/article36299028.ece
05 September 2021||KADAPA,||This school saw enrolment go up 30 times in five years||Much before ‘Nadu Nedu’ was conceived, this single-teacher school in a nondescript village registered a quantum jump of over 30 times in enrolment in five years, for which it even got a sanction of three additional teaching positions. Welcome to Mandal Parishat Primary School, Pittigunta, in Kasinayana mandal of Kadapa district, which has set the bar high for other schools to emulate. Staring at a blank future over its very existence in 2016 with just three students, it registered a student strength of 23 in 2017, 62 in 2018, 83 in 2019 and finally breached the three-digit mark to get 103 students in 2020. Poaching became a thing of the past and ‘reverse poaching’ started four years back, leading to ‘en masse migration’ from the private school situated half a kilometre away. Ganugapenta Ramana Reddy, the teacher who joined here in August 2017 from the nearby P. Uppuluru school, took up the task of convincing parents of children studying in private schools. “We explained the advantages of a public school and even compared the level of knowledge gained by their wards and my students. The thoroughly-satisfied parents agreed for the switchover”, Mr. Reddy told The Hindu . He said that students from the nearby Porumamilla town made a beeline to Pittigunta. When the enrolment picked pace, the teacher got two teachers recruited on part-time basis and paid them salary from his pocket, till he got official sanction. Apart from spending Rs. 1.50 lakh for developing a library, he also bought modern gadgets like laptop, audio-visual system, photocopier and two Smart TVs to ensure tech-driven education. “Our syllabus is equivalent to CBSE. We use high standard mathematics text books by Chand Publications”, adds Mr. Reddy, who received the district level ‘Best teacher award’ in 2016. Even COVID-19 could not dampen their spirits. When most corporate schools opted for online mode of education, this school functioned normally by following physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/this-rural-school-in-ap-a-big-draw/article36299005.ece
05 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||‘Centre sets target to become self-reliant in edible oil production’||The Union government has set a target to become self-reliant in edible oil production and will encourage farmers through the distribution of oil seeds kits for increasing cultivation area, Union Minister for State of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje has said. Ms. Karandlaje, speaking to presspersons at the Gulbarga University guest house on Saturday, reiterated that the government was working towards reducing the dependence on imports. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has recently announced a National Mission on Edible Oils – Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) to make India self-sufficient in edible oil. A sum of Rs. 11,000 crore has been earmarked under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Scheme to help farmers get quality seeds and technology to promote farming and to produce edible oil. “Despite having such a large cultivation area, we have failed to produce edible oil in a large quantity. Nearly 70% of edible oil is imported from countries like Indonesia and Malaysia and every year we spend around Rs. 7,500 crore,” she added. As per a survey, the agricultural contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of India has increased from 13% to 20.22%. The production of food grains, fruits and vegetables has seen an all-time record last year despite the pandemic. The country recorded the production of 305 million tonnes of food grains and 326 million tonnes of fruits and vegetables. The Centre has taken several initiatives to increase the production of pulses and oilseeds in the coming two years, she said. Lauding the Modi government for increased budgetary allocation for the agriculture sector, Ms. Karandlaje said that a budgetary allocation of Rs. 1,23,000 crore was made for the farming sector. When the Congress was at the Centre, it had merely allocated Rs. 27,000 crore for agriculture, the Minister added. The Centre has also set a target for establishing 10,000 Farmers’ Produce Organisation (FPOs) across the country. In Karnataka, 750 FPOs will come up in the next year and the government has earmarked Rs. 1 lakh crore under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, she said. To increase the yield, the government has planned to encourage the cultivation of suitable crops in a climate of a particular region under the ‘One District, One Product’ programme, in which dedicated clusters will be set up in each district to double farmers’ income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-sets-target-to-become-self-reliant-in-edible-oil-production/article36299641.ece
05 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Good law and order must for freedoms, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said for a successful democracy, it was vital to protect freedom of expression and individual liberty, and this could not be ensured if law and order was not good enough. He said a campaign was going on to malign the image of the police by exaggerating a few untoward incidents and not highlighting their good deeds. Police image Speaking at the 51st Raising Day celebrations of the Bureau of Police Research and Development, the Minister asked it to take initiatives for improving the image of the police. He said the good work and sacrifices of police personnel should be highlighted and recognised. Mr. Shah said more than 35,000 police personnel had sacrificed their lives since Independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/good-law-and-order-must-for-freedoms-says-shah/article36299022.ece
05 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||16 more succumb to COVID in State||The State reported 16 deaths due to COVID and 1,502 new infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The cumulative tally and toll increased to 20,19,702  and 13,903 respectively. The death rate remains at 0.69%. The number of active cases slightly came down to 14,883 with 1,525 recoveries in the past day. The total recoveries stand at 19,90,916 with a recovery rate of 98.57%. The positivity rate of the 63,717 tests conducted in the past day was 2.36% and the overall positivity rate of the 2.68 crore tests conducted was 7.52%. New deaths and cases Chittoor reported four deaths while Krishna and West Godavari reported three each and East Godavari and Guntur reported two each in the past day. Kurnool and Prakasam districts reported on death each. Six districts reported no death. Nellore reported 260 new infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (208), East Godavari (191), Prakasam (152), West Godavari (146), Guntur (143), Krishna (129), Kadapa (113), Visakhapatnam (64), Srikakulam (38), Anantapur (21), Kurnool (20) and Vizianagaram (17). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,86,535), Chittoor (2,38,953), West Godavari (1,74,931), Guntur (1,73,020), Anantapur (1,57,233), Visakhapatnam (1,55,233), Nellore (1,40,918), Prakasam (1,34,180), Kurnool (1,23,838), Srikakulam (1,22,185), Krishna (1,14,325), Kadapa (1,12,978) and Vizianagaram (82,478).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-more-succumb-to-covid-in-state/article36299027.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu removes 1% market cess on cotton||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday announced the cancellation of the 1% market cess on cotton and waste cotton. He noted that this was a long-pending demand of entrepreneurs and weavers. “The government will introduce an amendment in the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing Regulation Act, 1987, in the current session of the Assembly,” he said in a suo motu statement in the Assembly. The Chief Minister said that though Tamil Nadu constituted a third of the textile industry in the country and 45% of the yarn industry, the raw materials of up to 95% were being imported from other States. There are 1,570 textile mills in the State. When cotton and waste cotton were imported or sold in the State, they were treated as agricultural products, and 1% levy was imposed by the market committee. “The levy should be charged only for cotton bales. But it is collected for cotton and waste cotton, and this causes enormous hardship for small and medium textile mills, which have to pay huge amounts for transport,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-removes-1-market-cess-on-cotton/article36299453.ece
05 September 2021||Kolkata,||Opposition strength shrinking by the day in West Bengal||With BJP MLA from Kaliganj in West Bengal’s Uttar Dinajpur Soumen Roy on Saturday joining the Trinamool Congress, the number of BJP MLAs who have defected to the ruling party has risen to four in the past four months since the Assembly polls. Defection as a political phenomenon was never as commonplace in Bengal as it has been since Trinamool Congress came to power in 2011. In the first term of the Trinamool Congress government (2011- 2016), 23 MLAs from the Opposition parties — 17 from Congress and six from the Left Front — joined the ruling party. Between 2016 and 2021, 18 Congress and four Left MLAs had switched sides to join the ruling party. This has led to a situation described by political observers as the “shrinking Opposition space”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/opposition-strength-shrinking-by-the-day-in-west-bengal/article36299814.ece
05 September 2021||Mumbai,||Centre using ED to subdue Opposition: Sharad Pawar||The BJP-led Union government is using the Enforcement Directorate to “subdue” Opposition parties across the country, NCP president Sharad Pawar alleged on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Pawar said the misuse of the investigation agency was being seen not only in Maharashtra but in other States too. “Of late the [Union] government seems to be using this agency to subdue the Opposition. This is happening not only in Maharashtra, but also in Punjab, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and in some southern States too,” the NCP chief said. The Union government is also ignoring the farmers who have been protesting against the new farm laws for over a year, the former agriculture minister said. “It has been 14 months since farmers have sat in protest, leaving behind their homes. The Centre should have taken cognisance of these protesters who have been sitting there for so long, but it is unfortunate that they are being ignored,” he said. On the BJP’s demand that temples in Maharashtra be thrown open to the public, he said the Centre itself has given instructions to the government about taking extra precaution in view of the COVID-19 situation. “The Chief Minister and State government are following the Centre’s directive,” said Mr. Pawar, whose party is part of the ruling combine. He cleared the air about Swabhimani Shetakari Sanghatana chief Raju Shetti’s name being recommended for appointment as an MLC from the Governor’s quota. “We have kept our word. We have proposed that Shetti’s name be included in the list. We are waiting for the Governor’s decision,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-using-ed-to-subdue-opposition-sharad-pawar/article36299048.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Lawyers, CM laud Oka||Several members of the Bengaluru Advocates’ Association heaped praise on Abhay Shreeniwas Oka here on Saturday. Mr. Oka, who was Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court, has been elevated to the Supreme Court. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai described Mr. Oka as “a judge of high calibre”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lawyers-cm-laud-oka/article36299635.ece
05 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Congress wins 670 panchayat samiti seats in Rajasthan||The ruling Congress on Saturday won 670 panchayat samiti seats and the BJP trailed behind with 551 seats in the elections held in six districts of Rajasthan. Polling for electing 1,564 members of 78 panchayat samitis and 200 members of six zila parishads was held in three phases. While the Congress obtained the majority in the panchayat samitis, the BJP was leading in the zila parishad polls by winning 55 of the 115 seats for which the results were announced till late Saturday evening. The Congress won 52 zila parishad seats and the Bahujan Samaj Party three. The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, a former ally of the BJP in Rajasthan which quit the NDA over the issue of farm laws last year, won 40 panchayat samiti seats while Independents bagged 290 seats. The BSP won 11 panchayat samiti seats. The polls were held in the districts of Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa and Sirohi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-wins-670-panchayat-samiti-seats-in-rajasthan/article36299550.ece
05 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Few women make it to the top, says CJI||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday lamented that “very few women find representation at the top” and admitted that even a “mere” 11% representation of women on the Bench of the Supreme Court was achieved with “great difficulty”. Ideally, women should have got at least 50% representation at all levels after 75 years of Independence, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/few-women-make-it-to-the-top-says-cji/article36299551.ece
05 September 2021||Mumbai,||No bail for Armaan Kohli in drug case||A court on Saturday rejected the bail application of actor Armaan Kohli, arrested in a drug seizure case. Mr. Kohli was arrested last Sunday following a raid by the Narcotics Control Bureau at his residence during which banned narcotics were allegedly seized. The actor argued that only a small quantity of drugs was recovered from his possession, and he was entitled for bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-bail-for-armaan-kohli-in-drug-case/article36299046.ece
05 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Peace deal inked to end Karbi unrest||A tripartite agreement among five insurgent groups of Assam, the Centre and the State government was signed on Saturday to end years of violence in the Karbi Anglong region. The insurgent groups which signed the peace accord include the Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Liberation Front, the People’s Democratic Council of Karbi Longri, the United People’s Liberation Army and the Karbi People’s Liberation Tigers factions. Under the peace accord, more than 1,000 armed cadres have abjured violence and joined the mainstream. The agreement provides for their rehabilitation. The Centre will make available a special development package of Rs. 1,000 crore over the next five years, for the Assam government to undertake specific projects for the development of Karbi areas. The memorandum of settlement would ensure greater devolution of autonomy to the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC), protection of identity, language and culture of the Karbi people and focused development of the Council area, without affecting the territorial and administrative integrity of Assam, said the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/peace-deal-inked-to-end-karbi-unrest/article36299023.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||To teacher, with love!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/to-teacher-with-love/article36299036.ece
05 September 2021||Kolkata,||TMC hopeful of Mamata victory in Bhabanipur||The Trinamool Congress leadership on Saturday said party chairperson and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee would win the bypoll from Bhabanipur with a record margin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-hopeful-of-mamata-victory-in-bhabanipur/article36299813.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Protest against state of Anjanapura Double Road||Some residents brought coracles to paddle in ponds while others planted paddy saplings. They were not on a picnic at a rural or an idyllic spot, but at Anjanapura Double Road. They were protesting against the deplorable state of the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protest-against-state-of-anjanapura-double-road/article36299409.ece
05 September 2021||Mangaluru,||Relieve temporary, employees: Govt.||The Department of Higher Education has again asked all universities in the State to relieve such employees who have been appointed on a temporary basis, on contract, and have been outsourced, without the pre-approval of the government, from their duties with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/relieve-temporary-employees-govt/article36299847.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Vedike’s charge against Siddaramaiah||Vokkaliga Veerashaiva-Lingayat Souharda Vedike has accused the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah of having an “ulterior motive” in conducting the caste census.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vedikes-charge-against-siddaramaiah/article36299638.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Panel to redraw ZP, TP segments to be set up||The Karnataka Cabinet on Saturday decided to establish a delimitation commission for delimitation of zilla and taluk panchayat constituencies in the State by amending the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act, 1993.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-to-redraw-zp-tp-segments-to-be-set-up/article36299639.ece
05 September 2021||Hassan,||Pandemic was no bar for this teacher||Shrikanth Ram Patagar, a drama teacher, knew the importance of regular offline contact with students. So, during the COVID-19 lockdown, he went to villages to meet his students every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pandemic-was-no-bar-for-this-teacher/article36299640.ece
05 September 2021||Srinagar,||Semblance of normalcy in Valley amid shutdown||A spontaneous shutdown was observed in parts of the Kashmir Valley on Saturday as life started limping back to normalcy with the restora- tion of mobile and Internet services three days after Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/semblance-of-normalcy-in-valley-amid-shutdown/article36299559.ece
05 September 2021||Pune,||CBI seeks to invoke UAPA in Dabholkar murder case||The CBI has argued in a court that the five accused in the 2013 murder case of Narendra Dabholkar be tried under the UAPA for striking “terror among a section of people”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-seeks-to-invoke-uapa-in-dabholkar-murder-case/article36299045.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,||State govt. announces plan to boost tourism||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced a slew of measures to boost tourism, including a master plan to improve infrastructure at 300 tourist sites and a tourism policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-announces-plan-to-boost-tourism/article36299449.ece
05 September 2021||CUDDALORE,||College student, two teachers test positive||Two teachers and a college student have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. With this, four teachers in the district have tested positive for the infection since the reopening of schools on September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/college-student-two-teachers-test-positive/article36299450.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 toll reaches 35,000 in Tamil Nadu||The COVID-19 death toll in Tamil Nadu reached 35,000 on Saturday as 20 more persons succumbed to the infection. Chennai has so far recorded 8,408 deaths, followed by Chengalpattu (2,433) and Coimbatore (2,280).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-death-toll-reaches-35000-in-tn/article36299451.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The alliance after the death of its patriarch||The death of Syed Ali Shah Geelani, the 92-year-old separatist leader in Kashmir, came as a body blow to the All Parties Hurriyat Conference, which was already divided and weak, and particularly the pro-Pakistan segment in it. Ailing and living in a house-turned-detention centre for over a decade, Geelani, who co-founded Hurriyat, died on September 1, just five months after his close aide and lieutenant Muhammad Ashraf Sehrai, 78, died in a Jammu jail. The two had stirred the political cauldron of Kashmir as Jamaat-e-Islami members for around six decades. The Jamaat was banned by the Centre on February 28, 2019, two weeks after the Pulwama attack left 40 CRPF jawans dead in south Kashmir. With Geelani and Sehrai dead and the Jamaat banned, the constituency that sees a solution to the Kashmir dispute in merging with Pakistan is now without a structure or a face. Masrat Alam, another prominent pro-Geelani face in the valley, who heads the Muslim League, has been in jail since 2014. The rise The All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC), widely known as the Hurriyat, came into being in July 1993. It was an outcome of the armed rebellion that swept through Jammu & Kashmir in 1989. The unprecedented militancy broke out just three years after the Muslim United Front — of which Geelani and Jamaat-e-Islami were also a part — saw a crushing defeat in the polls, which was touted to be widely rigged in favour of the National Conference and its partners. By 1993, the armed rebellion saw itself split into different ideological compartments, including those that demanded complete independence like the J&K Liberation Front (JKLF) of Yasin Malik; and those which sought a merger with Pakistan such as the Hizbul Mujahideen of Syed Salahuddin. When the special envoys from New Delhi and abroad started meeting to discuss the future of Kashmir, they demanded to see a joint political front from the Kashmir militants. So, around 26 political parties, civil society members and traders’ organisations came together to form the Hurriyat. In its constitution, all the parties agreed that Kashmir was a “disputed State”, called for a “peaceful struggle” and a solution “as per the resolutions passed by the United Nations”, which calls for the right to self-determination of people of J&K. Kashmir’s head cleric Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who was 19 years old in 1993 and had mooted the idea of forming a joint forum, became the first chairman of the amalgam that had both pro-Pakistan and pro-independence organisations in it. The Hurriyat, which wielded influence over the militant outfits and was able to control the streets, became a formidable force in the 1990s. In an address made at Burkina Faso in 1995, then Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao, in an apparent offer to separatists, said “short of azadi (freedom), sky was the limit as far as the demand in Kashmir for autonomy was concerned”. Riding high on its growing popularity among the masses, the Hurriyat’s call for boycotting the 1996 Assembly elections and the 1999 Lok Sabha elections saw noticeable impact on the ground, with many polling booths registering zero voter turnout. Most Hurriyat leaders, including Geelani and Yasin Malik, were lodged in different jails for their anti-election campaign in 1999. Pakistan also started recognising the Hurriyat as “the sole voice” of Kashmiris. The Pakistani Embassy and visiting dignitaries from Islamabad started inviting the Hurriyat-affiliated political outfits for dinners and discussions over the Kashmir issue to the chagrin of New Delhi. This necessitated more engagement with the Hurriyat leaders by the Centre. However, the government exploited the personality clashes within the Hurriyat to pick and choose the leaders to negotiate separately. The engagement, however, did not lead to anything concrete. The September 11, 2001, attacks in the U.S. saw worldwide anger growing against Islamist armed movements. As the West’s attention turned against Islamist militancy and started perceiving it through the prism of terrorism, the Hurriyat also saw its goodwill waning and divisions started cropping up. The split The first major fissure emerged when the Hurriyat constituents accused the Peoples Conference, headed by Abdul Ghani Lone, of fielding proxy candidates in the 2002 Assembly elections. Later, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq’s decision to engage with the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) further deepened the divide, with Geelani raising questions about the futility of engaging New Delhi without a concrete road map for Kashmir. As the growing differences resulted in the Hurriyat’s split in 2003, 12 out of 26 constituents removed Maulana Abbas Ansari, who was pro-Mirwaiz, as its chairman and named Masrat Alam of the Muslim League, who belonged to the Geelani faction, as its head. Later, the Ansari faction met deputy Prime Minister L.K. Advani in 2004 to initiate a dialogue on Kashmir. It also supported former Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf’s four-point formula and advocated a triangular dialogue between Delhi-Srinagar, Delhi-Islamabad and Srinagar-Islamabad after 2005. The ouster of Musharraf from power and the end of the term of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh put the curtain on the four-point formula, which many see as the closest ever Kashmir got to a final settlement in the past three decades. BJP’s approach After its emphatic election victory in 2014, the BJP’s approach towards the Hurriyat also steadily changed. The first major salvo from the BJP came in 2015 when India put a precondition to Pakistani National Security Adviser (NSA) Sartaj Aziz not to meet Hurriyat leaders in New Delhi ahead of the NSA-level talks. Since then, Hurriyat leaders’ meetings with the Pakistani Embassy were discouraged or barred. The government started a crackdown on the Hurriyat in 2017 when many leaders, including Mirwaiz’s spokesman Shahid-ul-Islam and Geelani’s son-in-law Altaf Shah, were arrested. Pro-independence JKLF was banned in March 2019, immediately after the Pulwama attack, and its chairman Yasin Malik was arrested. The frequent raids and questioning of Hurriyat leaders by the National Investigation Agency and the Enforcement Directorate silenced the separatist groups. Both Geelani and Mirwaiz were placed under house detentions. By the time the Centre ended J&K’s special constitutional position on August 5, 2019, the Hurriyat factions were rendered paper tigers with no structure or manpower to mobilise supporters. The Hurriyat’s inability to respond forcefully to the Centre’s decision has earned it a bad name even among its supporters, who have started questioning the entire leadership. Now, with Geelani’s death, the alliance faces a vacuum. The Hurriyat appears to be weakened organisationally, but the sentiment it represents still remains strong among a sizeable population of Kashmir. The Centre’s recent statement that it’s not going to ban the Hurriyat immediately suggests that removing the platform completely from the political landscape of J&K is not a favourable idea. The Hurriyat’s absence will remove an interface between the underground militant outfits and the government. In the future, for any talks, the Centre may have to engage with militants directly, if the Hurriyat goes off the scene.  In Focus Around 26 political parties, civil society members and traders’ outfits came together to form the Hurriyat Conference in 1993 after a wave of militancy In its constitution, all the parties agreed that Kashmir was a “disputed State” and called for a “peaceful struggle” and a solution as per the UN resolutions In 2003, internal differences led to the Hurriyat split into two factions, one being loyal to Mirwaiz Umar Farooq and the other to Ali Shah Geelani   The Hurriyat, which wielded influence over militant outfits and was able to control the streets, became a formidable force in the 1990s, and called for election boycotts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-alliance-after-the-death-of-its-patriarch/article36298974.ece
05 September 2021||Srinagar,||Amid a shutdown, Kashmir is limping back to normalcy||A spontaneous shutdown was observed in parts of the Kashmir Valley on Saturday as life started limping back to normalcy with the restoration of mobile calling and broadband Internet services, three days after separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani died. Most shops and commercial hubs in Srinagar’s main markets remained closed. However, private traffic plied normally. A family member of Geelani said the security forces continued to impose restrictions around the residence and disallowed supporters of the leader to visit the family. The graveyard in Srinagar’s Hyderpora, where Geelani was buried in a pre-dawn funeral on Thursday, is also out of bounds for people. With the improvement in situation, mobile calling and Internet services were restored on Friday night. “Mobile Internet service will be restored on Sunday afternoon,” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said. Officials said there were no reports of any major stone throwing or violence in any part of the Valley. Traffic on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway that connects the Valley with Jammu, which was disrupted in the past two days, resumed. As a precautionary measure, the universities and the J&K Board of School Education (BOSE) have postponed all examinations scheduled for Sunday. Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said the authorities’ move not to allow people to participate in the funeral prayers of Geelani was “extremely shameful and exposed the authoritarian mindset”. The Mirwaiz, who remains under house arrest, was also not allowed to visit Geelani’s house. National Conference president and MP from Srinagar Farooq Abdullah also expressed profound grief over the demise of “prominent political leader”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/semblance-of-normalcy-in-kashmir-amid-shutdown/article36298936.ece
05 September 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool eyes a thumping victory for CM in Bhabanipur||The Trinamool Congress leadership on Saturday said party chairperson and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee would win the byelection from Bhabanipur with a record margin. “We announced our party’s candidate from Bhabanipur quite some time ago, and that is Mamata Banerjee… We can say right now, she will win from Bhabanipur with a record margin,” senior Trinamool leader and Minister Partha Chatterjeee said. The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday announced elections to the Samserjang and Jangipur seats in Murshidabad and Bhabanipur in Kolkata. They will go to the polls on September 30. Counting of votes will be on October 3. Soon after the announcement, Trinamool Congress supporters started painting graffiti in Bhabanipur seeking votes for Ms. Banerjee. The Chief Minister, who was scheduled to visit north Bengal in the next few days, has cancelled her trip. In the recent Assembly polls, she contested and lost from Nandigram by 1,956 votes. Ms. Banerjee has to be elected to the Assembly within six months of the polls to continue as Chief Minister. The bypoll announcement has come as a relief for the Trinamool, which had sent several delegations to the ECI demanding that by-elections be held at the earliest. The State unit of the BJP raised questions over why the ECI announced bypoll to Bhabanipur and not to all constituencies where polls are pending. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said, “Why elections are held in three Assembly constituencies and not in all the seven, where bypolls are pending. Is it an election to help the Chief Minister retain her post.” State BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said a decision of not holding polls in other constituencies where bypolls were pending did not go well with the reputation of ECI. Bypolls to Dinhata and Santipur are pending after BJP MPs Nisith Pramanik and Jaganath Sarkar elected from the seats did not take oath as MLAs. Gosaba in South 24 Parganas and Khardah in North 24 Parganas are vacant following the death of the winning candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-hopeful-about-mamata-victory-in-bhabanipur/article36298959.ece
05 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista Avenue to be ready soon||The construction of the new Parliament building and redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue could be completed ahead of schedule, while the project to construct the first three of the 10 proposed Secretariat buildings has run into delays at the tendering stage, according to Central Public Works Department (CPWD) officials. The new Parliament, which is supposed to be completed by November 2022, should be ready in time for the Winter Session next year, according to an official. The Central Vista Avenue too would be ready ahead of its deadline in time for the Republic Day parade in 2022, the official said. The official added that though there had been some delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the backlog had been made up with additional shifts of workers being deployed. Another CPWD official said the projects were likely to be completed before the deadlines. The revamp of the Central Vista, which stretches from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, is expected to be in full swing in 2023, when India is set to host the G-20 summit for world leaders. The last elements of the larger plan, including construction of a new convention centre and refurbishment of North and South Block to be used as the National Museum, are scheduled to be completed in 2026. While the first two projects — the Parliament building and Central Vista Avenue revamp — are progressing, the CPWD has postponed the last date for bids and opening of bids for the first three Common Central Secretariat (CCS) buildings six times. The bids were to be opened on Friday, but on Thursday the CPWD cited “administrative reasons” to push the deadline to September 17. Tender modified The CPWD has modified the tender multiple times due to issues raised by potential bidders. The Rs. 3,463-crore project includes construction and five-year maintenance contract for three CCS buildings to be made on the site of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, which has been shifted to a temporary location at the erstwhile Janpath Hotel. The Central Vista project includes the construction of a new residence for the Vice-President, for which the CPWD has invited bids, and a new residence and office for the Prime Minister, which are yet to be finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-vista-avenue-to-be-ready-soon/article36298961.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Capital commissioner||It’s been just about a month since Rakesh Asthana, a 1984-batch IPS officer of Gujarat cadre, took up his new assignment as the Delhi Police Commissioner. The appointment came about two months after Mr. Asthana’s name was dropped from the CBI Director race as he did not have six months left in service, a condition laid down by the Supreme Court in 2019. Mr. Asthana has held top posts in multiple central agencies such as the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). For a brief period, he also served as an interim chief of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Given his vast experience, there would be high expectations from him within the rank and file of the force. He has already initiated structural and functional changes in the Delhi Police. However, Mr. Asthana’s appointment is being challenged in court by petitions filed by Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), an NGO, and one Sadre Alam. The government’s order dated July 27 allowed an inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to Mr. Asthana by one year for his appointment as Police Commissioner just days before his superannuation on July 31. The Delhi High Court has issued a notice to the government and posted the matter for the next hearing on September 8. The High Court has also allowed an application filed by the CPIL for making it a party in the case. Earlier, the Supreme Court had asked the High Court to decide on the issue of Mr. Asthana’s appointment, preferably within two weeks. SC directive The petitioners have contended that the appointment is a clear breach of the Supreme Court’s directive as he did not have a minimum residual tenure of six months; no UPSC panel had been constituted for the appointment; and the appointment violated inter-cadre deputation policy of the All India Service Officers. While the legal validity of the arguments of both sides would be decided in the court, it is not the first time an IPS officer of a different State cadre has been made the Police Commissioner of Delhi. Ajai Raj Sharma, a 1966-batch IPS officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre, had headed the force from July 1999 to June 2002. In the past, Mr. Asthana’s appointment as the CBI Special Director on October 22, 2017, was also challenged by an NGO, Common Cause. However, after hearing the case, the Supreme Court dismissed the PIL plea, holding that the decision was not illegal. Back then, CBI Director Alok Kumar Verma had submitted a two-page dissent note to the administrative supervisory body, Central Vigilance Commission (CVC), opposing Mr. Asthana’s elevation. He had mentioned that Mr. Asthana’s name had come up in connection with a case involving Gujarat-based Sterling Biotech and Sandesara Group. Later, he got a clean chit in the matter. The feud between Mr. Verma and Mr. Asthana continued for months. It culminated in the registration of an alleged bribery case against Mr. Asthana and others in October 2018. As it turned out, he had, in a communication to the Cabinet Secretary in August 2018, highlighted the alleged irregularities on the part of Mr. Verma. After the battle shifted to the court of law, the Central government stepped in to divest both officers of their responsibilities after a CVC recommendation. A special investigation team was set up to look into the charges against the two officers. Mr. Asthana was later cleared of the allegations. Born in 1961 in Ranchi [then in Bihar], Mr. Asthana did his schooling from Netarhat School and pursued higher studies in St. Xavier’s College (Ranchi) and then in Jawaharlal Nehru University. Among the cases pursued by Mr. Asthana were the Purulia arms drop case and the fodder scam. He headed the probe into the 2002 Godhra train burning case in which 59 Hindu pilgrims were killed. In January 2019, Mr. Asthana was appointed BCAS chief and in July, he was given the additional charge of the NCB. He then became the BSF Director-General in August 2020. Under his supervision, the NCB conducted investigations into the drug smuggling allegations after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and made several arrests, including that of Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/capital-commissioner/article36298972.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Monument of a massacre||A debate over how the Jallianwala Bagh massacre should be remembered was sparked off last week after the government unveiled the renovated look of the site, leading some historians to say history was being distorted. Should the site of the brutal killing of Indians by British forces on April 13, 1919 be restored to the state it was in on that day, a largely barren ground at the end of a narrow entrance where victims became trapped, or should it be spruced up for visitors today and in the future? For the Culture Ministry, which supervised the renovation work carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and NBCC India, a government-owned construction company, the changes were required to preserve the site and make it more visitor-friendly. Some historians, however, argued that turning the site into a well-manicured garden and covering the entrance corridor with bright metallic murals was an attempt at changing history. Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar was closed for renovations for about a year-and-a-half till Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated it to the nation on August 28. Four new galleries were also inaugurated by the Prime Minister that day. The well in which victims jumped to their deaths trying to escape the bullets has been cleaned and cordoned off with glass. A lily pond, a sound and light show and new amenities for visitors have been created. The project was designed by a Gujarat-based company, Vama Communications, which has in the past developed museums on Mahatma Gandhi in Gujarat as well as the National Police Museum in Delhi. While inaugurating the renovated memorial, Mr. Modi said the new look of Jallianwala Bagh would inspire Indians for years to come. “It is the responsibility of every nation to preserve its history,” he said. A site of protests Before Independence, Jallianwala Bagh was one of a site of protests and meetings. Professor Amandeep Bal, head of the history department at Amritsar’s Guru Nanak Dev University, said the site may have been a “bagh” [garden] earlier, but was a barren ground with a few trees in 1919. Surrounded by the back walls of houses in the cramped Walled City, the bagh remained a site for protests and meetings till 1947. On the day of what became the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, it was the festival of Baisakhi. People had gathered at the site to protest against the arrest of freedom fighters Dr. Saifuddin Kitchlew and Dr. Satyapal a few days earlier. Forces under the command of General Reginald Dyer opened fire on the unarmed crowd. The exact number of deaths that day remains unclear. Prof. Bal said that while the government had a list of 379 victims, another list of 492 names was found at the DC’s office and committees headed by Madan Mohan Malviya and the Congress estimated the figure to be around 1,500 and 1,200, respectively. Guru Nanak Dev University  has been tasked with researching the exact number of martyrs by the Punjab Government, a task, Prof. Bal said, is a tough one given that many families did not come forward in the aftermath of the massacre. Among the documents, she said, are mentions of a large number of unidentified bodies. While the exact number of martyrs, hundreds or thousands, is unknown, Prof. Bal says one thing is clear. “Massacres should be remembered, not celebrated. When visitors enter the place, they should automatically bow their heads. The atmosphere should be very sombre”. Over the years, starting with the creation of a trust after 1947 and landscaping in 1974, Prof. Bal said there have been changes to the site. The latest round of changes, some say, have gone too far. Retired Jawaharlal Nehru University professor Chaman Lal said renovations of heritage sites should be limited to strengthening the structures to increase longevity, not changing the appearance. London-based historian Kim A. Wagner, whose book Amritsar 1919: An Empire of Fear and the Making of a Massacre tells the story of the events leading up to massacre and its aftermath, went as far as saying the last traces of the event had effectively been erased. Responding to some of the criticism, Culture Secretary Raghvendra Singh said the “conservation was carried out under direct supervision of the ASI” and that “there was nothing factually incorrect”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monument-of-a-massacre/article36298976.ece
05 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Few women make it to the top: CJI||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana on Saturday lamented that “very few women find representation at the top” and admitted that even a “mere” 11% representation of women on the Bench of the Supreme Court was achieved with “great difficulty”. Ideally, women should have got at least 50% representation at all levels after 75 years of Independence, he said. The CJI’s remarks come within days of the Supreme Court Collegium led by him scripting history by successfully recommending three women judges to the court in one go. The court has four women judges now, the highest ever. “After 75 years of Independence, one would expect at least 50% representation for women at all levels, but I must admit, with great difficulty, we have now achieved a mere 11% representation of women on the Bench of the Supreme Court,” he stated at an event organised by the Bar Council of India to felicitate him. Women lawyers’ woes A majority of women lawyers suffered within the profession and continued to face significant challenges even after they reached the top. Women lacked basic amenities in court complexes. “Women do not have restrooms in lower courts… It is difficult for them to wait for long hours in the court corridors,” the CJI pointed out. The reality remained that the legal professions was yet to whole-heartedly welcome women into its fold, he noted. The CJI refused to accept sole credit for the recent appointment of nine judges to the Supreme Court in one shot. The Collegium, led by the CJI, had followed this feat by recommending a whopping 68 judges to 12 High Courts, again in one go. Lawyers had referred to him as “Sachin Tendulkar” for repeatedly creating history within so short a time of taking charge as top judge in April 2021. “A while ago, I was referred to as Sachin Tendulkar. I must correct the perception here. Like any game, it’s a team effort. Here, I must place on record my sincere thanks to my colleagues in the Collegium – Brothers U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao – who have become active and constructive partners in this endeavour,” he observed. Judicial appointments was an “ongoing process”. The Collegium intended to “live up to the herculean task of filling up 41% of vacancies existing in all the High Courts”, he asserted. At one point, commending the “young and dynamic” Law Minister, Kiren Rijiju, who was present on the dais, and the government, for quickly approving the nine names recommended for the Supreme Court, the CJI said “in another one month, we expect 90% of the vacancies filled in this country”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/few-women-make-it-to-the-top-cji/article36298955.ece
05 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||Muzaffarnagar gears up for show of strength||A sea of farmers is expected in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday to participate in the mahapanchayat called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, in a show of strength against the three contentious farm laws. “The government and a section of media have been describing us as mutthi bhar kisan (a handful of farmers). We want to prove them wrong,” said Rajveer Singh, State vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. He said the mahapanchayat would remain apolitical but it would send a strong message against the anti-farmer policies of the current dispensation. ‘Price hike too late’ The last-minute attempt of the State government to reach out to farmers with the promise of increasing sugarcane prices doesn’t seem to be working. “It is a lollipop that has come too late in the day,” said Gaurav Tomar of Desh Khap that has 84 villages in Baghpat and surrounding districts. “It is an attempt to distract the farmers of West U.P. from the core issue,” he said. Shokhendra Chaudhary of Battisa Khap in Shamli said on Friday the local sugar mill had put the cane arrears of February this year in farmers’ account. “This government has suddenly woken up to our demands after four years. A word is being spread that cases of stubble burning would be taken back but farmers won’t forget the humiliation so easily.” Ghulam Jaula, a contemporary of Mahendra Singh Tikait, who leads the Muslim section of farmers in the region, said the wounds of Muzaffarnagar riots had not been forgotten. “Every village is sending a bus. Around 500 temporary dhabas are working to feed the participants. We are spending our money to make this mahapanchayat happen so that the deaf and dumb government wakes up to our demands.” Rasthriya Lok Dal and Samajwadi Party have declared their support to the meeting. RLD president Jayant Chaudhary is expected to shower flower petals from a helicopter but sources in the administration said the permission was cancelled. “As he was not supposed to land in Muzaffarnagar, he was asked to approach the Air Traffic Control,” said a senior official. Surendra Singh Ramala, the BJP MLA from Chhaprauli, said political parties were misguiding farmers. “They call the mahapanchayat apolitical but everybody knows that RLD workers are working overtime to make up the numbers,” he said. On the State government suddenly waking up to the demands, Mr. Ramala said both the central and State governments were ready for the talk. “But Rakesh Tikait and the RLD see a political opportunity in keeping the protests alive,” he added. The cane prices, Mr. Ramala said, could not be raised earlier because, during the pandemic, the demand for sugar plummeted. “I feel there will be substantial rise soon,” he added. Keeping the inclement weather in mind, a waterproof tent with a capacity to make space for 200 farmer leaders underneath has been erected at the Government Inter College ground. The mahapanchayat will be held under the gaze of 250 CCTV cameras and drones. Six companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary and two companies of Rapid Action Force have been deployed to support the local police. “Circle officers and magistrates would man the entry and exit gates to the city,” said Amit Kumar, Additional District Magistrate (City). Apart from the two existing exit points, he said, two more have been created. “Mobile medical vans, ambulances, mobile toilets, and fire tenders have already been pressed into service,” said Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muzaffarnagar-gears-up-for-show-of-strength/article36299565.ece
05 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Thinking cap: BJP sees red in SP’s ‘lal topi’, Akhilesh doffs it to ‘revolution’||In 2018, soon after the BJP captured the Left bastion of Tripura, Uttar Pradesh Chief Yogi Adityanath told his opponents that after bringing down the “red flag” in the northeastern State, his party would also bring down the “red topi ” in his State. The attack was targeted not at the Communist parties, which have a negligible electoral presence in U.P., but at the Samajwadi Party (SP). Perhaps, Mr. Adityanath had taken note of the increased visibility of the ‘ lal topi ’ (red cap) on the heads of SP legislators. “The red cap will not work anymore. The time for saffron is here. Saffron is the symbol of development and generosity,” Mr. Adityanath, who was wearing his signatures saffron robes, declared then on the floor of the Assembly. Mr. Adityanath’s attempt to link the red flag of the Communist ideology with the ‘ lal topi ’ of the SP, which espouses the cause of social justice politics and socialism, and juxtaposing it with the saffron, a marker of Hindutva for the BJP, triggered a war of words between the two parties, which resurfaced again this year. The symbolic battle between the red and the saffron has since then taken centre stage in the colour-coded political landscape of the State as it heads to the polls next year. A lot of it had to be with the resurrection of the red cap into the daily politics of the SP ever since Akhilesh Yadav took over its reins in 2017. In the same period, the saffron also became more visible after Mr. Adityanath was made Chief Minister. SP leaders point out that the top leadership, especially patriarch Mulayam Singh, had for long donned the ‘ lal topi ’, a motif of socialist politics linked with Jai Prakash Narayan and Ram Manohar Lohia, at political events or during elections. However, ever since his son, Mr. Akhilesh Yadav, took control, the red headgear has become a part of daily politics and now even the ordinary party workers can be seen flaunting them, both traditional and new styles, and not just during special events. ‘A distinct identity’ Since Mr. Akhilesh Yadav started to regularly wear the ‘ lal topi ’ in public in recent years, the party workers also started following him, said Rajendra Chaudhary, SP spokesperson, when asked if there was a concerted effort by the top leadership to promote the cap. The veteran socialist leader was happy that the headgear provided his party colleagues a distinct identity they much needed in a space dominated by saffron. But what does the red, labelled by the BJP as a sign of Left-wing politics, signify for Mr. Yadav? In February, when Mr. Adityanath ridiculed the SP MLAs for donning the cap in the Assembly and linked the headgear to ‘ goondas ’, Mr. Yadav responding by saying, “Red is the colour of ‘ kranti ’ [revolution], of our blood.” He went on to add that the colour represented emotions. ‘Drama company’ “Our faces turn red when we are happy, sad or crying,” he said, even as he joked that Mr. Adityanath was irritated at the sight of red because maybe he had eaten red chillies as a child. The retort came amid a fresh exchange of barbs over the red ‘ topi ’. Mr. Adityanath, while pointing to the different coloured caps worn in the House by Opposition legislators, said the Assembly resembled a “drama company” and advised Leader of the Opposition and senior SP leader Ram Govind Chaudhary to replace his cap with a traditional safa or a pagdi (turban). He then narrated a story about his visit to an ‘ annaprasan ’ ceremony of a baby where some members of the SP wearing topis reached to stage protest. A child less than three years old, standing with his mother, noticed them and said, “ Mummy, mummy dekho, who gunda, gunda ,” he said. This evoked a heated response from the SP legislators and Mr. Yadav later himself changed his profile pictures on social media sites, replacing them with an image of him flaunting the red topi . The marked promotion of the red ‘ topi ’ by Mr. Yadav has also coincided with his shift from a development-based “ kaam bolta hai ” narrative to one that embraces social justice issues, evident from his eagerness to stitch together alliances with smaller non-Yadav OBC-based parties following the 2017 setback and failed alliance with the BSP in 2019. BJP’s take BJP’s U.P. secretary Chandramohan, however, sees the red as a “colour of terror”, criminals and disruption. In contrast, U.P. has become a “riot-free” State under the rule of a “bhagwadari,” he said, referring to the saffron-clad Mr. Adityanath. Asked if he was trying to link the SP with the Communist ideology, Mr. Chandramohan said, “People know whose symbol is red.” SP leaders did not explain why the red ‘ topi ’ was revived despite a political narrative linking the colour to Naxals and the alleged “urban naxals”. They said it had long been in use by SP leaders. Mr. Chaudhary said the ‘ lal topi ’ was the identity of ideology and struggle of the SP. “The BJP gets irritated because its ideology is communal,” he alleged. Black caps Marinder Mishra, a socialist researcher associated with the SP, said since the followers of Lohia like Janeshwar Mishra, Brij Bhushan Tiwari, Mohan Singh and others were frontline leaders of the SP when it was founded in 1992, the red ‘ topi ’ was adopted. The opponent of the Socialists then, the Congress, donned the white cap, he noted. Udaiveer Singh, SP MLC, however, said the battle was between the red and the black, in a dig at the headgear of the RSS. “They need to justify why they wear black caps,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhileshs-lal-topi-invites-bjp-scorn-becomes-a-thinking-cap-ahead-of-polls/article36298957.ece
05 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab breathes innovation, finds gainful uses for paddy stubble||Close to autumn every year, stubble burning returns to contribute to air pollution across India’s northern plains. However, to curb the menace during the paddy harvesting season, Punjab — the key grain-producing State — is all set this year to promote paddy straw as a “resource to create wealth”. The State government is working to present ‘paddy straw’ as a resource that creates value and wealth for industry and the farming community, rather than being a waste product of paddy cultivation. While farmer outfits have welcomed the move, some industry bodies have their reservations. The government recently decided to permit certain categories of industries to install paddy straw fired boilers, for which the industries will be given fiscal incentives. The industries included in this scheme are sugar mills, pulp and paper mills, besides any industry having boiler installation with steam-generating capacity more than 25 tonnes per hour (TPH). Also, new and existing units of distilleries and breweries, proposing replacement of old boilers or expansion with installation of new boilers, are required to use paddy straw as fuel in boilers. Fiscal incentives To spur the use of straw, the government has decided to provide cumulative fiscal incentives of Rs. 25 crore to the first 50 existing industries on ‘first come, first served’ basis. Besides, the government has also approved non-fiscal incentives to industries in terms of availability of ‘panchayat’ land for storage of paddy straw with lease agreement of up to 33 years. Asserting that Punjab is very seriously cognisant of the stubble burning issue, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan told The Hindu that  the State is taking all measures possible to promote both in-situ and ex-situ management of paddy straw. “For ex-situ management in particular we have come out with innovative measures. Under this, to promote the use of paddy straw in boilers as fuel, several incentives are being extended to the industry. We look forward to the industry to respond positively to these measures so that we are able to productively use this biomass. We are hoping that paddy straw can be demonstrated as a reasonably good source of energy. We have been in touch with the Power Ministry to request that NTPC also increase the use of paddy straw in their thermal plants,” Ms. Mahajan said. The paddy crop, which is harvested with combine harvester machines leaves behind a stubble in the farm. To destroy this stubble many farmers find burning the residue the most effective and cheap method as they want to prepare their fields for the next winter crop. The short time-window between paddy harvesting and sowing the wheat crop — just about three weeks — is one of the primary reasons why farmers resort to stubble burning. In Punjab and Haryana, paddy harvesting is usually done between the second half of September till the end of October. The sowing of wheat crop normally starts from the first week of November and continues for over a month and a half. Wealth, not waste Krunesh Garg, member secretary of the Punjab Pollution Control Board said the whole idea behind promoting ex-situ management is to present ‘paddy straw’ to the industry and the farmers as a resource that creates value and wealth. “Till the time paddy straw is considered as waste, it’s difficult to curb the menace. The idea is to present it as resource which will create wealth, and it’s primarily possible through ex-situ management. Paddy straw has to be established as fuel resource or product before the industry. We have 5-6 industries in Punjab, which consume around 3 lakh tonnes of paddy straw as fuel. We are hopeful that after the new incentives, more industries will start using paddy straw as fuel for boilers. Already a few industries have shown interest and we are expecting the consumption of paddy straw as fuel will rise to 5 lakh tonnes this season,” he said. However, expressing concern over the government’s move, Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association said the paddy straw contains a lot of mud and cleaning it is not an easy process. “The government should purchase and process the stubble from farmers and provide it to the industry free of cost. Also, the paddy straw contains silica, and hence the metallurgy for boilers needs to be chrome-based, which makes it costlier,” he said. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of the Bhartiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Dakonda) welcomed the government’s decision. “It’s a positive step and but its success shall depend only if the farmer is given a suitable price for the stubble,” he said. Despite the ban on stubble burning and action against those burning crop residue under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, farmers continue to resort to the practice, claiming lack of alternatives. According to the government data, in 2020 as many as 76,590 cases of farm fires were reported in Punjab. In 2019, there were 52,991 such incidents and 51,766 incidents were recorded in 2018. It is estimated that over 15 million tonnes of paddy straw is burnt in the open fields ahead of the winter sowing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-package-to-spur-industrial-use-of-paddy-stubble-as-boiler-fuel/article36298966.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,||K-drama make-up looks, food demo steal show at webinar||A panel of K-drama fans from diverse fields came together to discuss their love for all things South Korean on ‘K-drama Talk Studio’, an experiential webinar organised by The Hindu Weekend for The Hindu , association with the Korean Tourism Organisation, on Friday. “K-dramas have brought people together and, over the last one year, virtual friendships have been formed thanks to the shared love for these shows. This spans across generations as well,” said Puja Talwar, executive editor of entertainment and lifestyle, Good Times , as she kick-started the webinar. From food demonstrations to recreating K-drama make-up looks, the one-hour webinar went beyond just talk. A big fan of the shows and Korean food, Pooja Dhingra, chef and founder, Le 15 Patisserie, recalled how it had been tough to source Korean ingredients in India till a short while ago. “Things are now changing, and the food and snacks are everywhere,” she said. Ms. Dhingra recently launched a range of merchandise inspired by her love of K-dramas, and said that in times of uncertainty, many were able to find some comfort in these shows. Putting a Korean twist on the much-loved chicken tikka, Dhruv Oberoi, executive chef, Olive Qutub, explained how to make a kimchi chicken tikka. “Korean flavours are good for the Indian palate and one of the highlights of watching K-dramas for me is how their cuisine is constantly shown on screen,” he said. Chef Dhruv also demonstrated how to make a burger with the popular Korean fried chicken paired with kimchi and a caramelised apple glaze. With K-Beauty and make-up extremely popular in India now, Annalia Zhimomi, a popular make-up artist, did a live demonstration of actor Seo Yea-Ji’s look from the K-drama ‘It’s Okay to Not be Okay’. “Korean skincare routines are extensive, and it is important for them that they take good care of their skin,” she said. Nishat Fatima, photographer and writer, focused on the on-screen fashion in K-dramas and pointed out that it was a good balance of street wear and looks straight from the runways. “A K-drama addiction is the healthiest one can have because no one expects a recovery,” said actor Anu Menon, who brought in a touch of humour with her take on the shows. The audience asked the panellists a range of questions from recommendations for K-Beauty and make-up, as well as Korean dishes. Speaking about the Hallyu wave taking over India in the past year, Choi Young-Geul, Director, Korea Tourism Organisation, said K-dramas in particular were a good gateway into many of the popular aspects of South Korea and its culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/k-drama-make-up-looks-food-demo-steal-show-at-webinar/article36298939.ece
05 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Reinstate 3 dropped texts, say Delhi University Professors||Professors of English from several colleges across Delhi University (DU) have objected to a statement issued by the university administration on the revised English syllabus in which certain texts were dropped. A statement, endorsed by more than 100 professors, demanded the reinstatement of the three texts that were dropped. The university had recently dropped texts by Mahasweta Devi, Bama and Sukirtharini from the syllabus. ‘Democratic process’ In the statement, the Professors said the English Honours syllabus had been passed through a democratic process “until the entire process was flagrantly violated and bypassed by the Oversight Committee [OC].” “Due to the interference of the OC, at the beginning of almost every semester since July 2019, there is no official syllabus available to students and teachers, costing us precious time and mental resources. This past month, the OC has put paid to every democratic deliberation and due process that we had ensured our syllabus came through,” the statement read. Following criticism, the university had earlier issued a statement which said the current syllabus was “inclusive and diverse.” Responding to the varsity’s stance, the statement endorsed by English Department Professors from various colleges read, “It is rather shocking that Delhi University makes a statement in which it says that diversity and inclusion can be done without consideration of religion, caste and creed when by definition diversity and inclusion mean including diverse voices.” Literary studies Referring to the university’s statement on the “language course,” the Professors said the English literature department and its research and specialisations belonged to the “field of literary studies” and was “not a language teaching course”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reinstate-3-dropped-texts-say-delhi-university-professors/article36298949.ece
05 September 2021||Kolkata,||Opposition strength shrinking by the day in West Bengal||With BJP MLA from Kaliganj in West Bengal’s Uttar Dinajpur Soumen Roy on Saturday joining the Trinamool Congress, the number of BJP MLAs who have defected to the ruling party has risen to four in the past four months since the bitterly contested Assembly polls. Defection as a political phenomenon was never as commonplace in Bengal as it has been since Trinamool Congress came to power in 2011. In the first term of the Trinamool Congress government (2011- 2016), 23 MLAs from the Opposition parties — 17 from Congress and six from the Left Front — joined the ruling party. Between 2016 and 2021, 18 Congress and four Left MLAs had switched sides to join the ruling party. This has led to a situation described by political observers as the “shrinking Opposition space” in West Bengal, where not only MLAs, but also councillors and gram panchayat members have jumped ship in large numbers. Professor of Political Science at Rabindra Bharati University Biswanath Chakraborty, in his recently paper Opposition Space in West Bengal Politics: A Diagonistic Study argued that in the past 10 years, the State has witnessed the an emergence of “a ruling party society”. Senior Congress leader Abdul Mannan feels that defection of large numbers of MLAs was one of the reasons the marginalised position of the Congress in West Bengal. Both Left parties and Congress have not been able to win a single seat in the 2021 Assembly polls. Despite several MLAs having defected over the last few years, there has been no action taken against any of them under the anti-defection law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-strength-shrinking-by-the-day-in-west-bengal/article36298952.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||President lauds teachers for responding to new challenges||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday greeted educators across the country on the eve of Teachers’ Day and lauded them for their efforts to enable uninterrupted education of students during the COVID-induced lockdown. He said the occasion honoured the dedicated services of all the teachers who played a leading role in the intellectual and moral development of children. “In the Indian tradition, teachers are placed on the same pedestal as God,” Mr. Kovind said. Since the onset of the pandemic, the pedagogy adopted by teachers also underwent a major change, the President said. “During lockdown, our teachers accepted every challenge associated with the introduction of online medium of education. They took effective steps to enable uninterrupted education of the students,” he said. “On this occasion, let us all express our gratitude to the entire teaching community for its invaluable contribution towards building a strong and prosperous nation,” Mr. Kovind said. “Teachers’ Day is observed on the birthday of a great educationist, philosopher and former President of India, Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. I extend my warm greetings and best wishes to all teachers on the occasion of Teachers’ Day,” the President said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-lauds-teachers-for-responding-to-new-challenges/article36298969.ece
05 September 2021||Chandigarh,||SAD to hold dialogue with farm groups||Amid protests by farmers during its ongoing “100-day yatra”, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has decided to reschedule the tour by six days to facilitate a dialogue with representatives of farmers’ organisations. To take on the ruling Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ahead of the Assembly election in Punjab, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal last month started the yatra across 100 constituencies. The campaign has been named Gal Punjab Di . Mr. Badal said a three-member committee of senior SAD leaders had been set up, which will talk to the farmers’ organisations to reiterate the party’s unflinching support to their movement and to eliminate any possibility of misunderstanding. ‘With the farmers’ “We are totally with the farmers’ movement and have been backing it firmly. We have also backed all calls given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and will continue to do so. We are ready to answer each and every question posed by any of its representatives at any place of their choosing. We do not want to come into any confrontation with farmers,” he stated. The campaign would resume from Amloh on September 11. He alleged that there was a deep-rooted conspiracy by anti-Punjab, anti-farmer and anti-Sikh forces to vitiate the atmosphere of peace and communal harmony in the State. These forces were acting at the behest of Central agencies and had the active support of the Congress and the AAP. The Congress and the AAP were acting out of frustration over the rousing response of Punjabis to the SAD campaign. “They have read the writing on the wall and want to scuttle the impending mandate of the people of Punjab by creating conditions of unrest and instability. All this is being done to create a justification for the imposition of the President’s Rule,” he said. He accused the BJP of backing all these conspiracies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sad-to-hold-dialogue-with-farm-groups/article36298950.ece
05 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||Muzaffarnagar set to host farmers’ protest||A sea of farmers is expected in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday to participate in the mahapanchayat called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, in a show of strength against the three contentious farm laws. “For long, the government and a section of media have been describing us as mutthi bhar kisan [a handful of farmers]. We want to prove them wrong,” said Rajveer Singh, State vice-president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, the organisation that is leading the charge in western Uttar Pradesh. He said the mahapanchayat would remain apolitical but it would send a strong message against the anti-farmer policies of the current dispensation. ‘Bid to distract farmers’ The last-minute attempt of the State government to reach out to farmers with the promise of increasing sugarcane prices doesn’t seem to be working. “It is a lollipop that has come too late in the day,” said Gaurav Tomar of Desh Khap that has 84 villages in Baghpat and surrounding districts. Ghulam Jaula, a contemporary of Mahendra Singh Tikait, who leads the Muslim section of farmers in the region, said the wounds of Muzaffarnagar riots had been forgotten. “Every village is sending a bus. Around 500 temporary dhabas are working to feed the participants. We are spending our money to make this mahapanchayat happen so that the deaf and dumb government wakes up to our demands.” Rasthriya Lok Dal and Samajwadi Party have declared support to the meeting. RLD president Jayant Chaudhary is expected to shower flower petals from a helicopter but sources in the administration said the permission was cancelled. Surendra Singh Ramala, BJP MLA from Chhaprauli, said political parties which had lost their footing in the region were misguiding farmers against the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muzaffarnagar-set-to-host-farmers-protest/article36299388.ece
05 September 2021||Mumbai,||HC upholds woman’s right to live with partner||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court recently directed the Commissioner of Aurangabad to safeguard and protect a girl until she was able to join her transgender partner. A Division Bench of Justices Sunil Deshmukh and Nitin Suryawanshi was hearing a criminal petition filed through advocate Sutej Jadhav on behalf of a 29-year-old transgender who has chosen male as his gender. He is from Rajasthan, works in the hospitality sector in Goa and is currently staying in a shelter home for transgenders in Mumbai. He met a girl on social media in June 2019 and they had fallen in love. However, when lockdown after the onset of the pandemic, the girl moved to Osmanabad to be with her family. Pressure to marry As the girl was under pressure to get married, she contacted the person she loved and asked for his help to leave the house. They took a train to Allahabad, where she was pursuing her studies. She called her mother and told her she did not wish to return to Osmanabad, but her parents filed a missing person report with the local police and reached Allahabad the next day. She was then taken back home. According to the girl, her parents subjected her to “mental torture” and made her undergo humiliating medical tests to “cure her sexual orientation”. She managed to leave with her boyfriend to live with his parents in Kota, Rajasthan, but the police traced her to her new location. Legal battle In June 2021, a lawyer in Kota filed an application before a Chief Judicial Magistrate to set the girl at liberty according to her wishes. However, she was directed to go to her parents’ home by the court. She filed an application before the District and Sessions Court in Kota. However, her parents took her back and have kept her in their custody against her wishes, she said. The High Court judges met the girl who said she did not want to go with her parents.  The court then recorded, “The girl is a major and appears to be resolute and is at liberty to act as per her wish. However, considering the apprehension expressed by the girl, the Commissioner of Police, Aurangabad, is directed to safeguard and protect the girl up to the destination she wishes to go.”  The girl is a major and appears to be resolute and is at liberty to act as per her wish Aurangabad Bench of Bombay HC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-upholds-womans-right-to-live-with-partner/article36298964.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Talks with Taliban ‘reassuring’: Shringla||“I think they [Taliban] have…made reassuring noises from their side. Our engagement with them has been limited, and it’s not that we’ve a robust conversation. But for whatever conversations we have had so far, the Taliban seem to indicate they will be reasonable in the way they handle things,” Mr. Shringla told presspersons, indicating that there had been more than one such engagement with the group. According to the government’s statements, the meeting with Taliban Political Office chief Muhammad Sher Abbas Stanekzai and Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal on Tuesday was held at the Indian Embassy at the Taliban’s request. Officials indicated that it was part of the Taliban’s desire to reach out to countries with an interest in Afghanistan. While giving no details of the Taliban’s requests during the meeting, the Ministry of External Affairs said India had brought up the safety of Indian nationals and Afghan minorities wishing to visit India, as well as India’s concern that Afghan soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities . Despite the sanguine approach, officials told The Hindu they are watching events surrounding the government formation in Afghanistan very closely for signals that could indicate more worries for India. To begin with, the delay in government formation by the Taliban could indicate that the Haqqani Network, which has often targeted Indian interests, is jockeying for a bigger role in the government. “India should be worried if the Haqqanis get their way, as that will curtail any plans for Indian diplomacy. It will be difficult for India to have on ground presence if a group as controlled by Pakistan and inimical to India takes major positions in the government,” said Kabir Taneja, senior fellow of the Observer Research Foundation. The arrival of ISI chief Lt. Gen. Faiz Hameed in Kabul on Saturday, reportedly at the invitation of the new Taliban regime, to witness the announcement of the government has surprised many, particularly as it indicates that it is Pakistan’s military not the civilian government that is attending the occasion, and was met with some consternation in Kabul as well. “Today we see the ISI chief arriving in Kabul as part of a delegation overseeing the government formation. We hear Pakistani Ministers speak as if they represent the government of Afghanistan as well as Pakistan,” said former Minister Nargis Nehan, who participated in an online discussion held by the Kautilya School of Public Policy, from Oslo, where she fled to last month.    Comments made by various Taliban leaders on the issue of Kashmir, have been confusing. On Friday, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen said the Taliban “have the right to raise their voice for Muslims in Kashmir”, India or any other country. “We will raise our voice and say that Muslims are your own people, your own citizens. They are entitled to equal rights under your laws,” he was quoted as saying by BBC Urdu.  (With inputs from Sriram Lakshman in Washington)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/talks-with-taliban-reassuring-shringla/article36298940.ece
05 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Unemployment rate in Haryana low, says CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal said here on Saturday that the latest report of the National Statistical Organisation put the unemployment rate of Haryana at 9.9% as against the national figure of 13.3%. “Haryana’s unemployment rate is much lower than that of the neighbouring States of Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab,” he said, adding that the NSO data showed that the unemployment rate was 12% in Delhi, 15.1% in Rajasthan, 13.4% in Uttar Pradesh and 10.8% in Punjab. Hitting out at the Opposition parties and the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), Mr. Lal said their claims that the unemployment rate in Haryana had increased were not based on facts. ‘Not transparent’ “The CMIE has shown one-third of the people of Haryana to be unemployed. Those specialising in the field of employment believe that the data displayed by the CMIE can’t be called fair and transparent. Its survey has many flaws related to design, size, data, questionnaire, etc. Employability, workforce and manpower have not been made the basis in this. It covers only 0.028% of the total households. Also, during the lockdown in April 2020, CMIE data had put the unemployment rate in the State at 26.7%. This rate should have ideally declined after the lockdown restrictions were lifted and factories started working. However, even after that, CMIE is showing the unemployment rate to be increasing and in the latest report, this rate was further increased to 35.7% in Haryana,” he said in a statement. Mr. Lal said many employed youth in search of better opportunities too had registered themselves at the Employment Department, raising the unemployment figure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unemployment-rate-in-haryana-low-says-cm/article36298942.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Good law and order must for freedoms: Shah||Mr. Shah said democracy was not just about elections and government formation. Its objective was to ensure that the 130 crore countrymen were able to avail themselves of opportunities in accordance with their abilities to progress. The Home Minister also felicitated felicitated Olympics silver medallist Mirabai Chanu, who has been appointed Additional SP in Manipur. Mr. Shah highlighted the importance of the ‘beat’ system of policing, which instilled a sense of security among the common man. He said there was a need to revitalise it through application of technology. The Home Minister identified challenges like cyber offences, drone attacks, drug smuggling and ‘hawala’ syndicates, which he said needed to be addressed by the BRP&D by adopting best practices and expediting their implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/good-law-and-order-must-for-freedoms-shah/article36298943.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Peace deal inked to end Karbi unrest in Assam||The Centre will make available a special development package of Rs. 1,000 crore over the next five years, for the Assam government to undertake specific projects for the development of Karbi areas. The memorandum of settlement would ensure greater devolution of autonomy to the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC), protection of identity, language and culture of the Karbi people and focused development of the Council area, without affecting the territorial and administrative integrity of Assam, said the government. Under the agreement, the Assam government will set up a Karbi Welfare Council for focused development of Karbi people living outside the KAAC area. The Consolidated Fund of the State will be augmented to supplement the resources of KAAC. “Overall, the present settlement proposes to give more legislative, executive, administrative and financial powers to KAAC,” it said. The State government would consider favourably the proposal to notify Karbi as the official language of KAAC, said Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. English, Hindi and Assamese would continue to be used for official purposes. Under the agreement, the hill tribes would be entitled to reservation.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/peace-deal-inked-to-end-karbi-unrest-in-assam/article36298944.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||Promote yoga break among staff, says Centre||The Centre has asked all its departments to promote a five-minute yoga break, or ‘Y-break’, among employees to refresh, de-stress and refocus them with enhanced efficiency at the workplace, according to a Personnel Ministry order. The Ayush Ministry had designed and developed a five-minute yoga protocol for the workplace with the assistance of an expert committee in 2019 and the module was launched in January 2020 on a pilot basis in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kolkata with the help of various stakeholders. “Feedback of the same was very encouraging,” it said. Consequent on this success, the Ministry developed an Android-based application Y-break and the same was made available recently in Google Play Store for access by public, said the order issued to all Union government departments. To spread awareness of access and usage of the Y-break protocol/app among workforce of public and private organisations, the Ministries and government departments are requested to promote its usage among the employees, the Ministry said. A campaign was launched to spread awareness of the same to provide access and usage of Y-break protocol/app among people at workplaces with a view to refresh, de-stress and refocus them with enhanced efficiency and productivity at workplaces, the order added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/promote-yoga-break-among-staff-says-centre/article36298947.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||ECI declares bypolls, ends Bengal suspense||“Considering the constitutional exigency and special request from State of West Bengal, it has decided to hold by-election in 159- Bhabanipur AC,” the statement said. Stricter norms had been put in place, including limiting attendance at indoor meetings to 30% of the allowed capacity or 200 persons, whichever is less, it added. The Election Commission had held a meeting with State officials on Wednesday. The Chief Secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh and the Adviser of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu informed it of the flood-related constraints, festivals and the COVID-19 situation, the statement said. “They suggested that it would be advisable to have by-elections after the festival season ends,” it added.  The Commission noted that it had decided not to hold bypolls to the 31 Assembly seats and three Lok Sabha seats after considering the inputs from the Chief Secretaries and Chief Electoral Officers of the States concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eci-declares-bypolls-ends-bengal-suspense/article36298951.ece
05 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Congress wins 670, BJP 551 panchayat samiti seats in 6 districts of Rajasthan||The ruling Congress on Saturday won 670 panchayat samiti seats and the Opposition BJP trailed behind with 551 seats in the panchayat body elections held in six districts of Rajasthan. Polling for electing 1,564 members of 78 panchayat samitis and 200 members of six Zila Parishads was held in three phases. In the counting of votes on Saturday, the Congress obtained a majority in the samitis, while the BJP was leading in the Zila Parishad polls by winning 55 of the 115 seats for which the results were announced till late evening. The Congress won 52 Zila Parishad seats and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) three. The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, which had been an ally of the BJP in Rajasthan and had quit the National Democratic Alliance over the issue of agriculture sector laws last year, won 40 samiti seats, while Independents emerged victorious in 290 seats. The BSP won 11 samiti seats. Ahead of the results, one Zila Parishad member and 26 samiti members were elected unopposed. The polling was held on August 26, 29 and September 1 in the districts of Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa and Sirohi. The Congress candidates obtained the majority of samiti seats in Jodhpur, which is Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s home district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-wins-670-panchayat-samiti-seats-in-six-districts-of-rajasthan/article36298963.ece
05 September 2021||Pune,||CBI seeks to invoke UAPA in Dabholkar murder case||The Central Bureau of Investigation has argued in a court that the five accused in the 2013 murder case of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar be tried under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for striking “terror among a section of people”. The arguments over framing of charges against the five accused — Virendrasinh Tawde, Sharad Kalaskar, Sachin Andure, advocate Sanjeev Punalekar and Vikram Bhave — began before Additional Sessions judge (special court judge) S.R. Navandar here on Friday. Special public prosecutor Prakash Suryawanshi, on behalf of the CBI, said the accused had been charged under IPC Sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy), 120 B read with 302 (murder), relevant Sections of the Arms Act and Section 16 (punishment for the terrorist) of the UAPA. He pressed for Section 16 of the UAPA and argued how invoking it was justified in the case. “The definition of Section 15 of the UAPA is to strike terror in the mind of the society or section of people in the society. So our argument in the present case is that firearms were used to murder Dabholkar to strike terror among a section of people, here a group of people, that is members of the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmulan Samiti [founded by Dabholkar], so Section 16 of the UAPA is attracted in the case,” he said. He added that the CBI had received sanction from the Maharashtra government to invoke Section 16 of the UAPA. Counsel opposes move Defence counsel Virendra Ichalkaranjikar, however, opposed the prosecution’s demand to invoke Section 16 of the UAPA. “We oppose the pressing of Section 16 of the UAPA as the prosecution has been stating since 2016 through their various documents that Tawde used to despise Dabholkar and he had killed him as a fallout of that. So where does the question of terror arise?” he said. Defence counsel added that they sought exactly what charges the prosecution wanted to frame against Tawde as in the initial probe of the CBI, they had claimed that Sarang Akolkar and Vinay Pawar had shot Dabholkar dead and had termed Tawde as the conspirator, but later came up with another theory before the court that Andure and Kalaskar had shot Dabholkar dead, in which they again named Tawde as the conspirator. “How can this be the same? There has to be only one theory,” he said. The court posted the matter to September 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-seeks-to-invoke-uapa-in-dabholkar-murder-case/article36298970.ece
05 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Athawale for one child policy||Union Minister Ramdas Athawale said on Saturday that there should be a one child norm in the country as a measure to control population growth. “There is a need to control the population for the development of the country, irrespective of whether it is the population of Hindus or Muslims or other religions,” said the Minister of State of Social Justice and Empowerment, whose Republican Party of India is part of the NDA government at the Centre. “For now we have “ hum do, hamare do ”. Our party’s stand is that to reduce population, there should be a law for ‘hum do, hamara ek’ or one family, one child,” the Minister said. However, he said it was the stand of his party and not that of the government of India. “I do not think there is any question of Hindu population declining. Hindus remain Hindu and Muslims remain Muslim. Hardly one or two Hindus or Muslims convert,” he said, adding “the Constitution gives people the right to do what they like, but nobody can force any person to convert.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/athawale-for-one-child-policy/article36298934.ece
05 September 2021||Srinagar,||Police file FIR over slogans against India||The Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police on Saturday lodged a First Information Report (FIR) in Budgam district of central Kashmir against the family members and “miscreants” who raised anti-India slogans and wrapped the body of deceased separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani in a Pakistani flag on September 1 and 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-file-fir-over-slogans-against-india/article36299389.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. seeks probe into JEE scam||The Congress on Saturday demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the alleged manipulation of JEE (Mains) after the CBI arrested seven persons in this connection. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the nation owed the hard-working students a fair JEE, but the government “is better at providing cover-ups”. “JEE (Main) Exam has been breached. Students appearing for such competitive exams prepare very hard, battling difficulties of various kinds. We, as a nation, owe them a fair exam. Government of India is better at providing cover-ups,” Mr. Gandhi said on Twitter. The Opposition party also demanded answers from the BJP government, saying the Education Ministry and the National Testing Agency (NTA) are responsible for conducting examinations in a transparent manner and why they are not held accountable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-seeks-probe-into-jee-scam/article36298945.ece
05 September 2021||Mumbai,||Yes Bank founder’s kin granted bail||A special CBI court on Saturday granted bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s daughter and wife in the cheating and corruption case against them. An FIR was registered against them in March 2020 and the chargesheet by the CBI named Mr. Kapoor’s daughter Roshni along with Belief Realtors Private Limited, RKW Developers Private Limited; DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited, a company registered in the name of Mr. Kapoor’s daughters in the chargesheet in June 2020. On May 6, 2020, the ED had also filed a chargesheet against Mr. Kapoor, his wife and three daughters for charges of laundering Rs. 5,050 crore. For the debentures, Mr. Kapoor and his family members got a kickback of Rs. 600 crore from Kapil Wadhawan, promoter of the DHFL. Mr. Kapoor is currently lodged at the Taloja jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yes-bank-founders-kin-granted-bail/article36298953.ece
05 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP to do ‘acts of service’ for PM’s birthday||The BJP will mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17 with a “service and dedication programme” from that day to October 7, party general secretary Arun Singh said on Friday. In an internal letter, Mr. Singh said the programme had been approved by party president J.P. Nadda. Along with Mr. Modi’s 71st birthday, this year also marks the 20th anniversary of him becoming Gujarat Chief Minister on October 7, 2001, he said. The programme would include exhibitions on Mr. Modi’s life at all State and district offices of the party, a virtual exhibition on the NaMo app, distribution of fruits to the poor and sanitation drives. Party workers should visit COVID-19 vaccination centres to spread awareness and carry out acts of service, the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-to-do-acts-of-service-for-pms-birthday/article36298962.ece
05 September 2021||Manila/New Delhi,||Philippines lifts travel ban on India||The Philippines on Saturday decided to welcome travellers from India and nine other countries from September 6, according to a Presidential Palace announcement. International travellers coming from the 10 countries shall, however, comply with the appropriate entry, testing and quarantine protocols, depending on their approved “listing”. Travel to Turkey People travelling from India to Turkey will be required from Saturday to submit a negative COVID-19 report from RT-PCR test done not more than 72 hours before arrival, the Turkish Embassy in New Delhi said. The requirements are not applicable to transit and/or transfer passengers, the Embassy said.  The rule will also apply to those passengers who have been in India in the 14 days prior to their travel to Turkey. The Embassy said that effective from September 4, passengers who certify that they have had at least two doses (single dose for Johnson & Johnson) of the vaccines approved for emergency use by the World Health Organization or Turkey, provided that at least 14 days have passed since the last dose, will be exempted from mandatory quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/philippines-lifts-travel-ban-on-india/article36298967.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to offer incentives for source segregation of waste||Only 45% of the 21.3 lakh households in Chennai have segregated waste at source in the last two weeks, according to data compiled in all the 15 zones of the city. The Greater Chennai Corporation has planned to offer incentives for residents who segregate waste. Residents welfare associations have been requested to suggest innovations to local civic officials in this regard as the civic body has set a target of achieving 70% source segregation in the next fortnight. Civic officials at a meeting on Saturday have ordered zonal-level officials to launch an intensive drive against plastics on Monday, according to Swachh Bharat guidelines. Last month, the Corporation launched a special drive to improve source segregation in 15 zones of the city, setting a target of increasing the number of segregating households by 5% between August 18 and September 1. According to data compiled during the fortnight ending September 1, the city registered an increase of 3% in the number of households that segregated waste during the special drive. A total of 5,162 tonnes of waste was generated during the fortnight ending September 1. But 4,370 tonnes of waste was received at landfill. At least 84.66% of waste dumped in Kodungaiyur and Perungudi sites was without any processing. However, the share of waste processed increased from 13.33% to 16.34% in the last fortnight, because of a campaign by civic officials. “Door-to-door collection and source segregation is our foundation. We want Ramky and Urbaser, the private conservancy operators, to improve source segregation,” said an official. Officials of the private conservancy operators said there were no dustbins in residential areas to segregate waste. “Many residents in north Chennai lack awareness about segregation of waste. They resist if we request them to segregate waste,” said an official of Ramky at the meeting on Saturday. Less than 25% of the households in Tondiarpet had done source segregation. Animators and conservancy inspectors will start creating awareness about source segregation next week. Just 293 of the 1,900 bulk waste generators have in-house facility for wet waste processing. Corporation officials have been directed to levy a fine of Rs. 5,000 on those violating the rule with regard to bulk waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-offer-incentives-for-source-segregation-of-waste/article36299475.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water sports to be introduced at Marina||The Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation (TTDC) and Royal Madras Yacht Club will jointly introduce boating and various water sports, including wind sailing and speed boats at the Marina beach in Chennai, Tourism Minister M. Mathiventhan announced in the State Assembly on Saturday. The Minister said a floating restaurant would come up at Muttukadu boat house. Set up by the TTDC, the boat house offers water sports activities, besides boating, and the floating restaurant is expected to increase the footfall at the tourist spot. In an effort to boost weekend tourism, Mr. Mathiventhan said that Mudhaliarkuppam boat house would be developed at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh. Encouraged by the response from tourists to visit the islet on Odiyur lake, the government has decided to improve infrastructure, including opening a cafeteria in addition to water sports and beach play activities there. Paragliding, zip lining, bungee slingshot, rock climbing, nature walks and camping sites will be allowed at Yelagiri in Tirupattur district to attract youth who are enthusiastic about adventure sports. Eco camping sites would be introduced on the Jawadhu Hills in Vellore and Tiruvannamalai districts. Parks would be raised and adventure water sports introduced there. A boat house would be opened at Jamunamarathoor. The Beema waterfalls will be developed to attract more tourists, he said. Steps would be taken to develop tourist sites along Hogenakal falls in Dharmapuri districts too, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-sports-to-be-introduced-at-marina/article36299462.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. announces slew of measures to boost tourism||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced a slew of measures to boost tourism, including a master plan to improve infrastructure at 300 tourist sites and a tourism policy. Making the announcements in the Assembly, Tourism Minister M. Mathiventhan said a tourism destination development scheme would be formulated for the development of various sites, and adventure and eco-camping sites would be created. Helipads would be established to encourage helicopter services between Rameswaram, Madurai and Kodaikanal. Various heritage sites at Poompuhar would be developed. Steps would be taken to highlight the hospitality services offered by the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation (TTDC) on websites such as MakeMyTrip, Yatra and Goibibo, he said. The feasibility of operating cable-cars to hill stations and spiritual destinations would be studied. Joining hands with the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation, the Department of Tourism would introduce a tourism hospitality skill development and certification programme, Mr. Mathiventhan said. After talks with consultants, steps would be taken to restructure the TTDC that had completed 50 years. New guidelines Guidelines would be formulated to regulate caravan operators and those leading trekkers and hikers to campsites, the Minister said. Rural and plantation tourism would be encouraged at Udhagamandalam, Kodaikkanal, Megamalai and Kanniyakumari, he said. A Tourism Award would be instituted for hoteliers, tour operators, forex companies, travel agents and restaurant owners. The feasibility of ship and boat services between tourist towns would be studied, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-announces-slew-of-measures-to-boost-tourism/article36299486.ece
05 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Lack of LPG pipelines leads to high cooking gas prices in T.N.||The absence of pipelines to bring liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) to Tamil Nadu from refineries elsewhere is turning out to be expensive for consumers in the State, as cooking gas prices here are among the highest in the country. Following the revision of LPG prices on September 1, a non-domestic commercial cylinder containing 19 kg of LPG in New Delhi costs Rs. 1,694. The rate is Rs. 1,649.50 in Mumbai, Rs. 1,770.50 in Kolkata and Rs. 1,831 in Chennai. The domestic LPG situation is similar, with New Delhi (Rs. 884.50) and Mumbai (Rs. 884.50) having lower prices than Chennai (Rs. 900.50). In Chennai, the price of a domestic cylinder went up by Rs. 25, and that of a commercial cylinder by Rs. 75. “Most of the LPG the country procures is from Saudi Aramco, and this is off-loaded first at Mumbai, and later at Mangaluru, Kochi and Thoothukudi before reaching Chennai. Transport costs are higher since the ship has to travel all the way to the Eastern Coast. Delhi gets its supply via a pipeline. Tamil Nadu does not have an LPG pipeline till date. Perhaps it is time for policy makers to lay an LPG line to the State,” explained an industry source, who, however, pointed out that people in the State were opposed to pipelines. A pipeline from Kochi to Salem via Karur is 70% complete, but the project is stuck due to opposition in Tamil Nadu. M. Venkadasubbu, president, Tamil Nadu Hotels Association, said considering the fact that the industry had just begun recovering from the impact of COVID-19 lockdowns, the Centre could at least reduce the GST slab of 18% for hotels for a certain period. “The lack of intra-State LPG pipelines has also lead to differential prices in various parts of the State,” he added. Association secretary R. Srinivasan said that with several leading brands closing their branches, the hotel industry needs an impetus, and a reduction in the import duty on LPG or the transportation charges of the fuel would be passed on to the consumers. “The vegetarian segment of restaurants have returned to only 60% of their original business, and LPG constitutes under 10% of the total expenses,” he explained. A distributor with a government oil company said they were witnessing a drop of around 3%-4% in domestic gas consumption, especially in BPL segment. “We are afraid that commercial consumers would switch to private LPG brands if the oil industry does not take steps,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lack-of-pipelines-makes-lpg-expensive/article36299493.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wimco Nagar Metro depot to be ready by December||One of the key facilities for maintenance of trains, the Wimco Nagar depot remains under construction even after the phase I extension was inaugurated in February this year. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), more than 80% of the work has been completed, including laying of tracks, and the facility was expected to be operational by the end of this year. “We are trying to speed up work. The overhead electrical and signalling work is being done, apart from some civil work. This depot is spread over 3.5 hectares of land and built to have 10 stabling lines to park 10 trains and one line each for inspecting a train and repairing one,” an official said. Also, there is an automatic train wash facility under construction, the officials said. It would take about half an hour to wash a train in this facility. “It will be convenient to have this depot ready at the earliest because trains operated in the 9-km phase I extension project have to be shunted from Koyambedu depot every day and sent back. Even for simple repairs, the trains are taken there now,” he added. CMRL plans to build a multi-storey building over this elevated depot which can be leased out as office space to augment its revenue. In addition to this, there will be a car parking area in the depot. A small platform would be built in this depot as it will be the final stop for commuters using the stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wimco-nagar-metro-depot-to-be-ready-by-december/article36299470.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 toll reaches 35,000 in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 toll reached 35,000 on Saturday as 20 more persons succumbed to the infection. As fresh cases continued to fluctuate in a few districts with 1,575 persons testing positive, no death due to COVID-19 was reported in 28 of the 38 districts. Of the 20 deaths (three at private and 17 at government hospitals) that were reported on Saturday, Coimbatore accounted for four fatalities, followed by Chennai and Tiruchi with three each. Three districts — Erode, Salem and Tiruvallur — recorded two deaths each, while the remaining four districts accounted for one death each. So far, Chennai has recorded 8,408 deaths, while there were 2,433 deaths in Chengalpattu and 2,280 deaths in Coimbatore. Seven districts, including Kancheepuram, Madurai, Salem, Tiruvallur and Vellore, have recorded 1,000-plus fatalities. In Coimbatore, fresh cases continued to stay above the 200-mark. A total of 244 persons tested positive in the district. Chennai reported 167 cases, while in Erode, the number of cases dropped to 109 from 125 the previous day. Thanjavur’s daily tally dropped below 100 as 92 persons tested positive, while there were 99 cases in Chengalpattu, a marginal rise from 88 on Friday. There were 87 cases in Tiruppur, 79 in Tiruvallur, 65 in Namakkal and 59 in Salem. The State’s overall tally stood at 26,21,086. Another 1,610 persons were discharged following treatment. The total number of recovered patients stood at 25,69,771. A total of 16,315 persons were under treatment. As many as 1,61,231 samples were tested. The total sample count as on date was 4,29,55,137. The State’s positivity rate stood at 0.98%. 6-lakh mark Tamil Nadu’s daily vaccination coverage exceeded six lakh for the first time on Saturday. A total of 6,20,255 persons were vaccinated. The total coverage so far at government vaccination centres has gone up to 3,28,19,859. Among those vaccinated were 3,89,260 persons in the 18-44 age group and 1,75,096 persons aged 45-59. Apart from them, 54,674 senior citizens also received the vaccination. Inoculation was held at 2,733 sessions. The cumulative coverage of private vaccination centres from May 1 stood at 22,00,211.  In Coimbatore, fresh cases continued to stay above the 200-mark. A total of 244 persons tested positive in the district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-toll-reaches-35000-in-tamil-nadu/article36299480.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE Dept. to start 10 colleges, 3 old-age homes||Temples are set to become closer to people than ever, catering not just to their spiritual needs, but also their physical and social needs. In a first for the State, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu announced a slew of initiatives worth hundreds of crores for every section of the society. The department, which is running five arts and science colleges, will start 10 more colleges at a cost of Rs. 150 crore at Kolathur, Kilpauk, Vilathikulam, Thoppampatti, Anaikattu, Kalasapakkam, Thirukattupalli, Lalgudi, Kadayam and Thiruchengode. Moreover, the infrastructure and sports facilities in colleges and schools run by the department would be improved at a cost of Rs. 25 crore. “The vacancies in schools and colleges will be filled and services of temporary staff regularised. It will benefit 496 teachers and other staff,” he said. The Minister also allotted Rs. 10 crore for setting up medical centres in 10 temples which drew more devotees. There will be doctors and medical staff with facilities for first-aid. Improving libraries in 114 temples and creating new libraries at a cost of Rs. 10 crore are also part of the announcements. Old-age home at a cost of Rs. 5 crore will be set up in Chennai, Palani and Tirunelveli. Temple priests and workers will get new clothes for Pongal and the allocation is Rs. 10 crore. There is also a Rs. 21.40 crore project for constructing housing units for priests and temple staff in six places. Mr. Sekarbabu, who announced the construction of 22 marriage halls at Rs. 53.50 crore, said temples would not charge money for conducting marriages if the bride or groom was differently abled. Tonsuring heads too would be free. Unveiling a Rs. 200 crore master plan for improving infrastructure in 40 first-grade temples, the Minister announced Rs. 150 crore for renovating Tiruchendur temple and Rs. 125 crore for improving infrastructure in Bhavani Amman temple in Periyapalayam. Temples in Palani, Samayapuram, Thiruvannamalai, Tiruttani and Rameshwaram will get Rs. 250 crore for creating amenities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hrce-dept-to-start-10-colleges-3-old-age-homes/article36299489.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||275 kg of decayed fish seized from markets in city||About 275 kg of decayed fish was seized from storage spaces in two markets in the city on Saturday morning. During the joint raid conducted by the Fisheries and Food Safety departments, it was found that seafood varieties, including prawn, vanjaram, koduva, paraimeen and vavval, received from neighbouring States were at least 20 days old. The fish, which traders claimed were kept for making karuvaadu (dry fish), were seized mainly from Chintadripet market (200 kg) and Kasimedu (75 kg). Although checks were conducted at the Nochikuppam fish market, no rotten fish was found there, said sources. The raids were conducted after samples of fish tested positive for presence of formalin in Madurai and Tiruchi recently. However, during spot tests in Chennai, formalin was not found in samples, the sources said. The team lifted fish samples and sent them to the laboratory for testing. Several varieties, including kadal aara , vavval , sankara , prawn, vanjaram , mutta kadamma and paraimeen were sent. Fishermen of Kasimedu have been complaining that fish from other markets were sold in their area, which led to a fall in prices. “Prices remain as low as they were several years ago. There is no control mechanism in the market. Anyone who wants to sell fish can do so and after lock down, many have taken up the trade,” said Nanjil Ravi, a community leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/275-kg-of-decayed-fish-seized-from-markets-in-city/article36299473.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State to excavate three more archaeological sites, says Minister||The State government will undertake archaeological excavations in three new places – Vembakkottai in Virudhunagar district, Thullukkarpatti in Tirunelveli district and Perumpalai in Dharmapuri district, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu (also handling the archaeology portfolio) announced in the Assembly on Saturday. “We will continue to undertake archaeological excavations to discover evidences that reflect the ancient heritage of the Tamils,” Mr. Thennarasu said in the House, after he referred to some criticism questioning the need for such excavations. Though the Brahmi script on Ashoka Pillar was considered older than Tamil Brahmi once, the unearthing of Mangulam inscriptions changed the narrative, he pointed out. The three new archaeological excavations would be undertaken in addition to the ones under way in Keeladi, Sivagalai, Mayiladumparai and Gangaikondacholapuram, he said. The government would also undertake scientific site inspections to locate Neolithic sites and those along the banks of Tamiraparani during 2021-22. Sites where ancient inscriptions are found in Mudhalaikulam and Arittapatti in Madurai district, Poolankurichi in Sivaganga district, Thondur and Theganurpatti in Villupuram district would be declared protected monuments, he said. The Institute of Archaeology would be restructured and renamed Tamil Nadu Institute of Archaeology and Museology, which would introduce a two-year post graduate diploma programme in epigraphy, the Minister announced. The government would document over 90 cave paintings from sites across the State. Steps would be taken to bring back ‘Leiden plates’ from the Netherlands which throw light on the history of legendary Tamil king Rajaraja Chola and also Buddhist viharas in Nagapattinam district, he said. Efforts would be taken to locate the ‘Anbil plates’ which is featured in Epigraphia Indica , the official publication of Archaeological Survey of India. A theme park with displays, including an automated model of a dinosaur, would be set up at a cost of Rs. 10 crore in the fossil museum in Ariyalur, he said. The displays in the museum in Chennai and 23 district museums would be digitised to launch a virtual museum at a cost of Rs. 5 crore, the Minister said. Mr. Thennarasu also said a science centre in Government Museum campus in Chennai to display developments in contemporary science would be set up through Kolkata-based National Council of Science Museum at Rs. 22.40 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-excavate-three-more-archaeological-sites-says-minister/article36299484.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai will get four more cyber police stations, labs||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Saturday said that in view of rising number of complaints on cyber crimes, four more cyber police stations would be set up in the city. A cyber lab would also be set up soon with modernised tools to help in investigation. The Commissioner was speaking at a function organised to reward the officers of special teams in anti-bank fraud and cyber crime wings of Central Crime Branch (CCB) for detection and arrest of accused involved in online frauds and cyber offences over the past few months. Later, Mr. Jiwal told presspersons that the CCB had registered several important cases and detected the accused swiftly in a few cases. The CCB had arrested two persons for impersonating actor Arya on social media and enticed a Sri Lankan Tamil woman living in Germany to pay Rs. 70 lakh by proposing to her. Impersonator of Arya To a question on the inclusion of Mr. Arya’s name in the first information report (FIR), Mr. Jiwal said the FIR was registered as per the complainant’s version and later investigation was taken up and inquiries were held with the actor. During investigation it was found that the actor was not involved. “At the time of filing the chargesheet, we will remove the name of the actor. We will look into the allegation of the video call if anyone has any evidence on video call,” said Mr. Jiwal.  Replying to a question on the use of a bullet proof car by a rowdy, he said it was under investigation and details were sought from workshops.  He said appropriate action would be taken against those who set up Vinayaka idols in public places. The city police has been following an earlier order of Madras High Court and a government order which was recently in this regard, he said. Mr. Jiwal said Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu had proposed a common programme involving police personnel from city police, coastal security group and fishermen to prevent drowning in Marina.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-will-get-4-more-cyber-police-stations-1-lab/article36299496.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two persons arrested under POCSO Act for raping minor girl||Two youth who allegedly raped a 15-year-old girl have been arrested in Royapuram All Women Police Station limits. Search is on to nab one more person who has been reported to be absconding. According to police sources, the accused were identified as Ganesh alias Ganeshan, 20, of Old Washermenpet and Ilayaraja, 19, a platform dweller in Aadu Thoti Salai. A case was registered in Royapuram police station following a complaint from the girl’s mother who said her 15-year-old daughter went missing from their home on August 28. The investigation was taken up. According to police, a person identified as Vijay took her to his relative’s house and raped her. Later, he dropped her at Central Railway station. She took an autorickshaw and reached Maadi Poonga, Royapuram, where Ilayaraja, who is known to her, intercepted her and took her to the Marina beach. He took her to his friend Ganesh’s house at night and both of them raped her. The two were arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and later remanded in judicial custody.  Man arrested Meanwhile, a 56-year-old man was arrested on Saturday in Madhavaram All Women Police Station limits for sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl. The accused was identified as Sukumar of Mathur. He was remanded in judicial custody on charges under the provisions of POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-arrested-under-pocso-act-for-raping-minor-girl/article36299471.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kangana Ranaut, director Vijay upbeat about Thalaivii||The cast and crew of the upcoming film Thalaivii took the stage in Chennai on Saturday evening. A biopic on the former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, the film stars actor Kangana Ranaut in the lead and is set to release in theatres on September 10. “More than the film being my dream, it is my team’s dream. I have directed four directors in this film — Kangana Ranaut, Arvind Swami, Thambi Ramaiah and Samuthirakani — which was something I immensely enjoyed,” said director A.L. Vijay. “This is not a political film and it is purely the journey of Jayalalithaa amma . Thalaivii is dedicated to her life in cinema and politics,” he added. “I feel fortunate and privileged that Thalaivii is one of the first films releasing in theatres after they were recently reopened. I feel like this might be the best film of my career and I thank my producers and the director for having so much confidence in me,” Ms. Ranaut said. Actors Arvind Swami, Thambi Ramaiah, Madhoo and Bhagyashree, cinematographer Vishal Vittal and choreographer Gayatri Raghuram also spoke about their experience of working on the film. Earlier, Ms. Ranaut visited Jayalalithaa’s memorial and offered floral tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kangana-ranaut-director-vijay-upbeat-about-thalaivii/article36299492.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s daily water supply may touch 1,000 million litres soon||Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) has started gradually increasing the quantity of daily drinking water supply, particularly in core areas, as the storage is building up in the reservoirs. On Saturday, the city and added areas were supplied with nearly 947 million litres a day (mld). This could be one of the highest quantum of drinking water provided in the recent years. The water agency plans to step up the water supply up to 1,000 mld in the next couple of weeks. The core parts of the city are getting an improved supply through pipelines every day. Nearly 747 mld is being supplied through pipeline network, which is about 50 mld more than what was supplied last week. The water board targets to reduce tanker trips and cover the city with piped water supply. Storage levels Officials of the board said as of now, the focus is more on improving water supply to core localities. Once the ongoing process of giving water connections was completed in added areas, shifting to daily water supply would be considered. At present, the merged areas are given piped supply of 129 mld on alternate days and 13 mld through tankers. The five major water sources, including Thervoy Kandigai and Kannankottai that mainly feed the city, have a storage of 9.24 tmcft, which is 78.64% of the total capacity. Officials said the reservoirs had a comfortable storage even as northeast monsoon was still a month away. The existing storage is adequate to supply city for 10 more months. The major reservoirs in Poondi and Red Hills are more than 80% full. A portion of the surplus water released from Ammapalli dam in Andhra Pradesh flowed into the Poondi reservoir through Kosasthalaiyar. Officials of the Water Resources Department (WRD) said there was a steady flow of Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh. The State border of Kandaleru Poondi canal has so far realised 3.7 tmcft of Krishna water for this spell since July. “We have diverted and filled Thervoy Kandigai and Kannankottai reservoir with Krishna water. We have finished maintenance work at the waterbodies and are monsoo-ready,” said a WRD official. Rain likely Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has forecast scattered rainfall over the State till Monday. Thunderstorm with heavy rains is possible over one or two places, including the Nilgiris district. A few places in northern parts and delta districts may receive moderate rains on Sunday. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said, “There may be a dip in rains once a low-pressure area forms over northwest Bay of Bengal around Monday. We expect northern districts and Western Ghats to get better rains compared to central and southern parts during the first fortnight of September.”  The core parts of the city are getting an improved supply through pipelines every day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citys-daily-water-supply-may-touch-1000-million-litres-soon/article36299456.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||J&K police arrest fruit seller in Koyambedu||The Jammu and Kashmir police arrested a wholesaler in Koyambedu fruit market for allegedly cheating two suppliers of Rs. 1.63 crore. The police said M. Dinakaran, 38, of Virugambakkam bought apples for Rs. 1.18 crore from a fruit supplier in Jammu and Kashmir and from another supplier for Rs. 45 lakh in 2018. Dinakaran defaulted on payment for the fruits and the suppliers lodged a complaint with the local police in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir. Based on the complaint, police took up investigation and a team came down to the city and nabbed Dinakaran with the help of local police on Saturday. He would be taken to J&K after obtaining a transit warrant from a local court, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jk-police-arrest-fruit-seller-in-koyambedu/article36299457.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Juveniles picked up for bike racing, let off with warning||Four youth, including three juveniles, were caught by the traffic police while they were racing bikes near Poonamallee. They were let off after a warning. Traffic investigation inspector Subashiny and other personnel reached the spot after receiving a complaint about the racing, but the youth fled the spot. After scrutinising CCTV footage, the police traced the culprits. Later, the police secured Buvanesh, 18, of Kumananchavadi and three juveniles who were in age of 15, 16 and 17. A case was booked against Buvenesh and the father of the 17-year-old for rash driving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/juveniles-picked-up-for-bike-racing-let-off-with-warning/article36299460.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM urged to grant pay band-4 for govt. doctors||The legal coordination committee for government doctors has appealed to the Chief Minister to grant them pay band-4 at 12 years of service. According to a press release, the committee said that when entering service, both the Central and State government doctors were given the same basic pay of Rs. 56,100. After 13 years, Central government doctors got a basic pay of Rs. 1,23,000 due to pay band-4, while State government doctors got the same salary only after completing of 20 years. Noting that the Central government doctors were drawing a “sizeable” salary by way of additional allowances, the committee said that they were not demanding salary on a par with them but for salary as assured through Government Order 354. The government should fulfil this demand in recognition of the service of 18,000 government doctors during COVID-19. It would benefit the young generation of doctors. The committee pointed out that Karnataka government had granted pay hike for their government doctors on a par with Central government doctors during the first wave of COVID-19. The committee requested the Chief Minister to provide pay progression in 5, 9, 11 and 12 years as guaranteed by G.O. 354.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-urged-to-grant-pay-band-4-for-govt-doctors/article36299478.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Commercial complex to come up on temple land||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekarbabu told the Tamil Nadu Assembly on Saturday that a Rs. 100-crore commercial complex would be built on a plot next to the Poonamallee High Road. The land belongs to the Ekambareswarar temple in Kancheepuram. The HR and CE Department took control of the property only recently after evicting the encroachers who occupied it for several years. “The commercial complex would earn money for the temple,” Mr. Sekarbabu said while replying to the demand for grants. Another complex at a cost of Rs. 50 crore would come up on the land belonging to Egmore Srinivasa Perumal temple, also on the Poonamallee High Road. An annadanam and head tonsuring mandapam would be constructed in Vadapalani temple at a cost of Rs. 9 crore. The Minister said temples and mutts owned 2.04 lakh acres of wetlands, 2.53 lakh acres of dry land and 21,000 acres of maanavari lands. About 22,600 buildings and 33,665 vacant lands have been given on lease. Agriculture lands have been leased out to 1,23,729 persons. The government decided to set up a training institute at a cost of Rs. 5 crore at Tiruttani temple for temple staff in administration. Mr. Sekarbabu said the old and dilapidated rented houses on the land of Parthasarathy temple in Triplicane would be demolished. New houses and a commercial complex would be built at a cost of Rs. 15 crore. Moreover, houses for employees and lodges for devotees would be constructed in the vacant land of the temple at a cost of Rs. 2 crore, made available through sponsors. Announcing the government’s decision to appoint 10,000 security personnel for temples, the Minister said a conservation manual would be released for the proper maintenance of ancient temples. Other announcements include raising flower gardens in 100 temples at a cost of Rs. 15 crore, free prasadam in 10 temples and annadanam throughout the day in Tiruttani, Samayapuram and Tiruchendur and projects separately for Saivite and Vaishnavite temples. Panel for gold The Minister announced constitution of a committee by three retired judges of the High Court to monitor the investment of gold gifted to temples by devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commercial-complex-to-come-up-on-temple-land/article36299463.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meet on rural local body polls||The State Election Commission has convened a meeting of recognised parties in the State on Monday to discuss the upcoming rural local body polls in the nine newly-bifurcated districts. Earlier this year, the Supreme Court had directed the Commission to hold the elections by September 15. The SEC released the electoral rolls for the nine districts on August 31. According to the data, Chengalpattu, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Ranipet, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Tirupattur, Vellore and Villupuram have 76,59,720 voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sec-convenes-meet-on-rural-local-body-polls/article36299505.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaiko hails move to honour V.O.C.||MDMK general secretay Vaiko on Saturday welcomed the Tamil Nadu government’s announcement to celebrate freedom fighter V.O. Chidambaram’s 150th birth anniversary. Recalling the life history of V.O.C., as he is famously known, Mr. Vaiko said the role he played in the freedom struggle and the sacrifices he made for the country’s Independence would not be forgotten. “He did not seek fame or fortune and led a life of simplicity. He did yeomen service to the people,” Mr. Vaiko said. Mr. Vaiko said then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had, in 1972, to mark V.O.C.’s 100th birth anniversary, announced the installation of a country oil expeller in Government Estate, installed his bronze statue at the Thoothukudi Port Trust, and also released postage stamp. “Now, for his 150th birth anniversary, Chief Minister Stalin has accorded him another honour,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaiko-hails-move-to-honour-voc/article36299494.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Unorganised workers to be certified for skills||The Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation will identify one lakh workers from unorganised sectors in the State to assess their skills and certify them under Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL), Labour Welfare Minister C.V. Ganesan announced in the Assembly on Saturday. Though many have registered with the Tamil Nadu Unorganised Worker Welfare Board, and have the necessary skills and experience, they are under paid as they do not have the necessary certificates for their skillset and experience, the Minister said. They will be assesssed and certified at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. A skill registry will be set up with details of those who have completed training in various specialisations offered by the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation. The unified single skill registry will help industries looking for qualified, trained and certified candidates. Competitive exams Kalvi TV will soon offer classes for those preparing for competitive examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission, the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission, the Staff Selection Commission, various banks and the Railway Recruitment Board, among others, Mr. Ganesan said. The classes will be offered through exclusive frequency within Kalvi TV, through the Tamil Nadu Cable TV Corporation, at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unorganised-workers-to-be-certified-for-skills/article36299487.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPCL’s hexane output touches 22,500 tonnes||The Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (CPCL) refinery at Manali near the city has produced highest quantity of food grade hexane so far in 2020-21. It has produced 22,500 tonnes, surpassing its own previous record of 19,700 tonnes in 2019-20. CPCL, which has the capacity to produce 25,000 tonnes of hexane per annum, is a group company of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. Hexane is produced from naphtha during the refining process by a two-stage distillation. After it is separated from naphtha, a de-aromatisation is done to remove aromatic compounds. It is in liquid form and its boiling point is between 63 degree Celsius and 70 degree Celsius. Around 70% of the hexane that the refinery produces is supplied to manufacturers who use it as a solvent to extract edible oil from seeds, including soya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpcls-hexane-output-touches-22500-tonnes/article36299476.ece
05 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Constable tries to kill himself||A 24-year-old police constable allegedly attempted to end his life at the Old Guest House on Saturday. The victim, P. Velusamy of Dharmapuri district, is attached with the Armed Reserve Unit, Pudupet. He was posted as a guard at the Old Guest House. Around 8.15 p.m. on Saturday, he shot himself with his service weapon. Colleagues rushed him to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-tries-to-kill-himself/article36299465.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin commends writer, medalists||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday congratulated S. Balabharathi for being awarded the Bala Sahitya Puraskar. He also congratulated Paralympics medal winners Manish Narwal and Singhraj Adhana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-lauds-writer-medalists/article36299477.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Boy electrocuted while flying a kite||A boy was electrocuted when he came in contact with the live-wire while flying a kite in Maduravoyal on Saturday afternoon. The victim, N. Kishore, a resident from Kovilpatti Gopalakrishnan Street in Maduravoyal and a student of Class IX in a private school, was the son of daily wage earners. Around 12.45 pm, Kishore was flying the kite when his parents had gone to work. As the thread slipped out of his hand, he went to the terrace of the newly-built adjacent house and tried to get hold of the thread when he came in contact with the live-wire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-electrocuted-while-flying-a-kite/article36299459.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic has hampered corneal retrieval, transplant||The COVID-19 pandemic has severely hampered corneal retrieval and transplant, forcing eye surgeons to postpone transplants indefinitely, or in extreme cases source cornea from other States. Transplant is the only option for those with eye injuries resulting in corneal blindness. S. Josephine Christy, medical consultant, Cornea and Refractive Surgery Services, Aravind Eye Hospital, Puducherry, said people with diabetes, hypertension or those who had undergone cataract surgery could also donate their eyes. Awareness drives in the State had helped to some extent as even during the pandemic there were heart-warming instances of parents donating their children’s eyes. A mortuary worker at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai donated the eyes of her 19-year-old son after he died in an accident. A 23-year-old youth, also from Madurai, pledged his eyes on his birthday on August 14 last year. He died in an accident on his birthday this year, and his father fulfilled his wishes. In the last eight months, at least 62 corneas were retrieved from persons aged below 25 years in Madurai, said Venkatesh Prajna, chief of cornea at Aravind Eye Hospital. “Donors are the real heroes who motivate us to provide our services to help solve the problem of corneal blindness,” he said. Tamil Nadu is among the top five high-performance States in the last seven years. “The donors have helped Tamil Nadu remain among the top five high-performance States in eye donation for the last seven years when 50,000-plus corneas were collected and the State accounted for one-fifth of them each year,” Dr. Prajna said. Zero wait-list “Madurai, with close to 800 cornea transplants, was the first district to achieve zero wait-list; a reversal in progress is unfortunate,” he added, pointing to the setback caused by the pandemic. People who died of heart attacks did not have such a test done, said Mohan Rajan, managing director of Rajan Eye Care Hospital, Chennai. He said he sourced corneas from an institution in Hyderabad for an emergency procedure. At Sankara Nethralaya, transplants fell to a third of what the hospital performed in a normal year, vice-chairman T.S. Surendran said. Since 2017, the hospital has performed over 600 corneal transplants annually, but in 2020 it performed only 243 transplants as cornea donations had fallen. In a normal year, the hospital received around 1,200 donations, he said. S.V. Chandrakumar, State programme officer, Tamil Nadu State Blindness Control Society, said the State did not face any cornea shortage for elective surgeries even during the pandemic. “We are getting enough corneas for elective surgeries. The need for therapeutic corneas was lower as the number of injuries also fell,” he said. “We are slowly picking up on cornea retrieval. In another three or four months, it will be in full swing.” The State had created a registry to pledge eyes under the National Health Mission. So far, 6,500 people had registered themselves on the website. “The need of the hour is for hospitals to use the registry to identify potential donors,” he said. The system is simple as in the event of death of the donor his family could use their mobile number and retrieve the donor certificate that hospitals can use, Dr. Chandrakumar said. According to him, roughly 10,000 corneas are retrieved annually under the National Programme for Control of Blindness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-has-hampered-corneal-retrieval-transplant/article36299603.ece
05 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textile industry welcomes removal of market committee cess on cotton||The textile and clothing industry expects ease of doing business to improve in the State with the announcement by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday that market committee cess on cotton and waste cotton will be removed. The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Market Committee started levying 0.5% cess on cotton and cotton waste since 1959 and it was increased to 1 % in 1987. Since then, the industry has been asking for removal of the cess. Tamil Nadu, which has the country’s 45 % spinning capacity, buys most of its cotton needs from States such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telengana, and Punjab. Cotton waste is a byproduct at the textile mills. With the levy of 1% cess, Cotton Corporation of India was unable to set up warehouses in the State so far. “We will now request the CCI to set up warehouses in Coimbatore, Madurai, and Salem,” said T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry. Removal of the cess will benefit especially the small and medium-scale textile mills and open end mills in the State, he added. The mills currently spend Rs. 2 to Rs. 6 a kg for transporting cotton from other States. If warehouses are set up here, the mills will save on transportation cost, he added. Ravi Sam, Deputy Chairman of the Southern India Mills’ Association, said removal of the cess will benefit the farmers, increase the GST revenue for the State, and make the mills in the State competitive. Mr. Rajkumar and Mr. Ravi Sam said the decision is an additional advantage for Tamil Nadu to attract investments and create additional jobs. According to the South India Spinners’ Association president J. Selvan, the textile mills do not have to go to other States to buy cotton as warehouses will come up in the State. A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council, said the announcement will also benefit handloom and power loom weavers, garment manufacturers and cotton recyclers. Indian Texpreneurs Federation said its members buy cotton jointly from other States and they will request ginning units to set up warehouses in Tamil Nadu.  We will now request the CCI to set up warehouses in Coimbatore, Madurai, and Salem T. Rajkumar Chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-industry-welcomes-removal-of-market-committee-cess-on-cotton/article36299503.ece
05 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No major violations during weekend restrictions in Coimbatore district||As the weekend restrictions announced by the district administration came into force in Coimbatore on Saturday, no major violations by commercial establishments were detected on the first day, according to Corporation officials. As part of measure to prevent crowding, Collector G.S. Sameeran had announced that shops other than those selling essential items will remain closed on all Saturdays and Sundays on Cross Cut Road, 100 Feet Road, Oppanakara Street, Ramamoorthy Road, Saramedu Road (Royal Nagar Junction), Rice Mill Road, N.P. Itteri Road, the stretch of Trichy Road from Singanallur Junction to Ondipudur flyover, Hope College Junction on Avinashi Road, Kalapatti Road near Nehru Nagar, D.B. Road, T.V. Samy Street, N.S.R. Road, Arokiyasamy Road East and West, Saravanampatti Junction, Ganapathy Bus Terminus, Thudiyalur Junction, Rotti Kadai Ground in Peelamedu, Avarampalayam junction, Bharathi Nagar (Ganapathy), Pappanaickenpalayam Junction, Raja Street, Big Bazaar Street, V.H. Road, N.H. Road, Edayar Street, Vysial Street, Thomas Street, Sukrawarpet Street, Marakkadai Street, R.G. Street, Gandhipuram Streets 1 to 11, and Sullivan Street. Similarly, jewellery and textile shops, malls and parks will remain closed for the public during the weekend in the Coimbatore Corporation limits and at all the municipalities in the district. Corporation officials said on Saturday that the restrictions will be in place till further orders. While some establishments have requested for some relaxations, the Corporation will not relax the restrictions to control the spread of COVID-19 in the city, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-major-violations-during-weekend-restrictions-in-coimbatore-district/article36299517.ece
05 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special teams trace 59 missing persons||Special teams formed by the Coimbatore District (Rural) Police traced 59 persons, including children, who were reported missing from 2017. A release issued by the police here said that the Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam tasked Additional Superintendent of Police (crime against women and children) R. Sughasini to trace the persons who were reported missing in the district since 2017. The special teams traced 15 men, 20 women, three boys and 21 girls who were reported missing in various police stations in Coimbatore rural. A senior police officer said those who had gone missing included mentally challenged persons. Reunited with families The police teams handed over the traced persons to their family members by following legal formalities, said the official. Mr. Selvanagarathinam appreciated the special teams for tracing the 59 persons swiftly and solving old pending cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-trace-59-missing-persons/article36299512.ece
05 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||67% of antenatal mothers receive first dose of COVID-19 vaccine||A total of 67% of antenatal mothers in Coimbatore district received their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine as of Friday, according to the Health Department. Antenatal mothers was one of the sections targeted by the department during the mass vaccination drive against COVID-19 as complications of the disease can pose threat to mother and child. P. Aruna, Deputy Director of Health Services, told The Hindu on Saturday that the department initially identified the number of antenatal mothers for the drive. A total of 33,813 antenatal mothers were identified in the district of which 22,476 received their first dose vaccine as on Friday. A majority of these women will have their second dose vaccine soon. Most of the antenatal mothers preferred Covishield. The department was recommending Covaxin for women who are in the last trimester of their pregnancy as it has a short window between the first and second doses and they will get both doses of the vaccine before delivery. According to Dr. Aruna, COVID-19 pneumonia is one of the main risk factors for antenatal mothers due to their immunity-compromised state during pregnancy. Women who have complications during pregnancy are also in the risk category. “Vaccinating them during the pregnancy can save them and the babies from the complications of COVID-19,” said Dr. Aruna. She said that obstetrics and gynaecology departments in private hospitals were also instructed to urge their antenatal mothers to get vaccinated. The Joint Director of Health Services was coordinating these activities. Dr. Aruna said that 80% of postnatal mothers identified by the department in the district also received their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine. A total of 16,547 out of the 20,681 postnatal mothers were vaccinated as of Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/67-of-antenatal-mothers-receive-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine/article36299526.ece
05 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||53 accused in robbery cases arrested||Tiruppur City Police have arrested 53 accused in connection with robbery cases, including stealing of cash, jewellery, vehicles and mobile phones between June and August, Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha said on Saturday. In a press release, she said the accused were involved in 38 robbery cases and 73 mobile phone theft cases in the past three months. A total of 19 two-wheelers, one four-wheeler, cash totalling Rs. 7.38 lakh, gold jewellery weighing 3.25 sovereign, 86 mobile phones and one television home theatre set were recovered from the accused. Ms. Vanitha handed over the stolen items to its owners at her office in Sirupooluvapatti on Saturday in the presence of Deputy Commissioners of Police S. Aravind (Law and Order) and P. Ravi (Crime and Traffic). Security strengthened Patrolling and CCTV surveillance network has been strengthened in Tiruppur to prevent these crimes, she said in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/53-accused-in-robbery-cases-arrested/article36299519.ece
05 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||SME textile mills seek permission to continue open access power purchase||The small and medium-scale spinning mills have appealed to the State government to permit industries drawing power under open access system with less than one MW connected load to continue doing so. In a memorandum to the State government South India Spinners’ Association said consumers having less than one MW connected load drawing open access power are mostly MSME industries. These MSMEs include more than 1,000 small and medium scale spinners in the State. These units are forced to rely only on and buy power only from Tangedco at a higher price of 80 paisa per unit than what bigger units pay. This makes the operations of small and medium spinners economically unviable. The government should consider the ground reality and continue permitting the units to draw power under open access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sme-textile-mills-seek-permission-to-continue-open-access-power-purchase/article36299513.ece
05 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault||A 40-year-old man from Coimbatore was arrested on the charges of sexually assaulting his daughter, a minor girl. As per the complaint lodged by the girl, aged 17, her father sexually assaulted her for the last six years. The police said that the man hailing from a residential area near Vadavalli was arrested on Friday. The man sexually assaulted his daughter when his wife was asleep and in her absence. The police arrested the man for offences under various Sections of the Protection of the Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He was produced before the special court for POCSO Act cases and remanded in judicial custody on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault/article36299529.ece
05 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two detained under Goondas Act||Two men who were involved in chain-snatching and robberies were detained under the provisions of the Goondas Act on Saturday. The detainees have been identified as N. Vijay (24) from Thondamuthur road at Vadavalli and R. Manikandan (19) from Meenakshi Nagar at R.S. Puram. A team led by Race Course inspector (investigation wing) P.S. Sujatha had arrested the duo on charges of robbing M. Suresh (37), a resident of Shankara Nagar at Vinayakapuram near Saravanampatti, of Rs. 2000 at knife- point on August 3. City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor issued the detention order which was served on them at the Coimbatore Central Prison on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-detained-under-goondas-act/article36299531.ece
05 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||NLCIL hands over enhanced compensation to landowners||S. Natarajan, retired district judge, and M. Sadiq Basha, Neyveli sub-court judge, handed over compensation to the tune of Rs. 3.96 crore to 65 beneficiaries, who had handed over their land to NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL) for mining operations. The beneficiaries are from the Project Affected Villages in Cuddalore district. According to a press release from the public sector undertaking, the project-affected persons had filed an appeal for higher compensation, which came up for hearing during the Lok Adalat held on August 27. An agreement was reached between the NLCIL and the project-affected persons in the presence of the forum. The Lok Adalat announced an enhanced compensation of Rs. 3.96 crore to 65 beneficiaries for surrendering their 52.45 acres of land to the company. Accordingly, the enhanced amount was handed over to them. M. Lakshmi Kantha Rao, chief general manager, S. Vivekanandan, deputy ceneral manager from NLCIL and senior officials of the Tamil Nadu Revenue Department were present.  The beneficiaries are from the Project Affected Villages in Cuddalore district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nlcil-hands-over-enhanced-compensation-to-landowners/article36299911.ece
05 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore records nil deaths, 54 new cases||Cuddalore district reported nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Saturday. As many as 54 persons tested positive, taking the overall tally to 62,483. The district saw 61,162 recoveries and 482 active cases. In Villupuram district, 27 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 44,914. Kallakurichi reported 20 cases, taking the overall count to 30,191.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-records-nil-deaths-54-new-cases/article36299910.ece
05 September 2021||CUDDALORE/ Thanjavur/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||College student, two teachers test positive for COVID-19||Two teachers and a college student have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. A teacher attached to the Government High School at Periyanesalur near Cuddalore tested positive for the infection on Saturday. With this, four teachers in the district have tested positive for the infection since the reopening of schools on September 1. According to an Education Department official, the history teacher, handling students of classes 9 and 10, reported for duty on Wednesday. She did not come to the school for the next two days, and her sample was collected on Thursday after her neighbour tested positive for the infection. The sample returned positive on Saturday. The teacher has been admitted to the Cuddalore Government General Hospital. Health Department officials said the staff room at the school had been disinfected. The Department will be screening students and staff who came to the school on Wednesday. First case A teacher working at a government school in the Tiruppur Corporation limits tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, becoming the first case to be reported from schools in the district since they reopened. According to Health Department officials, the 34-year-old, working at the Municipal High School in Nesavalar Colony, came to the school on Wednesday. As she developed fever and a sore throat, she isolated herself in a classroom and did not interact with any teachers or students, the officials said. On the same day, she visited the Urban Primary Health Centre in Nesavalar Colony, where her sample was lifted. On Saturday, her test results confirmed that she had contracted COVID-19. Following this, the Health Department lifted the samples of 30 faculty members of the school and closed the classroom where the teacher had isolated herself. Tiruppur Chief Educational Officer R. Ramesh told The Hindu that all schools in the district had been instructed to strictly adhere to COVID-19 safety protocols issued by the State government. Meanwhile, a college student hailing from a village in Thanjavur taluk tested positive for the infection. Her sample was taken on September 1, when the college reopened. She did not turn up for classes on Friday. On Saturday morning, she called her lecturer and said she had tested positive for the infection. ‘Not linked to reopening’ The teachers and students who tested positive for COVID-19 in a few districts did not contract the infection after schools reopened, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. “It is being said that teachers and students tested positive for COVID-19 as schools reopened on September 1. This is a misunderstanding. It is not possible for teachers and students to have contracted the infection on that day. Those who were already infected were identified after coming to school. To prevent further transmission, they have been identified immediately,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-student-two-teachers-test-positive-for-covid-19/article36299488.ece
05 September 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘Increase financial aid’||Members of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently-Abled and Care givers urged the State to increase the financial assistance given to them. At the annual conference held here on Saturday, election of office-bearers were held. Its state general secretary Jeeva said that the government gave Rs. 1,000 through the Revenue Department and another Rs. 1,500 through the Differently-Abled department to eligible people. However, with the ‘paltry’ assistance, they were unable to meet their basic needs. Hence, they wanted the hike to be Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 5,000 as they had to travel from Vedasandur to Dindigul GH for treatment. By appointing specialist doctors in smaller towns, they need not travel long distances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article36299599.ece
05 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water level at Bhavanisagar, Mettur dams||Water level at Bhavanisagar dam stood at 102 ft against a total scale of 105 ft on Saturday. According to officials from Public Works Department, the storage at the dam was 30.31 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 1,612 cusecs. A surplus of 1,187 cusecs was discharged into Bhavani river and 403 cusecs into Kalingarayan canal. At Mettur dam, the water level was 69.39 ft against a total scale of 120ft. The storage was 32,180 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 16,670 cusecs. About 5,000 cusecs was discharged from the dam into Cauvery river and 650 cusecs into East-West canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-at-bhavanisagar-mettur-dams/article36299628.ece
05 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Policeman’s wife found dead||A 41-year-old woman, wife of a police constable, was found dead at her home near Sathyamangalam on Saturday. According to police, the deceased, identified as Thamaraiselvi, was suspected to have been suffering from various ailments. Sathyamangalam police have registered a case and are investigating. ( Assistance to overcome suicidal thought is available on State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050 .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policemans-wife-found-dead/article36299622.ece
05 September 2021||Hassan,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic no bar for this teacher||If theatre is all about communication, Shrikanth Ram Patagar, a drama teacher at the Karnataka Public School in the remote town of Thirthahalli in western Karnataka, ensured that his students were never out of touch during the long months of the COVID lockdown. Ignoring the patchy Internet access in the area, Mr. Patagar made it a point to visit the villages to meet his students. “Every day, I met at least 10 students during the lockdown. During the visits, I interacted with them and spoke to their parents. This continued for months and the students were aware that I would be there the next day. Our colleagues [of other subjects] also did this and it forced the students to do their homework and study every day,” says Mr. Patagar, who is among those to be honoured with Karnataka’s best teacher award this year. In addition to visiting the villages, he took up two lessons from the SSLC syllabus and staged two plays involving students of Class VIII and IX to reinforce the learning. “I involved local students at Konandur for the plays ‘ Sepoy Dange’ , based on a chapter on history syllabus on the Sepoy Mutiny, and ‘ Yuddha’ , written by Sa. Ra. Abubakar, also in SSLC text. We staged the plays on March 27 to mark World Theatre Day,” says the graduate of the Neenasam Theatre Institute at Heggodu in Sagar taluk. For the past 12 years, Mr. Patagar from Kumta in Uttara Kannada district, has been working in Konandur. He is known for his theatre activities involving students. The play ‘ Jagada Birukige Gandhi Maddu’ that he directed for his students was part of the national theatre festival held at Sanehalli in 2010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-no-bar-for-this-teacher/article36298998.ece
05 September 2021||IDUKKI,TAMIL NADU||Woman’s body found buried in kitchen||The Kerala police on Saturday exhumed the body of Sindhu, 44, a Panikkankudy resident, who went missing on August 12. Her body was found buried inside the house of her neighbour Benoy. The police said the body was found in the kitchen and a hearth was made over it. To hide proof, the accused had put chilli powder in the pit and on the hearth. The accused was absconding after the police started inquiry on August 15 following a complaint by her mother. A senior police official said the body was in a decomposed state and they were waiting for the post-mortem examination report. Sindhu was living in a rented house at Panikkankudy with her younger son for the past six years. She was close to Benoy and shifted her son to Benoy’s sister’s house on August 11. The next day, her son noticed that Sindhu was missing and informed her relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womans-body-found-buried-in-kitchen/article36298994.ece
05 September 2021||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||Newspaper agent murdered; two surrender||Sarath Kumar (30) of Anna Nagar in Okkur, near here, was found dead in the market area on Friday night. Police said that the body had injuries on several parts. Inquiries revealed that the victim was a newspaper agent. Along with his friends, they had a late night liquor party in the area. Based on the CCTV footage, the police zeroed in on the suspects. Rudran (20) of B. Colony and Kesavan (30) of C. Colony in Anna Nagar surrendered before the Madagupatti police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newspaper-agent-murdered-two-surrender/article36299845.ece
05 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Kerala duo unveil flood-ready buildings||Three years ago, just as Kerala had been recovering from an unprecedented flood, two young engineers from the State were busy putting the finishing touches to their years-long project for a ‘climate change future.’ The duo, Nanma Gireesh and Ben K. George, both translational engineers, initially had their focus on the concept of floating houses. But as the research progressed, they realised how important it is for Kerala to adopt a construction method that takes flooding in its stride. Animated by its potential, they carried on with the research and established a construction start-up, which works on houses that are not just resistant but immune to flooding. Three years since, the duo has unveiled ‘Amphi Nest,’ the working prototype of an amphibious pavilion structure that is ready to bob up and down with the floodwater. The structure, established at Kozha, near Kuravilangadu, was inaugurated by Agriculture Minister P. Prasad on Saturday at a function attended by Kaduthuruthy MLA Mons Joseph. “These buildings typically use buoyant, air-filled concrete foundations, which offer double the space of conventional houses and thus ensures cost viability,” says Ms.Gireesh. As water comes in, the house, guided on steel or concrete posts, can rise up to two metres and settles back down to its original placement as the water recedes, she explains. As to the business potential of the project, Ms.Gireesh says they have already begun receiving inquiries from locations such as Pala, a township on the banks of the Meenachil. “For the simple reason that Kerala has a historical appetite for waterside living, the method that uses locally available materials has been gradually gaining traction over the years,” she adds. Having worked with global pioneers in the amphibious architecture and engineering fields, including Elizabeth C. English, head of the Buoyant Foundation Project, Canada, these entrepreneurs are now in consultations with agencies in the Netherlands for collaboration. “Some of them have already accepted our proposals on working with flood resilient buildings for Kerala. Since the conditions at Kuttanad are similar (to an extent) to the Netherlands, we have already discussed the scope of incorporating different ‘aquatectures’ to improve people's livelihood,” says Mr.George.  These buildings typically use buoyant, air-filled concrete foundations, which offer double the space of conventional houses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-duo-unveil-flood-ready-buildings/article36299003.ece
05 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,TAMIL NADU||Kunhalikutty supporters and detractors set for face-off||After playing hide-and-seek for the past three months, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leadership is finally gearing up to hold its crucial working committee meeting in mid-September. The stage appears to be set for a face-off between pro- and anti-P.K. Kunhalikutty groups after a long time. The 100-member working committee, the highest decision-making body, has not so far met to evaluate the outcome of the Assembly elections after it lost five seats it considered winnable. How Mr. Kunhalikutty manages the support of party president Panakkad Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal, who is still recovering from a critical illness, and his brother and Malappuram district president Panakkad Syed Sadiqali Shihab Thangal will be a determining factor in warding off criticism against him. Mr. Kunhalikutty has also to defend his reputation from detractors after the CPI (M)-backed MLA and former Minister K.T. Jaleel gave a statement against him before the ED recently in connection with an alleged money-laundering case involving the party-owned Muslim Printing and Publishing Company that publishes Chandrika daily. Party sources say a 10-member subcommittee comprising State leaders and legislators has not scheduled the date or fixed the agenda of the meeting to be held in Kozhikode and is unlikely to discuss contentious issues such as the case against leaders of the students wing, Muslim Students Federation, for making sexually explicit remarks about leaders of the Haritha, women’s wing of the MSF. Now, the dust seems to have settled at least for the time being after Syed Mueen Ali Shihab Thangal, son of Panakkad Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal, accused Mr. Kunhalikutty of political hegemony and financial mismanagement in the party mouthpiece. Regardless of its internal problems, what really perturbs the IUML leadership is the dilution of its support base among the youth in party strongholds in Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur districts and the resurgent emergence of political players — Indian National League, Social Democratic Party of India, and the Welfare Party of India — chasing the Muslim vote. CPI(M) strategies Also, sources say the leadership is looking at the strategies adopted by the CPI(M) in taking a conscious and intentional effort to win the Muslim community through defectors of the IUML. Despite a concerted move by the IUML to paint the CPI(M) as an anti-Muslim outfit in the run-up to the Assembly polls, the Left parties continued to make inroads into the Malabar region and secured a historic second term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kunhalikutty-supporters-and-detractors-set-for-face-off/article36298993.ece
05 September 2021||Kozhikode,TAMIL NADU||NIA may probe telephone exchange case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely to take up the investigation in the parallel telephone exchange case with the unearthing of evidence linking the arrested with some of the key accused in a gold smuggling racket and the use of the illegal communication network for suspected extremist activities. An NIA squad has collected details from the Crime Branch’s (CB) special investigation team. According to CB sources, the NIA may take up the case in two weeks as those involved are part of an international network which facilitated discreet communication for anti-national activities. The City police and the CB believe that their team have done a commendable job by completing a major part of the investigation within a short time by arresting the key suspects. It was on July 2 that the City police, with the help of a team of 23 officers, exposed the parallel telephone exchanges at eight locations and arrested P. Jurise, 26, one of the key operators. More than 700 SIM cards and imported call routers were seized from the buildings that functioned as illegal telephone exchanges. Though three of the suspects went underground, the arrested youth gave enough evidence to uncover the root of the illegal business. The main breakthrough was the uncovering of links of the suspects with P. Ibrahim, a Malappuram native, who was earlier nabbed by the Karnataka Police on the charges of running a parallel telephone exchange in Bengaluru. Ibrahim, who is in Parappana Agrahara Central prison, allegedly facilitated illegal communication between Pakistan-based intelligence operatives and Indians. According to the Karnataka Police, the main purpose of the Bengaluru telephone exchange was to elicit confidential information related to military installations in India. Link with smugglers Another breakthrough was the uncovering of the association of a gold smuggling gang member with the suspects in the telephone exchange case. CB sources said a Thodupuzha native, who was earlier arrested by the Telangana Police in connection with an illegal telephone exchange case, was a carrier for K.T. Rameese, who was recently arrested in connection with the gold smuggling case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nia-may-probe-telephone-exchange-case/article36299010.ece
05 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Hosur expansion: better water distribution system sought||A public hearing on Hosur Corporation’s expansion of the city limits to include adjoining panchayats was held at the Collectorate under Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy on Saturday. Hosur had featured in the government’s smart city expansion proposal, where the Hosur Corporation was sought to be expanded to co-opt the adjoining panchayats to the city limits. Begepalli, Nallur, Sennachandiram,Perandapalli, Thorapalli, Agraharam, Onnalwadi, Achettypalli, Poonapalli, and Kothakondapalli panchayats are proposed to be assimilated into Hosur Corporation’s city limits. In its wake, the administration had called for a public hearing from all stakeholders, residents welfare associations and civil society groups to table their opinions. Even as Hosur town is poised for expansion, the Krishnagiri District Residents Welfare Association flagged the deficiencies in water distribution system and the supportive infrastructure for seamless drinking water supply. Only 8 % of the residential areas received daily supply of water. Over 83% of the areas received water only once between three and five days. However, the Corporation hiked the water tax three times despite the irregular water supply, the association stated. Of the 121 overhead tanks, over 51% of the tanks were over 20 years old. The drinking water under the Hogenakkal Drinking Water project for fluorosis mitigation had not reached 44% of the proposed coverage area. Water meters were still to be fixed in many households, the association stated tabling its data on the water distribution network. The Association called for status quo on property tax for the expanded jurisdiction and said the expansion was not extractive to the citizens by way of exorbitant taxes on houses and property and must not deprive people of their livelihoods. Hosur even after being declared a Corporation remained short of necessary infrastructure signalling an urban Corporation. The expansion should be accompanied by necessary basic infrastructure. The Association also demanded a permanent Labour Welfare Officer in Hosur. The other demands include hostel for women workforce; new water connections for housing colonies in the expanded area with regulated and reasonable water connection tariffs; upgraded medical facilities at Hosur Government hospital; a Corporation library; development of Hosur railway station and bus stand and a state-of-the-art Corporation school to accommodate about 10,000 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hosur-expansion-better-water-distribution-system-sought/article36299618.ece
05 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Fit India marathon flagged off||A marathon marking the 75 years of Indian Independence under the Centre’s Fit India campaign was flagged off by Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy on Saturday. The marathon was organised by Nehru Yuva Kendra under the aegis of the Ministry of Youth Welfare and Sports. It began with a pledge by the participants to create a “ Fit and a healthy India”. Seventy-five participants including students of Arignar Anna Arts and Science College, NSS and NCC cadets took part in the run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fit-india-marathon-flagged-off/article36299616.ece
05 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Award to be given to the best corporation school in city||Leading psychiatrist and founder of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation C. Ramasubramanian said that an award would be given to the best corporation school that takes earnest efforts to prioritise students’ emotional well-being, under the Happy Schooling 2.0 programme, while addressing a group of corporation school headmasters who were given psychological first-aid training to help students. Happy Schooling programme was initiated in 2018 by the Madurai Corporation in 24 of its schools, with the support of HCL Foundation and MSCT&RF, to promote academic excellence and emotional well-being among students. In the three year period, it has managed to sensitise 13,500 students and more than 500 teachers from Corporation schools to mental health. As an extension programme, Happy Schooling 2.0 was kick-started recently to provide mental health awareness across all the schools run by the Corporation. It will focus on providing literacy, training and intervention at 4 levels: school heads, teachers, students and parents. As part of its first meet on Saturday, headmasters of 59 corporation schools were given psychological first-aid training. G. Gurubharathy, Principal, M.S. Chellamuthu Institute of Mental Health and Rehabilitation, who conducted the session, said, “As schools have opened after the pandemic, students may face transitional stress. We are training teachers to help students handle this stress. Psychological first aid training provides them with guidance on how to identify and give attention to students who seem distressed. If they identify such children, they can bring them to our attention and we will help them.” Dr. Ramasubramanian said that mental health is a very significant aspect in the 21st century and particularly due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation. He said the pandemic had impacted all of us psychologically. Students might be going through stress or face problems like phone addiction in this period. Teachers should have a good understanding of their students’ behaviour and bring them to our attention when they require help. One best school that takes earnest efforts for its students through this programme will be given an award.” He also said there was a plan to provide interested corporation school teachers an opportunity to take up diploma courses on counselling. Schools and teachers can approach the helpline 93754 93754 to seek relief from a team of counsellors if students face mental health issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-to-be-given-to-the-best-corporation-school-in-city/article36299839.ece
05 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Over-exploitation of sea cucumbers damages ecosystem: High Court||One should not forget that over-exploitation of sea cucumbers not only damages the marine ecosystem but the human ecosystem as well, more particularly the fishermen’s. They both are interdependent, observed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court while dismissing bail petitions of an accused who had illegally possessed sea cucumbers worth crores of rupees. Justice B. Pugalendhi said that over exploitation of sea cucumbers would decrease sediment health, reduce nutrient recycling and potential benefits of deposit feeding to seawater chemistry. It would diminish the biodiversity of associated symbionts and reduce the transfer of organic matter from detritus to higher trophic levels. To avoid such a situation, sea cucumbers are listed in Schedule I, Part IV-C of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972 and are strictly banned for collection and for trade in India, from 2001, the judge said. The court took cognisance of the report submitted by the Mandapam Forest Range Officer G. Venkatesh. Forest Range Officer Venkatesh said that sea cucumbers are marine animals found on the seabed and act like earthworms in the marine environment. They feed on tiny particles like algae, minute aquatic animals or waste materials and break down these particles into even smaller pieces, which become fodder for bacteria and thus recycle them back into the ocean ecosystem. The sea cucumber’s poop provides the nutrients required for the growth of mangroves, sea grass, etc.. Their poop on coral reefs reduces ocean acidification and contributes calcium carbonate to coral reefs. They act like natural antacid to neutralise other acidic environmental sources, the report said. Apart from this, they have several medicinal values, for which they are being exploited. Anything that is exploited beyond a certain limit has its own consequence, the court said. A blanket submission was made before the court that while fishing, the sea cucumbers were getting caught in the net and it was not intentional. The court said that it was not inclined to accede to the submission for the reason that sea cucumbers were found on the seabed and not on the surface of the sea or the interspace. A police officer not below the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police has the power to search, arrest and detain a person involved in the offence under Wildlife Protection Act. But after registering the FIR, they ought to forward the records to the officer concerned of the Forest Department for further course of action, the court said. The court dismissed the bail petitions filed by the accused who had illegally possessed sea cucumbers worth crores of rupees in Ramanathapuram district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-exploitation-of-sea-cucumbers-damages-ecosystem-high-court/article36299597.ece
05 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Second year students feel like freshers||Usually when colleges reopen for second year students, they look forward to reuniting with friends, sharing snacks in the canteen, discussing their subjects for the semester with professors and having a good laugh while loitering around a little inside the campus. The COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns have altered this reality. Second year UG and PG students, who have started attending classes after the colleges have opened now, feel like freshers, despite having completed two whole semesters through online classes. P Priyadharshini, a second year B.Sc. Home Science student from Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women, says, “I have literally visited the college campus only five times after getting admission in 2020. Though colleges were briefly opened during February this year, most of us continued taking online classes due to the fear of getting infected by the COVID-19 virus. The campus is very new to me. The only place I know here is my department.” Some students felt that the pandemic had also affected their opportunity to build a good bond with their professors. T Rajarajan, a second year PG student from the Department of Zoology, American College says, “Since plenty of them are yet to be vaccinated with both the doses, only two of us from the department are attending classes in the campus. Though online classes are useful, it can never be as good as attending classes in person. Professors are putting in efforts to engage us in different kinds of activities, but it is not possible to be involved in it all the time. It requires a humongous attention span. I feel these times have contributed to students not being able to form a good bond with their professors.” N Vazeer from the same department says that despite having completed half of the course, they are still unable to handle lab equipment properly. “Lab classes cannot be done through online mode. We need to touch the microscope and learn how to use it. Now that college has opened, we hope to learn the practical lessons at a quicker pace,” he shares. P Sasikala, a second year UG student from the social welfare department of Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College, says, “Our batch of students would not even have a clear understanding of what is a normal college life. We do not have close friends with whom we can share our true emotions. Our course usually requires a lot of field visits. With COVID-19 restrictions in place now, there is no possibility to undertake them effectively. Though we are excited to come to college, we do not know how things will go on, in the next few months.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-year-students-feel-like-freshers/article36299837.ece
05 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Celebrations to commemorate Mahatma’s dress revolution||A host of luminaries, including Mahatma Gandhi’s granddaughter, Tara Gandhi Bhattacharjee, and her grandson Vithur Bharath Ram, besides several Gandhians from across the country, is slated to converge in Madurai on September 22 to mark the historic event that took place in the city on the same day 100 years ago – the day when Gandhiji shed his western attire and adopted an iconic makeover in a shawl and a half dhoti. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is likely to preside over the special function and also lay the foundation stone for the modernisation project of the Gandhi Museum for which an outlay of Rs. 6 crore was recently announced in the State budget. Briefing mediapersons on Saturday, the museum’s vice-chairman, M. Manickam, said the events lined up include the release of a commemorative volume consisting of articles by Gandhians on democracy and development, distribution of prizes to winners of drawing and essay competitions that were held across the State in the run-up to the centenary celebrations and enlightening talks by the guest speakers. The day will begin with garlanding statues of Mahatma: First, at the house on West Masi Street from where Gandhiji saw a poor peasant in humble clothing and decided to embrace loincloth. And, the Gandhi Pottal on Kamarajar Salai where he made his first appearance immediately after. “It is important that our youth and children understand the contributions and sacrifice made by Gandhiji and the relevance of his ideas and principles today,” said Mr. Manickam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commemorating-mahatmas-dress-revolution/article36299605.ece
05 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Fit India Freedom Run’ flagged off||Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar flagged off the ‘Fit India Freedom Run 2.0’ organised by the Nehru Yuva Kendra, Madurai, at Dr. M.G.R. Race Course Stadium on Saturday as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. Around 150 volunteers from Nehru Yuva Kendra and college students from NSS took part in the run that aimed to promote fitness and celebrate 75 years of India’s independence. After taking the ‘Fit India’ pledge, the participants ran from Dr. M.G.R. Race Course Stadium to the Gandhi Memorial Museum, passing through the District Forest Office, Tamukkam Grounds, the American College and the Collectorate. Superintendent of Police V Baskaran and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Madurai city, I Eswaran, also took part in the event. S. Senthil Kumar, Deputy Director, Nehru Yuva Kendra, Madurai, said that the freedom run that had been happening across India, will come to a close on October 2, 2021. On Saturday, the run was also held in Nagapattinam, Krishnagiri, Karur and Kanniyakumari districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fit-india-freedom-run-flagged-off/article36299844.ece
05 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court issues guidelines to police||Coming across numerous petitions filed before the court seeking a direction to restrain police officers from harassing the persons named in a complaint, in the name of inquiry, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has issued guidelines to circumvent such situations. Justice A.D. Jagadish Chandira said while summoning a person named in the complaint or a witness to the incident, the police officer shall summon such a person through a written notice specifying a particular date and time for appearing before them. The judge directed the police to serve the notice mentioning the CSR number, date of complaint and the name of the complainant. The police officer shall refrain from harassing persons called for the enquiry/investigation, the HC Bench said. The guidelines stipulated for preliminary enquiry or registration of FIR by the Supreme Court in Lalita Kumari case shall be strictly adhered to. During the course of enquiry, if it was found out that any cognisable offence is made out, the police are free to register the FIR, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-issues-guidelines-to-police-officers/article36299840.ece
05 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Consider woman’s plea for ration items: HC||Considering the plight of a woman, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the Karur district administration to look into her representation and pass appropriate orders with regard to providing her ration items. The court was hearing the petition filed by the woman, mother of two children, from Karur district. Divorce proceedings and related criminal complaints were instituted by her and her husband against each other. Under these circumstances, she had made a representation seeking ration items. Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the authorities to consider her representation in two weeks. After providing reasonable opportunity to the couple other solutions like provision of a separate card to the petitioner could be examined, the court said. A ration card is issued under the Public Distribution System so as to enable the poor and the middle class to procure essential food items free or at a subsidised rate. Needless to say, a person who is deprived of rations under the Public Distribution System would be put to great hardship on a day-to-day basis, the court observed. The petition was disposed of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-womans-plea-for-ration-items-hc/article36299841.ece
05 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks status report||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday sought details of the progress made into the probe of the financial fraud case involving the ‘helicopter brothers’ M.R. Ganesh and M.R. Swaminathan of Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. Justice B. Pugalendhi sought to know the total extent of the financial fraud committed by the brothers and the current status of the probe. When the court was informed by the State that the brothers were under medical treatment, the judge asked the authorities to file a report on the health condition of the brothers. The court was hearing a batch of petitions seeking bail filed by the accomplices of the main accused in the case. The brothers are accused of cheating the residents of Kumbakonam to the tune of several crores of rupees. The brothers had claimed that they were into diversified businesses that included helicopter service, dairy farms, gold investments and other financial companies. After some of the investors did not get their money back, they lodged a complaint with the police. Based on the complaint the brothers were arrested. The main accused Ganesh and Swaminathan have been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-status-report/article36299511.ece
05 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Scrap toll fee collection: Vanigar Sangam||The Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu president A.M. Vikramaraja said that they would stage demonstrations in protest against hike in toll fee and petrol/diesel prices across the State soon. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, he said that the pandemic had ruined the livelihood of many and the subsequent lockdowns had pulled down the businesses badly. Only now, the State government had announced relaxation in the lockdown restrictions. Under such circumstances, it was unfair and shocking to learn about the NHAI’s revision on the toll fees at the user collection plazas. The Centre should scrap the toll fee collection at least for five years as it may come as a big relief to the truck operators and others. When the governments gave sops to many people, the appeals from the traders too should be considered as it would help bring down the prices of essential goods among others, Mr Vikramaraja said. Welcoming the closure of a few toll collection centres in and around Chennai, he urged the Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to extend the relief in other parts of Tamil Nadu as well. The State government, he said, held discussions with the trading community before taking a decision. This was welcome as it was absent in the previous regime, he pointed out. All the traders and their employees had been told to get the COVID-19 vaccine shots without fail, he replied to a query and appealed to the government to reopen the resorts in Tamil Nadu and help the merchant community to rebuild their businesses. He was in Madurai to participate in a meeting organised by the Madurai District Consumer Product Stockist Association where the members discussed the massive entry of online trading of branded goods, dual pricing. The Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association president S.P. Jeyapragasam, M. Venkatesh, president of Tamil Nadu Consumer Goods Distributors Federation, and others addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scrap-toll-fee-collection-at-least-for-five-years-traders/article36299842.ece
05 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC grants bail to two in illegal child adoption case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday granted bail to Raja and Selvi, both accused in the Madurai illegal adoption case. The main accused in the case is the Director of Idhayam Trust G.R. Sivakumar. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted bail with conditions to Raja, a vegetable merchant and Selvi, a social worker. The court took note of the fact that only the two accused had recommended two couples to adopt children from Idhayam Trust. The key accused in the illegal adoption case are Sivakumar and his accomplice Madarsha. A woman who was unable to maintain her children had handed them over to the home run by the trust. Sivakumar had claimed that one infant was affected by COVID-19. He said that he would be taking the infant for treatment to the hospital. But later, he told the woman that her baby died and the final rites were performed as per COVID-19 protocol. He had actually sold the infant to a childless couple and told them that the legal formalities would be completed later. It is said that he had also sold another infant to another childless couple. Suspecting the activities of Sivakumar, the woman lodged a complaint. Earlier, the court granted bail to the two childless couples who were also named as accused in the case. Sivakumar was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. He was nabbed by the police when he was on the way to Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-grants-bail-to-two-in-illegal-child-adoption-case/article36299510.ece
05 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Judicial inquiry into death of POCSO case accused||Following the death of a truck driver, who was picked up by Namakkal district police in connection with a POCSO case, during investigation, a judicial inquiry has been initiated. According to the police, Manikandan (45) from Paramathi Vellur was facing charges under POCSO Act as the mother of a 15-year-old girl complained that he allegedly sexually assaulted her daughter. Manikandan went underground following the complaint and based on a tip-off, the police picked him up from his residence for inquiry during the late hours of Friday. However, Manikandan fell unconscious while reaching the police station and he was rushed to the Namakkal government hospital where the doctors pronounced him dead. According to senior police officials, a case has been registered invoking section 176 of CrPC and a judicial inquiry has begun. The autopsy was conducted at the Namakkal GH in the presence of Judicial Magistrate-I M. Jayanthi on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judicial-inquiry-into-death-of-pocso-case-accused/article36299621.ece
05 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G seeks to end vaccine hesitancy in U.T.||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday expressed concern over the below par patronage for vaccination against COVID-19 in spite of uninterrupted availability of vaccines and all out facilitation efforts taken by government departments. After chairing a high-level COVID-19 review at the Raj Nivas, Ms. Soundararajan said it was a bit perplexing that about 40% of the population still harboured vaccine hesitancy in spite of the various awareness and outreach initiatives of the State. Pointing to the measures taken by the administration such as street corner camps, rural camps, night-time sessions and 48-hour non-stop vaccination camps, the Lt. Governor said public patronage was important for effectively countering the pandemic no matter how much effort the government puts in for arranging vaccination or treatment facilities. Given the scale of facilities organised across Puducherry on Saturday, over 10,000 persons should have been inoculated, though the actual numbers were far less, she noted. Ironically, while in many States, people were returning from session sites because of lack of vaccines, in Puducherry sufficient stocks had been maintained from day one of the vaccination effort, Ms. Soundararajan said. In these circumstances, avoiding taking the protective jab was unforgivable, she said. She pointed out that only a fully vaccinated population could ward off the worst effects of a third wave of COVID-19. It also needed to be reiterated that vaccinated persons, who contract COVID-19, were not among those admitted in intensive care units. This fact is something that the public needed to understand and volunteer themselves for inoculation, the Lt. Governor said. Ms. Soundararajan later told the media that the 25th review meeting had noted that while the 18-45 age group was getting themselves vaccinated, the coverage was relatively low in those aged above 60 years due to persisting hesitancy. It was also pointed out that an estimated 4% of COVID-19 patients at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer) were from adjoining districts in Tamil Nadu. The Lt. Governor said there was no issue with keeping temples open or with allowing scaled down festivals as long as COVID-19 norms were followed. There had been no surge in cases because of this in Puducherry. There would be no additional restrictions barring the standard COVID-19 norms for the Vinayaka Chaturthi festival, she said. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, DPG Ranvir Singh Krishnia, Health Secretary T. Arun, Health Director G. Sriramulu, Jipmer director Rakesh Aggarwal and other officials attended the review. The Lt. Governor also felicitated COVID warriors as a token of appreciation for selfless service during the pandemic. Children who won a painting competition based on a pandemic theme were also felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-seeks-to-end-vaccine-hesitancy-in-ut/article36299908.ece
05 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||120 fresh COVID-19 cases in Puducherry||Puducherry recorded one COVID-19 death and 120 new cases on Saturday. The fatality was reported in Mahe taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,816. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,432), Karaikal (237), Yanam (105) and Mahe (42). Puducherry accounted for 70 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,017 tests, followed by Karaikal (17), Yanam (8) and Mahe (25). The test positivity rate was 2.39%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.78%. Active case count With 76 patients recovering from COVID-19, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 937, including 172 patients in hospitals and 765 in home isolation. Puducherry has recorded an aggregate of 1,24,049 cases against 1,21,296 recoveries. Of an estimated 16.63 lakh tests conducted so far, over 14.12 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 5,288 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of vaccinated people in the Union Territory to 8,28,179.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/120-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-puducherry/article36299906.ece
05 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Special buses arranged for UPSC aspirants in Puducherry||The administration will operate special buses from the New Bus Stand as part of arrangements for the smooth conduct of the Union Public Service Commission examination on Sunday. They will be applying for the post of Enforcement Officer/Accounts Officer in the Employees Provident Fund Organisation. The examination is scheduled from 10 a.m. to noon at the Vivekananda Higher Secondary School, Sellaperumalpet. Special buses will be operated from 7.30 a.m. from near the police outpost and also in the return direction from the venue after the conclusion of the exam. In addition to national helplines, a control room for the benefit of the candidates, which began functioning from Saturday, will be available from 8 a.m. on Sunday. The numbers for the control room are 0413 2233228/2336447.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-buses-arranged-for-upsc-aspirants/article36299909.ece
05 September 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Two workers electrocuted||Two men were electrocuted in Keeramangalam here on Saturday. Both were labourers who had gone to take bath in a pond when the incident occurred. The men, identified as R. Kumaravel, 45, from Anna Nagar and C. Sundaram, 65, from Periyar Nagar in Keeramangalam, had finished work and had and gone to take bath at a pond near Mariamman Temple. Both were killed on the spot when they touched a fence laid around the pond. Electricity leakage Preliminary investigation revealed that electricity used to power lights installed to illuminate the pond may have leaked to the fencing, electrocuting the men. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-electrocuted/article36299594.ece
05 September 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Resident-centric beat policing launched in Arcot||In an initiative to bring residents closer to police personnel, a dedicated beat policing system was launched by the Superintendent of Police, Deepa Satyan, in Arcot on Saturday. The initiative is aimed at having more interaction with the residents not only to prevent crime but also help them highlight their civic issues such as defunct street lights, pot-holed streets and leaky water pipelines to the district administration. Termed the Reach and Raise Beat System (R&RBS), the initiative makes it mandatory for the beat police personnel to have interaction with residents on a daily basis. Every day, on an average, the beat policeman should have connected themselves with 10 residents. The team, which consists of two constables, should get basic details including name, phone number, address and family details of residents. In return, the team should give their mobile numbers and helpline numbers to residents. The data about residents will be compiled at the SP office on a daily basis ensuring the district police to have basic details of residents in three months. “This is also a step to bring residents and police personnel closer, not just for policing alone, but also to bring basic facilities in the neighbourhood. The objective is to know the pulse of the residents,” Ms. Satyan said. Unlike the existing beat policing where policemen mainly interact with traders, petty shopkeepers and autorickshaw drivers to get alerts, the new initiative insists that the team visit only residential areas. The residents get an opportunity to meet the police daily. They can inform them about various crimes including robbery, illegal sale of ganja, gutka, lottery, arrack and sand smuggling. They can also report public nuisance, traffic congestion, rowdyism and physical abuse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resident-centric-beat-policing-launched-in-arcot/article36299913.ece
05 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Rain improves water level at tanks, check dams in Salem||Salem has been receiving heavy rain for past two days, improving water level at tanks and check dams here. The Garuda patchai check dam near Kannankuruchi here has filled up in the recent rain and water has been spilling over the check dam with a height of 2 metres. According to officials from Water Resources Wing of Public Works Department, the check dam has filled up after about 20 years and water is overflowing for about .5 metre height. The check dam has been receiving better inflow from Shevaroyan hills and Manjuvadi kanuvai due to the rain. Officials said the increase in water level at the dam would improve groundwater level in the region and water level at Kanankuruchi tank, Mookuneri tank and tanks near Veeranam. About 400 acre benefitted from the check dam. The heavy downpour on Friday inundated farmlands near Puthueri. On Friday, the Salem district received an average rainfall of 14.87 mm. Yercaud received 127.6 mm, Sankari 17 mm, Mettur 15.8 mm, Salem 13.2 mm, Attur 11.4 mm, Kadayampatti 6 mm, Gangavalli 5 mm, Kariyakovil 5mm, Thammampatti 5 mm, Aanaimadavu, Omalur and Vazhapadi 4 mm, Edappadi 3 mm and P.N. Palayam 2 mm. The heavy downpour led to the formation of waterfalls along Yercaud ghat road. According to officials, in Sarbanga division, Biroji tank and Agraharam Pullavari tanks filled up to the brim in the recent rain. In Mettur division, two tanks have water level between 70-80% and one tank in 50-70%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-improves-water-level-at-tanks-check-dams-in-salem/article36299626.ece
05 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Police firing range inaugurated||City Police Commissioner Najmul Hoda inaugurated a new police firing range near Reddiyur here. The firing range was functioning at Yercaud foothills and shifted to Perumal Karadu near Reddiyur. Over 60 police personnel including Superintendents of Police in the Salem range took part in the shooting competition. Winners were felicitated. Developers, volunteers and police personnel who worked for setting up the firing range were also felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-firing-range-inaugurated/article36299624.ece
05 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camp at Periyar University||A special COVID-19 vaccination camp was held at the health centre in Periyar University on Friday. According to a release, this was the third such camp held on the campus in which 180 facultymembers, non-teaching staff and students benefited. Awareness was created on safety measures to be followed against the pandemic. R. Jagannathan, Vice-Chancellor, inaugurated the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-at-periyar-university/article36299627.ece
05 September 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Three killed, 6 injured as car overturns near Sivagiri||Three youths were killed and six others injured in an accident as the car in which they were travelling overturned near Sivagiri around 2 a.m. on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Mansoon Ali Khan, 24, Prabhu, 24 and Suresh Kumar, 31, all from Sellur in Madurai. Police said a group of friends from Sellur in Madurai were on their way to a private waterfalls near Courtallam to spend the weekend. When they reached a spot between Sethur and Sivagiri, driver Mansoor Ali Khan lost control of the vehicle which overturned a couple of times. One of the nine occupants of the multi-purpose vehicle died on the spot. While another one succumbed to his injuries as they were being rushed to the nearby Sivagiri Government Hospital. The third one breathed his last while on the way to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The injured were treated as out-patients in the Sivagiri Government Hospital. Sivagiri police have registered a case and further investigations are on to ascertain the reason behind the mishap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-6-injured-as-car-overturns/article36299600.ece
05 September 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Major port and dock workers decry Centre’s monetisation plan||Terming the Centre’s National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) for mobilising Rs. 6 lakh crore by handing over the national assets as ‘anti-national’, the Major Port and Dock Workers’ Federation has vowed to resolutely fight the move to give to domestic and international corporates the assets built up with the sweat and sacrifices of the workers. The Major Port and Dock Workers’ Federation has decided to start its protest against this move from September 24 onwards. In a joint statement issued here on Saturday after a meeting by the representatives, the federation said the representatives met here to discuss and finalise the common charter of demands for new wage revision, which should take place from January 1, 2022 and the serious challenges being faced by the major ports due to the “anti-national policies” of the Central Government. Denouncing the Union Government’s NMP as “ill-motivated retrograde policy”, the federation said the Centre was planning to handover 31 productive assets of major ports worth about Rs. 14,483 crore as the NMP has been designed to allow private corporates to earn huge revenue with the assets of the people. As part of this proposal, the Union Government had planned to monetise Berth 9, North Cargo Berth III and Berths 1 to 4 of VOC Port, Thoothukudi, for a total value of Rs. 2,999 crore in a phased manner from 2021 to 2025. “which is nothing but looting the Port’s assets”, the federation added. The newly enacted Major Port Authorities Act 2021 gives authority and power to the respective Port authorities in effecting the structural change to the Port Management to convert it as the ‘Landlord Model Port’ in which the management responsibilities are delegated to the private sector while the titles in the land and the assets remain with the government. Cargo handling terminals at major ports would be privatised through Public – Private Partnership route under the new Model Concession Agreement, which was recently finalised by the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways to nullify the existing model to introduce the ‘Landlord Model’. The federation also expressed its concern over a few more serious issues confronted by the major ports and its workers because of the “arbitrary, illogical and anti-labour decisions” of the Ministry of Shipping such as non-compliance of various statutory settlements. Hence, the federation had decided to mobilise the port and dock workers against this move and appealed to the democratic forces in and around the vicinity of major ports to join hands with the warring port workers on September 24 to show the solidarity against these policies. The meeting of the federation in Thoothukudi was attended by former MP P. K. Samanthray from Paradip, P. M. Mohamed Haneef and Thomas Sebastian of Kochi, T. Narendra Rao and G. M. Krishanmurthy of Chennai, R. Russel and Sankaralingam of Thoothukudi, S. R. Apraj and V. V. Rane of Mumbai and Prakash of Visakapattinam and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-port-and-dock-workers-decry-centres-monetisation-plan/article36299975.ece
05 September 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Reopen Sterlite Copper, say supporters||Even as anti-Sterlite groups are mounting pressure on the Tamil Nadu Government to pass a resolution in the Legislative Assembly to ensure the permanent closure of Sterlite Copper, the supporters have appealed to the government to ensure early reopening of the now sealed copper smelter unit. “Considering the benefits Thoothukudi has received after Sterlite Copper started its operations here, the government should take steps for reopening of the plant on an early note,” said a group of supporters who addressed reporters here on Saturday. They said the Sterlite Copper, which had pumped in several crores of rupees for the betterment of Thoothukudi and its people, especially from the vulnerable sections of the society, was continuing its support to these beneficiaries even after it was closed down following the protest. The self-help groups were given financial assistances and entrepreneurship training even though the Sterlite Copper was not functioning as it was sealed. Meritorious students who were getting scholarship from Sterlite Copper were being given the assistance till today. While workers of Strelite Copper had lost their livelihood, the contractors, who were getting orders from the company, had been in the lurch after the copper manufacturing unit’s operations were crippled completely. “After the copper smelter was closed down following the agitation, the country had to import copper with its precious foreign exchange. Apart from Thoothukudi, the entire nation has been hit hard by the closure of Sterlite Copper. While the anti-Sterlite protestors’ views are being received positively by the officials, the Sterlite Copper supporters’ views are not being entertained by the officials. Hence, the State Government, considering the growth of Thoothukudi and the nation, should ensure the reopening of Sterlite Copper,” they said. Contractors’ representative Thiyagarajan, advocate Manikanda Raja, Jayakani of Thaayagam Trust and a group of people from the villages situated near Sterlite Copper were present.  While the anti-Sterlite protestors’ views are being received positively by the officials, the Sterlite Copper supporters’ views are not being entertained by the officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-sterlite-copper/article36299601.ece
05 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||University in dire straits as State funding dries up||Delay on the part of Higher Education Ministry in providing substantial funding could cause a crisis situation for Bharathidasan University, as it is confronted with the situation of paying pending salaries for over 600 guest lecturers and 90 non-teaching staff of the erstwhile constituent colleges, senior professors say. The university has not paid the guest lecturers for four months, from the start of this financial year. The government had earlier given a commitment to meet the salary expenditure of the guest lecturers after the conversion of the 10 constituent units into Government Arts and Science Colleges. The guest lecturers who are already being paid meagre amount as salaries have been left in a limbo, and have been urging the university to settle their dues. Going by a government order issued at the start of this year, the guest lecturers need to be paid a monthly salary of Rs. 20,000. According to the senior professors, the funding by the State government has dried up in toto, but for the quarterly block grants. “Even the fee collected from students in the erstwhile constituent colleges now go to the government. The university is required to set apart close to Rs. 80 lakh per month towards salary expenditure for the guest lecturers. But, the revenue is abysmally low, and the only source of funding is the affiliation fee and research grants. The situation is really grim,” a senior professor said. Special case Of the Rs. 5,369.09 crore Budget Estimate for 2021-22 for higher education, Rs. 767.98 crore has been earmarked for universities. However, there is no mention of any specific funding for Bharathidasan University. “The government must treat Bharathidasan University as a special case since it has the highest number of 10 out of the 41 constituent units of State varsities,” said a senior non-teaching employee. There are as many as 2,60,234 students pursuing their studies in 159 affiliated colleges. “We will shortly be meeting higher education authorities to apprise them of the financial situation of the university and make a fervent request for settlement of the salary dues for guest lecturer,” University Registrar Gopinath Ganapathy said Meanwhile, Bharathidasan University Retired Staff Welfare Association has written to the Governor Banwarilal Purohit urging his intervention in preventing the university from transferring money from the Corpus Fund to the General Fund. The Corpus Fund was created for settlement of retirement benefits, said its secretary T. Punniamoorthy, . At its Executive Committee meeting earlier this year, the association had sought renaming of the nomenclature as Pensioners Corpus Fund.  The university should not use Corpus Fund as it is meant for settlement of retirement benefits T. Punniamoorthy, Forum secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-in-dire-straits-as-state-funding-dries-up/article36299954.ece
05 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Manpower shortage hits garbage collection in city||Shortage of sanitary workers has affected solid waste management in Tiruchi Corporation. Until 2008-09, the day-to-day work of clearing waste from streets, public places and transporting the daily collection of garbage from the garbage bins, bus stands and vegetable and fruit markets to the compost yards were carried out mostly by the permanent conservancy workers of the Corporation. If they were on sick or casual leave, substitute workers, who were recruited through the employment exchange, were engaged to carry out the work. Depending upon their seniority, the Corporation followed a system to regularise their service whenever vacancies arose. To manage the situation, the civic body later started outsourcing the garbage clearing work in select wards and some areas particularly Central Bus Stand, Chathiram Bus Stand and Gandhi Market. A few manpower agencies were engaged on auction basis to carry out specific jobs. Since it received severe backlash and criticism in garbage collection and disposal mechanism, the Corporation reverted to its regular system. When the Corporation introduced micro compost yards in 2016-17 to decentralise garbage collection and disposal, it began employing the services of self-help groups (SHG). While the SHG members were initially engaged to process the garbage collected in micro compost yards, they were gradually engaged in collection of garbage too. According to sources, around 1,380 members of self-help groups are engaged in sanitary services in Tiruchi Corporation. Of them, 624 members are working in 65 wards. There are about 1,200 permanent workers. G.O. yardsticks The number of sanitary workers is said to be highly insufficient in a city of over 10 lakh population. According to a G.O. issued in April 1997 that framed yardsticks for creating posts in urban local bodies, three workers should be posted for every 250 households, four workers for a lorry, three workers for a mini lorry. It is said that the current strength of about 2,600 workers is not commensurate with the population. No recruitment was made over the past 15 years except those appointed on compassionate grounds. The civic body manages the situation by engaging self-help group members with a daily wage of Rs. 557 a day. “The city needs at least 6,000 conservancy workers. Even after completing five or six years of service, they are still considered daily wage workers. It is painful. Moreover, they face severe work pressure. It has ultimately hit the solid waste management,” says S. Rengarajan, district secretary of Centre of Indian Trade Unions. He said that besides doubling the number of posts, a standard system should be introduced for regularising the service of eligible workers. It would ultimately make the solid waste management system vibrant. It would also make the workers accountable for the lapses and malpractices.  Dearth of workforce 1,380 SHG members have been engaged in sanitary service Tiruchi needs at least 6,000 conservancy workers Severe work pressure has hit solid waste management||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manpower-shortage-hits-garbage-collection-in-city/article36299964.ece
05 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Come rain, it is slushy all the way in Vin Nagar||Residents of Vin Nagar in Kattur complain of waterlogged, unsafe road. The road was dug up for laying underground drainage (UGD) lines and left incomplete, they said. After the city received heavy rainfall on Thursday night, the streets in Vin Nagar became waterlogged. With no way for the water to recede, the road which was not asphalted became uneven and filled with puddles. “The road was not levelled or relaid after the UGD work, executed over a year ago. It has been like this for over a year, and with even a single night’s rain, the road becomes unusable,” a resident said. Rajappa Rajkumar, a resident, said that the slushy road is not only risky for two-wheeler riders who must try to balance on the slippery road, but also for four-wheelers who have to manoeuvre carefully. “This is a main road and not a small street. The sub-registrar's office is on this road and there is vehicular movement all through the day,” he said. The residents of Vin Nagar have planted saplings along either side of the road three years ago and have maintained it in a neat and clean manner. The UGD work ruined their work, they complained. “Underground drainage is necessary, but it has created more problems than it has solved,” another resident said. Mr. Rajkumar has written complaints to the Collector and Corporation Commissioner but in vain. “We have made representations several times. All they have to do is relay the road and it will become usable again. Following one complaint, corporation workers filled the potholes. When it rains, the whole road becomes slushy,” he said. The condition of roads in other localities of Kattur such as Vedhathiri Nagar is no different, he added.  Underground drainage is necessary but it has created more problems than it has solved A resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/come-rain-it-is-slushy-all-the-way-in-vin-nagar/article36299966.ece
05 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Transgenders learn to make organic farm inputs||A group of 10 transgenders from Tiruchi district, along with a dozen youth from rural areas, learnt methods to produce organic farm inputs at a vocational training programme organised by Krishi Vigyan Kendra at Sirugamani near here. The three-day training, which concluded on Friday, was organised as organic nutrient inputs have attracted lot of attention and are being promoted on a large scale to sustain soil health. In the recent years, production of organic inputs has offered a source of supplementary income for farmers, KVK scientists said. The transgenders plan to set up a production unit. Programme coordinator N. Tamilselvan elaborated on the rising demand for organic inputs and their importance in the agriculture sector. Soil scientist V. Dhanushkodi explained production techniques of vermicompost and coir pith compost. There were hands-on training in preparation of ‘panchakavya’ and ‘meen amilam’ (fish oil). Programme Assistant Yamuna spoke on use of organic inputs in nursery media preparation and techniques of establishing vertical garden. An exposure visit to organic production units at Sirgamani and Pulivalam was arranged during which progressive farmers Moorthy and Natarajan shared their experiences in organic inputs production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transgenders-learn-to-make-organic-farm-inputs/article36299956.ece
05 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ban on public display of Ganesh idols hits artisans||With Vinayaka Chathurthi just round the corner, artisans who spend at least six months making Ganesha idols say they are yet to make any sales. The ban on public display of the idols has ruined their business for the second consecutive year, they said. In a small makeshift settlement near Kollidam Checkpost, many are busy giving finishing touches to idols of various sizes. At least 100 families in Tiruchi and Perambalur depend on these idols to earn a living. However, the COVID-19 lockdown has played spoilsport with their livelihood. R. Jaishankar is a second-generation sculptor. His mother and father used to make idols for Vinayaka Chathurthi, and even kolu dolls for Navaratri. After the demise of his father, Mr. Jaishankar took over the business. However, times have changed, he said. “Four or five years ago, this road would be blocked by mini lorries and other vehicles a week ahead of Vinayaka Chathurthi. Retail vendors would compete to purchase idols from us and we could name our price. Now, I have at least 50,000 idols waiting to be sold but there are no takers,” he said. “We work for six months and theearnings during the very short period ahead of Vinayaka Chathurthi will see us through the remaining six months of the year,” he said. The sculptors would make idols ranging from two to twenty feet in height while some customers would also place customised orders to suit their needs. “At least four idols worth Rs. 20,000 each which we made last year is still lying idle in our backyard. This year we made only small idols, but that too are not selling,” he said. The cost of raw materials have also skyrocketed. A truckload of clay costs Rs. 2,500. “Along with firewood to bake the idols, paint and other overheads, we spend at least Rs. 1 lakh. Access to clay too has also become difficult,” he said. Those who use chemicals and model idols using Plaster of Paris (PoP) pose a huge competition to their business. “One sack of PoP costs Rs. 300. The material is harmful to the environment but the idols made from it look better,” he said. The sculptors have sought the intervention of the district authorities to help them procure clay regularly and also give them compensation to offset the loss of business in the last two years. “My entire family depends on this work. We do not know any other skill and cannot take it up now,” Mr. Jaishankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ban-on-public-display-of-ganesh-idols-hits-artisans/article36299958.ece
05 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps in Tiruchi today||COVID-19 vaccination camps will be held at the following places in the city on Sunday: Corporation Zonal Office, Srirangam; North Devi School, Srirangam; Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College, Thiruvanaikovil; Akilandeswari School, Thiruvanaikovil; Anganwadi Centre, Poosari Street; Anganwadi Centre, Rockfort; Thevar Hall; Muyal mark Mahal, Nadu Guzilli Street, Maduhuram Corporation School, East Boulevard Road; Lakshmi Nursery School, Ariyamangalam; Sri Yadukula Sangam Middle School, Edatheru; Nagammai Street Library, Mela Kalkandarkottai; Anganwadi Centre, Arjun Nagar, Mela Kalkandarkottai; Corporation Middle School, Anganwadi Centre, Kallukuzhi, AIMAN College of Arts and Science, Sathanur; Little Flower School, Crawford; Kalaimagal School, Edamalaipattipudur; Corporation School, Khajapettai; Anganwadi Centre, Syed Nagar, Marsinghpet; St.John’s Vestry Higher Secondary School; Anganwadi Centre, Periya Milaguparai; All Saints School, Pattabiraman Street, Thennur; Anganwadi Centre, Bharathi Nagar, Thennur; CE School, Vannarapettai; R.C.School, Uyyakondan Thirumalai; Anganwadi Centre, Salai Road; Corporation School, Kuratheru; S. M. Higher Secondary School, Woraiyur; Anganwadi Centre; Panchavarnaswamy Temple Street, Woraiyur; and SIT, Ariyamangalam. A total of 420 doses of Covishield would be administered at each of these camps. A total of 220 doses of Covaxin would be administered at each of the camps to be held at Mukkulathor Higher Secondary School, Tiruverumbur; Anganwadi Centre, Malligaipuram; Kottapattu Refugee Camp; and Corporation Ward Office-Ward 65, Tiruverumbur. The camps would begin at 9.30 a.m., a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-in-tiruchi-today/article36299960.ece
05 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cine-goers get jab during movie break||In an innovative attempt to reach the public, health officials conducted a COVID-19 vaccination camp at a cinema in the city on Saturday. A total of 80 people were given Covishield shots during a movie break in the cinema in an attempt to cover people spending time in indoor spaces. Mohammed A. Hakkim, Emergency physician and in charge of the vaccination drive in the city, devised the plan to visit the cinema on Saturday afternoon to vaccinate people on site. “When we approached the theatre management, they happily obliged. They said that around 200 people visit the theatre on weekends. It was not a planned vaccination camp, but we set out to vaccinate whoever was willing to do it,” Dr. Hakkim said. An announcement was made at the ticket counter, and also during the intermission of the afternoon show. People who were willing to get themselves inoculated came on their own volition and took the shot. “There was no hesitancy among the audience. Those who had not received the shot willingly came and took it,” he said. Some also waited till the show was over and had the jab. The team vaccinated 80 people on Saturday, including a few employees of the theatre complex. “We have planned similar camps in other cinemas, especially during weekends when there will be an increase in footfall,” Dr. Hakkim said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cine-goers-get-jab-during-movie-break/article36299968.ece
05 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||290 fresh cases in delta districts||The central region reported 290 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. A few districts in the region, such as Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts, reported a slight increase in fresh cases. Six deaths were reported in the region - three in Tiruchi district and one each in Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai and Pudukottai. In Thanjavur district, 92 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Tiruchi reported 47 fresh cases, Tiruvarur 36 and Nagapattinam 29. Mayiladuthurai district registered 27 cases. Twenty patients each tested positive in Pudukottai and Karur districts. In Ariyalur, 14 fresh cases were reported. Perambalur continues to retain its spot as the district with the least number of fresh cases in the region with five cases reported on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/290-fresh-cases-in-delta-districts/article36299593.ece
05 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DMK functionary arrested for assaulting Tahsildar||V. Gopi, 51, treasurer, Manapparai town unit of DMK, was arrested on Friday on a charge of abusing and assaulting J. Fathima Sahayaraj, a Special Tahsildar, at Town Settlement Office in Manapparai. According to sources, heated arguments ensued between Gopi and Sahayaraj when the former sought details on patta for some survey numbers. It was alleged that Gopi assaulted the official besides abusing him. Acting on a complaint, the Manapparai police registered a case. Meanwhile, Gopi was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after he complained of chest discomfort. He was discharged from the hospital after being remanded in 15-day judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-functionary-arrested-for-assaulting-tahsildar/article36299959.ece
05 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam on Saturday stood at 69.93 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 21,794 cusecs and the discharge 5,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article36299589.ece
05 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli gears up for rural civic polls||Training for 20 Returning Officers and 277 Assistant Returning Officers for the upcoming rural civic polls was held here on Saturday. Chairing the training programme, Collector V. Vishnu said the rural civic polls would be held to elect 12 district panchayat councillors, 122 panchayat union ward members, 204 village panchayat presidents and 1,731 village panchayat ward members and the winners would elect a District Panchayat Chairman, a Vice-Chairman, nine panchayat union chairmen, nine vice-chairmen and 204 village panchayat vice-presidents. A total of 6,73,867 voters, including 3,30,487 men, 3,43,324 women and 56 other voters, would exercise their franchise. “The Returning Officers and the Assistant Returning Officers should strictly follow the regulations formulated by the State Election Commission while filing of nominations, scrutiny, rejection and withdrawal of nominations,” he said. He told the officials to follow the rules in allocating the symbols and posting the polling officers in the booths. Handing over the instruction manual to the participants at the training programme, he urged the officials to ensure COVID-19-appropriate behaviour during the run-up for the election, during polling and also duringe counting of votes. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency A. Palani and other senior officials participated in the training session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-gears-up-for-rural-civic-polls/article36299974.ece
05 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Police get tough with errant bus drivers||Following complaints from the public on traffic woes on the North Bypass Road primarily caused by rash driving and haphazard parking of buses, City Police Commissioner N. K. Senthmarai Kannan visited the trouble-spots along with his subordinate officers on Saturday evening in a bid to put in place an effective solution to solve this problem. Since the barricades kept near Francis Xavier Engineering College and Galaxy Hospital, both on the North Bypass Road, to control the speeding vehicles have been removed, students going to college and patients visiting the multi speciality hospital suffer a lot every day. After the barricades were removed, these spots have witnessed good number of road accidents mostly involving two-wheelers. As complaints reached the Commissioner, he visited and marked the spots for installing the barricades again to control the speed of the vehicles entering the city. Since the Commissioner was present, the public aired their traffic woes. Mr. Senthmarai Kannan, on seeing the buses being parked right on the highway on the northern side of the flyover to drop and pick the passengers, told the drivers to park their vehicles only inside the bay marked for the purpose in front of Hotel Apple Tree. “A meeting with the transport corporation officials and the private bus owners will be held shortly to tell them in clear terms that the buses should not be halted on the middle of the road for taking or dropping the passengers. Those who defy this instruction and cause traffic snarls will be held responsible,” he said. He also said omni buses, which make the situation near Hotel Apple Tree in the evenings from bad to worse would also be regulated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-get-tough-with-errant-bus-drivers/article36299972.ece
05 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 88.05 feet (maximum level is 143 feet). The dam had in inflow of 738.89 cusecs and 1,204.75 cusecs of water was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam (maximum level is 118 feet) stood at 63.50 feet. The dam had an inflow of 10 cusecs and 100 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36299976.ece
05 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination camp inaugurated at Tiruppur Junction||To boost the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the Tiruppur Corporation on Saturday inaugurated a vaccination camp for the migrant workers at the Tiruppur railway station. Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati, who inspected the camp, told mediapersons that nearly 500 migrant workers arrive at Tiruppur Junction through trains every day. “So far, we have only conducted tests for the migrant workers and now, we have started a vaccination camp,” he said. Migrant workers Those migrant workers who have not taken their vaccine can get vaccinated at the railway station now. According to a press release, 3,21,741 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Tiruppur Corporation limits as of Saturday, which includes 1.6 lakh industrial workers, 1,055 differently abled beneficiaries, 2,308 pregnant women and 2,514 lactating mothers. ‘Token system to be withdrawn’ Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar told The Hindu that the existing token system for COVID-19 vaccination in Tiruppur district will be withdrawn from Sunday to allow walk-in vaccination at all primary health centres. He said that out of the target vaccination population of 20,77,095 in the district, nearly 48% or 9,95,093 beneficiaries have received the first dose and that the total vaccine coverage (including first and second doses) now stands at 11,84,398 or around 57%. Around 35,000 beneficiaries are being vaccinated in the district every day, Dr. Kumar said. Migrant workers and industry workers will also be vaccinated in the camps from Sunday, he said, adding that senior citizens above 65 years of age, pregnant women, lactating mothers, school/college teachers and differently abled will be prioritised. Collector issues warning District Collector S. Vineeth has warned the public not to organise any religious congregations till September 15 in the district to prevent the further spread of COVID-19. He organised a review meeting with officials on Saturday ahead of Vinayaka Chathurthi on September 10 and Feast of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary on September 8. No public celebrations must be organised for both the festivals and strict action would be taken against violators, the District Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-for-migrant-workers-inaugurated-at-tiruppur-junction/article36299515.ece
05 September 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||More private hulling units to convert paddy into boiled rice||In an effort to ensure smooth procurement and stocking during the forthcoming 2021-22 paddy procurement season, the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation has decided to rope in more private hulling units to convert the existing stock of 13.50 lakh tonnes of paddy into boiled rice. As per the proposal, private hulling units hitherto not enlisted for hulling of paddy would be encouraged to receive the paddy and return boiled rice to the Corporation within one-and-a-half months from now so that sufficient space could be made available for safe stocking of paddy to be procured from October 1. Sources said that the Corporation had procured 26.97 lakh tonnes of paddy from October 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021, and out of this, 24 lakh tonnes of grains had been hulled. The remaining stock would be hulled through the Corporation’s modern rice mills (MRM) and 376 private MRMs that have been empanelled by the Corporation. From April 1 to the first week of August this year, around 13.50 lakh tonnes of paddy were procured and stocked at the godowns and in open stockyards. With an incentive Since the monthly hulling capacity of the Corporation’s 21 MRMs (of which raw rice is produced in six MRMs) and the empanelled private mills put together hovers around four lakh tonnes only, sources said that the Corporation decided to involve the non-empanelled private units in the exercise by offering Rs. 20 per quintal as an incentive, in addition to the standard hulling charges of Rs. 20 per quintal to get the existing stock of 13.50 lakh tonnes of paddy converted as boiled rice before October 31. Interested hulling units could approach the Senior Regional Managers of the Corporation in their respective districts and get the paddy allotted to their units for hulling after remitting a caution deposit amount equal to 10% of the hulling capacity of their unit. They are bound to produce quality boiled rice of not less than 68% of the paddy allotted to them and must possess modern equipment such as colour sorters and others to ensure quality production, sources said. Stating that there was no bar on them to take up hulling of paddy received from private traders, the units were advised to keep a separate record of hulling of paddy received from the Corporation. If the need arises, the services of additional private hulling units might be engaged beyond October 30, sources said.  They must receive the paddy and return boiled rice to TNCSC within one-and-a-half months||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-private-units-to-convert-paddy-into-boiled-rice/article36299592.ece
05 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Cases registered against pillion riders for not wearing helmet||The Nilgiris district police have registered over 12,000 cases against pillion riders on two-wheelers who failed to wear helmets over the last one month. In a press release issued here, the district police said that the district superintendent of police, Ashish Rawat, had announced that action would be initiated against persons on motorcycles who fail to wear helmets, including pillion riders. Of the total of 12,092 cases registered, the maximum number of cases was in Coonoor, where 5,344 violations were recorded. A total of 4,211 cases were registered in and around Udhagamandalam town, the release said. A total of 1948 cases were registered in Gudalur and 589 in Devala, the release said. The Nilgiris district police appealed to the public to co-operate with their efforts to minimise fatalities arising from road accidents. The police officials urged motorcyclists and pillion riders to wear helmets at all times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-registered-against-pillion-riders-for-not-wearing-helmet/article36299530.ece
05 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||16 fresh cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,919 with 16 new cases reported on Saturday. While a total of 47,549 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 259. In Ranipet district, 13 cases were reported, and the total stood at 42,614. In Tirupattur district, four new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 28,626. Tiruvannamalai numbers In Tiruvannamalai district, 28 new cases were reported, taking the total figure to 53,496. Of them, 52,485 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 357.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-fresh-cases-reported-in-vellore/article36299978.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Building homes like card stacks||As one takes the road from Ripon Buildings to Pulianthope along Raja Muthiah Road for about 1.5 km, the lofty apartment buildings at the Kesava Pillai (K.P) Park is hard to miss. They were built as part of a reconstruction project of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB), which has been renamed the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB). A total of 864 families residing at the site for more than three decades in low-rise buildings, constructed earlier by the TNSCB, were vacated in 2018 as the buildings had become dilapidated. Besides demolishing the old buildings and constructing 864 new units in high-rise buildings, TNUHDB built an additional 1,056 apartment units which are meant for resettling people from informal settlements on the banks of the Cooum. The construction of the 1,920 units was finished in two phases, in 2019 and 2020, at a total cost of Rs. 250 crore through PST Engineering Construction, a private contractor. Once touted as a model project, boasting of more space and other amenities, K.P. Park is now mired in a controversy following serious concerns about the quality of construction. At several places, the plastering has crumbled at the slightest pressure. The DMK government has blamed the AIADMK regime for the poor quality of work. The Centre for Urbanisation, Buildings and Environment (CUBE), an organisation formed in collaboration between the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras and the government of Tamil Nadu, has been engaged to assess the quality of construction. Based on the preliminary findings, TNUHDB suspended an Assistant Engineer and an Assistant Executive Engineer for failing to efficiently monitor the quality. While there were calls for making the contractor accountable, the company issued a public advertisement claiming that it completed the project without compromising on quality. TNUHDB, the major provider of housing for the weaker sections, is building 99,250 housing units under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Housing for All (Urban). Apart from this, demolition and reconstruction of around 25,000 dilapidated units are in the pipeline. With such a vast number of projects under its wing, quality issues at its site at K.P. Park have given a wake-up call to the authorities. However, for thousands of families living in many such houses built by TNUHDB, quality always seemed elusive. S. Esther, aged around 70, points to the incomplete flooring in her apartment unit on the sixth floor of the 78th block of the TNUHDB tenements at Perumbakkam. Two years ago, she was evicted from Sathiyavani Muthu Nagar in Chennai with her 45-year-old daughter P. Lilly Pushpam, who was partially paralysed after a stroke and suffers from a heart disease. The family was resettled at Perumbakkam. Ms. Esther, the sole breadwinner of the family, commutes over 25 km every day to Thousand Lights for a housekeeping job that pays her Rs. 4,000 a month. “I appealed to the officials several times to allocate an apartment at least on the second floor, if not on the first floor, so that it will be easy for me and my ailing daughter, but they did not listen,” she says. With the lift in the building often not functioning, she says both she and her daughter find it difficult to climb six floors. She says the apartment has a plethora of issues with basic amenities. “The main door was not hinged properly to the wall. Though I pointed it out in the beginning itself, it was not fixed,” she says. Of the Rs. 2,000 COVID-19 financial assistance given recently by the State government to all rice ration cardholders, Ms. Esther spent Rs. 1,000 on fixing the door. M. Alamelu*, a resident of a nearby building, complains of water seepage on the walls from leaky pipelines and water stagnation on the rooftop. Residents of many other buildings make a similar complaint. A. Veerappan, retired Chief Engineer of the Public Works Department (PWD), says the poor quality of houses provided at subsidised rates or free of cost to the weaker sections has been a perennial issue. J. Sebastin, coordinator of Slum Clearance Board Residents’ Welfare Committee, a non-governmental organisation, agrees with him. He argues that the problem begins with the government’s patronising attitude — because it is provided to marginalised sections, quality need not be a priority. Transit shelters That this argument cannot be ignored is evident from the condition of the transit shelters given to those evicted from K.P. Park. Of the 864 families vacated from K.P. Park for the reconstruction, a significant number who could manage rental housing elsewhere or find alternative arrangements left the site. TNUHDB erected makeshift shelters in-situ with tin sheets to accommodate around 200 families who could not go elsewhere. A visit by The Hindu showed the abject conditions in these shelters. All the families share four toilets that often have no water. Despite the initial promise that the new houses would be ready in a year, delays in the project and the pandemic meant that the families continued to live in these shelters for about three years. Residents say the place is infested with rats. As there is no flooring, even mild rain renders the floor soggy. “During the monsoon, we suffer a lot with leaky roofs and water stagnation for days,” says K. Vetriselvi, whose eight-member family lives in the shelter. She says her husband has to take their two young daughters to a public toilet located far away if they have to answer nature’s call at odd hours as the toilets at the shelter are often unusable. She poses a logical question. She points out that apart from the 864 units, TNUHDB constructed an additional 1,056 units in the vacant area that was earlier available to them for common utility. “First, it was not right to take that land without our consent,” she says. “Secondly, if the plan was to build on the vacant land too, why not build there first, shift us there and then demolish our old buildings,” she asks. “They did not do it because they did not really care and did not want to listen,” she alleges. She stoutly opposes TNUHDB’s demand for Rs. 1.5 lakh for the allocation of the reconstructed houses. This was not communicated earlier, she says. G. Selva, secretary of the Chennai Central district unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), says that for a project supposedly executed under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban aimed at providing ‘pucca’ houses for all, it is ironic that people who earlier had ‘pucca’ houses were made to live in squalor for three years. “Ideally, the government should pay them compensation instead of asking for money.” D. Sasikala, 45, another allottee at K.P. Park, says that due to the focus on the quality of construction, many other design issues are being ignored. “For instance, all the units have been fitted with western toilets. None of us have used them in our lives. Moreover, water supply is already problematic for us. We are told that western toilets will need more water,” she says. She says that while the government highlights that the unit size has been increased to nearly 400 square feet, the apartments, as a whole, looks more cramped now. “There is less natural light and less open space,” she says. Each floor has 24 units. The corridors are barely one metre wide. Mr. Sebastin says quality should be seen holistically, from the point of view of access to livelihood, healthcare and education. M. Kavitha*, a resident of Perumbakkam whose family was relocated from the banks of the Cooum five years ago, says that while flooding during monsoons was cited as the reason for their eviction, the same problem continues at Perumbakkam. “Every monsoon, we are inundated because this area is also flood-prone. We go without electricity for many days,” she says. A report submitted in 2018 by an Advocate-Commissioner appointed by the Madras High Court in a case filed by the non-governmental organisation, Pennurimai Iyakkam, has documented the hardships faced by the people in the tenements at Perumbakkam, Navalur, Kudapakkam, and AIR Nagar. A comprehensive study done by Housing and Land Rights Network (HLRN) and the Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities (IRCDUC) discusses the architectural shortcomings in the tenements. Community involvement IRCDUC founder Vanessa Peter says one of the fundamental problems was the absolute lack of community engagement. “There is a Community Development Wing at TNUHDB. However, the Engineering Section, which is responsible for the construction, and the Community Development Wing do not seem to work together closely,” she says. She underscores the need for strong operational guidelines that mandate community consultations at the planning, implementation and evaluation stages. Mr. Selva says transparency is needed in the execution of the projects. He also stressed the need to make provisions for public auditing by the beneficiaries, particularly in the case of reconstruction projects. Ms. Peter says monitoring committees, comprising women from the settlements, should be formed. Besides measures to address various aspects of quality, Mr. Veerappan highlights the need to immediately address key challenges in the Engineering Department. He says one of the long-pending issues was the Schedule of Rates (SoR), a document issued every year by the PWD to fix costs for all types of work. “Our SoR has always been lower than the cost fixed by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD). A contractor can quote only as per our SoR. The contractor has to make a profit and allow room for all other expenses within this cost... This will naturally affect the quality,” he says. He points to the long-pending demand that the PWD be allowed to keep its SoR on a par with the rates of the CPWD. Pointing out that quality issues raised at K.P. Park so far are primarily related to plastering, he says a common mistake is to pay less importance to curing, a process of wetting the structure to ensure adequate moisture in the freshly laid concrete or plastering for about a week to 14 days to strengthen it. He adds that lack of periodic maintenance work, which will prolong the life of the buildings, is also a key problem. A senior engineer of TNUHDB points to staff shortage, especially in the engineering section. While around 235 projects are under way, the staff strength is not adequate to monitor the projects, let alone carry out maintenance. Once a project is awarded to a contractor, the field-level engineers are supposed to regularly monitor its implementation. TNUHDB also engages external engineers for inspection. Officials of the rank of Executive Engineers or Superintending Engineers finally sign off on the quality. The senior engineer says it is often difficult for engineers to act independently to ensure quality owing to the pressure mounted by different stakeholders. He points out that TNUHBD had a similar wake-up call a decade ago when one of its buildings under construction at Amman Kulam in Coimbatore began to sink. It had to be demolished. “However, nothing much has changed since,” he says. TNUHDB Managing Director M. Govinda Rao says the government’s recent announcement introducing Third Party Quality Monitoring for all the projects will go a long way in ensuring quality. “We are planning to rope in reputed institutions.” He acknowledges the need for further strengthening community engagement. Highlighting that a number of such changes will be part of the proposed resettlement policy, he says the intent to address the problem of housing from a holistic perspective is reflected in the change of name from TNSCB to TNUHDB. ( *The names have been   changed at their request )  Our Schedule of Rates has always been lower than that of the CPWD. A contractor has to make a profit and allow room for all other expenses. This will naturally affect the quality A. Veerappan,Retired Chief Engineer, PWD   The introduction of Third Party Quality Monitoring for all the projects by the government will go a long way in ensuring quality M. Govinda Rao,Managing Director, TNUHDB||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/building-homes-like-card-stacks/article36299467.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 109 new cases||Erode district reported 109 COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. In Salem, 59 cases were reported. According to health officials, 58 cases were indigenous and 10 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 65 indiginous cases were reported. As per the bulletin, two deaths were reported in Salem and Erode districts. Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 244 new cases of COVID-19, registering an increase from Friday’s 239 cases. The Health Department said that 194 persons recovered from the disease on Saturday and the district had 2,180 active cases. Four more persons died of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday and Friday, taking the official death toll to 2,280. The district had a test positivity rate of 2.2. % on Friday when 11,071 swab samples were subjected to testing and 239 persons were found positive for the disease.  Tiruppur district reported 87 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, which took its case tally to stand at 90,657 cases. No new deaths were reported as the overall toll remained to 932. The district had 752 active cases and 91 patients from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-109-new-cases/article36299620.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore registers rise in cases||Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 244 new cases of COVID-19, registering an increase from Friday’s 239 cases. The Health Department said that 194 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 2,180 active cases. Four more persons died of COVID-19 in the district on Thursday and Friday, taking the official death toll to 2,280. The district had a test positivity rate of 2.2. % on Friday when 11,071 swab samples were tested and 239 persons were found positive for the disease. Tiruppur district reported 87 fresh cases, which took the tally to 90,657 cases. No new deaths were reported and the toll remained at 932. The district had 752 active cases and 91 patients recovered on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 28 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 31,862. The number of deaths in the district stood at 195 while 314 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-registers-rise-in-cases/article36299528.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Needs attention||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/needs-attention/article36299535.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DSJ/Assembly snippets||Legislators come up with unique ideas to persuade the Chair to allow them to speak longer. AIADMK MLA T.K. Amulkandasami said: “Honourable Speaker! You have a Ph.D. in this House but I am just an L.K.G. student. Please be considerate to give me more time.” It did help him get a few more minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dsjassembly-snippets/article36299482.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 2||HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu may have taken the oath of office in the name of his conscience, but he said he bowed down before nature and God. While there were some “who incited violence and earned their livelihood using religion,” the DMK government will encourage bhakthi through cultured means, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-2/article36299490.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||Department of School Education: Presentation of Dr. Radhakrishnan awards to best teachers, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Minister for School Education, chief guest, Collector’s Office, 10.20 a.m.  Lions Club of Tiruchi Thillai Nagar and Abirami Women Development Trust: Launching of ‘Mitigate hunger’ project, K. N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, chief guest, Urban Primary Health Centre, Woraiyur, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article36299962.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 200 residents protest state of Anjanapura Double Road||Some residents brought coracles to paddle in ponds; others planted paddy saplings. The gathering, which saw over 200 citizens participate, was not a picnic at a rural or idyllic spot, but at Anjanapura Double Road. They were protesting the deplorable state of the pothole-ridden road in the hope that the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) and other agencies would sit up and take notice of their plight. Anjanapura Double Road is a busy 6.8-km stretch connecting Kanakapura Road and Gottigere, near Bannerghatta Road. This is a major road that helps commuters avoid Sarakki Junction and Outer Ring Road. Gautham Kamat, treasurer of Change Makers of Kanakapura Road (CMKR), which organised the protest, told The Hindu that for the past 10 years, despite repeated assurances, the road in South-East Bengaluru, has not seen any development. It has instead been dug up by multiple authorities, including the Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL), Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), and Bengaluru Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) towards providing various amenities. “Of the 6.8-km stretch, around 3.5-km is in a very poor condition. The BDA and the local MLA have only been claiming that a tender will be floated soon for the development of the road,” he said. He claimed that the condition of the road was so bad that several property owners along the stretch had sold their sites. Abdul Aleem, president of CMKR, said that during the pandemic, ambulances found it hard to reach the houses of patients. Protesters sought to know why the road was still under the BDA’s purview when the layouts had already been handed over to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Incidentally, on Friday, the BDA authorities, including chairman S.R. Vishwanath and commissioner Rajesh Gowda M.B., met to discuss road development. Mr. Krishnappa, who came to the protest site, was made to wade through pools of stagnant rainwater. He assured protesters that a tender to take up development at Rs. 25 crore would be floated soon, and that temporary repairs to make the road motorable would be completed by Wednesday. Residents are sceptical of the promise. “We got the same assurances last November,” said Mr. Kamat. Decision to fell 67 trees criticised Citizens held a protest on Saturday against the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) decision to fell 67 trees for the 2.5-km-long elevated corridor from Ejipura Main Road to Kendriya Sadan via Sony World Junction. Arun Prasad, who joined in the protest, said they were not against the project, but were objecting to the cutting of trees when they could simply be pruned. Civic officials had said that several tree branches will prove to be a hindrance to vehicular movement on the up and down ramps of the flyover and may prove to be dangerous. But environmentalists and citizens have argued otherwise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-200-residents-protest-state-of-anjanapura-double-road/article36299419.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to set up commission to redraw ZP, TP constituencies||The Karnataka Cabinet on Saturday decided to establish a delimitation commission for delimitation of zilla and taluk panchayat constituencies in the State by amending the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act, 1993. With many lapses in the delimitation exercise undertaken by the Karnataka State Election Commission (SEC) and petitions related to the matter pending in the High Court of Karnataka, the Cabinet decided to set up the commission headed by a retired Additional Chief Secretary. ‘Not SEC task’ Delimitation of constituencies is not the task of the SEC and it is wrongly perceived to be so, said Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy after the Cabinet meeting. The new commission would be aided by the Panchayat Raj Department and its Secretary would be a member while the Commissioner would be ex-officio member of the commission, he said. The government would inform the High Court of Karnataka on Monday about the Cabinet decision to establish the delimitation commission and the new commission would be set up if the court agrees. The Minister said over 2,000 petitions pending before the High Court were related to “gross errors” in the delimitation exercise undertaken by the SEC, Mr. Madhuswamy said. Noting that grievances related to delimitation of constituencies would be heard at the Deputy Commissioner level first and later by the commission, he said elections to ZPs and TPs would be held after fresh delimitation exercise, which in turn lead to postponement of elections to rural local bodies. Cases dropped The Cabinet decided to drop the Karnataka Lokayutka’s recommendation to prosecute T.S. Subramanya, Deputy Director of Mysore Palace Board, with regard to shooting of film outside and inside the Mysuru Palace premises. The Cabinet also dropped the Lokayutka’s recommendation to prosecute Mr. Subramanya with regard to alleged poor quality of golden paint work at Durbar Hall of the palace. The anti-corruption watchdog had booked cases against the official under the Anti-Corruption Act. GTTCs The Cabinet approved establishment of Government Tool Room and Training Centres (GTTCs) under the NABARD aid at Chikkakalya in Magadi, Ramanagaram district, and at Chennarayapatna in Devanahalli taluk of Bengaluru Rural district at an estimated cost of Rs. 101.97 crore. It was decided that 13,061 tool-kits would be provided to all studentsof industrial training institutes belonging to SC and ST categories in 2021–22. The estimated cost would be Rs. 17.18 crore.  Delimitation commission to be headed by a retired Additional Chief Secretary Grievances related to delimitation to be heard at the Deputy Commissioner level first and later by the commission Elections to ZPs and TPs to be held after fresh delimitation exercise||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-set-up-commission-to-redraw-zp-tp-constituencies/article36299438.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Overworked and underpaid, teachers turn to counsellors||The changes in the education system wrought by the COVID-19 pandemic have been hard on teachers, a majority of whom are struggling to cope with the new digital landscape and job loss/pay cuts. The phased reopening of school and college campuses has only added to their woes with longer working hours as they juggle conducting online and offline classes, managing domestic chores at home, and dealing with the ever-present fear of a third wave of COVID-19. Unable to cope, many are turning to professional counsellors for help. School counsellors say they have seen a significant increase in the number of teachers approaching them for help. Shruti Nedungadi, counsellor at Harvest International School, said that prior to the pandemic, on an average two teachers would approach her every month. Now, however, she has six or so teachers approaching her every month. “Work and life balance is a serious concern for teachers as they are working from home. In addition to that, many of the teachers are finding it difficult to manage behavioural concerns of children in online classes,” she said. Preethi Mathur, a counsellor at Delhi Public School North, Bengaluru, said that most teachers were approaching counsellors as they had reached a stage of exhaustion. “They need someone to listen to their struggles,” she said. Increasing workload The workload on teachers has also increased as they have to conduct both online and offline classes. H.K. Manjunath, president of High School Assistant Masters’ Association, said their work hours had increased significantly as students had to be split into several batches to maintain physical distance as part of the COVID-19 SOP for students. “In my school at Hebbal, a teacher has to divide one section into three batches and teach the same lesson thrice in the classroom. In addition to that, the teacher has to conduct online classes for students who have chosen not to attend physical classes,” he said. Rekha S., assistant teacher at Shanthinikethana School, said that before the pandemic, teachers would work for eight hours, but this had increased to 12 hours now. “We have to don the hat of homemaker as well as teacher, and it sometimes gets very chaotic. The sudden shift to online mode is a challenging one, but we have slowly learnt to adapt and improvise. We, however, still find it very difficult to communicate with students during online classes,” she said. A teacher at a private school, who sought help from a counsellor, said the process helped her realise that she was placing the entire onus of domestic chores on herself due to conditioning. Now, her family has stepped in to help. “We have a timetable chalked out for the chores at home and I get ample time for my online classes,” she said. Ms. Nedungadi pointed out that more teachers were seeking help as counsellors have made themselves accessible online. “School managements have also organised workshops on the well-being of teachers, which has helped them be more receptive to seeking professional help,” she added. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that all school managements under their umbrella would be given an advisory to conduct health camps for teachers with emphasis on eye check-up. “With online classes, teachers are fatigued as they are overworked. As they arse sitting for long hours in front of the computer screen, they are suffering from various eye problems,” he said.  We have to don the hat of homemaker as well as teacher, and sometimes it gets chaotic. The sudden shift to online mode is a challenging one, but we have slowly learnt to adapt and improvise Rekha S.,assistant teacher, Shanthinikethana School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/overworked-and-underpaid-teachers-turn-to-counsellors/article36299424.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mural at Cubbon Park metro station tells the story of city’s well-digging community||This mural at the Cubbon Park Metro Station is hard to miss. It’s striking, expansive, and earthy. The brown, which makes up most of the artwork, is coloured with mud. The mural isn’t merely decorative; it tells the story of the well-digging community (bhovi or mannu vaddar) in Bengaluru. It’s a result of Art In Transit (AIT) and Biome Environmental Trust’s (BET) Namma Ooru Namma Neeru project, which combines art and ecology. On September 4, both teams celebrated the culmination of the project that involved artists, poets, well-diggers, ecologists, and government officials. BET conceived the ‘One Million Wells for Bengaluru Initiative’ to underscore the importance of harvesting rainwater and digging recharge wells. As a part of this initiative, well-diggers dug 65 recharge wells in Cubbon Park. AIT, Design Earth, and placeARTS Youth Collective gathered the mud from these wells and worked with students of Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology and commuters at Cubbon Park Metro Station to paint the mural. Multilingual poetry collective Kavya Sanje helped highlight the histories of the well-digging community through the mural. “Commuters at Cubbon Park Metro walk up to the mural and touch it - curious about what it is made of. This became an entry point to talk about Bengaluru’s water,” said Arzu Mistry, who heads AIT. For more information about the project visit,artintransitbangalore.com. To know more about recharge wells, go tobengaluru.UrbanWaters.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mural-at-cubbon-park-metro-station-tells-the-story-of-citys-well-digging-community/article36299413.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||24 students, staff test positive in another nursing college||As many as 24 students and teachers of another nursing college in the city have tested positive for COVID-19. Some of the students of Dhanwantri Nursing College, Chikkabanavara in Dasarahalli zone, are said to have been in contact with the students of Christian Nursing College in Horamavu, who tested positive a few days ago. This is the third nursing college in the State to report a cluster in the past few days. Of the 24, seven are boys, fourteen girls and three are teachers. All the students have been shifted to COVID-19 Care Centres, while the teachers have been placed under home quarantine.The BBMP’s triage report stated that 90% of the students and staff of the college had received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccination, while 10% of the staff were fully vaccinated. Sources said that BBMP had tested around 470 primary and secondary contacts, including a total of 450 students. The RT-PCR tests were conducted between August 30 and September 3. Sources added that 18 rooms of the boys’ hostel and 11 rooms of the girls’ hostel had been declared as micro containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/24-students-staff-test-positive-in-another-nursing-college/article36299415.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Introducing new-age teachers to address an age-old problem||A Bengaluru-based startup, Seminarroom Education, is ushering in teachers of a new kind into classrooms to address an old problem — the industry-academia divide that has hit the employability of students. “Students hardly get any industry exposure. Seminarroom brings experts to speak on their respective domains to give students some amount of industry exposure, orientation, career awareness, and value addition to their academic learning,” says Punit Raj K.N., a former academician and founder and CEO of Seminarroom. The platform, Seminarroom, is now being used by 30 colleges. Over 20,000 degree and postgraduate students are learning on it. The learning opportunity is available to educational institutions on a monthly subscription basis, says Mr. Raj. According to him, the platform does not believe in replacing a teacher or academic content, but rather enhances value through bringing guest lecturers from across industry sectors. Seminarroom offers over 1,000 topics in various academic disciplines, including commerce, management, engineering, science, law and journalism. Each user gets 20 industry sessions (webinars) in a semester and 60% of the content would be curriculum-centric and 40% industry/career-focused, as per the startup. The edtech venture was incubated at and funded by PESU Venture Labs, a concept stage VC fund that empowers entrepreneurs. “Our focus is on helping students, professionals, and faculty members become successful entrepreneurs,” says Suresh Narasimha, managing partner, PESU Venture Labs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/introducing-new-age-teachers-to-address-an-age-old-problem/article36299422.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: No need for courts to take consent of litigants to refer disputes for mediation||Stating that the courts cannot reduce the time period fixed for mediation process, the High Court of Karnataka has also held that there is no need for the courts to take consent of either the litigants or their advocates to refer the disputes for mediation for amicable settlement. Also, the High Court has held that “any court, exercising power under Section 89 of the Code of Civil Procedure would have to invariably rather mandatorily refer all the matters for mediation, except those excluded as per the apex court’s 2010 judgment in the case of Afcons Infrastructure vs. Cherian Varkey Construction Co.” Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order while disposing of a petition filed by Amalapooh Mary and others questioning a Bengaluru city civil court’s order of refusing to extend the time for mediation and giving less that 60 days for initial mediation contrary to the provisions the Karnataka Civil Procedure (Mediation) Rules, 2005. In the event of any of the parties not presenting themselves for mediation as per court’s reference, the courts could exercise powers under Rule 13 of the Mediation Rules, 2005, and impose such costs as it may deem fit to compel the attendance of the parties before the mediator appointed by the respective mediation centres, the High Court said. While fixing the time for mediation, the High Court said all the courts would have to fix the time period from the date of first appearance of the parties before the mediator, giving a clear 60 days time for mediation. The time taken for administrative purposes such as transfer of file from the respective courts to mediation centre, for appointing a mediator and for communicating information on appointment of mediator, etc., has to be excluded from the 60 days period, the High Court said. In case of extension of period for completion of mediation based on the report of the mediator or on the request made by the parties or court itself is of such opinion, the courts should refer the matter back to the mediator giving additional 30 days, excluding days required for additional formalities, as per the Rules for competing the mediation to achieve settlement of the dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-no-need-for-courts-to-take-consent-of-litigants-to-refer-disputes-for-mediation/article36299430.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to hire BCG services at Rs. 12 cr. to attract investments||Karnataka will continue hiring the services of Boston Consulting Group India Pvt. Ltd., an MNC, for one more year for bringing investments to the State. The State Cabinet on Saturday decided to pay fees of Rs. 12 crore and GST to the firm for its service. The firm will act as a knowledge partner to the government and work out strategies for attracting investments to the State, both from global and domestic players, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told presspersons after the Cabinet meeting. The State decided to hold the Global Investors’ Meet 2022 and Minister for Large and Medium Industries Murugesh Nirani is expected to announce the dates for the meet in the next couple of weeks after consultations with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. GIM was postponed owing to the pandemic. Over the last few months, the government has amended laws related to land and industry for ensuring ease in doing business and brought out a new industrial policy (2020-25) for attracting investments to the State. Thai delegation On Saturday, Nitirooge Phoneprasert, Consul General of Thailand in Chennai, held talks with Mr. Nirani and discussed business opportunities in the State. Briefing the Thai delegation about the investment opportunities, Mr. Nirani said the State was the ideal destination for investments. Karnataka was the third highest FDI recipient in India in 2020–21 at $7.6 billion, with 14% national share, he said. Housing project The Cabinet has approved a proposal of the Karnataka Housing Board to develop a residential layout at Lingapura village in Anekal taluk, Suryanagar second phase, on 50:50 basis with owners of the land. Both the KHB and landowners would get equal share in the 110-acre plot. A decision was taken to develop a cultural and heritage centre at Veerapura in Magadi taluk of Ramanagaram district, the birthplace of late Shivakumara Swami of Siddaganga Mutt, Tumakuru. The estimated cost of the project is Rs. 25 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-hire-bcg-services-at-rs-12-cr-to-attract-investments/article36299436.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Property owners demand resolution on ‘unfair tax notices’||While some citizens were planting paddy saplings to register their protest against the poor condition of Anjanapura Double Road, in the heart of the city, around 50 citizens gathered at the BBMP head office to protest against the issue of ‘unfair property tax notices’ to several property owners. The protest, organised by the Bengaluru Navanirmana Party (BNP), saw property owners hold placards, while 500 others joined them virtually. The BBMP has issued over 78,500 notices to property owners for failing to update their tax zone classification while paying property tax since 2016-17. The notices, many of which are dated February 2021, continue to be served to citizens. Through the notices, the BBMP has asked the citizens to not just pay the arrears, but also 200% penalty on the arrears, besides a 2% a month interest for the past five years. With this, the civic body hoped to collect Rs. 360 crore, including Rs. 120 crore in arrears and Rs. 240 crore in penalty and interest. However, after criticism from the public for not informing them about the zonal reclassification in 2016-17 and not updating their online tax payment software to reflect the changes, the civic body sent a proposal to the State government to forgo the penalty. However, this will mean that citizens will have to pay the arrears and interest. “The issue is still not resolved. The BBMP is issuing notices, which is causing a lot of anxiety among citizens as the interest and penalty keeps adding up with every passing day. Some property owners have ended up paying the amount under duress,” claimed Srikanth Narasimhan, BNP’s founder and general secretary. Rahul Tandon, a resident of Shanthinagar, did just that. “After receiving the notice in March, I waited till June for some resolution. However, when the interest began to mount, I made the payment. Property owners, who have diligently been paying our taxes, are being penalised for no fault,” he charged. Kiran Srinivas, a resident of Rajajinagar, said that the BBMP updated the property tax software to reflect the changed zonal classification four years after it was actually changed. “The BBMP has our contact details and could have informed us. There is a glaring gap in communication and hapless citizens are being made to pay for it,” he argued. BNP has submitted an online petition with around 5,000 signatures to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Senior civic officials told The Hindu that the CM is likely to take a decision on the proposal to waive penalty next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/property-owners-demand-resolution-on-unfair-tax-notices/article36299417.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Advocates shower accolades on Oka||Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was the best among the finest chief justices the High Court of Karnataka has seen, said several senior members of the Bengaluru Advocates’ Association (AAB) while felicitating him on becoming a judge of the Supreme Court of India. Describing him as “a judge of high calibre”, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the manner of functioning of Mr. Oka had made himself, as the then Law Minister, to take more care in taking decision to ensure that there was no ambiguity in the process that may come under judicial scrutiny before the then Chief Justice. Senior Advocate and former advocate general Uday Holla said, “In the course of my career as a lawyer I have seen and practised before at least 24 chief justices of the High Court of Karnataka. Without a fear of contradiction I can tell everyone of you that Justice Oka is the most hard working and focused of all the chief justices I have seen.” Mr. Holla said Mr. Oka’s actions had ensured that the High Court of Karnakata continued to function during the peak of COVID-19 pandemic when other High Courts in the country had shut. K.N. Putte Gowda, a senior member of the AAB, said, “In my practice of 40 years I have seen 24 chief justices, and a very few of them were genuinely appreciated by the Bar...I can say without hesitation that Justice Oka is the best amongst them.” A.P. Ranganatha, president of the AAB, said Mr. Oka, as the Chief Justice had taken stern action against corruption in judiciary and during his tenure as Chief Justice more than 25 judicial officers were terminated from service and several judicial officers were denied promotion. Justice B.V. Nagarathna, who was also elevated as a judge of the apex court recently, was also felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advocates-shower-accolades-on-oka/article36299433.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||UDF at KIA to remain unchanged till March 2022||User Development Fee (UDF) collected from passengers at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) will remain unchanged till March 31, 2022. At present, international passengers have to pay Rs. 839, while domestic passengers are charged Rs. 184. In its order on aeronautical tariff for KIA, for the third control period from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2026, the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (AERA) has proposed that UDF rates be increased every financial year from April 2022 till March 2025. With effect from April 1, 2022, to March 31, 2023, UDF of Rs. 1,200 will be collected from the international passengers and Rs. 350 from domestic passengers. In 2023-24, UDF will be Rs. 1,400 for international passengers and Rs. 450 for domestic passengers. In FY 2024-25, it will be Rs. 1,500 for international passengers and Rs. 550 for domestic passengers. This rate will be applicable from April 1, 2025, to December 2025. Between January 1, 2026 to March 31, 2026, it has been proposed that the fee be reduced to Rs. 1050 for international passengers and Rs. 385 for domestic passengers. AERA has also fixed landing and parking charges applicable for aircraft in the third control period. BIAL disappointed In its response to the revision of UDF, a spokesperson of Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL) said that the decision has come at a time when it is about to complete and operationalise a massive Rs. 13,300 crore expansion programme, focused on investing in critical capacity to cater to demand, including construction of a new runway, Terminal 2 and associated projects. “For 11 years, BIAL has reinvested its earnings to fund this capacity enhancement, hoping to provide strong earnings to shareholders once this project is completed. It is therefore disappointing to receive a tariff order which is likely to be seriously inadequate to meet our cash flow requirements and will also pose a challenge when it comes to meeting operational expenses. This is further exacerbated by the fact that during the period of the recovery of this investment, traffic is at its lowest as a result of the ongoing pandemic,” a spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udf-at-kia-to-remain-unchanged-till-march-2022/article36299428.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 norms likely to be revised||With many people found participating in public rallies, weddings and festivals, the State government has planned to revise its COVID-19 guidelines to limit participation in public and private functions. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday held a videoconference meeting with the Deputy Commissioners of Udupi, Dakshina Kanada, Kodagu, Hassan, and Chamarajanagar and took stock of the pandemic situation in the border districts. Earlier, speaking to reporters, Mr. Bommai said he was aware of protocols in public functions and rallies and the government was planning to revise the guidelines to limit the numbers. On a question related to large-scale rallies linked to political parties taking place despite restrictions, the Chief Minister said his government had noted a few such events. Rallies by political parties, including by the ruling BJP which organised ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatras’ in different parts of the State, have witnessed violation of COVID-19 norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-norms-likely-to-be-revised/article36299421.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gambling dens raided||A day after former Home Minister K.J. George wrote to incumbent Minister Araga Jnanendra flagging two ‘casinos’ in Sarvagnanagar constituency, the Central Crime Branch police on Saturday conducted raids on several clubs and gambling dens in Halasuru, Indiranagar, and Sampigehalli. Officials seized Rs. 4 lakh cash and betting coins and arrested 104 persons allegedly involved in gambling. “Some managed to escape and a special team has been formed to nab them,” said a CCB official, adding that two teams were formed to conduct the raids. Incidentally, in response to Mr. George’s allegations of ‘casinos’ in the city, the police denied their existence. One police official did concede that gambling dens were running illegally where games like Black Jack and Baccarat are played for high stakes. However, he had said that they were not ‘casinos’ with hi-tech slot machines, roulette tables, etc. It is such dens that the CCB raided on Saturday. According to CCB officials, preliminary investigations revealed that these clubs were running illegal gambling operations over the last few months. “Based on CCTV footage, clients come in the afternoon to gamble. All accused have been remanded to judicial custody after the interrogation and further investigations are on.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-teams-raid-gambling-dens-104-arrested/article36299411.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||983 COVID-19 cases in State||Karnataka on Saturday reported 983 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,54,047. Bengaluru Urban reported 289 cases and seven deaths. This is for the second time this week that the State is reporting less than 1,000 cases. On August 30, 973 cases were reported — the lowest in the past five months. With 21 deaths, the toll rose to 37,401 on Saturday. This is apart from 23 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,620 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 28,98,874. The State now has 17,746 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.61%, the CFR was 2.13%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/983-new-cases/article36299420.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Enhance income limit for land grant: Araga||Home Minister Araga Jnanedra has sought amendment to Rules 94-C of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, suggesting that Rs. 1,20,000 should be the maximum annual income limit to get eligibility for grant of land under the Act, from the present income limit of Rs. 30,000 per annum. In letters to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R. Ashok, the Minister pointed out that income limit fixed to get BPL cards from the Food and Civil supplies department was Rs. 1,20,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/enhance-income-limit-for-land-grant-araga/article36299431.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Change NDRF guidelines’||The Karnataka government, which estimates the damage to crops and infrastructure caused by rain in July at Rs. 5,690.52crore, has appealed to the Central team visiting the State to assess damage to recommend to the Centre to change the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) guidelines so that the quantum of relief being provided to the State can be increased. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai held discussions with a seven-member Central team led by Sushil Pal and informed the members about suffering incurred by the people of the State owing to floods and landslips and damage to crops, houses, and public infrastructure during the last four years owing to heavy rain. As per the State Disaster Relief Fund norms, the estimated relief amount was Rs. 765.84 crore. The team will visit affected areas from Sunday to Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/change-ndrf-guidelines/article36299435.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Assets worth Rs. 1.6 crore seized||The Surya Nagar police have confiscated movable and immovable properties worth Rs. 1.6 crore owned by an inter-State drug peddler. The seized properties include three sites, a residential apartment in the outskirts of the city and an SUV. The bank accounts of the accused, Anjay Kumar Singh, have also been frozen. “He had been arrested in Bihar and Delhi but shifted his area of operation to Bengaluru for his children’s education,” said Additional Superintendent of Police Lakshmi Ganesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assets-worth-rs-16-crore-seized/article36299426.ece
05 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||One held on cheating charge||Hassan Police have arrested one person on charges of cheating a resident of Chitradurga after assuring two kilograms of gold at a low price. The police recovered Rs. 12 lakh in cash from the accused. The police gave the name of the arrested as Shivakumar of Angadihalli in Belur taluk. The other accused, Bidar Lal, Arjun and Keerthi, are absconding. The accused had promised Somashekhara Reddy of Challakere in Chitradurga two kilograms of gold for Rs. 12 lakh. Initially, they handed him over two gold ornaments as a sample on Thursday. The complainant went to a goldsmith and understood it was true gold. However, later while giving the remaining, the accused gave fake gold ornaments. Suspecting foul play, the complainant tried to catch hold of the accused, who succeeded in running away with the cash. Somashekhara Reddy had filed a complaint with Halebidu Police. Belur Circle Inspector Sreekanth and others arrested one accused and recovered the cash from him. Police advice Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda, on Saturday, told presspersons that there were complaints of cheating by promising gold at a lower price. Many people from other States were allegedly involved in such instances. “I appeal to the public to be alert about such people. The public should call up the police if someone approaches them with such a promise”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-held-on-cheating-charge/article36299867.ece
05 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||BJP leader faces criticism||Hassan district BJP president H.K. Suresh attracted criticism on social media platforms on Saturday as he celebrated his birthday along with his supporters in Belur, defying the weekend lockdown on Friday night. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish had clamped weekend curfew to avoid the spread of COVID-19 with effect from 9 p.m. on Friday. However, Mr. Suresh was taken in a procession on the streets of Belur. A high-decibel DJ was also part of the procession. As video clips of the celebrations went viral on social media platforms, many criticised him and party workers. Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda, on Saturday, told presspersons that the police stopped the music soon after a complaint was received. “We have collected information about the incident. It obstructed the movement of vehicles and the event also violated the provisions under the Disaster Management Act. We will submit a report to the Deputy Commissioner”, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-leader-faces-criticism/article36299865.ece
05 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||62 fresh cases in Hassan district||Hassan reported 62 fresh cases of COVID-19 and two more deaths on Saturday. With that, the total deaths in the district increased to 1,333 and the number of cases rose to 1,09,906. Of the fresh cases, five were from Alur, 13 from Arkalgud, one from Araikere, 10 in Belur, four in Channarayapatna, 17 in Hassan taluk, one in Holenarsipur and nine from Sakleshpur taluk. As many as 892 people are under treatment in the district. Shivamogga reported 35 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Among them, 14 were from Shivamogga, four each from Bhadravati and Tirthahalli, eight from Sagar, three from Hosanagar and two from Sorab taluk. As many as 229 people are under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/62-fresh-cases-in-hassan-district/article36299866.ece
05 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Valuables recovered||Chikkamagaluru Police have arrested two people wanted in theft cases and recovered Rs. 10 lakh in cash, besides valuables worth over Rs. 1.36 lakh from them. Chikkamagaluru SP Akshay M. Hakay, in a press release on Saturday, said theft cases were reported recently in Mallandur Police Station limits. The police investigating the cases arrested two people on Friday. The valuables recovered included 31 grams of gold jewels, and 31 grams of silver items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/valuables-recovered/article36299868.ece
05 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rain damage: Central teams to visit Dharwad, Haveri today||Central study teams will visit Dharwad and Haveri districts on Sunday to assess the damage in flood-affected areas of the districts. In Dharwad, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said that on Sunday the team will visit Alnavar and Navalgund taluks and some parts of Dharwad city. Team members The team visiting Dharwad district comprises Superintending Engineer of Jal Shakti Ministry Guruprasad J. and Deputy Secretary of Finance Ministry Mahesh Kumar. The team will land at Hubballi airport at 8.40 a.m. and will head straight to the Deputy Commissioner’s office to collect official data on the flood damage. As per the itinerary, the team will visit Kambarganavi in Alanavar taluk at 10.45 a.m. and Indrammana Kere 11.25 a.m. The tank had breached following downpour. The damage to roads, bridges, and standing maize crops will be assessed, Mr. Patil said. The team will subsequently visit Dougi Naala, the primary health centre, and the Benachi bridge which collapsed owing to heavy rains. Then the team will visit Kumareshwar Nagar in Dharwad city. Post-lunch, the team will visit Navalgund taluk and inspect roads at Arakurahatti and Yamanur village where green gram, onion have been damaged. It will assess the damages to horticultural crops that were destroyed near Ron Cross before proceeding to Bagalkot district. Mr. Patil said that the district administration was ready with all the data on rain and flood damage and asked the officials to be ready with details of their respective areas during the team’s visit. At Haveri Another team will proceed to Haveri district. At Shiggaon, the team will collect details from officials and then visit Bankapur, Koodala, Naganur, Varadahalli, Kunimellahalli, and other villages before reaching Hanagal. Subsequently the team will proceed to Uttara Kannada district in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-damage-central-teams-to-visit-dharwad-haveri-today/article36299656.ece
05 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||MNREGA: Delegation seeks payment of pending wages||Seeking payment of pending wages and other problems related to works taken up under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act (MNREGA), members of the Grameena Krishi Kooli Karmikara Sanghatane have submitted a memorandum to the district administration. A delegation of the organisation, led by president Rajappa Aladahalli and Gangadhar Badiger of the SUCI(C), visited the office of the chief executive officer of the Dharwad Zilla Panchayat on Saturday and submitted the memorandum. The delegation members brought to the notice of the officials that the wages had not been credited to the bank accounts of job card holders even after three months. Consequently the job card holders, who had no other source of income, were facing hardships, they said. They said the organisation also condemned caste-based payment system being implemented by the Union government. “When all the workers worked together to complete the work, why was it that people are being divided on the basis of caste while making payment of the wages,” they asked. In the memorandum, they have demanded that the caste-based payment system and the practice of getting MNREGA works done using machinery should be abolished immediately. Potable drinking water and first-aid facilities at the work site, increasing the person days to 200, release of long pending honorarium to the Kayaka Bandhu, and grievance redressal meetings for job card holders are some of the other demands mentioned in the memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mnrega-delegation-seeks-payment-of-pending-wages/article36299662.ece
05 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||EPFO launches e-nomination facility||In an initiative to help family members of Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) members, Aadhaar-based e-nomination has been launched by the EPFO. According to a press release by Regional PF Commissioner Mihir Kumar, with the launch of the e-nomination facility EPFO members can file the nomination online by visiting the member portal: https://unifiedportal-mem.epfindia.gov.in/memberinterface/. Mr. Mihir Kumar has said in the release that during the claim settlement process, particularly those related to sudden demise of EPFO members, the family members were forced to run around owing to the non-filing of nomination in the respective accounts. The new facility can be availed by EPFO members if their mobile number is linked with UAN and the Aadhaar verification is also complete. The registration process is user-friendly and all members are advised to file their e-nomination at the earliest. A readily available e-nomination in the system will enable members/ beneficiaries to easily file online pension claims and in the event of demise, his or her nominee will be able to file an online claim based on the OTP on his/her Aadhaar linked mobile number. Under the new facility, one doesn’t need to apply with any physical document to the employer or ex-employer after the online nomination is done, the release said. Through the press release, the PF Commissioner has appealed to the EPFO members to file their e-nomination at the member interface of the portal immediately. Further, all EPFO members should also advised to get basic KYC like Aadhaar and Bank account seeded to their UAN, so that they can avail online services, he has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/epfo-launches-e-nomination-facility/article36299660.ece
05 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Police shower petals on MLA, get show-cause notices||After a few video clips and photographs of a few police officials showering flower petals over Mahanthesh Doddagoudar, Kittur MLA, and his wife went viral on social media, the officials have been issued show-cause notices. Deputy Superintendent of Police of Bailhongal Shivanand Katagi, inspector Satenhalli, sub-inspector Sheegihalli, ASI Vishanath Mallannavar, and others had visited the MLA’s residence to greet him on his birthday. They made the MLA and his wife sit on a sofa and showered petals on them. The video and photographs went viral subsequently leading to widespread criticism. Following the incident, Superintendent of Police of Belagavi Laxman Nimbargi has said that the show-cause notices had been issued to the police officials concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-shower-petals-on-mla-get-show-cause-notices/article36299650.ece
05 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||After 2 months, bridge opens for traffic||The Lolasur Bridge across the Ghataprabha in Gokak taluk of Belagavi district, which had suffered severe damage owing to flood, was reopened for traffic after two months. As the bridge had suffered severe damage, the general public were forced to use circumventing routes. The bridge located on Jat-Jamboti Road is a State highway providing connectivity to Maharashtra, Vijayapura, and Athani. Considering the problems being caused to the public, KPCC president Satish Jarkiholi and chairman of KMF Balachandra Jarkiholi had taken up the issue with the authorities concerned, after which the repair works had begun. On Friday, Mr. Satish Jarkiholi had visited the spot and inspected the bridge work along with officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-2-months-bridge-opens-for-traffic/article36299644.ece
05 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Minister emphasises need to make agriculture profitable||Emphasising the need for making agriculture profitable, the Union government has launched various schemes to attract the youth towards farming and to check migration, Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje said on Saturday. Inaugurating a workshop, ‘Yuvakara Nade, Krishi Kade’, organised by the Kalyana Karnataka Human Resources, Agriculture and Cultural Association here, Ms. Karandlaje said that a lack of opportunities and decent jobs in rural areas compel the youth to migrate to urban areas. Rural youth is the future of the agricultural sector and agriculture is the important tool that can stop the migration, she said. Today, a majority of the rural youth are not attracted to agriculture and the Union government has initiated several schemes and programmes to reverse this trend, she said. “The Centre is also making efforts for securing the youths’ future and to allow them to stay in agriculture and rural industry,” she said. Agricultural scientists, experts, and farmers from the six districts of Kalyana Karnataka participated in the workshop.  S.A. Patil, former Vice-Chancellor of University of Agriculture Sciences, Dharwad, called upon farmers to use technologies and tools to reap profits. They should adapt new methods of farming and turn agriculture into a profit-making venture so that those thinking of alternative professions stay back in agriculture. Basavaraj Patil Sedam, chairman of the Kalyana Karnataka Human Resources, Agriculture, and Cultural Association, asked the youth to develop a positive approach towards agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-emphasises-need-to-make-agriculture-profitable/article36299643.ece
05 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Relieve contract, temporary, outsourced employees: Govt.||The Department of Higher Education has again asked all universities in the State to relieve such employees who have been appointed on a temporary basis, on contract, and have been outsourced, without the pre-approval of the government, from their duties with immediate effect. It applies to both teaching and non-teaching employees. In a letter on September 2 to Registrars (Administration) of universities, the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Higher Education said that if the universities failed to relieve such employees, the government will initiate disciplinary action against the Registrars without any intimation. The letter said that such employees who have been appointed in excess to the sanctioned posts without the approval of the government should be relieved. Earlier, the government issued two circulars, on August 4, 2020 and on April 6, 2021, on the same. But the universities have not implemented them. The action of the universities is against the policy and rules of the government. It said that such employees are wasting the time of the government by filing writ petitions in court now and then seeking to regularise their services and demanding other facilities. Quoting the High Court’s order in two writ petitions pertaining to the appointment of such employees in Mandya University the letter said that 28 temporary non-teaching staff of the university were relieved of their duties on August 24, 2021. Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P.S. Yadapadithaya told The Hindu that the university will write to the department explaining the need to retain such employees. He said that teaching and non-teaching posts were sanctioned to the universities many years ago. But the education sector has seen many changes and growth, with the universities opening new departments. In addition, the number of colleges under the universities have also increased. Hence it was inevitable for universities to appoint teaching and non-teaching staff on a temporary basis, on contract, and outsource them against the sanctioned posts and in access to the sanctioned posts to meet the present-day requirement. The university will bring these factors to the notice of the government before initiating any action. The matter will also be discussed in the Syndicate. The government will be requested to give post-approval to the appointments already made, Mr. Yadapadithaya said. The Vice-Chancellor said that the university will also seek the approval of the government to fill up the vacant sanctioned backlog reserve category posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relieve-contract-temporary-outsourced-employees-govt/article36299857.ece
05 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||21 persons in Dakshina Kannada and 17 in Udupi to get best teacher award||Seven teachers each from the lower primary, the higher primary, and the secondary school categories have been selected in Dakshina Kannada for the district-level best teacher award, which will be given away on Teachers’ Day [Sunday]. In Udupi, five teachers each have been chosen for the award in the lower primary school category, while six teachers each will receive the award in the higher primary and the secondary school categories. The teachers from lower primary selected in Dakshina Kannada are: P.V. Chetana Kumari from Government Higher Primary School (GHPS) Kudrebettu; P. Shivananda Bhandary from the Government Lower Primary School (GLPS) Bollukallu; K. Surekha from GLPS Basti Garden; Pratima Hebbar from GHPS Bagambila; Archana from GLPS Pencharu near Moodbidri; N. Shantakumari from GLPS Channavara, and K. Swetha from GLPS Achhrappady. In the higher primary category, Sucheta from GHPS Kedila; Amitanand Hegde from GHPS Bangadi; K. Pavana from GHPS Kapikad; Suresh Rao from GHPS Nalyapadavu; Rajeev Shetty from GHPS Aliyuru; N. Sheenappa Naika from GHPS Golitottu, and G. Sunanda from GHPS Peralu will receive the award. In the secondary school category, Venkataramana Acharya from Government Secondary School (GSS) Sajipamooda; Ajit Kumar from GSS Gerukatte; Sunanda from GSS Nadugoodu; Everest Felix Crasta from Cascia Secondary School Jeppu; Shankar Naika from Sarvodaya Secondary School Kallamundkuru; Geetamani S. from Government Pre University College Kobettu Puttur, and Kenchaveerappa from GSS Markanja, will receive the award. In Udupi, the teachers in the lower primary school category are Shanta Pai from GHPS Yadtadi; Shekar Ganiga from GLPS Kismati; Manjunath Shetty from GLPS Kuchhooru; Suresh Shetty from GLPS Konjady, and M.N. Reshma from GLPS Kudi. In the higher primary school category, Dinakar Shetty from GHPS Badanediyuru; Chandranarayana Billava from GHPS Shiroor; Narendra Kamath from GHPS Kabettu; Shaili Prema Kumari from UBCM Higher Primary School Padooru; Ganesh Herale from GHPS Alpady Ardi, and Shrinivas from GHPS Shedimane will get the award. In the secondary school category, P.V. Ananda Saligrama from MNDSM Secondary School Mudrady; Santosh Kumar Shetty from GSS Heskattooru; Subrahmanya Tantri from S.V.S Secondary School Katpady; P. Krishnamurthy from Government PU College Navunda; Narendra Kumar from Vivekananda Secondary School for Girls Kota, and B.B. Praveena from Sriniketana Aided Secondary School Matapady will get the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/21-persons-in-dakshina-kannada-and-17-in-udupi-to-get-best-teacher-award/article36299862.ece
05 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KIOCL sees 97.2% vaccination at city unit||KIOCL Ltd., a Union government undertaking, has recorded 97.2% vaccination against COVID-19 at its Mangaluru unit, the company said on Saturday. Of the 2,750 targeted members, 2,673 members were fully vaccinated with two doses of the vaccine by September 4. The members included the company employees and their dependents, the Central Industrial Security Force staff and their dependents, apprentices/trainees, and the contract workers of the company. The company had been conducting the vaccination camps at its pellet plant and its township, S. Murugesh, Senior Manager, HR and Administration, of the company said in a release. It could not achieve 100% success by Saturday because some members who have recovered from COVID-19 will have to complete the prescribed period to become eligible to receive the vaccine. They will be jabbed once they become eligible, he said. In a closing ceremony of the camps organised by the company at Nehru Bhavan, KIOCL Township, Kavoor on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra said that the company extended its support in managing the COVID-19 by distributing masks, sanitisers, sponsoring the construction of medical oxygen manufacturing units in Sullia, Moodbidri, Mulky in Dakshina Kannada and in some other places elsewhere. In addition, it also donated a new ambulance to the Government Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. The company said that it also distributed groceries to migrant and contract workers during the lockdown. B. Dasappa Shetty and H. Ramakrishna Rao, General Managers of the company, and M.N. Manjunath, Deputy Medical Chief Medical Officer, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kiocl-sees-972-vaccination-at-city-unit/article36299859.ece
05 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘70% of COVID-19 patients are under home isolation in DK’||Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra on Saturday said that 70% of the active COVID-19 patients in the district are under home isolation and the remaining are being treated in hospitals. Speaking at a video conference with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the Deputy Commissioner said that the district had 2,146 active cases and the test positivity rate on Saturday stood at 1.47 %. Dr. Rajendra said that the district administration has been taking all measures to contain the spread of the infection, particularly by finding out primary contacts. Mr. Bommai asked the Deputy Commissioner to conduct 15,000 sample tests daily and ensure that 50,000 persons, especially in the taluks on the border with Kerala, are vaccinated daily. The Chief Minister said that testing and vaccination drives should be increased in border areas to control the spread of the infection. Mr. Bommai said that the weekend curfew and night curfew will continue in the district till further orders from the government. He asked the police to take legal action against those who flouted the COVID-19 guidelines. The Chief Minister said that Railways, the Revenue, Health, and the Police Departments should work in co-ordination to ensure that the guidelines are followed. The Chief Minister also interacted with the Deputy Commissioners of Udupi, Chamarajnagar, Kodagu, and Hassan. The Chief Executive Officers, health, and police officials took part in it. During his meeting in Mangaluru last month to review the COVID-19 situation, the Chief Minister had directed the administration to shift the patients to Covid Care Centres by triaging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/70-of-covid-19-patients-are-under-home-isolation-in-dk/article36299852.ece
05 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fishermen have a rich catch of Pomfret in Udupi||Fishermen of some traditional boats in Udupi had a rich catch of the costly Pomfret fish totally weighing 1,300 kg on Friday. It was worth over Rs. 4 lakh as it cost Rs. 320 a kg in the market. The catch near Thottam in Malpe was a pleasant surprise to a team of about 40 fishermen. Its proceeds were shared among the group members, led by Janardhan Thingalaya. According to Mr. Thingalaya, who is also the president of Association of Traditional Boat Fishermen, Malpe, they resorted to a traditional method of fishing called ‘Kairampani’. This method was in vogue before the entry of mechanised fishing boats. Some fishermen still have an attachment to this traditional type of fishing, he said. A team of fishermen from Gangolli area had made such a huge catch of Pomfret fish around this time last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fishermen-have-a-rich-catch-of-pomfret-in-udupi/article36299856.ece
05 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three held on charge of assaulting youths||The Puttur Town police have arrested three persons on the charges of wrongfully restraining and assaulting three youths found with a girl in Puttur town on September 1. The police gave the names of the arrested as Abdul Mazeed of Balnadu village of Puttur taluk, Farooq of Yenmur near Panja of Sullia taluk, and G. Alebi of Aryapu village of Puttur taluk. A youth from Raichur district got in touch with the girl from Puttur through social media. He and his two friends came down to meet her in Puttur on September 1. After meeting the girl, the three youths walked along with the girl towards a lodge near the KSRTC bus stand to book a room. Then a group of five youths blocked their way and questioned the three youths for being with the girl from another religion. A few allegedly assaulted the youths. A few onlookers intervened and sent away the three youths and the girl in different vehicles to the police station. One among the injured youth filed a complaint accusing the five other youths of wrongfully restraining and assaulting them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-held-on-charge-of-assaulting-youths/article36299860.ece
05 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Six deaths reported in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported five COVID-19 deaths and 162 new cases on Saturday. With 251 persons discharged, the number of active cases stood at 2,146. The test positivity rate was put at 1.47%. Udupi district reported one death and 97 new cases. With 137 persons discharged, the number of active cases stood at 1,554. With 16,589 persons vaccinated on Saturday, the total number in Dakshina Kannada was at 16,96,914. In Udupi 9,946 persons received vaccine and this took the total number to 11,08,792. Meanwhile, the Mookambika temple at Kolluru in Udupi district made it mandatory from Saturday for the devotees from Kerala to produce RT-PCR negative certificate for COVID-19. The certificate should not be older than 72 hours, the temple’s executive officer P.B. Mahesh said. In addition, all devotees entering the temple will have to produce their Aaadhar card to register the details of devotees with their address. The step is to help contain the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Mahesh said adding that the restrictions will be in force till further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-six-deaths-reported-in-dk-udupi/article36299861.ece
05 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||The IMD has said that heavy to very heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places over coastal Karnataka for three days from September 5. The rainfall is likely to exceed 124.5 mm during these days. Heavy rain exceeding 64.5 mm is likely at isolated places on September 8 and September 9, it said.    Mangalore University has invited applications from guest teachers to teach at its Department of Statistics. Application forms can be downloaded from www.mangaloreuniversity. ac.in. Apply by September 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article36299853.ece
05 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||30 teachers from Mysuru to get district awards today||Thirty teachers from Mysuru district will be conferred with the best teachers’ award during the Teachers’ Day celebrations in Mysuru on Sunday. Ten teachers each in the lower primary, higher primary and high schools have been chosen for presenting the district awards which will be presented at St. Matthias School in Bannimantap at 10 a.m. Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar will present the awards on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. MLA and former Minister Tanveer Sait will preside over the function. The function will be held under the joint auspices of the district administration, Mysuru zilla panchayat and the Department of Public Instruction. Meanwhile, two teachers from Mysuru district have been selected for the best teachers’ awards presented at the State level in Bengaluru. K. Sangeetha, an art teacher from the government high school in G.B. Sargur in H.D. Kote taluk and Mahadev from the government primary school, M.C. Hundi in Mysuru taluk, will be receiving their awards at the Teachers’ Day celebrations in Bengaluru on Sunday.  Mr. Mahadev had received the district best teacher award three years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/30-teachers-from-mysuru-to-get-district-awards-today/article36299872.ece
05 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Credit war’ intensifies over highway expansion work||The “credit war’’ over the ongoing Bengaluru-Mysuru highway expansion work has escalated with Congress leaders challenging Mysuru MP Pratap Simha for an open debate in the presence of the media. Mr. Simha recently released a video with spot visits to highlight the work in progress and the ease with which people can commute between the two cities. His presentation went viral and was also reported in the media as he said that the highway works being funded by the Centre at a cost of over Rs. 8,000 crore would be a game changer for Mysuru. ‘Development boom’ He also likened it with the Mumbai-Pune highway and said the 10-lane highway (six-lane carriage way and four-lane service roads) would not only improve connectivity between Mysuru and Bengaluru but also trigger a development boom in Mysuru. This triggered a backlash from the Congress which claimed that the project was cleared during the tenure of Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and when H.C. Mahadevappa was the PWD Minister. Joining the chorus was BJP MLC A.H. Vishwanath who claimed that the project was sanctioned when he was the MP while Mr. Siddaramaiah stated that Mr. Simha has “no locus standi’’ as the project as it does not traverse through his constituency. Even the elected representatives from Mandya and Ramanagaram entered the fray each claiming a slice of credit for the ongoing works. The Congress on Saturday unilaterally announced that the debate with Mr. Pratap Simha would be held at the Press Club in Mysuru on Sunday and “expressed hope that Mr. Simha would turn up for the debate’’. Letter Instead, Mr. Simha shot off a letter chiding the Congress and Mr. Mahadevappa and said they didn’t take up any work when in power. “Now that your are out of power you have not other work than getting in to debate and try to be relevant though you have been ousted by the electorate’’, he said. ‘Show documents’ He challenged Mr. Mahadevappa to prove with documents as to how much money was sanctioned for the project when he was the Minister. “Prove with documents that you had released at least 8 paisa for the ongoing Rs. 8,000 crore project and I will debate the issue with you’’, said Mr. Simha. Admonishing Mr. Mahadevappa for “trying to get free publicity’’, Mr. Simha said the NHAI officer was inspecting the ongoing works in Karnataka and it would be more fruitful for Mr. Mahadevappa to meet and thank him. ‘Futile’ Mr. Simha said he has already appealed to the Centre to upgrade the existing road to T.Narsipur, the constituency from where Mr. Mr. Mahadevappa lost in the last elections, and added that he has little time for futile debates and would spend more time on the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/credit-war-intensifies-over-highway-expansion-work/article36299871.ece
05 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Guidelines to implement Forest Rights Act sought||Peeved by the apathy of the local officials in recognising the habitat rights of adivasis, the government has been urged to issue proper guidelines and provide training for officials on the various provisions of the Forest Rights Act 2006. The Hunsur-based NGO Development through Education (DEED) has drawn the attention of the Chairperson of the Committee on Habitat Rights under the Ministry of Tribals, Government of India, to this issue. It said that the officials in the Forest Rights Committee at various levels should be trained and guidelines issued on the recognition of the habitat rights of the particularly vulnerable tribal groups under the FRA 2006. S. Sreekanth of DEED said that in south Karnataka the Jenukurubas were spread across three districts of Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar and their population numbered about one lakh spread across 285 hamlets and constituted the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTG). Pevented The PVTGs are dependent on Bandipur National Park and Nagarahole National Park (Rajiv Gandhi) besides some reserve forests in the vicinity for their livelihood but the Forest Department prevented them from collecting non-timber forest products (NTFP), according to DEED. It said the Jenukurubas have been displaced from their traditional land without rehabilitation package in early 1972 consequent to the enactment of the the Wildlife Protection Act in 1972, and have been living on the fringes of the parks and worked as daily wagers, since the last 47 years. Though they are entitled to habitat rights as per FRA 2006, Community Forest Rights claims submitted through the grama sabhas to the forest rights committees have been rejected. Attributing the decision to the handiwork of the wildlife lobby, DEED questioned the rationale of the forest rights committees in rejecting the tribals claims for habitats rights which is provided under section 3 (1) (m) of FRA 2006. It said FRA 2006 not been implemented properly in Karnataka and tribals are deprived of decent life as per the provision of constitution. Hence the ministry was asked to issue proper guidelines besides training members and officials of grama sabhas and to recognise the habitat rights of the PVTGs communities. Traditional practices Citing the law and various provisions of the act, Mr. Sreekanth said habitat rights include all traditional practices followed by the community in their ancestral land, worship, fishing, collection of NTFP such ashoney, edible leaves, roots, fodder, and gooseberry, and use of burial grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guidelines-to-implement-forest-rights-act-sought/article36299869.ece
05 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||State govt. will take up development works in all APMCs, says Somashekhar||The State government will take up development works in all 157 Agriculture Produce and Marketing Committees (APMCs) in the State, S.T. Somashekhar, Minister of Cooperation, has said. He was speaking after laying the foundation stone for development works at APMC Shahpur on Saturday. The Minister said that basic amenities here in the Shahpur APMC will be set up at a cost of Rs. 24.86 crore. “The government will take up similar development works in all APMCs in the coming days,” he said. “Shahpur city is one among the fastest growing city in the State. It requires to improve the cooperative sector also. Hence, the government will ensure development works,” the Minister said. Sharanabasappagouda Darshanapur, MLA, stressed the need for an outer ring road for city to combat the traffic congestion. Mr. Darshanapur also said that the drinking water problem should be solved by implementing the Jaladhare scheme in Shahpur. Venkatareddy Mudnal, MLA, requested Mr. Somashekhar to develop the APMC at Wadagera, which is falling under his constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-will-take-up-development-works-in-all-apmcs-says-somashekhar/article36299652.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Department of Public Instruction: Teachers’ Day, Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Water Transport and in-charge of Dakshina Kannada S. Angara inaugurates, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath presides, Prestige School, Jeppinamogaru, 10 a.m. Udupi  Department of Public Instruction: Teachers’ Day, Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture and Udupi district in-charge V. Sunil Kumar inaugurates, Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat, presides, St. Cecily’s High School, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article36299854.ece
05 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||No pesticide trace in Kuttanad paddy: study||Kuttanad, the rice bowl of Kerala, shifting completely to organic farming is a distant dream. But, there are signs of paddy farmers adopting good agricultural practices, albeit gradually. A study conducted by the Kerala Centre for Pest Management (KCPM), a pest surveillance unit under the Department of Agriculture, at Mankombu has found no traces of pesticides in paddy samples collected from different parts of Kuttanad during the last ‘puncha’ crop season. The samples were tested at a lab attached to the College of Agriculture, Vellayani. Five samples Officials said that “no traces of chemical residues” in the samples did not mean the farmers have totally abandoned the use of chemicals but have shifted to new generation pesticides which have very low levels of toxicity. “We collected five samples — four from paddy fields sprayed with insecticides following brown planthopper attacks and one from an organic field — around 10 days before the harvest. No chemicals were found in the samples. This shows the farmers have shifted from systemic insecticides to contact insecticides. While contact insecticide remains on the plant’s surface, the systemic one penetrates and moves throughout the entire plant and is more harmful,” said Smitha Balan, assistant director, KCPM. While the grain is free of pesticides, officials said that more studies were needed to ascertain the impact of new generation chemicals on water and soil. “The farmers are still using pesticides, but overall there is a drastic decline in their use in recent times. People are more conscious of the health hazards of the chemicals. Earlier, they tended to use plant protection chemicals very often even before a pest attack. That has changed and they are only using pesticides recommended by us and that too if needed. Awareness has played a very important role in minimising the use of chemicals,” Ms. Balan said. There is an increase in the number of natural enemies of pests such as predators and parasitoids in the fields, of Kuttanad which according to officials is a sign of decreasing use of chemical pesticides. A designated Globally Important Agricultural Heritage System by the Food and Agriculture Organisation, Kuttanad has come under increased stress due to environmental pollution. Although there are positive signs on the pesticide front, agriculture officials said that indiscriminate use of chemical fertilizers was rampant across the region. Farmer’s voice “Shifting paddy cultivation entirely to an organic way is not possible under the current circumstances. We are, however, ready to adopt good agriculture practices by reducing the use of chemicals. The government should ensure good price and market for the produce,” said V.T. Vinod Kumar, a paddy farmer from Kainakary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-pesticide-trace-in-kuttanad-paddy-study/article36299832.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,KERALA||Caste census aimed at weakening Vokkaligas, Veerashaivas, says forum||Vokkaliga Veerashaiva-Lingayat Souharda Vedike, a newly formed forum of two dominant communities in the State, has accused the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah of having an “ulterior motive” in conducting the caste census during his tenure. They claimed that it was aimed at decreasing their political representation. On Saturday, during a discussion on caste census attended by heads of various mutts, members of the legal fraternity and others, vedike members accused Mr. Siddaramaiah and others of “selectively leaking” contents of the report even before it was accepted by the government and presented before the Karnataka legislature. Gangadhar Gurumath, an advocate, said the Siddaramaiah government carried out the caste census with a “political motive” and that it was “unconstitutional and unscientific”. It was aimed at projecting that Lingayat and Vokkaliga communities do not comprise the majority of the population in the State. “It was also intended to decrease political representations for these two communities in the State,” he alleged. S. Harish, another advocate, said a writ petition was pending before the High Court, while some people were demanding the release of the report. “Political parties cutting across party lines should not indulge in dividing society,” he said. Mallesh, a leader of the vedike, described the money spent on caste census as “waste of public money.” Vedike members said they plan to conduct more such programmes in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caste-census-aimed-at-weakening-vokkaligas-veerashaivas-says-forum/article36299434.ece
05 September 2021||Coimbatore,KERALA||Coimbatore tiger estimation begins||Monitoring of tigers using camera traps as part of the All India Tiger Estimation (AITE) 2021-22 kicked off in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) and Coimbatore forest division. The camera traps were installed in 294 grid lines in the four forest ranges of the ATR namely Pollachi, Ulandy, Valparai and Manombolly forest ranges of Pollachi division of ATR. Each grid line has two cameras which will record the movement of animals for 25 days from Thursday. Protocols Field Director of ATR S. Ramasubramanian will oversee the exercise which will follow the protocols of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The images captured by the camera traps will be handed over to the NTCA. The exercise will be held in seven forest ranges in Coimbatore namely Sirumugai, Mettupalayam, Karamadai, Periyanaickenpalayam, Coimbatore, Boluvampatty and Madukkarai. The installation of camera traps started on Saturday. A senior official said that Coimbatore forest division was included for the exercise as it is a tiger-bearing division which is linked to Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) and Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR). Mudumalai Tiger Reserve Field Director D. Venkatesh provided 220 cameras which will be kept in 110 places in the seven forest ranges for the exercise. District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar and Assistant Conservator of Forests M. Senthil Kumar will oversee the exercise, which will be held for 40 to 45 days. Biologist Palanisamy from MTR gave training to the staff ahead of the exercise. Third forest range Sirumugai and Mettupalayam forest ranges in Coimbatore division are linked to the Nilgiris eastern slope and tiger presence have been recorded in the two ranges. Boluvampatty forest range which lies in the Siruvani hills having connectivity to Kerala is the third forest range in Coimbatore division were tiger presence was confirmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tiger-estimation-begins-in-atr-coimbatore-division/article36299429.ece
05 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Woman’s body exhumed from kitchen||The police on Saturday exhumed the body of Sindhu, 44, a Panikkankudy resident, who went missing on August 12. Her body was found buried inside the house of her neighbour Benoy. The police said the body was found in the kitchen and a hearth was made over it. To hide proof, the accused had put chilli powder in the pit and on the hearth. The accused was absconding after the police started inquiry on August 15 following a complaint by her mother. A senior police official said the body was in a decomposed state and they were waiting for the post-mortem examination report. The Idukki Deputy Police Chief visited the spot on Saturday. Sindhu was living in a rented house at Panikkankudy with her younger son for the past six years. She was close to Benoy and shifted her son to Benoy’s sister’s house on August 11. The next day, her son noticed that Sindhu was missing and informed her relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womans-body-exhumed-from-kitchen/article36299822.ece
05 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||2,400 title deeds to be distributed||Title deeds will be distributed to all deserving, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine has said. Speaking at the District Development Committee meeting held online on Saturday the Minister, who is in charge of the district, said that 2,400 title deeds will be distributed in the district as part of the Statewide ‘pattaya mela’ on September 14. The main function will be held at the district headquarters in Painavu. Title deeds will be distributed in five taluks too. District Collector Sheeba George said that infrastructure would be given focus in the district. District planning officer Sabu Varghese and district development officer Arjun Pandian spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2400-title-deeds-to-be-distributed/article36299823.ece
05 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Forum seeks intervention of political leadership over NH-766 issue||The Nilgiri-Wayanad NH and Railway Action Committee has sought the intervention of the political leadership in the wake of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) beginning to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for an alternative route to NH-766 to connect Mysuru to Kozhikode via Kutta–Gonikoppal to resolve the issue of the night traffic ban on the Bandipur route. ‘Lifeline of district’ “If the political leadership, which had led a people’s agitation at Sulthan Bathery two years ago against the alternative route and the night traffic ban, failed to suggest pragmatic suggestions against the DPR, the stretch of the NH 766 from Kalpetta to Mysore, the lifeline of the district, will vanish from the route map of the country”, T.M. Rasheed, convener of the committee, said. The agitation was called off after the political leaders assured that they would oppose any move to build an alternative route through Kutta and Gonikoppal in Karnataka, Mr. Rasheed said. The alternative route would increase the time of journey to Mysuru from Kozhikode by more than two hours. A quick intervention by political leaders was the need of the hour to find a pragmatic solution to the issue after consultations with the State and Central governments before the final verdict of the Supreme Court on the issue. When all the attempts to find a solution to the night traffic ban on the Bandipur route failed, the Supreme Court had suggested an alternative route. Possible solutions The court also issued a directive to close the NH through the Bandipur Tiger Reserve after opening an alternative route through Kutta–Gonikoppal. It was suspected that the State government had declined to put forward other possible solutions under the influence of a lobby, he alleged. Now, the NHAI was preparing the DPR and the route had been included in the Bharatmala project. NATPAC proposal However, the National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC) had submitted a proposal to the State government to construct Sulthan Bathery-Valluvadi-Chikkibargi bypass as the alternative route. It would also help to reduce the length of the NH by 20 km. The political leadership should convince the State government and the Union Road Transport and Highways Ministry of the significance of the route. The government should bring the route to the attention of the court and request the NHAI to prepare a DPR for it with the consent of the court. If the NH 766 through Bandipur was closed without building a viable alternative route, it would lead Wayanad district to a disaster, Mr .Rasheed warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forum-seeks-intervention-of-political-leadership-over-nh-766-issue/article36299745.ece
05 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||No end to man-animal conflict in Wayanad||Discontent is brewing among farmers living on the fringes of forests in Wayanad over the alleged apathy of the government in executing effective projects to mitigate man-animal conflict. Crop raids and attacks by wild animals such as elephant, gaur, monkey, and various species of deer has increased considerably in the district, said T.C. Joseph, chairman, Wayanad Action Committee to Prevent Wildlife Attack, a farmer organisation. Though all animals raid crops, elephants alone raid crops on the fringes of the forest after destroying the power fencing, he added. Though the three lone tuskers in the Begur forest range under the North Wayanad Forest Division have been posing serious threat to the farming community in Thirunelly grama panchayat, the authorities are yet to take steps to address the issue, he said. Straying elephants not only destroy crops but also attack people, Mr. Joseph said, adding that as many as 84 persons had been killed in animal attacks in 41 years. One of the tuskers attempted to charge at a farmer at Randam gate at Kattikulam a few days ago, and he escaped narrowly from the attack. Another elephant destroyed a tree house of the Forest Department, he said. Demand is rife to translocate the animals to the Muthanga elephant camp after tranquilising them. The case of farmers on the fringes of the forest in the Wayanad Wildlife sanctuary and the South Wayanad Forest Division is not different. Farmers in the Vadakkanad area under the sanctuary staged an indefinite agitation in front of the office of the warden at Sulthan Bathery three years ago. The government had promised that a Rs. 2.5-crore project would be executed to set up a Mankulam-model crash guard rope fencing on the 4.5-km stretch on the fringes of forest to address the issue. Farmers are now planning to resume the agitation as the government has failed to keep its promise. Issue not tackled yet Though successive governments had been implementing measures such as digging of trenches, erection of power fencing, rail fencing, and construction of rock walls on the fringes of forests in the district, the issue has not been tackled yet. The most effective measure was the setting up of a crash guard rope fencing as it could prevent the entry of wild animals such as tiger, elephant, gaur, and various species of deer to the nearby property of farmers to a certain extent, said Mr. Joseph. Moreover, the fencing was also cost-effective, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-end-to-man-animal-conflict-in-wayanad/article36299743.ece
05 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||New Wayanad DCC president takes charge||Newly appointed District Congress Committee (DCC) president N.D. Appachan assumed office here on Saturday. Former DCC president I.C. Balakrishnan, MLA, handed over the charge to Mr. Appachan as party workers thronged the office. Mr. Appachan said he would revive the party, without considering the factions in the district. “At a time when the party in the State is facing a crisis, I will use my experience as former DCC president to strengthen the party from the bottom, for which I will try to ensure the cooperation of all party workers,” he said. T. Siddique, MLA, inaugurated the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-wayanad-dcc-president-takes-charge/article36299762.ece
05 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Makkalkoppam programme concludes||‘Makkalkoppam’, a one-month parents’ empowerment programme organised by the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) district committee in association with General Education Department, will conclude at the Government Higher Secondary School auditorium at Meenangadi in the district on Sunday. The programme envisaged bringing the issues of children during the pandemic to the attention of parents and finding amicable solutions. As many as 36,000 parents of children studying in Classes I to XII in 254 schools in the district interacted with experts through videoconferencing, the organisers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/makkalkoppam-concludes-today/article36299761.ece
05 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Single window system for breeding licence||Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchurani has said that the Department of Animal Husbandry is taking steps to introduce a single-window system for licensing breeding of birds and animals. Inaugurating the new office building of the rinderpest eradication check post at Kilianthara at Iritty recently, the Minister said the veterinary sector in the State needed to be strengthened and sought the assistance of local self-governing bodies for the purpose. The aim is to address issues in each area by forming people’s committees. It is planned to implement a 24x7 veterinary system, wherein the services of veterinary doctors will be available at night too, Ms. Chinchurani said. Rinderpest e-radiation is expected to streamline the functioning of check posts and prevent infectious diseases. Accordingly, smuggling of birds and animals will be stopped. Infected persons will be monitored and treated. Check posts are essential for such procedures, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/single-window-system-for-breeding-licence/article36299752.ece
05 September 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Cultivators’ group tastes success with sweet tulsi||Three years ago, Sakeen and four others decided take up cultivation of paddy and vegetables on fallow land in Muliyar panchayat in Kasaragod district under a project of the Kudumbashree mission. Following their success in the cultivation of various paddy varieties, they decided to diversify and try something new this year. Thus, for the first time in the district, they took up the cultivation of Stevia rebaudiana Bertoni, also called sweet tulsi, with the help of the Kudumbashree district mission. In just two months, their efforts yielded good results. The plant is used as an alternative to sugar and has high medicinal value. Now, they have decided to expand cultivation of stevia, given the huge demand for the product in the market. Modest beginning Ms. Sakeen said that they had bought 500 roots of the plant from Madhya Pradesh and cultivated them on 10 cents on an experimental basis. “We planted the roots on June 25 to understand if the plant suits the climatic condition. The plants were ready for harvest in two months. We collected the leaves and stems, dried them, and powdered them,” she said. With their endeavour becoming a success, Ms. Sakeen, along with Rasiya, Kairuneesa, Naseesa, and Saudha, have now decided to expand the cultivation to 1 acre. They will also cultivate two types of basmati, Jeerakasala, Gandhakasala, Navara, Uma, and Adhira paddy varieties on 5 acres of leased land. Area District Mission Coordinator C.H. Iqbal said that sweet tulsi could be used as a substitute for sugar by diabetics. It contains a compound called steviol glycoside which lowers blood sugar levels. While the cultivation is widespread in Karnataka, it is relatively low in the State. The plant is 30 times sweeter than sugar and the benefits are well documented in medical journals. It reportedly helps in controlling lifestyle diseases such as diabetes and high blood pressure as well as dandruff. It can be used medicinally to cure wounds, ache, eliminate hair loss and to fight bacteria and fungus. Suitable soil He said that the soil in the State was suited to sweet tulsi cultivation and they would encourage other units in the district to utilise more land for its production. In States such as Karnataka, they were making refined sugar with sweet tulsi using machinery, but this would be possible in the State only if the production was increased, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/group-of-women-taste-success-with-cultivation-of-sweet-tulsi/article36299749.ece
05 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A tsunami museum waits to make it to the present||Had it all worked out as planned, it would have been a fitting memorial to the 2004 tsunami and an academic centre for future generations both rolled into one. But, the 1,400-sq.ft building at Edavanakkad Government Upper Primary School, not so far away from the shore of Aniyil where the tsunami unleashed its fury and claimed five lives in December 2004, remains a mere scarecrow nearly a decade after its work was completed. It was conceived as part of a network of tsunami-centric museums proposed by the then Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in government high schools. “It was after much effort that the project was allocated to Edavanakkad since the panchayat did not have a high school,” said former panchayat president V.K. Iqbal, during whose term the project was mooted in 2009-10. The idea was to stock the museum with articles and relics related to tsunami, multimedia presentations on the phenomenon, including its cause and effects, so that future generations could drop in and learn everything about the great disaster. It was also supposed to draw in tourists considering its location near a string of beaches. The construction of the building was started in 2011 using Rs. 25 lakh allocated from the development fund of then Ernakulam MP K.V. Thomas. The building was finished a year later and the museum was supposed to be set up with a sum of Rs. 25 lakh to be allocated by the government. But that allocation never materialised. “We had approached successive governments seeking help but in vain. Now the cost could have escalated prohibitively. I personally don’t think it will ever happen though the panchayat remains optimistic about it,” said Mr. Iqbal, who is now vice president of Edavanakkad panchayat. Mr. Thomas said the building was just one of a slew of buildings built using his MP funds, but was left wasted for want of proper follow-up. “Either the panchayat should take it over or give it to private parties if they do not have enough funds,” he said. The panchayat has recently repaired the building and applied a fresh coat of paint in the hope that the museum may come up someday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-tsunami-museum-waits-to-make-it-to-the-present/article36299768.ece
05 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Sword of discipline will not be used to create semi cadre’||Opposition Leader V.D. Satheesan on Saturday said that while the Congress party should witness a whole new era, the sword of discipline would not be used to cut out some people in order to create a semi-cadre structure. He was inaugurating the function in which Mohammed Shiyas took over as the new president of the District Congress Committee (DCC) in Ernakulam. There is a need to prove that the Congress is not a mob. One of the main reasons for the failure of the party is its organisational weakness. However, the ideology of the party will not be watered down, he said. Action plan Mr. Satheesan added that there was a clear action plan to strengthen the party. The consent of the political affairs committee was obtained before going ahead with reorganisation measures. If needed, senior leaders would be met at their homes for discussions, and all issues would be resolved through discussions. Mr. Satheesan also said that hard work would be rewarded in the party. Senior leaders Benny Behanan, P.T. Thomas and T.H. Mustafa, besides Hibi Eden, T.J. Vinod, K. Babu, Mathew Kuzhalnadan, Anwar Sadath, and Eldose Kunnappilly took part in the event.  One of the main reasons for the failure of the party is its organisational weakness V.D. Satheesan Opposition Leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sword-of-discipline-will-not-be-used-to-create-semi-cadre/article36299770.ece
05 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Excise still in the dark about the origin of MDMA||The Excise Crime Branch probing the seizure of over 1kg of MDMA from an apartment in Thrikkakara last month remains in the dark about the original source of what is considered to be a premium party drug. While excise sleuths remain confident that the drug was sourced from Triplicane area in Chennai, they are not sure whether it was domestically manufactured or imported from abroad in the guise of cargo. Chennai is also considered one of the hotspots for smuggling in premium drugs from abroad and then supplying it domestically, excise sources said. Last week, two of the six accused in the case were taken to various places in Puducherry and Chennai where the duo along with two other accused persons had stayed to procure the synthetic drug. Though excise has tracked down the numbers of some local agents linked to the deal in Chennai, they were all switched off. Besides, the numbers were traced back to people who had no clue that their personal details were used to secure mobile connections on the sly, sources said. Call Detail Records of all the accused are also being analysed. The quality of the drug also remains to be conclusively proved. “The drug was seized in two lots and have been given for chemical examinations separately. Only the results of the examinations will help to determine the quality of the drug and whether the two lots are of the same quality,” said excise sources. Meanwhile, excise has included a smartphone belonging to one of the accused that was left out of the seized items initially after it kicked up a row. “Though it was found, it was initially left out on the ground that no SIM Card was ever inserted into it nor was it used for making any call,” excise officials reasoned. The excise department has identified shortcomings in the initial investigation. A preliminary departmental level inquiry by an additional excise commissioner found five officers at fault following which an inspector was suspended while a circle inspector, a preventive officer, and two civil excise officers were transferred. Three years back, 30kg of MDMA worth over Rs. 200 crore were seized from a courier agency in Kochi. It was couriered to Kochi concealed in eight cartons of textile consignment through a private courier service agency at Egmore in Chennai. It was supposed to be sent to Malaysia through a private air cargo service. The courier agent, however, grew suspicious of their intention behind re-routing the packet through Kochi instead of sending it directly and alerted the excise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-still-in-the-dark-about-the-origin-of-mdma/article36299773.ece
05 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||300-tonne cruise vessel getting ready on a Kochi island||Tucked deep inside the island of Ramanthuruth and facing the backwaters off Marine Drive here, a sprawling 300-tonne seagoing cruise vessel that is expected to be a head-turner, is getting ready for launch in December. The 50-metre-long vessel, which would be christened Classic Imperial and was estimated to cost Rs. 10.50 crore, would become one of the biggest of its kind to be built in Kerala, which had a robust heritage in ship and boat building, said its owner Nishijit K. John, a native of Bolgatty Island. His company Neo Classic Cruise and Tours owns a fleet of four tourist boats and a seagoing cruise vessel Classic Paradise, which can sail 16 km into the sea, all of which were built in Kochi and operate from Marine Drive. Amid the deafening noise of two dozen workers engaged in hard labour within the vessel, which can carry over 150 people, Mr. John spoke of how he had a humble beginning, venturing into the tourism sector two decades ago with a leased tourist boat. “The work on the hull of the 300-tonne vessel began in right earnest in March 2020, only to be caught in the lockdown web. It resumed a few months ago. The land where it is being built was leased from the Cochin Port Trust for a monthly sum of Rs. 1.20 lakh, following which power connection, generator set, crane, other machinery, a container office, and store were readied,” he said. The 11-metre-wide first and second deck will have halls sans pillars where guests for regular cruises, parties, weddings, conferences, fashion shows, or press meets can be seated. Food will be provided on board. “The main aim is to ferry tourists and students to the sea at reasonable rates, in air-conditioned comfort. Friends lent money, while a bank loan too was availed. I plan to approach the ministries of tourism, finance and industries for funding and subsidy,” said Mr. John. The frames are ready for big glass windows on each deck which will provide guests a panoramic view of the backwaters, landmarks, and the sea. There is also a non-AC space for smaller gatherings on the upper deck. “The vessel that has seven compartments in its hull [so that it does not sink even if a compartment or two gets flooded] adheres to all norms set by the Indian Register of Shipping [IRS], whose approvals are mandatory even from the design stage. It is being built by skilled personnel who hail mostly from Aroor on the Ernakulam-Alappuzha border. A contracting firm associated with the Cochin Shipyard is providing technical support, while the sound system is being readied by Sam Devassy. The 80-tonne capacity AC will circulate ultra-violet disinfected air, like in hospitals, to ensure availability of clean air,” added Mr. John. The vessel will be powered by a pair of 325-HP engines, and there will also be a pair of The 150 KVA generators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/300-tonne-cruise-vessel-getting-ready-on-a-kochi-island/article36299779.ece
05 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PCB to act only on plaints through K-CIS portal||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) will no longer act on complaints that are not routed through the Kerala Centralised Inspection System (K-CIS) portal for industries. The decision forms part of the government’s decision to improve ease of doing business and ensure transparency in inspections carried out by various departments. Besides the PCB, the K-CIS integrates and centralises inspections conducted by four departments / agencies, including the departments of Factories and Boilers, Labour, Legal Metrology and Local Self Governments. Criticism The board’s move has come in for criticism from petitioners, who asked how a common man lacking a smartphone or technical knowledge to access the portal could register a complaint. Vipin Nath, a resident of Kakkadkara near Ambalamedu, who had alleged sound pollution from BPCL’s Propylene Derivative Petrochemical Project (PDPP) unit, said he was told by board officials that complaints not routed through the centralised portal would not be entertained. However, PCB Chairman A.B. Pradeep Kumar said the decision to consider complaints filed through the centralised portal was not applicable to sudden episodes of pollution incidents from industrial units. “But all other complaints will have to come through the portal as directed by the government,” he added. Board officials said they were still in the dark on whether the new decision would hinder efforts to carry out surprise inspections on erring units, especially in the wake of incidents like illegal discharge into waterbodies or air / water pollution by industries. They also asked how surprise inspections would yield the desired results, as the new rules maintained that the industry concerned should be alerted via SMS and e-mail about impending inspections. Complaints lodged by the public will be directed to the departments concerned.  The decision to consider complaints filed through the centralised portal is not applicable to sudden episodes of pollution incidents from industrial units A.B. Pradeep Kumar PCB Chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-to-act-on-plaints-routed-through-k-cis-portal-alone/article36299783.ece
05 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. intervention sought for boat insurance||A series of accidents in the sea off the coast of Kerala involving both traditionally modified canoes and fishing boats have given rise to a demand from fishers unions that the government take steps to ensure that fishing boats and traditional canoes came under insurance cover. Jackson Pollayil of Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Federation, an independent union of fishers, said insuring fishing boats involved high premium, which dissuaded a vast majority of boat owners from going for it. He said fish catch was seasonal, and that there was no certainty on regular returns from fishing ventures. Such a situation warrants hard calculations on the part of fishing boat owners, who are not always interested in investing in insurance schemes, he added. The vast majority of around 300 traditionally modified canoes (fishing vessels with inboard engines) in the State do not have insurance cover, said Charles George of Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedhi, a federation of independent unions of fishers. He alleged that fishing gear like nets did not come under the purview of insurance cover. Mr. George said the boat St. Antony , which sank off the coast of Vypeen on Wednesday morning had not been salvaged. The cost of the boat as well as the fishing gear is around Rs. 1.20 core. Salvaging the vessel is a Herculean task. Most canoes cost between Rs. 60 lakh and Rs. 1 crore, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-intervention-sought-for-boat-insurance/article36299781.ece
05 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rise in online fraud using fake documents||A small fish vendor in Aluva recently received a call from a person claiming to be from the military. Speaking in chaste Hindi, the caller convinced the vendor that the military contingent camping nearby needed 10 kg of fish. The vendor in awe of soldiers readily agreed, and the caller said a driver would be send to fetch the fish. When the vendor asked to make the payment through Google Pay, the caller said military personnel did not use such mobile wallets and instead agreed to make the payment ‘card-to-card’, whatever that be. The vendor was then asked to send the image of both sides of his debit card by WhatsApp. The caller even sent across a photo, and the image of an id card to convince the gullible vendor that he was indeed from the military. Convinced about the credentials, the vendor then sent across the One Time Password (OTP) as well, and within seconds, his bank account was wiped clean of Rs. 2,650, which was all what he had. A chicken stall owner at Keezhmadu also received a similar call from someone claiming to be from the military. He was asked for 15 kg of meat for the military camped secretly in Aluva. Though he was also asked to send images of his debit card, the vendor smelt something fishy. So, he sent the image of the debit card of a little-used account with a balance of just Rs. 2. The caller then asked him for the debit card details of an account with a minimum balance of Rs. 1,000 at which the vendor realised the fraud and disconnected the call. “Similar frauds are being widely reported, and fraudsters use forged credentials of various government agencies to convince targeted victims. Many people choose not to complain for fear of being ridiculed,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief, Ernakulam Rural. The ploy is even used on ordering food from hotels. Mr. Karthik urged people never to fall for the ploy or share their card details and OTPs with anyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rise-in-online-fraud-using-forged-credentials-of-govt-agencies/article36299777.ece
05 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Project to reskill youths launched||A project to skill youths from Kalamassery, titled Skilling Kalamssery Youth (SKY), was launched here on Saturday by former Finance Minister Thomas Isaac. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve presided over the inaugural function, said a press release from the Public Relations Department. Mr. Isaac said the SKY programme could bring about radical changes and expressed hope that it would be implemented across Kerala. He added that there was an imperative to improve productivity and knowledge-based skills which would enable workers to earn higher salaries. He also said that resource mobilisation through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) could entirely change the face of the State. He added that infrastructure activities worth around Rs. 60,000 crore were on. He also emphasised the need for bringing new research developments into the fields of agriculture and industry. Mr. Rajeeve said the SKY programme would help youngsters acquire new knowledge when technology was rapidly changing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-to-reskill-youths-launched/article36299776.ece
05 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3,456 new COVID cases in Ernakulam||As many as 3,456 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday. A total of 3,396 people got infected through local contact, while the source of infection in 53 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) is 15.21%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 50 included Thrikkakara (100), Nellikkuzhi (79), Payipra (73), Vengola (73), Thripunithura (72), Koovappadi (65), Karukutty (64), Sreemoolanagaram (63), Pallipuram (57), Kothamangalam (56), Elanji (55), Keezhmad (55), Njarakkal (54), Kizhakkambalam (54), Puthenvelikkara (53), and Vadakkekara (51). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Chalikkavattom, Ponekkara, Ayappankavu, Elamkulam, Chakkaraparambu, Karuvelippadi, and Maradi, according to an official release. As many as 30,296 persons are under treatment, and 22,721 tests were conducted on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3456-new-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article36299784.ece
05 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||115 booked during raids on gambling centres||The Ernakulam Rural police recovered Rs. 1.25 lakh and booked 115 people during a three-day raid on gambling centres. Nearly 270 gambling centres across 34 Rural police station limits were raided. People even from faraway places were found gambling at these centres. According to the police, tension between the gamblers following disputes during gambling has become fairly common prompting the police to undertake the drive. “We will intensify the drive against gambling centres. People who come to know about gambling should alert the nearest police station,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Recently, a man was murdered in Manjapra allegedly in a fight over gambling. The police have so far arrested five accused in the gambling case. Meanwhile, a special squad of the Rural police arrested a man who was allegedly part of a gang that planned a highway robbery. He was found travelling by the officers n a car with a fake registration number. The arrested person has been identifiied as Cyril, 31, of Nilambur. Nabbed He was nabbed from a lodge at Thalappady. He had given the police the slip when the car with the fake registration number was intercepted during a check, and three persons who had planned a robbery were arrested in the early hours of July 8. So far, the police officers have arrested five persons in connection with the case. Attack on police station The accused person was also involved in a case related to the alleged attack on the Nilambur police station. A team of police officers ed by Inspector K.J. Peter, Sub Inspectors P.P. Binoy and P.M. Shaji, senior civil police officers Shyamkumar, Kunjumon, and Rithesh made the arrest in connection with the Nilambur incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/115-booked-during-raids-on-gambling-centres/article36299787.ece
05 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Audit finds gaps in firefighting systems in high-rises||A safety audit by the Department of Fire and Rescue Services has revealed that firefighting systems in around 100 residential and commercial buildings in Ernakulam district are not functioning properly. The report was prepared on the basis of an inspection conducted under the various stations of the department. Thripunithura has the highest number of violators. As many as 34 high-rises in the municipality were found to be lacking in proper firefighting systems as per norms. The functioning of firefighting systems in 22 apartments under the purview of the Club Road fire station in Kochi was not found satisfactory. Notices have been issued to all violators. The lapses have also been brought to the notice of the local bodies concerned and the district administration. Several owners of residential, commercial and mercantile buildings were also found to have not applied for annual renewal of no-objection certificate (NOC) issued by the Fire Department. “Firefighting systems in certain high-rises are in a very poor state. An apartment complex with multiple towers on Kaloor-Kadavanthra Road and near the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium at Kaloor are examples. Despite our earlier directions, those responsible have not yet rectified the serious shortcomings,” said Gogy J.S., District Fire Officer. Fire force personnel who visited residential and commercial buildings in the district came across violations like unauthorised constructions on the terrace and alterations made in parking spaces bypassing the approved fire plan. A building at Kadavanthra that had received an NOC under the residential category was found to be functioning as a hospital in violation of rules. The standby pump in an apartment coming under the Gandhinagar station was found without a diesel generator backup. The hose reels in many buildings were found not working, while sprinkler valves in some remained permanently closed. Mr. Gogy said the fire safety scenario in many other buildings had improved after the annual renewal of NOC was made mandatory. “The Fire Department can only carry out inspection and serve notices based on shortcomings. The local bodies have the authority to act against violators by cancelling permits of buildings that lack proper fire safety systems,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/audit-reveals-gaps-in-firefighting-systems-in-high-rise-structures/article36299786.ece
05 September 2021||Kollam,KERALA||2,381 more test positive in Kollam||The district reported 2,381 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,939 recoveries on Saturday. While 2,372 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include nine health workers. At present the district has 32,595 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 22,63,891. While 952 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 3,38,349 primary and 19,561 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in the district is 16.6%. The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 2,080 persons testing positive for the disease on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 2,064 persons including six health workers contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day stood at 19.03%. With 128 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases. As many as 1,857 persons recovered from the disease during the day, taking the total active cases to 11,276. 1,154 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 1,154 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. The contact source of three cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 17.6%. With 57 cases, Aranmula reported the highest number of cases. The disese claimed seven more lives in the district. With 1,025 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases shot up to 12,451. 1,898 in Alappuzha Alappuzha reported 1,898 COVID-19 cases and 1,517 recoveries on Saturday. The test positivity rate was 19.16%. The source of infection of 25 persons is unknown. Four health staff also tested positive. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 15,776.  (With inputs from Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2381-more-test-positive-in-kollam/article36299828.ece
05 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Harbours lack efficient system for search, rescue||Saravanapoyka was 40 nautical miles off the shore when the crew received a storm warning and instructions to return. Buffeted by strong winds and rough seas, the engine stopped working midway leaving the crew stranded. Their SOS calls to the Fisheries Department drew no response and it was two other fishing boats that came to their rescue. “We had to wait for hours with three injured persons on board while no marine enforcement vessel was pressed into action. They failed to offer us any help,” says Rajesh, a crew member. Despite the increasing number of fatalities, most harbours in the State do not have an efficient system to carry out marine search and rescue (SAR) operations. Lack of facilities and inadequate sea-safety measures often leave fishers vulnerable. Rescue teams with no proper training is another challenge. The Fisheries Department uses rented fishing boats for marine enforcement and officials agree current facilities are not sufficient for rescue operations. They feel that sleek rescue vessels instead of fishing boats will help the department work more efficiently. The government decided to form sea rescue squads after Cyclone Ockhi and selected fishers were provided training at the National Institute of Watersports in Goa. The idea was to ensure the availability of vessels with a standby crew to respond to distress calls. “It’s true that fishers are not getting any immediate help and it has many reasons. A fleet of rescue boats that can handle strong winds and waves along with an expert team are necessary for emergencies. Though the fishers were issued certificates, they cannot be used for high-risk rescue operations. Proper and continuous training is needed for that,” says Dolphin Ratheesh, a lifeguard. Coastal police station The first Coastal police station in Kerala was commissioned in 2009 at Neendakara and today the State has 18 stations in nine coastal districts. While some stations are understaffed, some others function with minimal facilities. The Neendakara station was allotted three boats in 2009, which are in disrepair due to wear and tear. Adding to their woes, Kollam, a district with a long coastline, has only one coastal police station. “It takes more than three hours for a boat from Paravur to reach Azheekkal in unfavourable weather. We need at least two more stations in districts such as Kollam,” says an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/harbours-lack-efficient-system-for-search-rescue/article36299803.ece
05 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Slugfest in Congress rages on in Kottayam||A day after senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala lashed out at Kerala Congress Pradesh Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, the controversy continued to rage with the rival camps hardening their positions. The ongoing tussle hit a new flashpoint on Saturday with senior leader Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan openly accusing Mr. Chennithala of triggering a new crisis within the party. He said that Mr. Chennithala would have to repent in future for his untimely statement. At the swearing-in ceremony of the Kottayam DCC president on Friday, Mr. Chennithala had said the party’s State leadership was sidelining senior leaders. He had added that senior leader Oommen Chandy should be consulted on organisational issues. “None of us will encourage attempts to mistreat Mr. Chandy. I cannot agree with Mr. Chennithala’s speech that was made by taking Mr. Chandy’s name as a cover,” he said. Accusing Mr. Chennithala for airing his dissent at a party function, he said the speech had indeed dampened the new start to the Kottayam DCC. Backing new leaders He also sought to reiterate his solidarity with the new State leadership. “I have strong trust in Congress high command and the party’s new leadership in Kerala. They are capable of resolving issues. This was the precedent in Congress when duos such as K. Karunakaran-A.K. Antony, Oommen Chandy-A.K. Antony, and Oommen Chandy-Ramesh Chennithala led the party. The new combination of V.D. Satheesan and K. Sudhakaran is also capable of addressing the issues. They have the strong support of the high command as well,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Chandy’s response Responding to Mr. Radhakrishnan, Mr. Chandy said later in the day that a senior leader like Mr. Chennithala did not have to take cover behind him. “He is a leader who has held all crucial posts of the Congress from the State to the national level,” said Mr. Chandy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-in-cong-rages-on-in-kottayam/article36299829.ece
05 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||57 receive degrees at IIIT convocation||The third convocation ceremony at the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) in Kottayam, an institution of national importance, was held online on Saturday. As many as 57 students who took admission at the institute in 2017 received their BTech/ BTech Honours degree certificate at the ceremony. Vendant Joshi and Srilakshmi Ajith, who scored the top and second highest Cumulative Grade Points Average (CGPA), were awarded with gold and silver medals respectively, while 10 graduates who scored CGPAs of 9.0 and above were awarded the Certificates of Distinction. Lakshmi Narayanan, co-founder, Emeritus Vice Chairman, Cognizant, delivered the convocation speech. Addressing the function, Mr. Narayanan said the need for educational institutions to collaborate with industries for finding solutions to problems that affect the mankind. “IT industry in India has the confidence that we have become the top players in global industry. We have three and half to four million people across the country who contribute to the IT industry of India,” he said. IIIT chairperson Ashok Jhunjunwala, who spoke on the occasion, congratulated the institute team for developing an exclusive Open Source online class platform. “Every day we experience a new learning, and this learning happens outside the classroom,” he said, highlighting the need to collectively think about global warming. The outgoing batch has together secured 98 placement offers with an average pay package of Rs. 8.76 lakh. Additionally, a few students have received invitations from foreign universities for higher studies. Rajeev Dharaskar, Director, presented the report and M. Radhakrishnan, Registrar, presented the students eligible for the award of the degree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/57-get-degrees-at-iiit-convocation/article36299818.ece
05 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Global seminar||The School of Energy Materials, Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU), Kottayam, along with two Polish universities, will hold from September 10 an online international conference on ‘Macromolecules: synthesis, structure, morphology etc’. For registration visit http://macromol.in/polymericmaterials2021 or write to macromolecules@macromol.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-seminar/article36299824.ece
05 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Corpn. to make licence mandatory for pets||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation is working on a bylaw governing pet animals, which the civic body expects to implement within a month. The corporation had earlier drafted a bylaw for pet dog owners, making a licence mandatory. However, with the recent Kerala High Court order making licence mandatory for owners of cattle and pets, the corporation was forced to amend the existing bylaw. “We have revised the bylaw, and the health standing committee has accepted it. It needs to be approved by the finance standing committee before being presented at the council meeting for final approval,” said Dr. V.S. Sreeshma, veterinary surgeon associated with the corporation. It was on July 14 that the High Court issued an order making licence mandatory for all pets. The order came against the backdrop of increasing incidence of mistreatment of animals by owners, abandoning, and absence of care during old age. “The order encompasses cattle owners such as dairy farmers and others who own pets like horses and cats,” Dr. Sreeshma said. ABC centre The Kozhikode Corporation had drafted a bylaw for dogs when it opened the Animal Birth Control (ABC) Centre at Poolakkadavu, as a means to protect owned dogs. It was sent to the State government for approval, but there was apparently no feedback. According to that bylaw, the licence fee for dogs was Rs. 500 for one year, during which the owner has full responsibility of the pet, including administering the rabies vaccine. Under the revised bylaw, the licence fee for each pet may be different. The pets found abandoned on streets are now protected by animal lovers, though demand is rife to set up a shelter for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corpn-to-make-licence-mandatory-for-pets/article36299754.ece
05 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Direction of LDF govt. is still elusive||In the first 100 days of the second Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala, hints of its direction are still elusive as it is currently tasked with combating a high rise in COVID-19 cases. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, unlike previous regimes, did not have the benefit of a honeymoon phase for multiple reasons. One perception is that the present LDF government is the continuity of the previous Left-led rule. Despite some issues rocking the government, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan continues to enjoy his Teflon image across Kerala. The illegal felling of centuries-old rosewood trees in Muttil South village in Wayanad had turned into a political controversy a month after the Pinarayi Cabinet 2.0 assumed charge. But the Kerala High Court’s order declining a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the cutting of reserved trees on assigned land has given a major relief to the government. Virus crisis At present, the State reels under an unprecedented coronavirus crisis apart from its severe blow to the economy. The consistently high number of COVID-19 cases also triggers concerns of a potential third wave in the State. However, the impressive vaccination numbers (2,15,64,603 of first dose, 79,78,978 of second dose, and 2,95,43,581 total doses as of September 4) will be an important tool to help stop the pandemic in the long run. Perhaps, the favourable tailwinds in generating revenue through the Goods and Services Tax system will certainly benefit the State. Even as the government is entirely focussing on managing the pandemic situation, it has put on the front burner big-ticket projects such as Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod semi-high-speed rail (SilverLine) project that is expected to ease the transport between north and south. The commissioning of the GAIL natural gas pipeline has showed that the LDF government is determined to take up challenging projects in the future as well. Relations with Centre Also, Mr. Vijayan has been able to reduce the rising Centre-State friction after he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi in July. The cordial meetings he had with Union Ministers Hardeep Singh Puri, Nitin Gadkari, and Ashwini Vaishnaw have given the government confidence to go ahead with major projects. Politically, the LDF government appears to be firmly in the saddle unlike the internal conflicts plaguing the Opposition, including the Congress, Indian Union Muslim League and the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/direction-of-ldf-govt-is-still-elusive/article36299805.ece
05 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Drugs Control dept. in the grip of staff shortage||There are around 25,000 institutions in the State with licence to sell drugs, and the annual sales are worth Rs. 60,000 crore. The Drugs Control Department, however, has only 47 officials across districts to inspect the samples. Staff shortage is reportedly leading to drugs “that are not of standard quality” reaching the market, leaving patients in peril. Also, very few samples of cosmetic drugs that are worth crores of rupees and homeopathic medicines are being tested for quality. A special squad formed under the State Drugs Controller had found in 2017 that the Kerala market was flooded with fake cosmetic products, said functionaries of the Kerala State Drugs Control Enforcement Officers Association. Enforcement officials are also supposed to check and test medicines at government hospitals and railway hospitals, and stores run by veterinary hospitals and the Employees State Insurance Corporation, apart from firms that require a poison licence and a poison permit to handle methyl alcohol, cyanides, and chloral hydrates. They pointed out that though the number of institutions requiring drug licences had gone up from 12,047 in 2008 to 24,636 in 2020, no new posts of drugs inspectors had been created since 2000. Though the number of drug testing laboratories too had gone up, officials in charge of collecting samples for testing remained the same, they claimed. The association has now urged Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal to allot 61 additional posts of drugs inspectors. Three senior or regional drugs inspectors should be appointed to inspect the manufacturing of drugs and cosmetics and the functioning of blood banks and blood storage centres. They have also sought the creation of the post of Deputy Drugs Controller to take care of cosmetic products and medical devices and also a State-level Joint Drugs Controller for smooth functioning of the department.  Special squad found in 2017 that Kerala market was flooded with fake cosmetic products Kerala State Drugs Control Enforcement Officers Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drugs-control-department-in-the-grip-of-staff-shortage/article36299755.ece
05 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Experts visit leech-infested paddy fields in Velom||A multidisciplinary diagnostic team that visited leech-infested paddy fields in Velom panchayat on Friday has suggested to farmers that they apply copper sulphate solution to temporarily inactivate the worms. In Velom, a massive population of leeches was found in the water as farmers began operations. The leeches were found in at least half of the 500 acres of paddy fields in the panchayat. They latch on to the human body and suck blood. Farmers are worried as the leech bite causes allergy and skin irritation. The team, headed by Sreekumar K.M., professor and head of the Department of Entomology, Kerala Agricultural University, said there was no need for panic and that farmers could eliminate leeches by the next farming season by adopting effective steps. Mr. Sreekumar said the best way to avoid having leeches fastening to farmers’ legs was by using protective garments on the feet and legs. However, that would be difficult for farmers and hence, they should try using salt, tobacco, or copper sulphate solution on their legs to ward off leeches. Fallow land “Fallow lands that remain untouched are the breeding grounds of leeches. They are asleep during the summer and are activated by the rains. “There is a need to plough the uncultivated land two or three times during summer months and to add 650 kg of lime per hectare to inactivate the leeches,” said Mr. Sreekumar. According to the team, keeping fields fallow and permitting cattle grazing will facilitate the survival and spread of the leeches. As water from one field enters another, leeches also spread. “Copper sulphate is the best solution. It is a protoplasmic poison that may even kill small fishes. Allowing salt water to enter the fields could kill leeches completely. But the said field cannot be used for paddy cultivation for three years if it is done,” added Mr. Sreekumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-visit-leech-infested-paddy-fields-in-velom/article36299751.ece
05 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||On-spot vaccination in more hilly areas||On-the-spot registration for vaccination is being implemented in the hilly regions of Kozhikode district, where people are finding it difficult to book slots owing to lack of internet coverage, District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy has said. He was attending a meeting chaired by Forests Minister A.K. Saseendran to review the COVID-19 situation in the district. Issues such as availability of beds and oxygen, intensive care unit support, and vaccine distribution were discussed. Quarantine facilities Mr. Saseendran suggested that infected persons who did not have quarantine facilities at home should shift to panchayat-run domiciliary care centres. It would help reduce the spread of infection, he said. Service roads should be barricaded to stop unnecessary travel in containment zones. The officials claimed that the district had enough stock of vaccines. The meeting urged those who stood a chance of infection to get tested. As many as 2,950 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday. District Medical Officer V. Jayashree said in a release that 2,913 of them were locally acquired infections and the source of 29 others was not known. As many as 15,431 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 19.47%. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 510 cases of local transmission of the infection, and Olavanna 96. As many as 2,864 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload stands at 36,209.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-spot-vaccination-in-more-hilly-areas/article36299760.ece
05 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Keep Palayam, Central markets clean: SHRC||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has asked the Secretary, Kozhikode Corporation, to take steps to keep the Palayam market and fish and meat stalls at the Central market clean. Commission judicial member K. Baijunath said in a release that facilities for traders and people should be improved. The Corporation Secretary has been asked to submit a report in four weeks. The commission made the remarks while registering a suo motu case based on media reports. Mr. Baijunath pointed out that the vegetable market at Palayam, frequented by around 1,500 people a day, had no proper toilet. The authorities claim that the market will be shifted from there soon. There is no clean drinking water at the Central market. Also, there is no water to clean the premises and toilets. Besides, public taps are absent. Thousands of people flock to the market every morning. Fish and meat are sold in unhygienic conditions. With the biogas project failing to take off, the place is filled with filth. The commission blamed the corporation for the situation, alleging that the civic body had been forgetting its responsibilities to ensure public health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keep-palayam-central-markets-clean-shrc/article36299757.ece
05 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Action panels to protest against K-Rail project||Seeking better rehabilitation package and compensation, over 16 local action committees constituted against the proposed Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (K-Rail) project in Kozhikode are planning to launch a series of united protests to put more pressure on the State government. Apart from the ongoing local conventions to mobilise more public support, the local units will organise sit-ins in front of various municipal and panchayat offices in the district on September 16. A major rally will be organised from Azhiyoor to Kozhikode on October 16 to launch the district-level protests. The participants in the rally will also join the State-level protest in front of the Secretariat on October 27. Eviction The protesters alleged that people from around 3,000 houses would have to be evicted if the government was not ready to revise the existing alignment. They said the proposed alignment passed through many thickly populated areas and environmentally sensitive regions. The local action committees intensified their protests with the State government initiating measures for acquiring 42.03 hectares of land in Kozhikode district alone for the first phase of the SilverLine corridor project. According to the finalised proposal, land in seven villages in Kozhikode and Koyilandy taluks will be acquired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-panels-to-protest-against-k-rail-project/article36299764.ece
05 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Students in Chinese varsities seek lab facilities||Parents of students studying medicine in various Chinese universities have urged the Health Department to arrange lab and clinical facilities for their wards who are unable to go back to that country in the wake of the pandemic-induced restrictions. Functionaries of the Foreign Medical Graduates Parents Association told the media here on Saturday that most students had come home for vacation in January 2020. Though classes are held online, they are not able to attend practical sessions. Parents are now worried if the lack of lab exposure will affect their children’s academic prospects. The Chinese government has ordered continuation of online sessions for one more semester. The Ministry of External Affairs too has advised the students to stay home. Parents said they had petitioned the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister along with MPs and MLAs. Association president Andrews Mathew and secretary Subair were present.  Most students had returned in January 2020 They have not been able to attend practical sessions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chinese-varsity-students-seek-lab-facilities/article36299758.ece
05 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity to announce first allotment on Monday||The University of Calicut will announce the first allotment of seats for admissions to first-year undergraduate courses on September 6. A release said on Saturday that those who had been selected should confirm their status by remitting the mandatory fees. The status can be checked onhttps://admission.uoc. ac.in.Those who remit the fees should ensure that their login has payment details. The link will be open till 5 p.m. on September 9. Students who fail to pay the fees will lose their allotment. If the students are happy with their option, they should cancel the choice for higher option. Cancellation If they retain the higher option, they will have to choose it once it is allotted to them later. This will lead to cancellation of their earlier allotment, which cannot be restored. The students could seek admission to colleges only after the second allotment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-to-announce-first-allotment-on-monday/article36299756.ece
05 September 2021||Mysuru,KERALA||Ambari hits the road in Mysuru||After facing many hitches, Ambari finally hit the road in Mysuru on Saturday. The open-roof hop-on hop-off double-decker buses, the city’s newest tourist attraction, are providing a new platform for experiencing and exploring the royal city’s heritage wonders. An initiative of Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC), Ambari’s roll out had faced hurdles since last year due to the pandemic situation and lockdowns. It was formally launched in March this year. Thanks to the withdrawal of weekend lockdown, which was in place here for over a month, tourists have started returning to the city and the KSTDC was strongly hoping to attract more tourists to its initiative. The relaxation of curbs has been welcomed by the tourist industry which is hoping for tourism revival in the ensuing Dasara season although the festivities will be simple this year too. Though there were not many takers after the trip was resumed this morning, the authorities are hoping tourists will patronise the initiative as it gives a peek into the city’s popular heritage and architectural marvels. The first trip began at 9.30 a.m. from the KSTDC office on JLB Road. It had less than 10 passengers and the second trip had very few passengers. Mysuru has four such buses and 40 passengers can sit in each bus. Each bus is expected to make four trips a day and the duration of each trip is around two hours. The ticket has been priced at Rs. 250. Tourists and locals who went for the ride in the buses returned with a smile as they enjoyed their maiden trip going around the city. Route The bus route covers Hotel Mayura KSTDC office, Deputy Commissioner’s office, Crawford Hall, Kukkarahalli Lake, University of Mysore, Folklore Museum, Ramaswamy Circle, Palace Karikallu Thotti, Jayamarthanda Gate of the palace, zoo, Karanji Lake, Jockey Quarters’ Circle, Snow City, Chamundi Vihar Stadium, St. Philomena’s Church, Bannimantap, and City Railway Station. The tour culminates at Hotel Mayura KSTDC office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambari-hits-the-road-in-mysuru/article36299791.ece
05 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||New DCC chief assumes charge in Pathanamthitta||Satheesh Kochuparambil on Friday took charge as the seventh president of the Pathanamthitta District Congress Committee (DCC). Congress leader P.J. Kurian inaugurated the function, presided over by outgoing DCC president Babu George. Prof. Kurien emphasised the need for collective efforts from party workers and leaders to initiate a revival of the Congress. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary Pazhakulam Madhu, and Anto Antony, MP, were present. In his speech, Mr. Kochuparambil said he would lead the party by taking into consideration the mood of the party workers and reiterated his commitment to bringing back the organisation to its old glory in Pathanamthitta. Party sources said Mr. Kochuparambil, who had been associated with the ‘A’ group, had been unanimously nominated to the DCC president’s post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-dcc-chief-assumes-charge-in-pathanamthitta/article36299826.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Review weighs hurdles blocking Smart City||The hurdles hampering the progress of three major projects under the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation's Smart City project became the focus of discussion in a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday. According to Corporation sources, one of the major issues is the redevelopment of Rajaji Nagar that mandates shifting the residents to temporary rehabilitation centres. "The construction can commence only after these 169 families are shifted. We have two options, either to move them to temporary rehabilitation centres or provide them the rent for the period of construction. However, many are reluctant to shift. The Mayor, the District Collector and the Smart City CEO have been given the responsibility of sorting out the issues," said the source. Master plan A master plan has been prepared for the redevelopment work at Rajaji Nagar, spread across an area of 12.6 acres. In the first phase, construction work will be carried out in 2.81 acres of land, accommodating 248 dwelling units in eight blocks. Livelihood centres, community hall and green open spaces for recreation are also part of the project. The estimated cost for the first phase is Rs. 61.42 crore. The second project that came up for discussion was Smart Roads, which has been plagued by lack of coordination between the various departments. The Local Self Government Department officials have been given the responsibility of coordinating between the departments, especially the shifting of utility cables to underground ducts. The Corporation has also been in two minds regarding the construction of the Integrated Command and Control Centre, for which, as per the proposed plan, the Friends Janasevana Kendram at the main office in Palayam will have to be demolished. The meeting decided to go ahead with the project as per the plan.  A main obstacle is redevelopment of Rajaji Nagar that mandates shifting residents to temporary rehabilitation centres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/review-weighs-hurdles-blocking-smart-city/article36299945.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More Cong. leaders will join CPI(M): CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday hinted that more disgruntled Congress leaders in the State might make a beeline for the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. Mr. Vijayan said the CPI(M) would cooperate with Congress workers who swore fidelity to the secular and liberal ideals of the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Notably, Mr. Vijayan singled out A.V. Gopinath, former District Congress Committee president with a sizeable following in Palakkad, for special mention. Mr. Gopinath had recently quit the Congress and openly expressed his liking for the leadership of Mr. Vijayan. “We all know Mr. Gopinath’s stance. I am not commenting on the internal affairs of the Congress. It is only natural that the current situation in that party intensified in the coming days,” Mr. Vijayan said. Prasanth visits CM The Chief Minister said expelled Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) secretary P.S. Prasanth called on him on Saturday. On Friday, CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan had presented Mr. Prasanth as a new ally in front of television news cameras at AKG Centre. Subsequently, Congress leader K. Muraleedharan, MP, slammed the CPI(M) as the “trash box” for Congress discards. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Prasanth was KPCC secretary till recently. “When did he become a throwaway discard for the Congress,” he asked. Annie Raja response When pressed about CPI leader Annie Raja’s accusation that an “RSS gang” impervious to women’s issues led the State police, Mr. Vijayan said: “She is a national leader and must have based her statement on some information she received. I will verify the matter.” In the same breath, Mr. Vijayan defended the State police. He said Kerala's law and order situation was the best in the country. Mr. Vijayan asked journalists not to drag his name into their professional and personal disputes. He said a television journalist who hailed from Dharmadom had called on the Chief Minister’s private residence in Kannur on Onam day. “He took a photograph with me. However, an acquaintance with the Chief Minister offered no protection to lawbreakers. Law will take its course if the person is guilty of wrongdoing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-cong-leaders-will-join-cpim-cm/article36299789.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bring back those who left due to differences: Murali||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) campaign committee chairman K. Muraleedharan, MP, on Saturday said the party must strive to bring back those who had resigned owing to various differences. However, it must ignore those who were expelled for indiscipline, he said. Inaugurating the ascension of Palode Ravi as the president of the Thiruvananthapuram District Congress Committee (DCC) here, the former KPCC chairman said the party must work towards convincing those who had left to return to the Congress fold. It could not afford to sideline any person who remained committed to realising the party’s goals. ‘CPI(M) is waste box’ A day after former KPCC secretary P.S. Prasanth joined the CPI(M), Mr. Muraleedharan called the latter a “waste box” that “collected those rejected by the Congress.” Reiterating the Congress’ stance to usher in a semi-cadre system, Mr. Muraleedharan said that the party was in dire need of a significant shift in its policies. “The party can no longer harbour indiscipline and function in a disjoined manner. Despite some highlighting the few victories, the Congress has faced two successive defeats in local body and Assembly elections. Notably, never since 2001 has the party been able to emerge with the highest number of seats at the Assembly polls. Even when the party wrested rule in 2011, the CPI(M) had then the highest number of seats,” he pointed out. Organisational failure Mr. Ravi, who took over the mantle of DCC president from Neyyattinkara Sanal, said that organisational failure had led to the Congress party’s defeat in the district during the recent Assembly and local body elections. Efforts must be made to strengthen the organisation right from the lower tiers. The party must also be able to mobilise its strong support base in the district, he added. KPCC working president Kodikkunnil Suresh, MP, M. Vincent, MLA, and senior party leaders Thampanoor Ravi, Sarathchandra Prasad, N. Sakthan, V.S. Sivakumar, N. Peethambara Kurup, Pandalam Sudhakaran and Kerala Students Union (KSU) president K.M. Abhijith were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bring-back-those-who-left-due-to-differences-murali/article36299940.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kanam rejects Annie’s remarks on State police||Days after CPI leader Annie Raja hit out at the Kerala Police over increasing atrocities against women, the party's State chief Kanam Rajendran has rejected the remarks and said the State leadership has no complaint about the functioning of the police. “No senior leader of the CPI in Kerala has criticised the functioning of the police in the State. The State unit of the party also does not have such an opinion against the force,” the CPI State secretary told reporters in New Delhi when his reaction was sought over the issue. Terming the woman leader’s criticism as the party's ‘internal matter’, he said there was no need for making it a public controversy. The CPI is a key partner in Kerala's ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front. He said the State unit had already conveyed its stand on the matter to both Ms. Raja and the national leadership during the ongoing party meeting. Putting the Left government in a fix, Ms. Raja, who is also general secretary of the National Federation of Indian Women, had on Wednesday alleged that inaction of the police was the reason for the increased incidents of atrocities against women in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kanam-rejects-annies-remarks-on-state-police/article36299796.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||29,682 new cases in State, TPR at 17.54%||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph maintained the slight dip in cases at 29,682 on Saturday when 1,69,237 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 17.54%. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in public and private hospitals rose again to 2,387 (2,341 on Friday), while the number of patients requiring ventilator support rose from 987 to 1,009 on Saturday. The State’s active case pool rose to 2,50,065 on Saturday, with 25,910 patients reported to have recovered on the day. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 21,422 with the State adding 142 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 2,780 on Saturday. Total hospitalisations of people with moderate or severe COVID in the State’s hospitals are also on a steady increase and now stand at 33,441. Cases and hospitalisations have risen in all districts. Among districts, Thrissur continues to report the highest number of new cases at 3,474, followed by Ernakulam 3,456, Malappuram 3,166, Kozhikode 2,950, Palakkad 2,781, Kollam 2,381, Thiruvananthapuram 2,314, Kottayam 2,080, Alappuzha 1,898, Kannur 1,562, Pathanamthitta 1,154, Idukki 1,064, Wayanad 923, and Kasaragod 479 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/29682-new-cases-in-state-tpr-at-1754/article36299795.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||This school is a textbook for all||When M.B. Prasad took over as headmaster of Government Lower Primary School, Varavoor, Thrissur, in 2017, the school with 385 students was an institution that, in his own words, no one in the panchayat paid attention to. Within one year, it had emerged the best school in the district, and he bagged the State government award for best teacher in 2018. Four year later, Mr. Prasad is among the 44 teachers who have been selected to receive the National Awards to Teachers this year, to be given away by President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday morning. Mr. Prasad believes a school is a textbook not only for students but also for parents and the local people. Since the young students learn about farming and rearing animals in their textbooks, Mr. Prasad felt it was important to kindle their interest in it. Organic vegetable cultivation was taken up in earnest in the school with the help of students and teachers, and the produce was used for the school mid-day meal scheme. Students and the local people cultivated paddy on land provided for free and taken on lease. They tried their hands at aquaponics and reared fish, cows, goats, rabbit, ducks, quail, and other animals. A pond, biodiversity park, and medicinal plant garden came up on the premises. Building infrastructure Besides smart classrooms, a number of clubs (there are 25) were launched, and extracurricular activities attracted not only students but parents and others. Occasions such as sowing and harvest became festival-like, with participation of a large number of local people. “The school is never locked; people can walk in anytime,” says Mr. Prasad. Even during the pandemic, a school vehicle has been delivering library books to students, and parents. Children have been growing more vegetables than ever in their homes and have been part of paddy harvesting with their families. “We have succeeded in ensuring that during the pandemic, students and parents participate in activities together, spreading cheer.” Recognition The achievements of the past few years have attracted visitors and brought it recognition from the State Council of Educational Research and Training and District Institute of Education and Training, besides awards for Mr. Prasad. Today, the school has nearly 900 students. For its headmaster though, it is just a continuation of the journey he began when he entered the profession at the young age of 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-school-is-a-textbook-for-all/article36299799.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Private industry key to future space missions: ISRO chief||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) is fully committed to enabling private industry and the academia to effectively participate in the country's space programme, ISRO chairman K. Sivan said on Saturday. Dr. Sivan was addressing the ninth convocation of the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST) in virtual mode. Dwelling on the space sector reforms kicked off by the Central government, he said India had succeeded in laying a strong foundation for the space programme, but cannot go on protecting the old system in the new environment. ''That phase is over. We need to move on. For this, we have to leverage the opportunities in the private industry to generate more cash flow and investment,'' he said, adding that in the changed scenario, the next few years will prove crucial. Private-funded From an essentially government-funded, government-conducted activity, the space programme is transforming into a private-funded and private-conducted one. All entities under the Department of Space have revised their roles and mandates, he said. Space debris Delivering the convocation address, G. Satheesh Reddy, chairman, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), underscored the need to develop technologies for addressing the problem of space debris. Space debris, and potential collisions with satellites, have emerged as a major concern, with the increase in space-related activities globally. Dr. Reddy stressed the importance of developing advanced technologies that enable effective space-based surveillance and defence systems and secure communication. A total of 223 degrees were awarded on Saturday. UG topper Shashank Tomar and PG topper Sandeep C. R. were presented gold medals. Parthsarathi Samantha and Raghav Hariharan were awarded the Excellence Certificates for the best all-round performance in academic, co-curricular and extracurricular activities. IIST Chancellor B. N. Suresh; S. Somanath, director, IIST and the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pvt-industry-key-to-future-space-missions/article36299772.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Scientist honours his teacher||Buoyed by his teacher to realise his dreams, a theoretical chemist has dedicated his several years’ efforts spent in evolving an open-source software for nanostructures modelling to the memory of his late mentor. Krishna Mohan G.P., an assistant professor of Chemistry at Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram (MBCET), has developed DJMol, a modelling platform for computational chemistry and material sciences. The work, published in the peer-reviewed Wiley’sJournal of Computational Chemistry, has been developed in collaboration with researchers Rahul Sunil of MBCET’s Computer Science department, Kapil Gupta and Seung-Cheol Lee of Indo-Korea Science and Technology Centre, Bengaluru. Dr. Mohan, who regards the open-source platform the first-of-its-kind to be developed in the State, says it enables researchers to simulate chemical reactions involving molecules. Accurate prediction “DJMol can simulate the interaction of any molecule, paracetamol, for instance, with water or any other to depict structural changes. It can also anticipate the products of reactions in specific conditions. For example, it can accurately predict the proportion of carbon dioxide, water and carbon monoxide when iso-octane in 1 litre of gasoline reacts with oxygen while it is burned at a temperature of 2500 degree Celsius. The same reaction test could cost Rs. 5 lakh when it is undertaken in a laboratory,” he said. The platform provides an interface for four powerful modelling tools including the open source code developed by Bremen Centre for Computational Materials Science in Germany. Kerala State Higher Education Council vice chairperson Rajan Gurukkal will formally release DJMol on Sunday to coincide with Teacher’s Day. His teacher’s role Dr. Mohan attributes his success to the guidance provided by the late phytochemist Hisham Abdul Khader, the grandson of social reformer Vakkom Abdul Khader Moulavi, during his days as a BSc Chemistry student at the University College here over two decades ago. “Hisham sir was a moving encyclopedia who never taught my class, but motivated many like me to pursue knowledge beyond confines. None other has inspired me as him,” he says. After his graduation, the scientist followed Dr. Hisham’s advice to pursue his PhD in Netherlands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scientist-honours-teacher-through-innovation/article36299747.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State teachers’ awards announced||The State teachers’ awards for 2021 have been announced. Fourteen teachers in the primary category, 13 in secondary category, nine in higher secondary education (HSE), and five in the vocational higher secondary Education (VHSE) category have been selected for the award. A committee with Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty as chairperson, General Education Principal Secretary A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish as convener, and Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. as member selected the awardees for their activities in the academic-non-academic fields. In the primary section, the awards have gone to Selvaraj J. (Thiruvananthapuram), D.R. Geethakumari Amma (Kollam), Anil V. (Pathanamthitta), Thahira Beevi A. (Alappuzha), Binu Joy (Kottayam), Molly T.B. (Idukki), Noufal K.M. (Ernakulam), Rameshan P. (Thrissur), Mohanan C. (Palakkad), Biju Mathew (Malappuram), Lalitha M.K. (Kozhikode), Satheesh Babu A.E. (Wayanad), Gireesh Babu K.C. (Kannur), and Krishnadas P. (Kasaragod). In the secondary section, Shaji K.V. (Thiruvananthapuram), M.A. Abdul Shukkoor (Kollam), Rajeevan Nair T. (Pathanamthitta), Issac Daniel (Alappuzha), Michael Cyriac (Kottayam), Sainaba Beevi A. (Idukki), Eldho P.V. (Ernakulam), Geetha Thankam V.T. (Palakkad), Rajeevan K.P. (Malappuram), Shajil U.K. (Kozhikode), Sunilkumar M. (Wayanad), Suresh T.A. (Kannur), Narayana D. (Kasaragod) have been selected for the awards. In the HSE category, the awardees in the Thiruvananthapuram region are Santhosh Kumar K. (Thiruvananthapuram), K. Lailas (Alappuzha), Saji Varghese (Pathanamthitta); Ernakulam region Joy K.A. (Thrissur), Babu P. Mathew (Palakkad), and Pratheesh M.V. (Thrissur); and in Kozhikode region Santhosh N. (Malappuram), Geetha Nair S. (Kozhikode), and Shyal K.S. (Wayanad). The awards in the VHSE segment have gone to Sabu Joy in the Kollam region, Priya V. in Chengannur region, Ratheesh J. Babu in Ernakulam region, Vijana A.V. in Thrissur region, and Smitha N. in the Kuttipuram region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-teachers-awards-announced/article36299797.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Step up functioning of panels of Vidyakiranam, says Sivankutty||The functioning of school, local body and district-level committees in connection with the Vidyakiranam scheme should be intensified, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He was addressing an online meeting of officials of the General Education Department here on Saturday. The scheme has been launched by the State government to bridge the digital divide and make available digital devices to students against the backdrop of the plans to start school-level online classes this academic year. Mr. Sivankutty instructed that with the goal of promoting the project, school-level meetings should be held between September 6 and 16, activities reviewed and further action taken. Steps should also be taken to make available digital equipment to more students, he said. Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. and senior officials of the department were present. In the beginning of August, as many as 4.71 lakh students in 14,489 schools across the State reportedly required laptops for digital education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bolster-vidyakiranam-panels-says-sivankutty/article36299830.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cybercrime investigation division to be launched||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that a Cybercrime Investigation Division will soon come into being in the Kerala Police. The proposed wing, which will become the first-of-its-kind in the country, will streamline cyber investigation and enlist technical experts for the purpose. He was inaugurating the awards presentation ceremony of the Hac’KP 2021 international hackathon organised by the Cyberdome on Saturday. Mr. Vijayan formally launched Grapnel 1.0, a software designed to ‘demystify’ the dark web and unravel criminal offences that take place on such platforms and are often difficult to detect. The software is expected to boost investigation in crimes, including sex-trafficking, narcotics and arms trade and financial frauds. The Chief Minister presented Cyberdome Medal of Excellence, the awards, to winners of the hackathon and the State awards for the best police stations. Thampanoor, Irinjalakuda and Kunnamangalam police stations had been adjudged the best police stations. Transport Minister Antony Raju, State Police Chief Anil Kant, ADGPs Manoj Abraham and Vijay S. Sakhare, Deputy Inspector General of Police P. Prakash, Paytm Payments Bank senior vice president Jatinder Thakar and State Bank of India (SBI) general manager Indranil Bhanja took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cybercrime-probe-division-to-be-launched/article36299771.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fete brings ‘green’ role of odonates to focus||The second edition of ‘Thumbimahotsavam’, the State’s dragonfly festival, got under way on Saturday. The programme is jointly organised by WWF-India, Society for Odonate Studies (SOS) and Thumbipuranam. Chief Conservator of Forests (Working Plan and Research) Pramod G. Krishnan, who formally inaugurated the festival through videoconferencing, stressed the need for restoring ecosystem. Dragonflies and damselflies played an important role in wetland conservation, he said. The official released the e-copy of the Report of the Dragonfly Festival 2020-21 held in Kerala. Mascot released Wildlife photographer Suresh Elamon released the mascot of the festival ‘Piku’ which has been inspired by ‘Onathumbi’ or the Rhyothemis variegate (Common Picture-wing). He said the dragonfly was a symbol of hope and prosperity. Subramanian, Scientist-E and officer-in-charge, Zoological Survey of India, Chennai delivered the lead talk on the importance of odonates in conservation of wetlands. Since they were an indicator species they could be used to monitor the health of a wetland ecosystem. WWF-India State Director Renjan Mathew Varghese spoke on the occasion. This festival will be on till February 2022. It intends to bring schoolchildren into the conservation spectrum. Activities including Bioblitz (backyard odonata watch), photography competition, creative activities, webinars and quiz competitions have been planned.  Programme is jointly organised by WWF-India, Society for Odonate Studies and Thumbipuranam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fete-brings-green-role-of-odonates-to-focus/article36299936.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree online shopping fete extended||Onam Utsav, an online shopping festival organised by the Kudumbashree through its e-commerce portalwww.kudumbashree bazaar.com, has been extended till September 15. Attractive officers are available on nearly 1,000 products made by Kudumbashree entrepreneurs that are available on the portal. The fete, which began on August 18 to make available products manufactured by Kudumbashree entrepreneurs at the click of a mouse, was to conclude on August 31, but has been extended for two more weeks, a statement said. All products are available at discounts of up to 40%. Those who make purchases above Rs. 1,000 will get an additional 10% discount. Combo offers are also available. India Post tie-up Kudumbashree has joined hands with India Post to deliver the products ordered free of cost anywhere in the country. Honey, ragi, arrowroot powder, pepper, organic rice, jam, cashew, pickles, curry powders, snacks, cereals, toiletries, and kitchen products are some of the products available through the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-e-fete-extended/article36299819.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Gender audit report of anganwadi books||A gender audit report of anganwadi books in the State was handed over to Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George by former gender adviser T.K. Anandi in the presence of Women and Child Development director T.V. Anupama on Friday. The gender audit was conducted with the aim of promoting gender equality among children. The committee, led by Ms. Anandi, that conducted the audit recommended that students’ learning experiences should prioritise gender justice and gender equality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gender-audit-report-of-anganwadi-books/article36299938.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RSP to remain in UDF||The Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) is unlikely to quit the United Democratic Front (UDF) anytime soon. The party’s State committee which met here on Saturday resolved to participate in the next UDF meeting amidst reports of disagreement with the Congress. State secretary A.A. Azeez said on Saturday the RSP had asked the Congress to revitalise the coalition urgently. He called for an honest review of the UDF’s Assembly election debacle. The UDF had assigned RSP the Attingal and Mattannur seats, where the party had little traction. The RSP had asked for the Kaipamangalam seat and got Mattannur instead. Chavara was a sure seat. But, still, the party lost. The UDF had to regain its organisation strength. It has to give coalition partners its due in cooperative bank positions and UDF-ruled local bodies. N.K. Premachandran, MP, Shibu Baby John, and Babu Divakaran attended the State committee, among other leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rsp-to-remain-in-udf/article36299790.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital logs 2,314 cases||The capital district logged 2,314 COVID-19 cases and 1,748 recoveries on Saturday as the active caseload continued to mount, touching 17,100. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district stood at 14.4% on the day. While 2,180 people are believed to have contracted the disease through local transmission, the source of infection is unknown among the others. Four health-care workers have also been diagnosed with the disease. As many as 40,020 people have been placed under quarantine in the district. Containment zones District Collector Navjot Khosa has declared new containment zones in Pulippara and Perumala wards in Nedumangad; Poozhanadu, Manakkala, Vattaparambu and Kunnanadu in Ottasekharamangalam grama panchayat; and Kayalvaram ward in Vakkom grama panchayat. The area from Thottathilnada to Palottukonam in Veeranakavu ward of Poovachal grama panchayat has been declared a micro-containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-logs-2314-cases/article36299942.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||College teachers to stage protest||Organisations of Left-leaning college teachers will protest in front of 19 State universities on September 6 as part of the nationwide ‘Save India’ agitation launched by the All India Federation of University and College Teachers Organisation on August 9 in protest against the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. Members of All Kerala Private College Teachers Association, Association of Kerala Government College Teachers and the Federation of University Teachers’ Associations will participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-teachers-to-stage-protest/article36299943.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tight curbs in city today due to lockdown||The capital city will come under tight restrictions on account of the lockdown imposed on Sundays to check the spread of COVID-19, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay has said. Vehicle inspections The city boundaries will be barricaded and vehicle inspections will commence at 6 a.m. Patrolling will also be undertaken across 70 checking points within the city limits. Vehicles being taken out for unnecessary travel will be seized, he cautioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tight-curbs-in-city-today-due-to-lockdown/article36299944.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protect Constitution, says Riyas||Every person, irrespective of their religion, should protect the country’s Constitution, which is facing constant attacks, said Minister for Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Saturday. It is also important to keep at a distance extremist elements that support the idea of a theocratic nation, he said. Mr. Riyas was inaugurating the new State committee office of the Kerala Muslim Jamaath Council here. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil inaugurated the presentation of the council’s education awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protect-constitution-says-riyas/article36299946.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Post-Onam surge below projected numbers: CM||The current surge in cases in the post-Onam period is expected but the surge has stayed well below the projected or expected numbers, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday. Though the active cases went up, hospitalisations had not risen significantly and the number of hospitalised patients had remained stable between 30,000 and 33,000. The proportion of people who were hospitalised from among the positive cases had dropped from 5.99% during August 14-20 to 5.23% between August 28 and September 3. He said the State was on the right track as far as COVID-19 containment was concerned and had been reassured of the same by all national and international health experts with whom he had interacted during an online session recently. With vaccination proceeding at a fast pace and all containment measures in place, Kerala did not have to worry about the rise in cases. Mr. Vijayan said most of those who were dying due to COVID were unvaccinated elderly people. Though even the fully vaccinated did seem to get infection, they rarely developed serious disease or succumbed to the disease. All elderly and those with comorbidities should get vaccinated as fast as possible. More doses coming Kerala had already covered 75% of those above 18 years in the State with one dose of vaccine, while 27.84% had been fully vaccinated. The State was expected to receive 9,97,570 doses of vaccine on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-onam-surge-below-projected-numbers-cm/article36299793.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||100 ‘Take a break’ facilities to be opened||Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan will inaugurate 100 ‘Take a break’ refreshment and public toilet facilities in an online conference at 3 p.m. on September 7. The facilities have been completed as part of the 100-day action programme announced by the Chief Minister. The ‘Take a break’ facilities are aimed at providing clean and hygienic toilet facilities for the public along National Highways and in other crowded public places. Coffee shops are also attached to the centres. In the first phase of the project, which was inaugurated earlier, 100 such facilities were opened, while 524 more are under construction. Nava Keralam coordinator T.N.Seema will preside over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/100-take-a-break-facilities-to-be-opened/article36299800.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State to launch online taxi, auto hailing service||The State government’s own online taxi-auto hailing system, similar to Uber and Ola, will be launched on November 1. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Labour Minister V.Sivankutty here on Saturday. The Kerala Motor Transport Worker's Welfare Board will be implementing the project with the cooperation of the Transport, IT, Police and Legal Metrology departments. The entire system will be under the control of the Labour Commissionarate. The Welfare Board will be spending only on the advertisement expenses of the online auto-taxi system, which will be repaid to it from the profits that the government will garner from the system. Considering the financial difficulties that vehicle owners and drivers have been going through during the COVID-19 pandemic, those who join the system need not install GPS devices at present, and can use their smartphones instead for navigation. The pilot project will be implemented in Thiruvananthapuram. A trial run will be held before this, said a press release on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-launch-online-taxi-auto-hailing-service/article36299801.ece
05 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police to verify gun licences of ATM, bank security staff||The Kerala Police have decided to scrutinise the licences held for guns by security personnel recruited by private agencies for ATM kiosks and financial institutions in the State. The move comes against the backdrop of five Jammu and Kashmir natives getting apprehended in Karamana in the capital with guns for which they allegedly possessed invalid licences. The development has the paved way for the suspected possibility of more people from other States who could have landed themselves similar jobs with fake documents. According to an official release, the guns and the related documents held by security guards in the State will be thoroughly examined. Stringent action will be adopted against those found to possess fake documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-check-guards-gun-licences/article36299820.ece
05 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||PCC chief will have the last word: Satheesan||The Congress has a rich tradition of keeping everyone united. Nobody will be avoided in the party, Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said. “No leaders, including Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, can be avoided in the party. There may be complaints and differences of opinions. But they should be ignored in the larger interest of the party,” he said after inaugurating a function in which new Congress leader Jose Vallur took charge as DCC president here on Saturday. The KPCC president has the last word on the Congress in the State. “We are trying to reach consensus with everyone. There are many leaders, who have been neglected for a long time. Don’t we have differences of opinions at our home. But we should keep it within the house,” he said. “The Congress should fight against fundamentalism and should protect our secular values. We should bring back the lost glory of the Congress,” Mr. Satheesan said. Outgoing DCC president M.P. Vincent presided over the function. T.N. Prathapan, MP; T.J. Saneesh Kumar, MLA; Padmaja VenugopaL; Joseph Challissery; K.K. Kochumohammed; T.U Radhakrishnan and other leaders participated. The new DCC president paid floral tributes at the memorials of K. Karunakaran and C.N. Balakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcc-chief-will-have-the-last-word-satheesan/article36299903.ece
05 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Call for efficient developmental care support system for newborns||Experts at the third National Conference on Neonatal Care organised by the National Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (NIPMR) in association with the Association of Neonatal Therapists (ANT) have said that the facilities for neonatal care in the country are insufficient. The developmental care support system for newborns has to be made more efficient to reduce the incidence of disabilities in children, they say. They were speaking on the various panel discussions held as part of the conference. The mortality rate of newborns has come down since 2015. But there is a lack of care in the later stages of growth. Speakers at the venue called for creating awareness in this regard and at the same time increase the number of neonatal therapists. The panel discussion was on the topic ‘The problems and future approach in neonatal care’. Elizabeth K.E., Professor and Head, Department of Paediatrics, Sree Mookambika Institute of Medical Sciences; Parvathy Mohan, Professor and Head, Division of Developmental Paediatrics, Amala Institute of Medical Sciences, Thrissur; Meenakshi J., Neonatologist and Director, NISHTA Integrated Neuro Development Centre, Chennai; Febi Francis, Assistant Professor, Paediatrics, Government Medical College, Thrissur; Sanitha Sathyan, Paediatric Ophthalmologist and Cataract Surgeon, Vettam Eye Hospital, Ernakulam; Vaishali Prabhu, Speech and Swallowing Pathologist, NISHTA Integrated Neuro Development Centre; and Anna Daniel, Assistant Professor, NIPMR, participated in the panel discussion. Deepa, Principal, College of Occupational Therapy, NIPMR, and organising chairperson of the meet, was the moderator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-efficient-developmental-care-support-system-for-newborns/article36299950.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Route cleared||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/route-cleared/article36299775.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Golden bronze||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/golden-bronze/article36299766.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Auspicious beginning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/auspicious-beginning/article36299949.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Happy hours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/happy-hours/article36299952.ece
05 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weaver ‘ends life’ in Somandepalli||In the second incident in a week, a weaver allegedly committed suicide by hanging to his loom in Somandepalli village of Anantapur district. Gangadhar, 40, reportedly ended his life when his wife and son went out for work. According to the family members, Gangadhar had reportedly taken a loan of Rs. 2 lakh loan during the COVID-19 pandemic as business had come down drastically for the silk saris the family weaves at home. He also could not repay the loans which he had taken to construct a house, which he had to abandon midway, hoping for a government house, which he did not get. There is always someone to talk to at: 100; 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weaver-ends-life-in-somandepalli/article36299043.ece
05 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman killed in fire caused by short-circuit||A 52-year-old woman died of burns and three of her family members received burn injuries following a suspected electrical short-circuit, in Naik Nagar here, n the early hours of Saturday. The injured are undergoing treatment at the Government General Hospital in Anantapur and are said to be out of danger. The overnight downpour reportedly led to seepage in the walls resulting in the electrical short-circuit in an old house in which Chandrasekhar Reddy, along with his two children Lasya, 10, Charandeep, 12, and mother Lakshmi Devi, was staying. Following the short circuit, the refrigerator went up in flames leading to the pressure cooker and other kitchen utensils melting and the entire house was engulfed in smoke. According to II Town Circle Inspector S. Jakir Hussain Khan, while Chandrasekhar, managed to come out of the house along with his two children, Lakshmi Devi was found lying burnt close to the window near the refrigerator. She was sleeping in the drawing-room. Chandrasekhar’s wife had left for her parents’ place 15 days ago. The police, after disconnecting power supply, informed the Fire Department, who doused the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-killed-in-fire-caused-by-short-circuit/article36299041.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 years on, charges yet to be framed in Gauri Lankesh case||Four years have passed since the assassination of activist-editor Gauri Lankesh on September 5, 2017, and nearly three years since the chargesheet was filed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT). However, the courts are yet to frame charges against the accused, not just in this case but also in the M.M. Kalburgi murder case where the chargesheet was filed two years ago. The prosecution blames the COVID-19 pandemic and “delay tactics” deployed by the defence to prolong trial, an allegation the defence counsel has denied. “In both cases, Hearing Before Charges (HBC) is ongoing in the respective courts and we are confident charges will be framed and trial will begin very soon,” said M.N. Anucheth, Chief Investigation Officer, SIT. Meanwhile, application of the Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act (KCOCA), 2000, to all the accused in the Gauri Lankesh murder case hinges on the Supreme Court order, expected on September 8. The Karnataka High Court had in April, 2021, quashed KCOCA 2000 charges against one of the accused Mohan Naik saying the Act can be applied only against those accused with two or more cases against them previously. Gauri’s sister Kavita Lankesh approached the apex court challenging the High Court order, following which the State government also challenged the order. “If the application of KCOCA, 2000, is not upheld, there is a very real fear of the accused walking out of prison on bail,” Ms. Kavita said. “It has been four years since she [Gauri Lankesh] was killed, it feels like yesterday and the sense of loss never goes away. The trial has been inordinately delayed and I hope it is speeded up, to ensure her justice” she said. Meanwhile, trial began in the Prof. K.S. Bhagawan murder plot case — uncovered during the probe into Gauri Lankesh’s murder — but was put on hold as the defence raised objection to the jurisdiction of the trial court. Six months later, the High Court ordered the trial to continue. “After six witnesses were examined, the defence suddenly raised an objection on the jurisdiction of the trial court. They refused to cross-examine any of the witnesses,” a senior SIT official said. “The defence advocates have been deploying delay tactics, filing several petitions on frivolous grounds to delay the trial. Most of their petitions have been dismissed till date,” alleged S. Balan, Special Public Prosecutor in the Gauri Lankesh murder case. However, Veerendra Ichalkarnjikar, a leading defence counsel for the accused in all the three cases, vehemently denied allegations that they were employing delay tactics. He in turn alleged the prosecution had blocked access to key documents causing delay. “We have filed bail applications and challenged the application of KCOCA, 2000, and won the case in the Karnataka High Court. We cannot be faulted on exploring all legal remedies on behalf of the accused,” he said. Mr. Ichalkaranjikar is an office-bearer of Hindu Vidhdnya Parishat, an affiliate of Hindu Janajagruti Samiti, to which multiple accused in the three cases were allegedly associated with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-years-on-charges-yet-to-be-framed-in-gauri-lankesh-case/article36299012.ece
05 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka decides to ban online gambling||The State Cabinet on Saturday decided to ban online gambling or betting by amending the Karnataka Police Act, 1963. The ban, however, would not include lottery or betting on horse races, said Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, briefing the media on the decisions taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. HC’s nudge The decision was taken following the High Court of Karnataka repeatedly asking the State government to take a stand on online betting, Mr. Madhuswamy clarified. The Cabinet approved a draft Bill to amend the Karnataka Police Act, 1963, and the Bill would be introduced in the coming session of the State legislature beginning on September 13. The draft Bill defined online games as “involving all forms of wagering or betting including in the form of tokens valued in terms of money paid before or after the issue of it, or electronic means and virtual currency, electronic transfer of funds in connection with any game of chance”. In July, the State government informed the High Court that it had drafted a Bill to ban all forms of online betting and gambling. Kerala and Tamil Nadu have imposed a ban on online games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-decides-to-ban-online-gambling/article36298996.ece
05 September 2021||BHIMAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eye hospital inaugurated||MaxiVision Eye Hospitals Group opened a Super Specialty Eye hospital in the town on Saturday. MLA Grandhi Srinivas, MLC Moshen Raju inaugurated the new hospital. Hospital chairman G.S. K Velu, co-chairman Kasu Prasad Reddy, managing director Sharat Babu Chilukuri, CEO V. S. Sudheer and others participated. Speaking on the occasion the MLA thanked the Maxivision Eye Hospitals Group for setting up its branch in Bhimavaram town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eye-hospital-inaugurated/article36299990.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC asks Centre, State to clarify on MTR eco-sensitive zone||The Madras High Court has decided to delve deep into the ramifications of a gazette notification issued by the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) on December 13, 2019 declaring an area of 438.904 sq.km, around the boundary of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), as Mudumalai Tiger Reserve Eco-sensitive Zone. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh said a balance must be maintained between the need to protect the environment and the livelihood of persons who depend upon revenue earned through tourism. Therefore, it was necessary on the part of the Centre as well as the State government to clarify issues revolving around the eco-sensitive zone. The judge took up the larger issue during the hearing of a writ petition filed by a resort owner who was aggrieved against a panchayat in Nilgiris district having sealed his premises. His counsel Abudu Kumar Rajaratnam contended that the resort was located well outside the elephant corridor and yet the local body chose to act against it. During the course of hearing, the judge came across the December 2019 gazette notification which stated that 321 sq.km., comprising the entire area of Mudumalai Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park, in Nilgiris district had been declared as MTR (core or critical tiger habitat) apart from another 367.586 sq.km. as a buffer area. Considering the rich diversity of flora and fauna in MTR and the existence of rare, endangered, threatened and endemic species, the MoEF had decided to declare 438.904 sq.km. (consisting of 25.657 sq.km in Gudalur forest division, 409.825 sq.km., in Nilgiris North forest division and 3.422 sq.km., in core area) around the reserve as eco-sensitive zone. The notification required the State government to prepare a zonal master plan, within two years and in consultation with the local people, to regulate the development activities in the eco-sensitive zone. As part of the zonal master plan, the State was also required to prepare an eco-tourism master plan to regulate new tourism activities and also expansion of existing activities. After taking note of the elaborate requirements under the Central notification, the judge wanted to know whether the notification would subsume all repugnant laws of the State in respect of the areas that had been earmarked as eco-sensitive zone. He also wanted to know whether the State had prepared the zonal master plan. The judge suo motu included the Centre as well as the State government as repondents to the writ petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-asks-centre-state-to-clarify-on-eco-sensitive-zone-around-mtr/article36299481.ece
05 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modern diagnostic centre at Chittoor hospital soon||A modern diagnostic centre and laboratory would be established at the Government District Headquarters Hospital here within three months to provide better healthcare to the people of Chittoor district, said District Collector M. Hari Narayanan on Saturday. Addressing the Hospital Development Society meeting here, the Collector said that the works on the proposed diagnostic and lab facilities would be expedited on a war-footing. “The facility is the need of the hour for hundreds of patients visiting the district hospital daily from all over the western mandals. The staff should strive to ensure that the patients coming here return with satisfaction,” the Collector said. Chittoor MP N. Reddappa said that the government hospital has seen positive changes ever since it was handed over to the Apollo Institute of Medical Sciences and Research for the purpose of teaching. He appealed to Apollo Hospitals chairman Pratap C. Reddy to provide super-speciality services in Chittoor hospital on a par with their branch in Chennai. District Hospital’s chief administrator Naresh Kumar Reddy informed the Collector that during the last four years, the strength of beds in casualty wing was increased from 6 to 25. The emergency infrastructure was improvised with a 6K-litre gas facility, 27 ventilator-equipped ICU beds, 4 operation theatres, 12 beds with dialysis facility, radiology, CT-scan and blood bank. In four years, the hospital was turned into an 850-bed unit. “During the pandemic, the hospital had managed 500 beds for patients, besides addressing the critical and black fungus cases,” Mr. Naresh Kumar Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/modern-diagnostic-centre-at-chittoor-hospital-soon/article36299042.ece
05 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welfare schemes being implemented despite fall in revenue: Buggana||Despite fall in revenue due to COVID-19, the Andhra Pradesh government has not gone back in implementing welfare schemes, said Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy. “During the previous government, Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) between 2014-19 was 10.03%, whereas with the COVID effect, between 2019-21, only 1.3% has been registered, which resulted in a loss of Rs. 7,947.07 crore. During the first lockdown between April-May 2020, nearly Rs. 4,709.24 crore revenue loss occurred and also expected revenue fall during 2021-22,” said Mr. Rajendranath Reddy. The State government had spent Rs. 7,130.19 crore for providing treatment, developing medical infra, testing, vaccination and many more irrespective of the Centre support during COVID-19. Taking a dig at the Telugu Desam Party, he said that the previous government had crippled the State finances with abnormal borrowings and left a huge pile of debts. At the time of bifurcation, the total debt was only Rs. 1,18,544.34 crore, but between 2014-19 it increased to Rs. 2,57,509.85 crore. Besides these, through various corporations, the TDP government had left a debt of Rs. 1 lakh crore. Financial support However, the current government was being accountable for every single borrowing, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said and added that as on date Rs. 1.27 lakh crore had been borrowed and Rs. 1.05 lakh crore was credited into the accounts of farmers and women during COVID crisis as financial support without resorting to any corruption. He said that all the borrowings had been done as per the FRBM limits, where the Union government permitted an additional borrowings of Rs. 20,000 crore under Atma Nirbhar Bharat mission. The Minister stated that the government had been prioritising public welfare schemes, and spending accordingly, while even paying interests to the borrowings of previous governments and clearing the pending arrears left by them. Drawing comparison between two governments, he said that N. Chandrababu Naidu had promised to waive all the farm loans which were Rs. 87,612 crore, but only waived Rs. 15,279.42 crore in five phases. However in the last two years, the State government had spent Rs. 83,102.18 crore towards farmer’s welfare. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had spent Rs. 17,029 crore for Rythu Bharosa, Rs. 1,105.89 crore for Zero-Interest crop loans, Rs. 3,788.25 crore on crop insurance, Rs. 1,055.19 crore on input subsidy and Rs. 331.58 crore on Matsakara Bharosa, Mr. Reddy claimed. Similarly prioritising the education sector, the government had spent Rs. 25,914.13 crore by implementing various schemes such as Amma Vodi, Vasati Deevena, Vidya Deevena, Goru Muddha and Vidya Kanuka. Fee reimbursement Towards fee reimbursement, the previous government had spent only Rs. 13,420.65 crore leaving a debt of Rs. 2,012.03 crore. As part of women empowerment, the current government had spent Rs. 17,608.43 crore through schemes like Aasara, Cheyutha, while the TDP government had betrayed them by promising to waive loans about Rs. 21,479 crore, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said. The State government had also prioritised the health sector by revamping YSR Aarogya Sri and increased the number of treatments to 2346 by spending Rs. 4,342.05 crore for treating 12.48 lakh patients. The government was also providing financial assistance to those discharged patients during their recovery period through Aarogya Aasara and further rolled out 1066 new ambulances breathing life into 108,104 services. While the TDP government provided pensions to only 39 lakh people until six months before the polls, the current government has been door delivering pensions to about 59.82 lakh people. The previous government had only spent Rs. 26,403.57 crore in a span of five years, the current government had met an expenditure of Rs. 37,461.89 crore in just 27 months. In addition to these, the government had also stood by the weaver community by supporting with Rs. 575.87 crore in the last two years, while it was only Rs. 259.04 crore between 2014-19 during the TDP rule, the Minister claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/welfare-schemes-being-implemented-despite-fall-in-revenue-buggana/article36299886.ece
05 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC chief inspects progress of aircraft museum work at Kakinada||Flag Officer Commanding-In-Chief (FOC-In-C) of Eastern Naval Command Vice-Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh has said that the Navy is looking forward to the commissioning of the TU-142 M aircraft museum by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in a few months on the Kakinada beach. Accompanied by East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran, Mr. Ajendra Bahadur Singh on Saturday inspected the progress of the museum being developed by the Andhra Pradesh Urban Infrastructure Asset Management Limited (APUIAM). “I have visited Kakinada to review the progress of the TU-142 M aircraft museum. We are grateful to the State government officials who are making this project possible. We are looking forward to the early commissioning of the facility by the Chief Minister in the next few months,” said the Vice-Admiral. Mr. Hari Kiran told the media that the internal work to provide various facilities for visitors was in progress. The agency had sought 90 more days to complete the scheduled works for the commissioning of the project. The AP Tourism Department was developing an interpretation centre and taking up beautification works on the premises by spending Rs. 1.5 crore, he added. SP M. Ravindranath Babu, Municipal Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar, and other officials were present. The 100-tonne aircraft has been brought from the INS Rajali Naval Air Station in Tamil Nadu. It has been installed on the Kakinada beach by a T.N.-based company. Two more decommissioned TU-142 M aircraft are on display in Kolkata and Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enc-chief-inspects-progress-of-aircraft-museum-work-at-kakinada/article36299716.ece
05 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held on charges of sexually assaulting stepdaughter||A 34-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting his eight-year-old stepdaughter and another minor girl under Yeleswaram police limits in East Godavari district. The villagers learnt about the incident on Saturday after his stepdaughter complained of some health complications. DSP (Disha Police) S. Murali Mohan said the accused had allegedly sexually assaulted the two minors in recent days. He was arrested and produced before the local court on Saturday. The stepdaughter has been staying with him after his wife deserted him recently. Two cases had been registered against the accused under the Disha Act and the investigation is on. The health condition of the victims is stable, the DSP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-on-charges-of-sexually-assaulting-stepdaughter/article36299916.ece
05 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 tribal people washed away in stream||The bodies of three Konda Dora tribal people, including two children, were retrieved from a stream on Saturday near Badigunta village under Devipatnam police limits in East Godavari Agency. The deceased have been identified as Podiyam Ganesh Dora (5), Vetti Vamsi Dora (5), and Vetti Jyothi (30) of Badigunta village. According to the Devipatnam police and village secretariat officials, the three were washed away while they were crossing the stream between Akooru and Badigunta villages. They were returning from Rampachodavaram where they get their Aadhaar data updated. The police registered a case and investigation is on. The bodies have been sent to the Area Hospital in Rampachodavaram for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-tribal-people-washed-away-in-stream/article36299914.ece
05 September 2021||KRUTHIVENNU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor girl ‘sexually assaulted’ by three persons||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by two youth and a juvenile in Kruthivennu mandal in the district. Following a complaint lodged by her parents, the police registered a case and took the accused into custody on Saturday, said Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal. The girl reportedly came out without the knowledge of the parents to meet her friend in Vijayawada. The accused, who reportdly assured to help the girl, took her to an abandoned area in the village and allegedly committed the crime. “We arrested Ananta Babu and Tarun in the case and the juvenile was sent to Observation Home. The accused were produced in the court and were sent to judicial remand,” said Machilipatnam Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Sk. Masum Basha. The victim was sent to Government Hospital for medical examination. A case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and Section 376 IPC has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-sexually-assaulted-by-three-persons/article36298995.ece
05 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) to protest true up power charges||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) Kurnool unit is planning a massive dharna on September 6 against the true up charges being levied on consumers last month and this month, which was 20-to-50% of the bill value in the name of adjustments. The State government had levied Rs. 3,661 crore as true up charges at a time when neighbouring States were giving concessions, the CPI(M) leaders said and gave a call to people to attend a dharna on Monday near Vidyuth Soudha to protest against it. Party district secretary K. Prabhakar Reddy and leaders T. Ramudu and M. Rajasekhar at a press conference here on Saturday criticised the State government for not bothering to invest in development. “At a time when people had come to Kurnool Municipal Corporation building to submit a memorandum seeking rescinding of garbage tax and property tax, the Mayor, Panyam MLA, and other Corporators were busy getting nominated posts for their dear ones and did not have time to listen to the people,” alleged Mr. Prabhakar Reddy. Hitting out at the State government for appointing 460 directors for the various corporations and not bothering to provide assistance to targetted beneficiaries, the CPI(M) leaders said the government should invest in infrastructure development or revenue-generating activity to help people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-to-protest-true-up-power-charges/article36299040.ece
05 September 2021||MYLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahila Police will be respected as other woman officers in the department, says SP||Krishna Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal has said that Mahila Police, who were absorbed into the police department recently, will be treated on a par with other women police personnel. Participating in an orientation programme for Mahila Police and women police officers of Nuzvid division here on Saturday, the SP said the new women staff (Mahila Police) were recruited for enhancing women security and safety in the State, and asked them to help the police in all aspects. “Mahila Police need not come to police stations and can perform duties from grama and ward sachivalayams. They should move in villages, talk to the locals in a polite manner, help police to maintain peace and help the needy in rural areas,” Mr. Kaushal said. The SP clarified that Mahila Police would not be allotted night duties and bandobust duties. They would be called only during emergencies. Deputy Superintendents of Police B. Srinivasulu, N. Satyanandam, G. Rajiv Kumar, K. Umamaheswara Rao, G. Nageswar Reddy and other officers participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahila-police-will-be-respected-as-other-woman-officers-in-the-department-says-sp/article36299989.ece
05 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crop coverage in Nellore dist. normal this kharif: official||With major reservoirs brimming, the crop coverage in SPSR Nellore district can be expected to be in the normal sown area during the current kharif season, said Agriculture Joint Director Y. Anandakumari adding that it may improve further during September to cover the normal sown area of 65,574 hectares. Farmers have already raised crops in the 85.3% of the normal sown area till August end. Paddy, grown in 96.5% of the normal grown area of 45,433 hectares, accounted for the lion’s share of crops grown in the district. The official attributed the slight reduction in acreage under paddy to a section of farmers going for green manure crop. But for leaf mite and stem borer infestation to paddy in about 6,000 hectares, the crop is healthy in the rest of the farms, Ms. Anandakumari told The Hindu . “We have made all arrangements for procurement of harvested paddy without any hitch through the 47 Rythu Bharosa Kendrams,” she said. Harvesting of paddy has already begun and it could be expected to reach the peak later this month. So far, 9,000 tonnes of paddy have been procured by the RBKs, she added. She said the district would see maximum crop coverage during rabi, thanks to comfortable storage level in the major reservoirs in the Penna basin. Meanwhile, irrigation authorities reduced the discharge by about 1,000 cusecs from the Somasila reservoir as the inflow came down to about 20,000 cusecs. The storage in the reservoir, the lifeline of SPSR Nellore district, stood at a healthy 65.57 tmcft as against the full capacity of 78 tmcft. With an inflow of 9,500 cusecs, the storage in Kandaleru reservoir slightly increased to 52.02 tmcft. The outflow from Kandaleru was maintained at 1,695 cusecs, according to irrigation officials. Kandaleru still had a flood cushion of 16.01 tmcft and Somasila 12.43 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crop-coverage-in-nellore-dist-normal-this-kharif-official/article36299881.ece
05 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||412 new cases in South Coastal A.P.||The number of active COVID-19 cases crossed the 4,200-mark in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as new cases rose by over 100, while recoveries declined by about 150 when compared to the previous day’s figures. The number of new infections jumped to 412 in the region, including 260 in SPSR Nellore district, in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to over 2.75 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/412-new-cases-in-south-coastal-ap/article36299880.ece
05 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shun gatherings on festival, SP tells people||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg on Saturday appealed to the people to celebrate Vinayaka Chaviti festival at home as the threat of third wave of coronavirus loomed large. The SP said people should avoid big social gatherings and follow COVID-appropriate behaviour while performing the rituals. None should erect pandals and take out processions to the sea shore for immersion with fanfare as in the past, she said. Cultural programmes should be avoided during the nine-day fete from coming Friday. Only two or three persons wearing face masks would be allowed for immersion at water bodies, she made it clear. Entry into places of worship would be allowed only after testing with thermal scanners and cleaning of hands with sanitizers, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shun-gatherings-on-festival-sp-tells-people/article36299879.ece
05 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man, mother held for wife’s death||A 35-year-old man and his mother aged 56 were arrested by police on Saturday in connection with the death of his wife under suspicious circumstances at Jayavaram village, near Tangutur, in Prakasam distrit in the intervening night of August 29 and 30. Tangutur police said the woman was found hanging from the ceiling fan in their house. Police during probe found that the duo had allegedly harassed her leading to her taking to the extreme step.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-mother-held-for-wifes-death/article36299878.ece
05 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth drowns while crossing stream||An 18-year-old youth reportedly drowned in the swollen Lachchammavagu at J.P. Cheruvu village, near Racherla, in Prakasam district on Saturday. The youth tried to cross the water body which was in spate following overnight rains in the Nallamalla forests, after visiting the Nemaligundam Ranganaya swamy temple, said the Racherla police who rushed to the spot and shifted the body of the youth to the Government Hospital at Giddaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-drowns-while-crossing-stream/article36299882.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will propose altered course of action against COVID: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the government would on Tuesday weigh an altered course of action to bridle COVID-19 and restore the economy at a stroke. The night curfew (10 p.m. to 6 a.m.) and Sunday lockdown would continue till then. He said restoring normality was the government’s uppermost priority. Kerala had to learn to live with COVID-19. The pandemic was likely to linger well after the State achieved 100% vaccination. Blunting the pandemic was expected to be a long haul. Kerala should prepare for it. It should not slide back into pre-COVID era complacency. The mask and physical distancing mandate would endure. Local surveillance Mr. Vijayan mooted hyper-local surveillance by neighbourhood watch groups and local self-government officials to ensure that infected persons remained effectively quarantined. Those who broke quarantine would risk a heavy fine and prosecution. The police would forcibly move them to government shelters. The administration would charge the violators for bread, board, and medicine. Inoculation drives Sectoral magistrates and the police should ensure pandemic control activities at villages and municipal wards. Local self-governments would identify areas that had fallen behind in vaccination and organise special inoculation drives. They should ensure that no family in quarantine starved, lacked in medicine, and other essentials. The police would impose strict curbs on social life, retail, and mobility in localities that reported an above 7% Weekly Infection Population Ratio. As many as 81 urban and 215 rural wards were currently micro-containment zones. Mr. Vijayan said 20 months of COVID-19 was exasperating and fatiguing. Nevertheless, the State should summon its reserves of strength to turn the tide of the battle against the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-propose-altered-course-of-action-against-covid-pinarayi/article36299007.ece
05 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nipah surfaces in Kozhikode after a year||Nipah has surfaced in the State again for the third time, that too after a gap of one year. Nipah has been confirmed in a 12-year-old admitted to a private hospital in Kozhikode with encephalitis, the Additional Director of Health Services (Public Health) said here late on Saturday night. The sample had been tested at the NIV unit in Alappuzha. Further details about the case are not known immediately. Kerala’s first tryst with Nipah was in May-June 2018 in Kozhikode and this was the first recorded NiV outbreak in southern India. A total of 23 cases were identified, though only 18 were lab-confirmed. Of the 23 cases, only two survived the infection. Strong public health response helped contain the infection fast. Nipah reappeared in 2019, this time in Ernakulam district. However, the infection was contained to just the lone index case, who survived the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nipah-surfaces-in-kozhikode-after-a-year/article36299392.ece
05 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Delay in wage payment by Centre adding to NREGA workers’ woes’||Delay on the part of the Union Government in transfer of wages to workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), 2005, has further compounded the woes of thousands of workers during these difficult pandemic times. The Centre is taking 26 days on an average to complete the wage transfer to the NREGA workers in Andhra Pradesh, thrice as long to process the payments than it should, according to a sample study conducted by LibTech (Liberation Technology), an organisation comprising social scientists working to improve transparency, accountability and democratic engagement in rural public services delivery. “Considering the 13th report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Rural Development and other official documents reporting that no compensation was paid for delay of payments to the NREGA workers in Andhra Pradesh for the financial years 2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22, we randomly sampled 1% of panchayats in the State (130 of the 12,956 panchayats) by downloading details of wage payments for all the job cards that appeared for work in the current financial year (2021) up to July 31,” said Chakradhar Buddha, Director, LibTech, for Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. He went on to explain that they downloaded the Fund Transfer Order (FTO) also for these panchayats for the financial years 2020-21 and 2019-20, and got the difference between the date of FTO generation (date on which the FTO is sent from State to the Centre) and the date of credit to see how long each of the transactions took in Stage 2 of the payment process. The NREGA payments are done in two stages. After the work is completed, an FTO is generated and digitally sent to the Centre in the Stage 1, which is the State government’s responsibility. In Stage 2, the Centre processes the FTOs and transfers wages directly to the workers’ accounts. As per rule, Stage 1 should be completed in eight days and Stage 2 in seven days, and both the stages should be completed in 15 days of the closure of the muster of work. Mr. Buddha said, out of 3.95 lakh downloaded transactions for which the FTOs were sent to the Centre, 34% transactions were still unpaid as on August 10 this year. “We analysed 2.58 lakh transactions, which were paid across the 130 panchayats,” he said. ‘Pay compensation’ As of August 10 this year, 34% (of 3.95 lakh) transactions were still unpaid and less than 20% of credited payments have been completed within the stipulated 15-day time period so far in this financial year. He demanded that the government pay compensation for the delay caused on its part to pay wages to the workers, who are already at the receiving end of the vagaries of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delay-in-wage-payment-by-centre-adding-to-nrega-workers-woes/article36299995.ece
05 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||APMDC told to expand business at national level||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development and Mines Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy held a review meeting on the operations of AP Mineral Development Corporation Limited at the Secretariat on Saturday and called for measures to augment revenues and expansion of business portfolio at the national level. APMDC chairperson Shamim Aslam said an action plan should be prepared for the development of the PSU miner. Vice-Chairman and Managing Director V.G. Venkata Reddy said the corporation undertook large-scale coal mining in Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chattisgarh and was consolidating its position in barytes mining and exploring global markets. In addition, emphasis was laid on exploiting granite, beach sand, silica, calcite and ball clay mines. On the corporate social responsibility (CSR) front, Mr. Venkata Reddy said APMDC Foundation Trust had been providing advanced healthcare services to the residents of the barytes mining area at Mangampet in Kadapa district. It had established a school where quality education was being imparted to hundreds of students. The trust had set up mineral water plants in 72 habitations in Kadapa and Chittoor districts and was taking necessary steps for environment protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apmdc-told-to-expand-business-at-national-level/article36299891.ece
05 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP questions curbs on Vinayaka Chavithi fete||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has requested Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to allow the celebration of Vinayaka Chavithi at public places, subject to compliance with the COVID-19 protocols as per the guidelines laid down by the Central government. ‘Part of Hindu culture’ In a letter to the Chief Minister on Saturday, Mr. Veerraju said public celebration of Vinayaka Chavithi had begun well before the country achieved Independence and had been a part and parcel of the Hindu culture and tradition. He objected to the issuance of an order that the festival should be celebrated only at homes purportedly due to the pandemic, and said it hurt the sentiments of the Hindus. It would have been good had the the government allowed public celebration with the condition that adequate precautions should be taken. “But the government’s decision appears to be a conspiracy against the Hindus,” he alleged. “When educational institutions, business and commercial establishments, and cinema halls have reopened, why should restrictions be imposed on Vinayaka Chavithi celebrations?” Mr. Veerraju questioned, citing the government’s claim to have contained the pandemic to a large extent. He also pointed out that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government was bent on holding local body elections when the pandemic was at its peak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-questions-curbs-on-vinayaka-chavithi-fete/article36299893.ece
05 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police ‘subservient’ to YSRCP, says Lokesh||TDP general secretary and MLC Nara Lokesh on Saturday criticised the Director General of Police D. Goutam Sawang for what he called “subservience of the police forces to the dictates of the ruling party leaders.” In a statement, Mr. Lokesh said while the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his Cabinet Ministers had been boasting about the Disha Act from every possible platform, the Bill had not yet been approved by the Centre and the President and thus, it was not yet an Act. Accusing the DGP of resorting to gross bias, he said no action was taken against the YSR Congress Party MLA Kotamreddy Sridhar Reddy and his followers who reportedly attacked MPDO Sarala at her house at Venkatachalam in Nellore district but with the “DGP’s tacit support, the police officials had been targeting the opposition TDP leaders by foisting cases against them”. Alleging complete breakdown of law and order in the State, he said the DGP had no answer when asked what action was taken against the culprits in a molestation case that happened at a stone’s throw from the Chief Minister’s house at Tadepalli, under the Disha law. He alleged that women were being exploited on the pretext that they would be included in the list of beneficiaries of the government’s welfare schemes. He said the implementation of the vaccination drive in the State was very tardy and the negligent attitude of the YSRCP government reflected in the “mismanagement” of the pandemic in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-subservient-to-ysrcp-says-lokesh/article36299895.ece
05 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang targeting senior citizens arrested||The police arrested two persons, who were allegedly targeting lonely senior citizens and killing them during robbery attempts. The accused were involved in three cases, including two murders, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Speaking to newsmen here on Saturday, Mr. Srinivasulu said the north zone police in association with the crime police arrested Palle Ramu alias Rahim and Mudoli Nagaraju of Vijayawada. The accused, Ramu, allegedly killed one Peddi Satyavathi (80) of A.V.S. Road, Payakaraopeta area, on February 26 this year and took away her gold chain and earrings. The Nunna police registered a case. In the second case, Ramu and his friend, Nagaraju, allegedly thrashed a 75-year-old woman, Veesam Venkayamma, of Dabakotlu Centre under Ajitsingh Nagar police station on March 27 and fled with her gold chain after she fainted. On August 26 this year, Ramu, allegedly attacked an old woman Munnangi Subba (70), at Kundavari Kandriga, who was staying alone in her house, and stole her gold jewellery. Nunna police registered a case and took up investigation. Police observed the CCTV footage, tracked the movements of the accused and arrested them, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP-West) K. Babu Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gang-targeting-senior-citizens-arrested/article36299987.ece
05 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Teachers’ role vital in shaping future citizens’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has extended warm greetings to the teaching fraternity on the occasion of Teachers’ Day celebrated on September 5, commemorating the birth anniversary of scholar, academician and former President Bharat Ratna Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. “Teachers play an important role in shaping the future citizens by igniting their zeal towards wisdom and guiding them in the right path on a strong moral and ethical foundation,” the Chief Minister said, and added: “The government believes in Right to Education and a level playing field to all the students and the role of teachers is more amplified with the reforms ushered in.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-role-vital-in-shaping-future-citizens/article36299896.ece
05 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land scheme to go on stream from March 2023||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development and Mines Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has said the government is aiming for the full-fledged implementation of the ‘YSR Jagananna Saswatha Bhu Hakku - Bhu Raksha’ programme from March 2023. Briefing the media after deliberating on the project implementation at a Cabinet sub-committee meeting at the Secretariat on Saturday, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said attention was paid to speedy resolution of the issues hampering it and a comprehensive plan of action was devised to take the project forward. The committee consisted of Ramachandra Reddy and his Cabinet colleagues Dharmana Krishnadas (Revenue) and Botcha Satyanarayana (Municipal Administration and Urban Development). Earlier, an empowered committee comprising Ministers Ramachandra Reddy, D. Krishnadas, B. Rajendranath Reddy and B. Satyanarayana discussed the Abolition of Inams Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-scheme-to-go-on-stream-from-march-2023/article36299890.ece
05 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC seizes stray cattle||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh has warned cattle owners of strict action if cattle are found straying on the city roads causing inconvenience to the public. VMC officials took possession of 50 such cows and calves in Krishnalanka area on Saturday and shifted them to the cattle shed in Rajarajeswaripet. Owners fined Mr. Venkatesh said that the cattle owners would be allowed to take their animals back within five days by paying a fine and submitting an undertaking to the VMC. Unclaimed animals would be handed over to the District Rural Development Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmc-seizes-stray-cattle/article36299991.ece
05 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowing chief coach visits Punnami Ghat||Sports Authority of India Chief Coach of Rowing Ismail Baig on Saturday visited Punnami Ghat in the city and inspected the facilities and water sports equipment in view of the water sports academy proposed by the Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Baig along with Sculling and Rowing Association of AP (SRAAP) president and Amaravati Boating Club CEO Tarun Kakani took stock of the boats and other equipment required for water sports, according to a release. He interacted with water sports enthusiasts.. SAAP coach Nagababu, SRAAP secretary V.V. Rao, treasurer G. Nageswarao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowing-chief-coach-visits-punnami-ghat/article36299992.ece
05 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virtual dissection lab inaugurated||A virtual dissection lab was inaugurated in the Department of Anatomy at All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Mangalagiri (AIIMS-M) on Saturday by its Director Mukhesh Tripati. It is a synchronised multiple visualiser system that consists of an anatomage convertible table, an anatomage wall with four synchronous screens and a RealSim tilt table with fully preloaded three dimensional anatomy of real human cadavers. The system can be customised with user-imported CT and MRI data for obtaining a virtual autopsy paradigm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virtual-dissection-lab-inaugurated/article36299875.ece
05 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||IAS officers shuffled||The government transferred six IAS officers in a minor shuffle on Saturday. P. Lakshmi Narasimham was posted as Commissioner (appeals) in the office of the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration. Prithvi Tej was posted as Deputy Secretary in the Energy Department and given additional charge as Managing Director of AP Solar Power Corporation Limited. K. Vijaya was posted as Commissioner of Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority and P. Prasanthi as Additional Commissioner. G. Raja Kumari was posted as Joint Collector (ward and village secretariat) in Guntur district. P. Dharma Chandra Reddy was posted as Kadapa Revenue Divisional Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ias-officers-shuffled/article36299889.ece
05 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||55 persons given jobs on compassionate grounds||Government jobs were given to 55 persons in accordance with the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on compassionate grounds by Krishna district administration on Saturday. Collector J. Nivas handed over the appointment orders to the new appointees, including six sexual assault victims. There were appointed to posts like junior assistants, office subordinates and sweepers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/55-persons-given-jobs-on-compassionate-grounds/article36299993.ece
05 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indonesia envoy meets Governor||Consul General of the Republic of Indonesia in Mumbai Agus P. Saptono called on Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan here on Saturday. The Governor discussed with him the investment potential in the State which has the second longest coastline, abundant natural resources and investment-friendly environment. He invited the potential investors from Indonesia to invest in Andhra Pradesh. Later, the Governor felicitated Mr. Saptono. Special Chief Secretary to Governor R.P. Sisodia and other officers participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indonesia-envoy-meets-governor/article36299888.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘VSP’s lands will be with Centre even after its sale’||Seeking to clear the air on the strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and allaying the apprehension that once sold, the land bank of the plant may be misused by the buyer, BJP national general secretary D. Purandeswari has said the land will continue to be with the Union Government and in the name of the President. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Ms. Purandeswari said, “Only the plant will be handed over to the private player, but land will remain with the Centre. The employees and people in general need not be misguided. The private player will run the plant, as the government wants to stay away from doing business. It is like a lease agreement.” Confirming that the Tata Group had evinced interest in running the plant, she said it was up to the Centre to take a call. Asset monetisation Supporting the asset monetisation policy, she said the National Monetisation Policy and the National Infrastructure Pipeline had been created to develop five core sectors – railways, airports, ports, roads and power. “Unless infrastructure is developed, we cannot expect investments,” she added. Lashing out at the YSRCP government, she said, “The political ambience in the State is vicious and poisonous.” “It is poisonous because temples are being desecrated and the government is doing nothing to prevent them from happening. It is vicious as the State is using its machinery to quell any form of dissent,” she alleged. ‘State in debt trap’ “The State is in a debt trap. It has been availing of loans in the name of development through various corporations only to fund its welfare schemes,” she said, and added that banks were no longer keen on giving loans. “The 42% tax devolution from the Centre to the State will now be taken over by the RBI,” Ms. Purandeswari said. “Despite mobilising loans, there has been no asset creation,” she observed. Stating that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government was no different from that of Naidu’s tenure, she said while Mr. Naidu had left the State with over Rs. 1.25 lakh crore debts, Mr. Reddy only enhanced it further. On the welfare schemes, Ms. Purandeswari said, on the one hand schemes were doled out, and on the other more money was being recovered from the beneficiaries. “The auto-rickshaw drivers are being given Rs. 10,000 per year. But the drivers say that the authorities are levying huge fine and taking back more money,” she said. Corruption Alleging corruption in liquor trade, she said, “Mr. Jagan may have reduced the number of shops per district, but has increased the prices exorbitantly. Moreover, lack of digital transactions speaks of the level of corruption.” Alleged large-scale corruption in sand trade, she said, “The middle class and poor people are unable to build houses due to high rate of sand.” “While no new industries have come up in State, the existing ones are moving away due to corruption, vindictiveness and harassment,” she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsps-lands-will-be-with-centre-even-after-its-sale/article36299898.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIMS, KGH and VGH to be developed with Rs. 950 crore||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), King George Hospital (KGH) and Victoria General Hospital (Gosha hosptial) will be developed with a budget of Rs. 950 crore with all facilities. He was speaking during the inauguration of 20 KL capacity oxygen tank at the VIMS which was set up at a cost of Rs. 32 lakh here on Saturday. He laid the foundation stone for a CT Diagnostic Centre and Regional Drug Centre at the hospital, which will be set up at a cost of Rs. 20 crore. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that earlier VIMS used to have 400 beds and now they were increased to 650. All the beds are provided with oxygen facility, he added. The Minister alleged that the previous Telugu Desam Party government neglected the VIMS. He said that it was former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy who were focussing on development of the VIMS. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana recalled the services of the VIMS during the COVID-19 first and second waves. 64 new cases Joint Collector P. Arun Babu said that the district administration would not like to see one more pandemic wave in future, but geared up with additional beds and adequate oxygen facility at the hospitals. Meanwhile, the district recorded 64 new COVID-19 cases, in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,55,743. Consecutively for the third day, there was no death due to the pandemic and the toll stands at 1,075. A total of 99 persons recovered from the coronavirus. The total number of recoveries has increased to 1,53,531. The number of active cases stands at 1,137.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vims-kgh-and-vgh-to-be-developed-with-rs-950-crore/article36299922.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patients, attendants face water woes at KGH||Patients and their attendants have been facing problems due to water shortage at the King George Hospital (KGH) here. Attendants are forced to fetch water from various sources near the hospital. On Saturday morning, following request from the KGH officials, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has sent water tankers to the hospital. Attendants formed queues and collected water outside the wards for their daily use. They carried the water buckets on their heads to their respective wards. However, the attendants alleged that the water was not at all sufficient and they were forced to collect again from nearby taps in the hospital and surrounding colonies. “This has been the issue for the last two days. We are storing water and using it judiciously. Unfortunately, we bought only one bucket. I had purchased another bucket in the nearby market. The officials must take some steps and solve the problem,” said Lovaraju, a resident of Anandapuram, whose wife is being treated at KGH in Gynaecology ward. Two youths Subhash and Chandu were seen collecting water from a drinking water tap near Bhavnagar ward and taking it for the needs of their relative who was undergoing treatment in a ward. They said that they had only fetched one bucket of water in the morning which was insufficient. According to sources in KGH, a pipeline, which was laid decades ago, was damaged. Sources said that help has been sought from the GVMC Engineering Department officials, who are working to rectify the problem on a war-footing. It was learnt that it would take another day to two to solve the problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patients-attendants-face-water-woes-at-kgh/article36299998.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag cricketer selected as net bowler for CSK||K. Nitish Kumar Reddy, a budding 19-year-old cricketer from Gajuwaka area of the city, has got a break in the IPL circuit, as he has been selected as net bowler for Chennai Super Kings (CSK). He is currently in Dubai with the CSK team that is led by Mahendra Singh Dhoni. He is an all-rounder who is strong middle-order batsman and bowls at a brisk pace, said Andhra Cricket Association (ACA) director and former India cricketer Y. Venugopal Rao. ‘Good break’ Speaking to The Hindu , he said that this is a good break for Nitish, as he is young and will rub shoulders with top players. It is an opportunity for him to learn and may be get recognised to find a place in the CSK main team next year, Mr. Venugopal Rao said. ‘Plenty of talent’ According to him, there are plenty of talented players in Andhra Pradesh, who can play in the IPL circuit, as well as the country, but looking for a good break. “This year we have about three players as net bowlers and three are playing for different teams,” said the former international cricketer. Nitish who took up cricket at the age of six years, was groomed in the coaching camps organised by the VDCA. He scored tons of runs in the Under-16 circuit in the country and received special recognition from the BCCI, said VDCA secretary K. Parthasarathi. He also has been playing for Andhra in the Ranji Trophy, since 2020 and has performed well, said his father Mutyala Reddy, a former employee of HZL. Coaches in VDCA say that the youngster is a gifted player and is good with the bat, ball and on field. He also played for Under-19 India -B.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-cricketer-selected-as-net-bowler-for-csk/article36300002.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two slums in city to be developed on a pilot basis||YSR Congress Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that two slums in the city will be developed on a pilot basis as part of the slum development project. He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the project soon. The MP was speaking to the officials after a review meet organised to discuss the status of various development activities in the district, here on Saturday. He said that they had identified 794 slums in the district. “The development plans for the slums is ready and initially we would be taking up development activities at two slums,” he said. The main motto is to provide all basic amenities to the people, he said. The MP also asked the officials to maintain protocol in all the government programmes organised in the city. District in-charge Minister and Agriculture Minster K. Kannababu said that as COVID-19 cases have come down, the officials must focus on welfare schemes and speed up the works. He also reiterated that the Chief Minister is giving priority to the development of Visakhapatnam. He said that he is receiving a number of complaints that the secretariat staff are not working properly and asked the officials concerned to keep inspecting the Sachivalayams. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said that people in Madhurawada area are facing problems due to lack of street lights, drinking water supply and poor sanitation. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana and Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) Commissioner K. Venkata Ramana Reddy briefed about development projects being undertaken in the city. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna, VMRDA Chairperson A. Vijaya Nirmala, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, Joint Collectors and other officials were present||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-slums-in-city-to-be-developed-on-a-pilot-basis/article36300000.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains between Visakhapatnam and Rayagada from September 15||The East Coast Railway has decided to run special trains between Visakhapatnam-Rayagada daily, with effect from September 15. The train No. 08508 Visakhapatnam- Rayagada special train will leave Visakhapatnam at 6 p.m. every day from September 15 and will reach Rayagada at 10.05 p.m on the same day. In return direction, the train No. 08507 Rayagada-Visakhapatnam special train will leave Rayagada at 5.40 a.m. daily with effect from September 16 and will reach Visakhapatnam at 10 a.m. on the same day. Stops The trains will stop at Simhachalam, Kottavalasa, Vizianagaram, Gajapathinagaram, Bobbili, Parvathipuram, Parvathipuram Town between Visakhapatnam- Rayagada stations. They will comprise 10 second class coaches and two second class-cum-luggage coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-between-vizag-and-rayagada-from-sept-15/article36299923.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on water management laws begins||The two-day ICSSR sponsored national webinar on ‘Water Management Laws: Life, Livelihood and Environment’ began at Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University(DSNLU) here on Saturday. Rajendra Singh, popularly known as the Waterman of India, former bureaucrat E.A.S. Sarma and Director, ICSSR – SRC, V. Usha Kiran, spoke. DSNLU Vice-Chancellor S. Surya Prakash and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-water-management-laws-begins/article36299996.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic also impacting mental health: experts||GITAM Deemed to be University organised the Indian Psychiatric Society AP State Branch 41st Annual Conference at the GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) here on Saturday. Medical experts said that COVID-19 virus is not only affecting physical health of people, but it is also impacting the mental health, which needs to be addressed immediately. Indian Psychiatric Society (IPS) national president N.N. Raju said that there were numerous mental health threats associated with the current pandemic. He said that the number of psychiatrists in India is only 8,000 and majority of them are based in the southern States. IPS Andhra Pradesh Chapter newly-elected president Y. Sanjay said that loss of social networks, jobs, financial security and threatened loss of loved ones impacted the quality of relationships among parents, children and siblings during the present pandemic situation. Indian Psychiatric Society Andhra Pradesh Chapter former president B. Ramesh Babu and APMC observer Atchuta Rao attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-also-impacting-mental-health-experts/article36299997.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘GVL trying to break unity among trade unions’||BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao was trying to break the unity among the trade unions by making false statements, leaders of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee alleged on Saturday. They were reacting to Mr. Narasimha Rao’s statement on Friday that among the 26 trade unions in the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), all but those affiliated to the Communist parties were supporting the plant’s privatisation. Committee chairman Ch. Narasinga Rao said all the 26 unions were on one platform, protesting against the decision of the Union Government, ever since the proposal for privatisation of VSP had been announced on January 26. “Mr. Narasimha Rao’s claims have no credibility, and to prove that we have organised this meeting with the participation of members from all the 26 unions,” he said. Traffic on the NH 16, between Gajuwaka and Lankelapalem, was paralysed for about an hour due to the meeting in the evening. The effigy of the BJP MP was also set afire by the union members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvl-trying-to-break-unity-among-trade-unions/article36299899.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP decries Vijaya Sai’s remarks on Ashok||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Visakhapatnam parliamentary constituency president Palla Srinivasa Rao said that YSR Congress Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy was making false allegations against senior TDP leader P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju to divert public attention on the Simhachalam land issue. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao alleged that Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy was encroaching lands in the Visakhapatnam district. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy has no right to speak and make baseless allegations against the former Union Minister, whose family had donated hundreds of acres of land for the development of the North Andhra, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. He criticised Executive Officer of the Simhachalam Devasthanam M.V. Suryakala for welcoming Mr. Vijaya Sai with a ‘Poorna Kumbham’ at the temple, which is against the sentiments of Hindus. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the EO must be suspended immediately. He criticised the YSRCP leaders for their comments against the ‘Uttarandhra Rakshana Charcha Vedika.’ He alleged that in the name of Executive Capital, the YSRCP has been cheating people of the North Andhra. He said that since the last two years, the State government has not taken up any development activity, but kept on claiming Visakhapatnam as the Executive Capital. He said that due to the apathy of the YSRCP government, IT industry has moved from the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-takes-exception-to-vijaya-sais-remarks-on-ashok/article36299921.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||E-cars, e-bikes available on rent at railway station||The Waltair Division of the East Coast Railway has started the facility of e-cars and e-bikes on rent at the Visakhapatnam railway station. The facility was inaugurated by Divisional Railway Manager Anup Kumar Satpathy here on Saturday. A motorbike rental company has set up its facility at the Gate number 1. This project was set up under non-fare revenue. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Satpathy said that visitors, passengers and public at the station can avail this facility at nominal charges. The concept of e-bikes and cars is to promote environment-friendly motive among the travellers and to encourage the public towards conservation of environment. The DRM also commissioned two water coolers each on platform nos.1 and 8 donated by Sri Satya Sai Seva Samithi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/e-cars-e-bikes-available-on-rent-at-railway-station/article36300003.ece
05 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP two-day State meet concludes||The two-day BJP State office-bearers’ meeting concluded here on Saturday. A number of senior leaders, including Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, State president Somu Veerraju, national general secretary D. Purandeswari, State co in-charge Sunil V. Deodhar, national secretary Satya Kumar and MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, were present. Briefing the media, Ms. Purandeswari said that it was a general meeting with the office-bearers. Ganesh pandals Referring to a question on the prohibition imposed on establishing Ganesh pandals at public places, she said it was surprising to see that the State government was taking such decisions that concerns festivals of the Hindus, but did not mind organising a festival at Idupulapaya during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-two-day-state-meet-concludes/article36300004.ece
05 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Campaign on bad roads evoked good response: JSP||Jana Sena Party’s digital campaign on bad roads evoked a good response from the public in different parts of the district, according to Palavalasa Yashaswi, political affairs committee member of the party. Along with party leaders Tyada Ramakrishna Rao, Tummi Lakshmiraj and others, she organised a protest at Dharmapuri here on Saturday over the poor road conditions. She told the media that many accidents were taking place due to the horrible condition of the roads which were supposed to be inspected and maintained periodically. “We will wait till October 2 for the government’s response. If the administration fails to respond, we will take up the responsibility of repairing the roads. In the meantime, we will continue to collect photos of bad roads from all sections of society and display them digitally at prominent places,” she said. At another protest, the party leaders Adada Mohana Rao, Vanka Narasinga Rao and Dantuluri Ramesh Raju asked the government to take up repairs for Vizianagaram-Parvatipuram road. With potholes for every 100 yards on the road, the travel time between the two towns had gone up to nearly three hours. “Breakdown of vehicles has become a common phenomenon on the stretch putting travellers to severe inconvenience. The public representatives who move on the roads have failed to take up the issue with the government,” said Mr. Mohana Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/campaign-on-bad-roads-evoked-good-response-jsp/article36299918.ece
05 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea not to postpone teacher awards function||Andhra Pradesh State SC and ST Upadhyaya Sangham State president Samala Simhachalam on Saturday urged the State government to go ahead with the awards’ presentation on the Teachers’ Day on September 5. In a press release, he said that the government’s decision to cancel the programme had disappointed meritorious teachers across the State. “The function can be conducted while following COVID precautionary measures,” he opined. As the selection of awardees was also completed, there was no need to postpone the programme, Mr. Simhachalam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-not-to-postpone-teacher-awards-function/article36299919.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-woes/article36299924.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-woes/article36299884.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-woes/article36299901.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Added attractions||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/added-attractions/article36300006.ece
05 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Six ‘militia members’ apprehended||Six “militia members” of the outlawed CPI (Maoist) from Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district were apprehended by a combing police party in Pusuguppa forest area in Charla on Saturday. Among those detained was a 17-year-old minor boy, police said. The arrested persons were identified as Kunjam Adama, 30, Joga, 23, Madivi Bandi, 27, Madivi Unga, 23, and Madakam Sannu, 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/six-militia-members-apprehended/article36299734.ece
05 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A gloomy and doomy Teacher’s Day this year too||Their ranks thinned by the pandemic sackings, Teacher’s Day has just become one more grim marker in the calendar for teachers in the city. “The chant of Gurur Brahma, Gurur Vishnu, Gurur Devo Maheshwara is just a slogan. I was sacked at a day’s notice after being deprived of salary for four months,” says a Math teacher from the city, who has now moved to Nalgonda for farming. Just a memory Schools with a tradition of celebrating Teacher’s Day, organised by students dressed in civvies with colourful writing on the black board, are just a memory for teachers. “I used to get a salary of Rs. 18,000 when I was working with Rachana Grammar School in Kapra. After schools reopened, I got a call from another school and was offered Rs. 5,000 as salary,” says Surindar Karne, who has done MCA and B.Ed and used to teach Math. “Currently, I am working as a salesman with a real estate company. If there are sales, I get money, otherwise it is tough,” he says. The State government had announced a dole of Rs. 2,000 and 25 kg rice per month for teachers but even this was denied to many as schools deleted their names from their rolls. Some private schools are still doing the “wait and watch” game and planning to reopen from Monday. “Schools reduced the pay and kept some teachers on the rolls. These teachers were forced to conduct multiple classes during lockdown. Now, they are asking us to rejoin,” says another teacher who didn’t want to go on record. “When schools reopened for a month, I rejoined and after a month I was sacked. Now, I want a guarantee of six months’ salary before I start working in a school,” the teacher said. Not all sacking had unhappy endings. One well known school in the western part of the city let go of three teachers who quickly found better paying jobs as teachers. But such reports have been rare. “We have a record of 43 teachers ending their lives due to financial distress caused by sacking and cut in salaries,” says Shaik Shabbir Ali of Telangana Private Teachers’ Forum, who has organised protest marches and dharnas to raise the issue of teachers’ privation. But Teacher’s Day in 2020 and 2021 would be dark days for many as they cease to be teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-gloomy-and-doomy-teachers-day-this-year-too/article36299703.ece
05 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dozens of trees lining Tank Bund hacked away||Dozens of trees lining the Tank Bund road have been hacked away, poisoned and chopped off to make way for park infrastructure in the area over the past few months. On Sunday, when photogs trooped to click the busy thoroughfare that was turned into pedestrian promenade for five hours, they discovered something amiss. The Christmas tree beside Abul Hasan Tanashah’s statue where bird-seed sellers sit had completely dried up and became a perch for pigeons which occupied every branch and nook. Another tree of the same species (araucaria heterophylla) between Gurram Jashuva and Siddhendra Yogi statue which had its top portion hacked away in May and survived with fresh shoots has also dried up. All the trees that have dried up showed deep cuts on the trunks. The method of killing trees is well known and has been used by a big fashion label to kill trees in front of its outlet in Mumbai in 2018. “The deep cuts are on the superficial bark of the tree. The tree will not die like that. They need to use a chemical to kill the tree,” said E. Sujatha, who teaches molecular plant physiology and stress physiology in Osmania University. Asked about the tree stumps, a Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation staffer supervising the site on Saturday said, “We have not cut any trees. Some of the old, dead trees have been removed.” Satellite imagery between 2019 and May 2021 shows huge gaps in tree canopy congruent with the tree stumps found on the ground. Incidentally, last year, Hyderabad had created a record of sorts with 2,40,08,742 saplings being planted and has been named ‘Tree City of the World’, which is an initiative of UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dozens-of-trees-lining-tank-bund-hacked-away/article36299708.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Continue ‘Poshan Abhiyan’, Centre urged||Telangana government has requested the Centre to continue the ‘Poshan Abhiyan’ programme to help overcome nutritional deficiency among pregnant women, lactating mothers and children below five years age. The scheme is set to conclude on September 30. Minister for Women Development and Child Welfare Sathyavathi Rathod along with delegation of MP M. Kavitha, MLA B. Haripriya Naik, Warangal Mayor and former MP G. Sudharani called on Union Minister for Women and Child Welfare Smriti Irani in New Delhi on Friday and made several requests on the schemes of the department. Ms. Rathod requested the Union Minister to restore the reduced Central share in Anganwadi centres, implement Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to Anganwadi teachers and helpers, increase the quota of millets such as sorghum and pearl millet given under the nutrition programme. She also sought Centre’s assistance in increasing the production of ‘Balamritam’, a nutritional supplement, stating that there was a big demand from several States for its supply. She requested the Union Minister to supply 5,427 tonnes of sorghum and 2,714 tonnes of pearl millet to Telangana for 2021-22 under the nutritional supplement programme. She also brought to the Union Minister’s notice that withdrawal of some components under Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) and reduction of Central share in women and child welfare schemes stating that it was hampering the interventions for pregnant women, lactating mothers and children below 5 years age. Seeking restoration of Central share to that of 2017, Ms. Rathod said the Central share in wages of Anganwadi teachers and helpers under ICDS to 25% from 60% in the past. As result, the burden on the State had increased to 75% from 40% in the past. The Union Minister respondent positively for visiting the State to examine the women and child welfare schemes in Telangana. Later, Ms. Rathod stated that the Union Minister had assured that Poshan Abhiyan would be continued beyond September 30. She assured to examine State’s plea for higher Central share in women and child welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/continue-poshan-abhiyan-centre-urged/article36299718.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farmers complain of glitches in ‘Dharani’||Dharani portal, the much-touted online registration system, was in focus on the eighth day of BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar's ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ with farmers en route coming out with a litany of complaints and the intransigence of the Revenue department on Saturday. With former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devender Fadnavis joining him during his walk across Vikarabad, the BJP leader held a farmers’ meeting where they poured out their frustration over the functioning of the revenue officials and the glitches associated with the portal. “Dharani has brought forth many problems and we are forced to run around the revenue officials, without respite. Approaching the Collector too has not been helpful, please provide us a solution,” said Narasimha Reddy of Athili village. Another farmer Vijaykumar from Bantswaram said that application for the Rythu Bima scheme was not uploaded despite making requests. “We are caught in a no man’s land due to the portal,” said Manikya Reddy, another farmer, while another villager Lakshmi wanted MNGRES to be linked to farm labour. Other agriculture issues were also brought to his notice. Krishna, a farmer, complained that joining Sericulture and Horticulture into Agriculture had led to lot of confusion on whom to approach for subsidy benefits. Dasaratha Reddy claimed that Rythu Bandhu was benefiting only rich farmers. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said his tour was meant to bring a BJP government which worked for the poor and farmers’ welfare to power. “TRS government has stopped all subsidies with the introduction of Rythu Bandhu. Why are tenant farmers left out? Dharani is a big scam,” he said. While explaining the PM Kisan Sanman scheme, he lashed out at Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and questioned why he did not reveal the extent of funds received from Centre after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi with a wish list. “The Centre is funding all welfare and development schemes in TS which this government does not want to say as it has been diverting them or misappropriating them,” he claimed. Stating that the Mr. Sanjay’s padayatra would bring a change in the perception of people in Telangana, former chief minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis sought to know whether Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao had ever interacted with farmers as Mr. Sanjay was doing now. He asked the farming community to support the Praja Sangrama Yatra and the BJP so that a farmer/peasant/people-friendly government was installed in Telangana in 2023 to end all problems of people.  Senior BJP leader G. Narayan Reddy too castigated the government for failing to correct the technical issues in Dharani portal. “Eleven months have gone by since the inauguration but it has been unable to carry out the transactions properly putting lakhs of farmers in utter distress as issues relating to 20 lakh acres under prohibited lands are yet to be addressed.” He demanded that the government constitute a committee with IT professionals to solve the issues of the Dharani portal and do justice to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-complain-of-glitches-in-dharani/article36299725.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Education sector neglected in TS’||Former IAS officer Akunuri Murali has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to allocate 20% of the budget for education, given its prominence in pushing human resources abilities to a greater strength, which ultimately would empower people and strengthen the State’s economy. “Budgetary allocations for Education and Health must be given priority and the remaining sectors have to be taken care of after these sectors,” he said. He was speaking on behalf of the Social Democratic Forum, consisting of retired IAS officers, educationists and those working in the education sector. Mr. Murali said that the CM had ignored the education sector all these years and it had a trickle down effect with none in districts monitoring it, thus, affecting the entire sector. He urged KCR to review education department on a regular basis. He added that Telangana is way behind on several parameters compared to other states or national figures. On the education front, it is at the 10th place, 17th on food security, 19th on health indicator and 23rd on women empowerment. Even the perceived backward states are ahead of us, he said. The former Collector of Bhupalapalli district said that in the first year of Telangana formation (2014-15), allocation to education sector was 10.89% of the budget and in 2021-22, it was reduced to 5.89%. “Though budget amount has increased, the percentage of allocation has drastically reduced and this would have a huge impact.” Co-convenor R. Venkata Reddy said that education budget allocation was 18% in the Telugu Desam government and got reduced to 12% during the Congress regime but now, it is cut by nearly 50%. “The worst affected are girl students due to this neglect,” he said. Mr. Murali said that the dropout rate was 36% and 33% for boys and girls respectively, as they reach 10th class. The figures were more for SC and ST students. Dropouts were more in backward and tribal dominated districts with figures reaching 66%. Other members who spoke alleged that there was a conscious effort to deny education to the downtrodden sections, with the government promoting private sector both in school and the university level. Rama, Jhansi Geddam, Surepally Sujata, and Laxminarayana, among others, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/education-sector-neglected-in-state/article36299701.ece
05 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tribute to teacher-author||As the headmistress of Sisuvidya Mandir, Hyderabad, affiliated to Bharatiya Vidyapeeth, and later as the founder principal of Oasis Day School in Hyderabad, Singaraju Krishna Kumari did not just essay her role of a teacher but played an active role in spreading awareness on the culture and traditions of our country. Before she passed away on May 29, Krishna Kumari had worked on her book Kalacharithra (Telugu) that has now been translated and published in English as Kalacharithra - Our traditions, our festivals for the younger generation to follow and understand the meaning, essence and methods behind the observance of festivals, which are a reflection of our ancient culture, traditions, and our spirituality. Krishna Kumari explored the Hindu concept of time, months, and festivals in the book. She had also authored books Maa Theertha Yaathralu, Part 1 and Part 2 and Kalyana Vaibhogame as well as several articles for magazines on various spiritual aspects, commentaries on Upanishads, Telugu and Sanskrit literature and inspiring personalities like Ramana Maharshi, Vemana etc. Krishna Kumari had spent her life in pursuit of spiritual knowledge and delivering spiritual discourses on Soundarya Lahari, Sivananda Lahari, Ananda Lahari, Mukunda Maala, Shri Ramakarnaamrutam, Ramanayam, Bhagavatam, Thiruppavai, Thiruvembavai and Narayaneeyam. She used to hold forth her expertise on subjects like Sri Lalitha “Manidweeepa Varnana”, the lives of musicians like Thyagaraja, Annamacharya, Purandara Das and Narayana Theertha. Her discourses and commentary were on Tiruppavai and the musical masterpieces of Thyagaraja. especially Pancharatna kirtanas, which she held for over 15 years were particularly popular. Krishna Kumari was very active in conducting spiritual, literary, cultural and religious functions in Shri Prasannanjaneya Swami Mandir in Navodaya Colony, Hyderabad where she lived.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tribute-to-teacher-author/article36299706.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four flood gates of Osmansagar lifted||Flood gates have been lifted for the Osmansagar reservoir too on Saturday, days after they had been opened for its twin reservoir, Himayatsagar. Alerted by the weathermen’s prediction about heavy rains for the coming three days, Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board authorities have opened four gates of Osmansagar, releasing water downstream into Musi river. Due to heavy rains in the catchment area, the reservoir filled to 1,789 feet, against its full tank level of 1,790 feet. A total of 468 cusecs of water is being released into the river, a press statement from the water board informed. This is the second time gates of Osmansagar have been lifted this year, the note said. First time, the gates were opened on July 22, to release flood water, and shut on July 25. HMWS&SB MD M. Dana Kishore cautioned departments concerned to stay alert towards the possibility of flooding in surrounding areas of Musi river. Two gates of the Himayatsagar reservoir have been downed due to reduced inflows. A total of 700 cusecs of water is being released now through two gates, the statement informed. Against an FTL of 1763.5 feet, the reservoir now holds water up to 1761.75 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-flood-gates-of-osmansagar-lifted/article36299712.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Reserve Bank of India panel for hike in advance limit||A copy of the report of an Advisory Committee constituted by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to review the Ways and Means limits for State governments and Union Territories was given to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar by Special Chief Secretary (Finance) K. Ramakrishna Rao, who is a member of the committee. Chaired by Sudhir Shrivatsava, retired Additional Chief Secretary of Maharashtra, has Finance Secretaries of Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Assam and Odisha as members. The committee released its report on Saturday and a copy of it was given to the Chief Secretary by Mr. Ramakrishna Rao. Mr. Rao explained to the Chief Secretary that the committee had recommended increase in the ways and means advance limit given to States and Union Territories from the existing Rs. 47,010 crore to Rs. 51,560 crore since the direct impact of COVID-19 pandemic was high on the States. The committee had also advised the Reserve Bank of India to link interest rates in tune with the policy of the Reserve Bank of India. Other recommendations of the advisory committee include keeping special drawing facility interest 2% less than the repo rate and charge only the repo rate as interest on ways and means, removal of condition that States invest in treasury bills for 91 days for availing the special drawing facility and reducing the tenure for withdrawing investments from Consolidated Sinking Fund (CSF) from 5 years to 2 years. The Reserve Bank of India committee observed that the measures recommended would improve the availability of resources with the State governments for implementing government scheme efficiently. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar complimented the efforts of Special Chief Secretary (Finance) Ramakrishna Rao for protecting the interests of the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rbi-panel-for-hike-in-advance-limit/article36299721.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A touch of life before death||Sparsh Hospice, an 82-bed palliative care facility in Khajaguda, was inaugurated by MA&UD Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Saturday, where services will be provided free of cost to terminally ill patients. The 60,000 sft centre was constructed on 1.1 acre land, leased out by the State government, at Rs. 15 crore, funded by corporates and individuals. According to World Health Organisation (WHO), “Palliative care improves the quality of life of patients and their families facing challenges associated with life-threatening illnesses, whether physical, psychological, social or spiritual.” Chief anaesthetist at Rainbow Children’s Hospital Dr. M Subrahmanyam said that palliative care does not refer to treatment of the original illness, but management of suffering around the illness such as loss of appetite, weakness, and vomiting. KTR said that he did not know about palliative care and started to learn about the concept after visiting the Sparsh Hospice’s old facility at Banjara Hills in 2006. Dr. Subrahmanyam said that every year, around 14 lakh cancer patients get added in India. “Around 60% of them need palliative care. And it is estimated that only 2% receive it. As a humane society, we need to do something about it. The best way is to build a hospice,” he added. Services offered Palliative care at Sparsh Hospice involves physical, emotional and spiritual care by a team of doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, counsellors and spiritual guides. It also offers home care services. All these services are offered free. The facility has paediatric palliative care, physiotherapy room, library, gym, lounge, nursing dormitory, doctors’ residence, pharmacy and mortuary, and can serve 82 patients, 150 home care patients and another 50 out patients. Besides palliative care to cancer patients, services will also be provided to patients suffering from other life-limiting illnesses. It has dementia and Parkinson’s ward, geriatric ward, and paediatric ward. Around 20% of beds will be reserved for these illnesses. Daycare ward, massage room, amphitheatre, conference room, family counselling rooms, kitchen, dining, and a water body, are available too. According to CEO of Sparsh Hospice Ram Mohan Rao Yarrapothu, the 82-bed centre will be serving patients with advanced stage of cancer, dementia, and Parkinson’s to embrace death without regrets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/82-bed-palliative-care-facility-inaugurated-in-khajaguda/article36299697.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Better safe than sorry: experts||With COVID cases being reported among teachers and students within days of opening of schools, parents’ anxiety levels are once again up. In fact, when the Telangana High Court requested the government to present the recommendation report of the experts’ committee on COVID-19 management to open schools and colleges, it must have caught the administration on the wrong foot. Sure, a five-member committee of top scientists, including directors of IICT, CCMB and prominent doctors, was constituted last year but met just once with no public record of any suggestions made to the government or action taken for framing a COVID management strategy. It certainly did not meet during the second wave and only when all hell broke loose with shortage of oxygen, beds and drugs in April-May, a fresh 12-member panel of scientists and doctors was constituted in June-end. And again, there was no information about any suggested steps. While one of its members has been drafted as a special advisor for COVID management, Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao continues to be the COVID official spokesperson ever since the pandemic broke out last year and has been talking of “collective responsibility if there is a virus outbreak” when he was not even a member of either of the committees! Dr. Rao along with Director of Medical Education Dr. K. Ramesh Reddy has been holding forth disseminating information to the media. Yet, there is no record of the duo or anyone among the decision-makers having consulted public health experts, scientists or epidemiologists before deciding to open schools. “There is no data available about number of teachers or non-teaching staff who got vaccinated. Children below 18 years may not be down with severe sickness, if infected, yet they are vulnerable as they are not vaccinated. Even if there is one case fatality or an outbreak in an institution, it could lead to panic. The asymptomatic can also carry the virus home to the elderly,” points out a senior Health official. “Children’s exposure to COVID is more harmful than their psyche without classes. We can make them happy without school or friends temporarily for some more time. I still wonder. Is it really making a great psychological impact on our children if they are not going to school?” asked a senior medical health professional Dr. T. Sateesh. Senior CCMB scientist Dr. Mandar V. Deshmukh, involved in COVID vaccine research, wrote to a prominent private school, pointing out that cases spiked in the United States among children (19,000 hospitalised, according to a news report) with schools reopening for physical classes and said indoor classes could lead to easy transmission as was first revealed by his own institute. “While fun and bonding in school is undeniable, online classes should be continued. However difficult it is for everyone, children’s safety is more important,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/better-safe-than-sorry-experts/article36299699.ece
05 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Modi-KCR friendship led to Huzurabad poll postponement’||Telangana Congress has claimed that the postponement of Huzurabad bypoll a day after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao met Prime Minister Narendra Modi was another indication of their close ties and mutual political understanding. TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud said at a press conference that it was amply clear that the bypoll date was not finalised at the request of KCR to the Prime Minister as he was afraid of losing in Huzurabad. “When bypolls are being held in West Bengal and other States, why is it postponed in Telangana where COVID cases are far low?” he said. Mr. Goud said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) likely candidate from Huzurabad and former minister Eatala Rajender might have now realised how dangerous it was to sail with the BJP. Mr. Rajender had been sacrificed for further strengthening the relations between TRS and BJP, he claimed. It was yet again proved that State BJP leaders were not trusted by their party at Delhi and it was better they stop fooling people with their fake claims of exposing the Chief Minister’s corruption, the Congress leader advised. “They are mere pawns in the political game played together by the TRS and BJP.” Dandora at Gajwel Mr. Mahesh Goud said the weekly meeting of the TPCC committee had decided to conduct the Dalita Girijana Dandora meeting at Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s Gajwel constituency on September 17. Another meeting was also likely at Karimnagar before that but final decision was yet to be taken. He said YSR’s anniversary meet organised by Y.S. Vijayamma was nothing but a political show and the Congress leaders who attended it despite the party’s decision against it may have to explain their stand to the party high command. He reminded that YSR’s son Jaganmohan Reddy himself had abstained from it, revealing the true nature of the meeting. He said YSR was a Congressman and would remain one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/modi-kcr-friendship-led-to-huzurabad-poll-postponement/article36299729.ece
05 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSIC gets new CIO||The Telangana State Innovation Cell will now be led former T-Hub vice president Dr Shanta Thoutam as its chief innovation officer (CIO). The TSIC was established in 2017 to promote entrepreneurship and innovation. She also served as officer on special duty for Textiles and Handicrafts. She succeeds Ravi Narayan who also served as chief executive officer of T - Hub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsic-gets-new-cio/article36299714.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||10 new Collectors get orientation on portal||An orientation programme on the Dharani system, an integrated land records management portal, was conducted virtually for 10 newly appointed District Collectors by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar from the makeshift Secretariat here on Saturday. The Chief Secretary explained to the new District Collectors that the Dharani system was developed as one of the prestigious projects of the State government to maintain and update land records on an integrated platform called Dharani portal as envisioned by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The Chief Secretary stated that no other State in the country had developed such portal to resolve land issues. Stating that over 8 lakh transactions had taken place so far, within a period of one year of its launch, the Chief Secretary said Dharani portal had already received over 4 crore hits. Modules of Dharani were developed on latest technology to ensure transparency. Online slot booking The Chief Secretary said that the entire Dharani operating system was based on online slot booking only. He directed District Collectors to ensure proper implementation of the system and pay special attention to clear grievances. He explained to them resolving typical problems through PowerPoint presentation. Commissioner and Inspector General of Stamps and Registration V. Sheshadri, Managing Director of Telangana State Technology Services G.T. Venkteshwar Rao, Officers on Special Duty Ramaiah explained technical aspects of the Dharani system. District Collectors Prashanth Jeevan Patil (Nalgonda), S. Harish (Medak), Anuraag Jayanti (Rajanna Sircilla), B. Gopi (Warangal), P. Uday Kumar (Nagarkurnool), Jitesh V. Patil (Kamareddy), Ch. Shivalingaiah (Jangaon), Valluri Kranthi (Jogulamba Gadwal) and Pamela Satpathy (Yadadri Bhuvanagiri) attended the orientation programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10-new-collectors-get-orientation-on-portal/article36299720.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister urges ryots to grow millets||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has asked farmers to grow millets at least in 10% to 20% of their cultivable land stating that there is good demand for millets in the market. As part of the TS-Agros board meeting held here on Saturday, the Minister along with other officials visited the Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR) and went round several millet processing machines. He was accompanied by Secretary (Agriculture) M. Raghunandan Rao, Director of IIMR Vilas A. Tonapi, Nutrition Hub CEO Dayakar Rao, Agros MD K. Ramulu and others. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said the State government was encouraging cultivation of millets along with oilseeds as part of change in cropping patterns as millets have key role in nutritional food security and asked the farming community to grow millets. He stated that the Agriculture Department would create awareness among millets cultivation and efforts would be made to make available processing units at field level. The Minister told the Agros to encourage young entrepreneurs including start-ups to establish millets processing units in rural areas. He also requested the Centre to announce minimum support price for millets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-urges-ryots-to-grow-millets/article36299722.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS affidavit over GO 111 direction||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar had filed an affidavit in Telangana High Court that in the capacity of the chairman of the High Powered Committee (HPC) constituted to study GO 111 he would comply with the HC directions issued on this August 26. A division bench of the HC had earlier instructed the government to ensure that the HPC would submit its report by September 13 on GO 111 related matters. The bench passed a slew of directions taking exception to the inordinate delay in submission of report. “Best endeavour would be made to abide by the conditions and timelines recorded in the HC order issued on August 26,” the CS stated in the affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-affidavit-over-go-111-direction/article36299723.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MP faulted for attending YSR anniversary||TPCC Campaign Committee Chairman Madhu Yaskhi Goud has questioned Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy attending the 12th YSR death anniversary programme, organised by his widow Vijayamma and daughter Sharmila, against the party decision. Mr. Goud said the intention of the meeting was political and the Congress MP’s presence was not right as the YSR’s daughter was working against the Congress in Telangana in association with the BJP and the TRS. “When YSR’s own son and AP Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy has not attended the meeting how can that be considered a meeting to pay tributes to YSR?” he asked. He said going against the party’s decision was definitely considered damaging the party and all Congressmen, whether it was Mr. Venkata Reddy or he, had made a political career because of the Congress and not just on individual strength. “Vijayamma claimed that Telangana would not have been possible if YSR was alive. Does Mr. Venkata Reddy hold similar view,” he asked. The former MP also ridiculed the comparison with MLA Seethakka tying a rakhi to former CM N. Chandrababu Naidu. “There is nothing political in it and we have to respect it as a brother-sister relationship. But the meeting Mr. Venkata Reddy attended was purely political,” he argued. He reminded that YSR dreamed of seeing Rahul Gandhi as Prime Minister of the country but his family was working against it. They should realise that it was the Congress that recognised YSR and gave him the opportunities but his family was trying to harm that party. “Let them not torment the soul of YSR by working hand in glove with the BJP and TRS,” he said. He said KCR’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi reminded him of the Nizam bowing in front of Sardar Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mp-faulted-for-attending-ysr-anniversary/article36299728.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Excise teams seize 30 grams MDMA, 4 LSD blots, and other drugs||Telangana Prohibition and Excise officials seized 30 grams of MDMA, 50 grams of charas, 10 kgs of ganja, and 4 LSD blots from three people in Hyderabad on Friday. A gang of four people used to bring ganja from Vizag, AP., kept it in a room in Hyderabad, dropped the consignment in Goa, and brought back MDMA and LSD. Private buses were used to travel between their destinations. The Excise Department’s enforcement team (Hyderabad) seized the drugs from M Shiva Shankar Reddy, 26, Gandham Manikanth, 26, and Shilpa Rai, 27, who is a native of Darjeeling of West Bengal. All three reside in the city. Another person, Manukonda Sathyanarayana, who is a resident of Vizag, and operates from Goa, is absconding. Assistant Excise Superintendent of the Enforcement wing N Anji Reddy said that Satyanarayana engaged the three by paying certain amount as commission. Shilpa Rai used to bring ganja and charas from Araku or Vizag by concealing it in her luggage bag, and travelled in private buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/durgs-seized-in-hyderabad/article36299468.ece
05 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Campaign against child abuse launched||‘We Can’, a campaign against child abuse by Hyderabad city police was launched here on Saturday. The campaign, which was launched at Bharosa centre, includes an extensive awareness drive aimed at stopping and preventing child abuse followed up by a strong action plan making children aware of their safety. Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar has flagged off the campaign in the presence of Women Development and Child Welfare Commissioner D. Divya, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty and officers. Speaking on the occasion Additional Commissioner of Police (Crimes and SIT) Shikha Goel shared the recent success stories of the cases that Bharosa dealt with resulting in 30 years of rigorous imprisonment in one case and 25 years of rigorous imprisonment in another case to the accused, and also Rs. 8 lakh compensation in first case and Rs. 4 lakh compensation in a second case to the victims. Further, she mentioned that, as part of the CyberSmart programme, in collaboration with WNS Cares Foundation, the city police created awareness among children of 100 schools. “For this new campaign, Bharosa Hyderabad will reach all the stakeholders, from schools to hospitals to orphanages resulting in widespread awareness against child sexual abuse across the sections,” Ms. Goel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/campaign-against-child-abuse/article36299713.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR to focus on strengthening party in GHMC limits||The Telangana Rasthra Samiti (TRS) wants to seriously strengthen its party structure in the city in an apparent view that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress have been gaining ground with the new party chiefs going aggressive. As a part of the exercise, party working president K. T. Rama Rao wants to restructure the party committees in the GHMC divisions and bastis by making it more inclusive. The first step in this regard is a meeting he plans to hold with Ministers, MLAs, MLCs and corporators of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) at Jal Vihar on September 7. Mr. Rao will discuss the modalities with them in constituting the committees in 150 GHMC divisions and 122 notified slums. The committees will have minimum of 50% reservations to all the socially and economically Backward Classes and women. The effort is to ensure that each committee has 50% representation among these sections and not holistically. Similar exercise to restructure the party from village to State level has already begun. New committees at ward level in panchayats, municipalities and corporations are already in the pipeline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-to-focus-on-strengthening-party-in-ghmc-limits/article36299928.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ESIC hospital services find mention in international webinar||COVID and non-COVID services provided by ESIC Medical College and Hospital came into the limelight at an international webinar and panel discussion on COVID care held in collaboration with the Asociacion Latinoamericana de Comunicacion Audiovisual Parlamentaria (ALCAP) on Saturday. The medical services provided at the super speciality hospital, and expenditure for patients and insurance cover, were documented and would be presented in other countries. The panellists at the discussion were from India, and European and Latin American countries. Dr. Marcelo E Decoud (Argentina-Paraguay), General Regional Director of the Audio-Visual Regional Hub of ALCAP, Prof. Srinivas M., Dean of ESIC Medical College, Manish Uprety F.R.A.S, Special Advisor, ALCAP, Paraguay, Dr. Tatjana Byrne (Germany), Prof. Vitor Verdelho (Portugal) and Bernard Hennet (France), were among the panellists. The health experts shared their experiences about COVID treatment, vaccination, mental health, reopening of schools, research and introduction of new technologies, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/esic-hospital-services-find-mention-in-international-webinar/article36299698.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fish, prawn seedlings to be released from Sept. 8||The fifth phase of free fish seedling release (distribution) in water bodies across the State is set to begin on September 8 with Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries Talasani Srinivas Yadav releasing the fish seedlings in Ranganayakasagar at Chandlapur in Chinna Kodur mandal in Siddipet district and in Komaticheruvu in Siddipet. Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao and other local elected representative are likely to participate in the fish seedling release into water bodies. It would be launched in 25 other districts the same day. According to Commissioner of Fisheries Lachiram Bhukya, the plan is to release 93.16 crore fish seedlings in 30,000 reservoirs, lakes and irrigation tanks at a cost of Rs. 80 crore. Mr. Srinivas Yadav would personally request and write to all Ministers, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, ZP chairpersons to participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fish-seedlings-release-from-sept-8/article36299732.ece
05 September 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jagga Reddy plea||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president T. Jayaprakash Reddy has asked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to implement Dalit Bandu in all the constituencies to prove his sincerity and not just confine it to Huzurabad where bypolls were due. The Sangareddy MLA was participating in the Dalita Girijan Dandora rally in Wardhannapet in Warangal district on Saturday. He demanded that the Dalit Bandhu scheme be extended to girijans and poor among Backward Classes and minorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagga-reddy-plea/article36299731.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC yet to vaccinate 20K workers||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is yet to vaccinate around 20,000 of the over 48,000 workers. The issue came to light on Saturday when TSRTC Managing Director V. C. Sajjanar made a surprise visit to the TSRTC Hospital in Tarnaka, where he said that all steps would be taken to improve available medical services. Those who have not been administered the shot would receive one during a special drive, he said. Mr Sajjanar interacted with doctors at the hospital, and observed closely the functioning of healthcare equipment and the available systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-yet-to-vaccinate-20k-workers/article36299933.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 306 new COVID cases||Telangana recorded 306 COVID cases on Saturday, taking the total to 6,59,313. While 69,422 samples were examined, results of 1,723 were awaited. Three more COVID-19 patients died. The new cases include 78 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 31 from Karimnagar, 23 from Warangal Urban, and 16 from Medchal Malkajgiri. Nagarkurnool did not record any case. From March 2, 2020 to September 4 this year, a total of 2.49 crore samples were examined and 6,59,313 people were detected with coronavirus. Of these, 5,673 were active cases, 6,49,757 have recovered, and 3,883 have died. Meanwhile, COVID and non-COVID services provided by ESIC Medical College and Super Speciality Hospital, came into the limelight at an international webinar and panel discussion on COVID care held in collaboration with the Asociacion Latinoamericana de Comunicacion Audiovisual Parlamentaria (ALCAP) on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-306-more-covid-cases-three-deaths/article36299696.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CPI(M) alleges ploy to enhance property tax||The CPI(M) has demanded that the State government halt its attempts to increase property tax in all municipalities and corporations of the State. Urban residents are already under severe financial distress induced by COVID-19 pandemic and any further taxation will only lead to chaos, a statement from the city unit of the party said. Alleging that the State government has yielded to Centre’s pressure for urban reforms according to which property tax will be calculated based on the property’s market value, and not the rental value as applicable now. In order to avail additional loan offer by the Centre based on multi-pronged reforms, the State government has agreed for urban reforms, the statement alleged. By implementing the reforms, the State government is aiming to escape from its responsibility of devolving funds to the urban local bodies, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpim-alleges-ploy-to-enhance-property-tax/article36299927.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lok Adalat on September 11||National Lok Adalat would be convened in all courts of the State this second Saturday, September 11, for settlement of all civil and compoundable criminal cases. Telangana State Legal Services Authority on Saturday appealed to people to make use of National Lok Adalat either in physical or virtual mode to settle their cases. Citizens willing to settle their pending or pre-litigation cases can approach chairman/secretary of the district legal services authority concerned. They can also contact nearest mandal legal services committee to resolve their disputes through National Lok Adalat. Services are rendered without any expenditure or fee at Lok Adalat, TSLSA member secretary G. Anupama Chakravarthy said in a statement. Court fee, if paid in any pending case, would be refunded if the matter is settled through Lok Adalat. The member secretary also made it clear that no appeal lies against the award passed in Lok Adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lok-adalat-on-september-11/article36299710.ece
05 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Peddapally CPO held on graft charge||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Saturday arrested Peddapally Chief Planning Officer PurivarthyVenkata Narayana, after he was caught red-handed accepting bribe of Rs. 40,000 from a civil contractor. The CPO would be presented before a special court for SPE and ACB cases in Karimnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/peddapally-cpo-held-on-graft-charge/article36299932.ece
05 September 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR meets Amit Shah (briefly)||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah at his residence on the fourth day of the former’s stay in New Delhi on Saturday. A release here said Mr. Rao submitted a memorandum to Mr. Shah seeking revision of IPS officers cadre strength in the State from 76 to 105. Mr. Rao had handed over the same representation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-meets-amit-shah-briefly/article36299727.ece
05 September 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Improve facilities at Miryalaguda rly. station’||Member of Parliament from Nalgonda N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday, who visited Miryalaguda Railway Station on Saturday, petitioned officials of the South Central Railway for improvement of passenger and visitor amenities at the station. He said Narayanadri, Visakha and Intercity Express must have one-minute halts, both ways. Al main trains if they stopped on Platform number 1, as against the current practice of stopping them on Platform number 2, would help senior citizens and physically impaired passengers board the trains easily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/improve-facilities-at-miryalaguda-rly-station/article36299730.ece
05 September 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Oustees uncertain of getting balance compensation||“All the farmers who lost their lands will be paid equal compensation and there will be no discrimination. You need not worry about this,” officials had assured the oustees of Mallannasagar during the initial days of land acquisition. Some of the farmers who sold their land to the government for Rs. 5.85 lakh per acre received an additional Rs. 15,000 per acre later. Unfortunately, the assurance was confined to that extent only. The oustees of Vemulaghat, one of the submerged villages of Toguta mandal, were reportedly paid Rs. 11 lakh though they were promised Rs. 11.5 lakh per acre. It is an open secret that they were paid this amount, which neither the receiver (oustee) nor the payer (officials) is ready to confirm. Some of the oustees of Vemulaghat said that they were promised an additional Rs. 50,000 by late minister Ch. Muthyam Reddy but after his demise there was no one to keep the promise. In the case of Toguta, the locals say that they were promised, within four walls, Rs. 13 lakh per acre for about 42 acres of land that was required for digging a canal for third tmcft from Kaleshwaram, however, only Rs. 8 lakh was paid so far. “We are not ready to furnish names and other details of the farmers who received the amount as it will create some problem to us in getting the balance amount. While Rs. 7 lakh plus was paid by the government, another Rs. 3 lakh plus was paid by the construction agency. We are fighting for the remaining amount,” said an oustee from Tukkapur village on condition of anonymity. They were reportedly paid amount in the month of April. The question that remains is who will pay the remaining amount? “The Collector has promised to pay the money from his pocket if it was not released. Even our panchayat president was present when the promise was made,” a farmer said in a video posted in social media. Regarding the land that was acquired at Tukkapur, the officials say that it was related to Mallannasagar works only, however, the locals claim that it pertained to work on third tmcft being lifted from Kaleshwaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oustees-uncertain-of-getting-balance-compensation/article36299930.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||JNU to reopen in phases from tomorrow||Jawaharlal Nehru University on Saturday said its campus will reopen in phases starting from September 6. The campus will first reopen for PhD research scholars who have to submit their thesis by the end of this year. The university said upon arrival on the campus, every student will produce a negative RT-PCR test report not earlier than 72 hours prior to arrival. “All final-year PhD research scholars are allowed to enter into the campus. PhD students with disabilities are allowed to enter into the campus,” the university said. The central library will be sanitised and seating arrangements of reading halls with 50% capacity will be made before reopening the library. Teaching-learning will continue to be in online mode, while school centre level libraries shall remain closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnu-to-reopen-in-phases-from-tomorrow/article36299567.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||No place to call home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-place-to-call-home/article36299574.ece
05 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha amends 65-year-old urban development Act||The Odisha Assembly on Saturday passed the Odisha Town Planning and Improvement Trust (Amendment) Bill, 2021, by amending the 65-year-old the Odisha Town Planning and Improvement Trust Act, 1956 The new bill on urban development is touted to be practical, progressive and relevant to the contemporary times. According to the Housing and Urban Development department, the archaic and redundant provisions concerning to the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, have been done away with. Modern concepts of planning such as transferable development rights have been introduced. Common application forms to ensure uniformity and single window disposal system and the state-of-the-art online building plan approval system across all the urban local bodies of the State have been proposed. Moreover, standardising the planning norms across the State by bringing the Odisha Town Planning and Improvement Trust Act, 1956 at par with the Odisha Development Authority Act, 1982 is a major feature of the new Bill. As per the new amendments, town planning function has been delegated to all the urban local bodies in accordance with the 74th Constitutional Amendment Act. With introduction of provisions of demolition of unauthorised construction, the new law is expected to ensure better enforcement mechanism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-amends-65-year-old-urban-development-act/article36299579.ece
05 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha STF seizes over 1 kg of brown sugar, arrests one||The Special Task Force of the Odisha police arrested an engineering graduate and seized 1.034 kg brown sugar from him. Based on intelligence input, a raid was conducted by team of STF, Bhubaneswar near Kumabasta Patrol Pump, Khordha. A youth identified as Manoranjan Das, a B.Tech graduate of Gurujanga, Khordha was taken into custody. According to STF, during the search, brown sugar weighing 1.034 kg and other incriminating materials were recovered from his possession. “The accused could not produce any valid authority in support of possession of such contraband materials, for which the accused person was arrested and forwarded to the court,” said an STF officer. Drug menace The drug menace has become major headache for the State police. The high valued drug such as heroin was unheard of in the State a couple years ago. But now, the drug nuisance has penetrated into villages. On August 27, the STF had arrested a drug peddler identified as Seikh Raju of Balasore. During investigation, he was found to be a noted inter-State drug peddler. About 2 kg of brown sugar was seized from him. Drug racketeers and smugglers based in Kolkata procure heroin from unknown sources and then they try to smuggle it into States like Odisha and Jharkhand. Often children are used to carry to narcotics by train to Odisha. The STF has tasted good amount of success during past two years by cultivating informers on the ground. During past two years, the STF has been regularly tracking the movement of brown sugar movement. Since 2020, the STF in a special drive against narcotic drugs has seized more than 39 kg of brown sugar and heroin. More than 100 drug dealers and peddlers have been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-stf-seizes-over-1-kg-of-brown-sugar-arrests-one/article36299585.ece
05 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Bypoll to Pipili Assembly constituency to be held on September 30||The bypoll to Pipili Assembly constituency in Odisha’s Puri district will be held on September 30. This is the third time bypoll date for Pipili has been announced. The bypoll scheduled on April 17 had to be postponed following death of Congress candidate Ajit Mangaraj three days before the day of poll. Subsequently, the bypoll was rescheduled on May 16. However, it was deferred again on account of rising COVID-19 cases. The bypoll was necessitated due to death of BJD MLA Pradip Moharathy who died of COVID-19 in October 2020. Now, the result would be announced on October 3. The BJD has nominated Rudra Pratap Maharathy, son of Pradip Maharathy, as its candidate while the BJP has chosen Asrit Pattanayak. Mr. Pattanayak had lost the poll in 2019 against Pradip Maharathy. Pipili is a politically sensitive constituency. Pradeep Maharathy had won the seat 7 times. The poll process was often violence-ridden. As the three parties would face panchayat and urban polls early next year, the bypoll assumes importance. The Election Commission has put strict restrictions on campaign process. Public meetings have been prohibited and only three vehicles would be permitted within 100 meters of the returning officer’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bypoll-to-pipili-assembly-constituency-to-be-held-on-september-30/article36299581.ece
05 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder hits out at Akali Dal||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday ridiculed the Shiromani Akali Dal’s decision to set up a panel to hold talks with the State’s farmers, saying no overtures could absolve the “Badals” of their responsibility in thrusting the laws on the farming community. ‘Akalis’ apathy’ He said that the Badals themselves were at the root of the problem, and the co-conspirators of the Centre’s anti-farmer agenda, and hence the Akalis neither deserve nor can expect any understanding or forgiveness from the farmers. “The Akalis’ apathy towards the farmers was evident from the fact that even now, instead of understanding and relating with the pain of the farmers, SAD president Sukhbir Badal was refusing to simply recognise the protestors as farmers and was insulting them by alleging that they owed allegiance to other political parties, including the Congress,” said Capt. Amarinder in a statement. He termed Mr. Badal’s announcement of suspension of the SAD’s election outreach programme and formation of the panel to engage with the farmers as a desperate measure to woo Punjab’s voters ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls. “But the farmers, and the people of Punjab are not fools, and your attempts to befool them with lies will backfire on you,” he warned the SAD president. ‘Akalis rejected’ Capt. Amarinder added that the State had completely and unequivocally rejected the Akalis, who had misruled the State for 10 years in coalition with the Bharatiya Janata Party and then worked hand in glove with them to impose the farm laws on the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amarinder-hits-out-at-akali-dal/article36299584.ece
05 September 2021||Indore,||Five stray dogs killed in acid attack in M.P.||At least five stray dogs died after some unidentified persons poured acid on them in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain, prompting the police to register a case after animal lovers raised concerns over the barbaric act, an officer said on Saturday. An offence under section 428 (commits mischief by killing animals) and other relevant provisions of the IPC was registered at Nagjhiri police station on Friday, the officer said. The matter came to light when an animal rights group in Indore received a call on its helpline that some strays had been attacked with acid, it was stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/five-stray-dogs-killed-in-acid-attack-in-mp/article36299580.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||66% kin of COVID victims await govt.’s Rs. 50K relief||In September last year, Sardar Singh was rushed to a Delhi hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19. A few days later, the 74-year-old died, leaving his wife — Rukhmani Devi (69) — to fend for herself. Ms. Devi, a resident of Shahabad Mohammadpur, is awaiting compensation from the government. “I am unwell and survive on my husband’s pension. My son doesn’t give me anything,” he said. “The officials who came to our house said I will get the money, but it has been more than two months and we are yet to get anything,” said the frail woman sitting on a bed in her two-room house. Like Ms. Devi, applications of 66% of 6,036 people, who filed for a promised compensation of Rs. 50,000 each, after their family members died due to COVID-19, are not approved as of Saturday, according to Delhi government data seen by The Hindu . Most of the 3,995 requests, which are not yet approved, are pending due to conditions to be met even after filing the request, as per the officials. Also, the government has released money to only 10.9% of the applicants till now. Only 10% got money Also, the government has released money to 10.9% of the applicants till now. When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson said some people were facing difficulties to get documents and the Social Welfare Minister has asked officials to expedite the process of issuing necessary documents. “The approvals will pick up soon,” the spokesperson said. About two and a half months ago, the scheme — Mukhyamantri COVID-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna — was notified to “provide immediate financial relief” to families who have lost their dear ones to COVID-19. The beneficiaries of the scheme include children who have lost one or both parents due to COVID-19. There are 6,200 children who are left with a single parent and 292 orphaned as of August 16 due to COVID-19, as per a status report filed by the Delhi government to the High Court. On August 23, the High Court had said it “would be unfair to expect children who lost their parents to be able to procure documents and avail benefits” and directed the government to fix issues in the process to get compensation. For getting the compensation, a person has to submit five documents online, including a death certificate and proof of COVID-19 death. But even after submitting the documents, one of these two conditions have to be fulfilled: The death must be certified as COVID-19 death as per a list by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Or, the death must have happened within one month of testing positive plus it has to be verified as COVID-19 death by the Health Department of the Delhi government, as per a notification of the scheme. This condition is proving to be a bottleneck in many areas, officials said. “If the name of the deceased is not part of the MHA list, the file is sent to the Health Department officials for verification,” an official said. The official said the government is trying to help people as much as possible with the procedure at every step and the scheme is the “government’s topmost priority” at this point. A Delhi government source said the government is looking at tweaking this requirement of verification by the Health Department to speed up the process. Some people are also finding it difficult to get a surviving member certificate, which is one of the five required documents. “The process takes time as we have to also make sure that no one is making fake certificates to get the money,” a third official said. Under the same scheme, monthly assistance of Rs. 2,500 each to specific categories of people — who have lost their family members to COVID-19 is to be given. But a separate form has to be submitted online to avail this benefit. The government has started sanctioning this Rs. 2,500 to people around Thursday and the numbers are still low, according to sources. Exact figures not known The government did not provide exact figures on how many people have applied for the Rs. 2,500 and how many have been approved. Ms. Devi lives with her grandson, whose both parents died when he was young due to an accident. “I have been living with my grandparents since I was a kid and now it’s just the both of us. I am in my third year and the only income we have is my grandfather’s pension — Rs. 6,500. He had taken a loan for his sister’s wedding and hence, the pension is low. He used to work for the electricity department,” said Sagar Saini, her grandson. “Two teachers had come to our place about two months back and now we are entering the third month. It will be really helpful if we get some money from the government,” he added. When asked whether they face any financial issues, Ms. Devi, “We have a house, but we cannot break the house and eat when we are hungry, right?”  The government is trying to help people as much as possible with the procedure at every step and the scheme is the government’s topmost priority at this point Government official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/66-kin-of-covid-victims-await-govts-rs-50k-relief/article36299542.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||Who are you trying to protect, Atishi questions Delhi Police||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday alleged that the Delhi Police is not conducting proper investigations in cases related to the north-east riots. It said out of the 750 cases, chargesheets have been filed in only 35 cases. “Not just AAP, all the courts too are raising questions on the Delhi Police’s investigations. It is clear that the police does not want to investigate the Delhi riots properly. The courts have refused to accept statements of Delhi Police’s witnesses multiple times and observed that they seem to be planted,” senior AAP leader Atishi said. She said it was “crystal clear” that the police and Lieutenant-Governor under the BJP do not want to investigate riot cases. “Delhi Police has no intention of catching the real culprits. I want to ask the police, who are they trying to protect? Why can’t they present proper witnesses, proof and carry out a legitimate investigation even after 1.5 years,” she asked. ‘Land to pvt. clinics’ The party also alleged that the BJP-ruled New Delhi Municipal Corporation is giving away land worth thousands of crores to private clinics and people are known to them free of cost. “The resolution through which the BJP-ruled civic bodies will be giving land to its own people has been passed in the NDMC Standing Committee on September 1,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj “BJP Delhi State president Adesh Gupta needs to tell why the BJP is bringing such a cheap policy, why are they going to give land worth crores to their leaders for free,” he added. Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said this week’s NDMC Standing Committee proposal to hand over few vacant health department premises to charitable NGOs for running charitable health dispensaries is in line with decades-old tradition. “It is sad that AAP is trying to malign this good scheme with a political vendetta,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/who-are-you-trying-to-protect-atishi-questions-delhi-police/article36299538.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rain lashes parts of Capital, green alert issued for today||Rains lashed parts of the national capital on Saturday afternoon bringing the mercury down. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees Celsius, one notch below the season's average, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The IMD had issued a yellow alert for Delhi for Saturday, predicting light rains or thundershowers. Rains were witnessed in the north-east, north and central parts of Delhi. The city on Saturday recorded a minimum temperature of 26.1 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year, the IMD said. In last 24 hours, the Safdarjung and Ridge observatory recorded 0.7 and 1 mm rain, respectively. The relative humidity was 88%, it said. The weather department has predicted partly cloudy sky with possibility of development of thunder and lightning on Sunday. The maximum and the minimum temperatures are expected to settle around 34 and 26 degrees Celsius, respectively. The weathermen has issued a green alert for Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rain-lashes-parts-of-capital-green-alert-issued-for-today/article36299544.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||Capital records zero death, 55 fresh cases||Delhi did not report any death due to COVID-19 for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday while the number of new infections was 55 with a positivity rate of 0.08%, according to data shared by the city health department. After showing gradual fall, the number of cases has again risen, with Saturday’s count being the highest in the last 15 days, data showed. The new cases took the national capital's infection tally to 14,37,929. Over 14.12 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi stood at 25,082.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/capital-records-zero-death-55-fresh-cases/article36299546.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||122 teachers to get awards for work during pandemic||The Delhi government will honour 122 teachers with the State Teachers Award for outstanding work during the pandemic on the occasion of Teacher’s Day. “The teachers of Delhi have played an important role in the tough times of COVID. They have not only worked shoulder to shoulder with the administration but have also done remarkable work in vaccination, quarantine centre, distribution of food, mask enforcement, airport duty. And along with these duties, while performing their basic duty, they also continued the work of online teaching and did not let the children’s education stop,” Education Minister Manish Sisodia said. He said during the pandemic, many children went to other States but the teachers not only worked to find these children but also called them to Delhi at their own expense. They also gave devices to the children for online classes and got their Internet connection recharged. “Our teachers have contributed a lot to our lives. Therefore, on the occasion of Teacher’s Day, call at least one of your teachers and express gratitude towards them. Tomorrow, along with Teacher’s Day, also celebrate Teacher’s Gratitude Day...,” he said. Mr. Sisodia also said mindfulness has become a turning point in the lives of students studying in Delhi government schools and every day, 16 lakh students start their day with1 mindfulness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/122-teachers-to-get-awards-for-work-during-pandemic/article36299547.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||Civic body polls: BJP to launch outreach programme||The Delhi BJP will kick-start it’s campaign for the next year’s civic body polls by launching a massive outreach programme later this month and connecting with voters across the city through 11,000 small and medium public meetings. The party has already strengthened nearly 14,000 booth-level units by forming 21-membered executive committees, which will play a crucial role in reaching out to each household starting from September 15, said Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra on Saturday. The BJP, which has been ruling the three municipal corporations since 2007, is going to the elections with an upbeat AAP trying to unseat it. “The programme will be based on two way communication between our workers and the residents in their neighbourhood,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/civic-body-polls-bjp-to-launch-outreach-programme/article36299545.ece
05 September 2021||Washington,||President Biden declassifies secret files on 9/11 attacks||U.S. President Joe Biden on Friday ordered declassification over the next six months of still secret documents from the government investigation into the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Mr. Biden is responding to pressure from families of some of the approximately 3,000 people killed by al-Qaeda on September 11, 2001. They have long argued that the classified documents might contain evidence that the government of Saudi Arabia, a close U.S ally, had links to the hijackers who flew into the World Trade Center and Pentagon. “Today, I signed an executive order directing the Department of Justice and other relevant agencies to oversee a declassification review of documents related to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s September 11th investigations,” Mr. Biden said in a statement. Declassification must take place “over the next six months.” “We must never forget the enduring pain of the families and loved ones of the 2,977 innocent people who were killed during the worst terrorist attack on America in our history,” Mr. Biden said. The move comes ahead of the 20th anniversary of the attack, which spurred then-president George W. Bush soon after to order the invasion of Afghanistan, where the Taliban sheltered al-Qaeda’s leadership. Mr. Biden pulled the last U.S. troops out of Afghanistan this week, completing a dramatic evacuation from Kabul’s airport after the Taliban defeated the U.S.-backed government and surged back to power. The push for more information is being driven by victims’ families suing Saudi Arabia for alleged complicity in the horrific attack. The families have long expressed frustration at the number of documents that remain off limits. The official 9/11 Commission, which was set up by Congress, said there was “no evidence that the Saudi government as an institution or senior Saudi officials individually funded” al-Qaeda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/president-biden-declassifies-secret-files-on-911-attacks/article36298928.ece
05 September 2021||Islamabad,||ISI chief rushes to Kabul||In a surprise move, Pakistan’s powerful intelligence chief Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed on Saturday dashed to Kabul, according to media reports here, amidst the Taliban struggling to finalise and install an inclusive government in Afghanistan that would be acceptable to the international community. A delegation of senior Pakistani officials led by Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Director General Lieutenant General Hameed arrived in Kabul to conduct discussions with the incoming Taliban government, the Pakistan Observer newspaper reported. The ISI chief is expected to meet top Taliban leaders and commanders. “Issues relating to Pak-Afghan security, economy, and other matters will be taken up with the Taliban leadership,” the report said, quoting sources. According to the Express Tribune , Gen. Hameed will also meet Pakistan’s envoy in Kabul to discuss the matter of repatriation and transit through Pakistan of foreign nationals and Afghans fleeing Taliban rule. The intelligence chief will spend a day in the Afghan capital, the Geo News reported. Border management is another important issue that will come under discussion during the visit of Hameed, it said. Gen. Hameed’s visit to Kabul came as Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa met with British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab earlier in the day and said that Pakistan will assist in the formation of an inclusive government in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/isi-chief-rushes-to-kabul/article36298931.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Thai protesters hit the streets as PM wins no-confidence vote||Pro-democracy protesters vented their anger in Bangkok on Saturday after Thai Prime Minister Prayut Chan-O-cha survived a no-confidence vote in Parliament. More than 300 demonstrators marched in central Bangkok’s main shopping mall district carrying red flags and wearing ponchos in the downpour. “The government should be gone. If things were good why would we come out to protest?” a 28-year-old demonstrator said. Ahead of the rally, police used shipping containers to block major routes to the advertised protest site at the central Lumphini Park where protesters had planned to march. This week Thai lawmakers debated an opposition-instigated censure motion about the government’s handling of the pandemic and economic management — Saturday was the third no-confidence motion vote since the 2019 election. The sluggish rollout of Thailand’s vaccination programme and financial pain from restrictions has heaped political pressure on Mr. Prayut’s government. The country is reeling from its worst economic performance since the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/thai-protesters-hit-the-streets-as-pm-wins-no-confidence-vote/article36298933.ece
05 September 2021||Marseille,||‘28% of 1,38,000 assessed species face extinction’||Some 28% of the 1,38,374 species assessed by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) for its survival watchlist are now at high risk of vanishing forever, the global conservation body said on Saturday. Habitat loss, overexploitation and illegal trade have hammered global wildlife populations for decades, and climate change is now kicking in as a direct threat as well, the IUCN reported. Komodo dragons, the largest living lizards, which are found only in the World Heritage-listed Komodo National Park and neighbouring Flores, were listed as “endangered”. Some 37% of the 1,200 shark and ray species assessed by experts are directly threatened by extinction, a third more than only seven years ago, it warned on Saturday. The IUCN on Saturday officially launched its “green status” — the first global standard for assessing species recovery and measuring conservation impacts. “It makes the invisible work of conservation visible,” Molly Grace, a professor at the University of Oxford and Green Status co-chair, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/28-of-138000-assessed-species-face-extinction/article36298930.ece
05 September 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka offers help with probe||Sri Lanka will cooperate with New Zealand’s investigation into the knife rampage, authorities said on Saturday. “Sri Lanka condemns this senseless violence, and stands ready to cooperate with New Zealand authorities in any way necessary," Foreign Ministry spokesman Kohularangan Ratnasingam said. Police sources said they had interviewed the attacker’s brother, who lives in Colombo, and were looking into all possible links.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-offers-help-with-probe/article36298932.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||India urges early TRIPS waiver ruling on COVID shots at WTO||India has pitched for an early outcome of the TRIPS waiver proposal for COVID-19 vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics in the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the government said in a release on Saturday. Addressing a meeting attended by trade and economic ministers of BRICS countries on Friday, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal also stressed on finding a permanent, adequate and equitable solution to the public stock holding programmes for food security purposes. The minister emphasised “the need for a permanent, adequate and equitable solution to the Public Stock Holding programmes for food security purposes; early outcome of the TRIPS Waiver proposal for vaccines,” the government said. In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted the first proposal, suggesting a waiver for all WTO members on the implementation of certain provisions of the TRIPs Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of COVID-19. In May this year, a revised proposal was submitted by 62 co-sponsors, including India, South Africa, and Indonesia. Mr. Goyal also said the BRICS countries should work together for strengthening the multilateral system, stating that there was a need for a balanced and inclusive outcome in the forthcoming WTO Ministerial Conference. “In this era of exponential jump in the use of e-commerce... a common action plan among BRICS countries will help,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-urges-early-trips-waiver-ruling-on-covid-shots-at-wto/article36298912.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Challenge of being a leader is your products are benchmarks’||MRF, which started off as a toy balloon maker about 75 years ago, is now among the largest tyre manufacturers in the country. Going forward, the company plans to continue its focus on the core areas of product performance and distribution, MD Rahul Mammen said in an e-mail interview   . Excerpts:  MRF has completed its 75th year in an unusual environment. Can you trace its growth path? In my view, this has been a truly remarkable journey over the last 75 years. Considering the fact that MRF was once the weakest player in the tyre industry, with no real technology, and today to say we are the market leader, is a testament to the dedication and commitment of the MRF team. The core focus area of MRF has always been to develop the best performing products in every segment it operates in. Our R&D and manufacturing teams have ensured that all the actions we take are targeted towards meeting this objective. I would say product performance and strong distribution system are the fundamental building blocks for MRF’s success. How do you deal with competition? The competition in the Indian tyre industry is extremely intense. The challenge of being a leader is that your products are most often the benchmarks the competition is trying to beat. In terms of how we plan to face the competition, I feel it is essential we continue to focus on our core areas of product performance and distribution. What is your perspective of the tyre industry, new opportunities, and the electric vehicle segment? We are positive on the prospects of the tyre industry in India. The fact that all the major global tyre companies have also invested in India is a clear indication that even international companies have a positive outlook on India. It is too early to talk about opportunities in future, as we are still not too clear on how the trend will be post the pandemic. The electric vehicle segment is in an early stage and we are watching the developments in this industry. The steps that the major vehicle manufacturers take will have an impact on the entire industry. How are you managing rising input costs, and global semiconductor and container shortages? Flexibility is key when operating in today’s environment. With the improved coordination between teams, we have been able to manage the disruptions. In terms of chip shortage, we are seeing its impact on our key original equipment customers, causing them to change their production plans which we have to adapt to. Have you passed on the higher input costs to your customers? When you look at the results this quarter, it is important to put it in the right context. The results this quarter look very good when compared to the same period last year because we had virtually zero revenue last April and sales were at much lower levels in May and June last year due to the pandemic. When we compare the results to the preceding quarter ending in March 2021, you will see that profits have come down by 50%, which was due to the unprecedented increase in raw material cost we are currently facing. We have taken selling price increases, but it was not enough to cover the cost escalation. What is the capital expenditure plan for the current fiscal year? We are closely watching the demand pattern and this year’s profitability to take a view on our capital expenditure. You have huge reserves. What are you going to do with them? Our reserves help us absorb extreme volatility in profit margins like we are seeing today and also to sustain a reasonable capex spending going forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/challenge-of-being-a-leader-is-your-products-are-benchmarks/article36298908.ece
05 September 2021||COIMBATORE,||‘Demand revival to facilitate 33% jump in textile exports’||Demand for textile and clothing from India has revived, particularly in the U.S., EU and U.K. markets, and lends confidence that the industry can achieve a 33% growth in exports this financial year, said Upendra Prasad Singh, Secretary, Union Ministry of Textiles. Asserting that several factors were now in favour of Indian exporters, with many tops brands looking at alternative sources to China and that India was one of the main options, Mr. Singh said that government policies, especially RoSCTL and RoDTEP, would help exporters this year. Textile and clothing exports had been almost stagnant for the last seven years at less than $40 billion, the Secretary told The Hindu on Saturday. Union Minister for Commerce and Industry, Textiles, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution, Piyush Goyal had on Friday urged the industry to aim to raise textile and clothing exports to $100 billion, from $33 billion, at the earliest and called on them to lift domestic output to $250 billion. Stakeholders should collectively look at achieving $44 billion exports in 2021-2022 for textiles and apparel, including handicrafts, Mr. Goyal told exporters. The different segments of the industry should support each other so that India was able to tap opportunities across the value chain in the global market, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/demand-revival-to-facilitate-33-jump-in-textile-exports/article36298910.ece
05 September 2021||Hyderabad,||DRL sells anti-cancer agent to Citius Pharma||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories said it had agreed to sell all rights to E7777, an investigational anti-cancer agent, and certain related assets to Citius Pharmaceuticals Inc. In March 2016, it had acquired exclusive global rights, excluding for Japan and Asia, to E7777 (an engineered IL-2-diphtheria toxin fusion protein) from Japan’s Eisai Co. Dr. Reddy’s will receive $40 million upfront on closing of the transaction followed by a milestone payment of up to $40 million related to the CTCL (cutaneous T-cell lymphoma) indication approval and up to $70 million for additional indication approvals. Further, it will receive certain sales-based milestones and tiered earn-out payments, the drugmaker said in a release on Saturday. E7777 has significant potential as an important component of systemic therapy for CTCL and other cancers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/drl-sells-anti-cancer-agent-to-citius-pharma/article36298924.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||Vodafone Idea pays Rs. 149 cr. to Franklin MF||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund said it had received a payment of close to Rs. 149 crore from Vodafone Idea Ltd. as interest on its securities investment, which will be distributed among investors of the segregated portfolios. “The interest amounting to Rs. 148.75 crore due from Vodafone Idea Ltd. on September 3,2021 for the security...(Non-convertible debenture) held in the segregated portfolio of five schemes has been received,” a Franklin Templeton MF spokesperson said. Of the six debt schemes of the fund house, which were wound up in April 2020, five had made investments in the telecom firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vodafone-idea-pays-rs-149-cr-to-franklin-mf/article36298906.ece
05 September 2021||TOKYO,||Golden delight for shuttler Pramod and marksman Manish||Shooter Manish Narwal smashed a Games record while shuttler Pramod Bhagat yet again asserted his supremacy with a gold-winning performance as India’s tally swelled to 17 after a four-medal show on a memorable penultimate day at the Tokyo Paralympics, here on Saturday. More medals are in store on the final day on Sunday with badminton stars Suhas Yathiraj and Krishna Nagar sailing into the men’s singles finals of SL4 class and SH6 class respectively. Tarun Dhillon too stayed in contention for a bronze after losing his semifinals while the duo of Pramod and Palak Kohli will also feature in the third-place play-off in the mixed SL3-SL5 class. India has four gold, seven silver and six bronze medals to be placed 26th with one day left in the Games. Record-breaking effort The 19-year-old debutant Manish shot a total of 218.2, a Paralympic record, for gold in P4 Mixed 50m Pistol SH1 event while Singhraj (216.7) bagged silver to make it a sensational one-two finish for the country. Singhraj Adhana had won the bronze in the P1 men’s 10m air pistol SH1 event on Tuesday. Pramod humbled Great Britain’s Daniel Bethell 21-14, 21-17 in the men’s singles SL3 class final for a historic yellow metal. With badminton making its debut, World champion and pre-tournament favourite Pramod became the first Indian to win a gold medal in the sport. Compatriot Manoj Sarkar bagged a bronze after defeating Japan’s Daisuke Fujihara 22-20, 21-13 in the third place play-off. In SL3 classification, athletes with lower limb impairment compete. “This is very special to me, it’s my dream come true. Bethell really pushed me but I just kept my calm and played to my strengths,” said Pramod after his 45-minute summit clash. “I would like to dedicate this to my parents and to everyone who has supported me throughout. I’m glad I could make India proud.” In SL4 class, Suhas outwitted Indonesia’s Fredy Setiawan 21-9, 21-15 to set up a final against Lucas Mazur. Tarun, who went down narrowly 16-21, 21-16, 18-21 to Mazur will face Setiawan for the bronze. Krishna, seeded second, outplayed Great Britain’s Krysten Coombs 21-10, 21-11 in the SH6 class semifinals. He will cross swords with Hong Kong’s Chu Man Kai for the gold. In the men’s F41 javelin throw, Navdeep finished fourth with a best throw of 40.80m. Shooter Avani Lekhara will be the contingent’s flag-bearer during the closing ceremony on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/golden-delight-for-shuttler-pramod-and-marksman-manish/article36299014.ece
05 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Manu still enjoys five-shot lead||Gurugram’s Manu Gandas was in the driving seat going into the final round as he maintained his overnight five-shot advantage with a three-under 64 in round three of the Vooty & Haldi-sponsored Golconda Masters Telangana Open golf championship at the Hyderabad Golf Association (HGA) course. Manu (64-58-64), looking for his maiden win, totalled 20-under 186 after three days. He mixed an eagle and three birdies with two bogeys in the penultimate round. Jumps three spots Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa (67-63-61), the 2019 champion, shot a six-under 61 to rise three spots to tied second place at 15-under 191. The others in joint second place were Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (67-62-62) and Noida’s Amardeep Malik (66-61-64), who fired third round scores of five-under 62 and three-under 64 respectively. The 25-year-old Manu had a rather sedate front-nine on Saturday as he missed several short birdie putts and also bogeyed the seventh after finding the water hazard. His only bright spot on the front-nine was the up and down from the bunker for par on the sixth. Brilliant tee shots Manu then got going on the back-nine to reassert his dominance. He birdied the 10th and 11th thanks to a couple of brilliant tee shots. After a good chip-putt for birdie on the 14th, he came up with another outstanding tee shot on the par-4 15th where he drove the green and converted a seven-footer for eagle. Manu finally dropped another shot on the 17th where he found the water hazard for the second time in the round. However, he managed to stay on top.  The scores: 1. Manu Gandas (20-under 186), 2. Amardeep Malik; Yuvraj Singh Sandhu & S. Chikkarangappa (15-under 191) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manu-still-enjoys-five-shot-lead/article36298919.ece
05 September 2021||Sao Paulo,||Depleted Brazil faces revamped Argentina||When Brazil hosts Argentina in Sunday’s World Cup qualifier, it may not be fair to call it a rematch of the Copa America final from less than two months ago. Brazil is missing nine England-based players who did not travel because of Britain’s coronavirus restrictions. Harsh tackle Meanwhile, Argentina star Lionel Messi is a slight doubt after being subjected to a harsh tackle by Venezuela’s Adrian Martinez on Thursday, which led to a red card. If Messi can play, as expected, Argentina will have a good chance of strengthening its status as the best team in South America after beating Brazil 1-0 in the Copa America final in July in Rio de Janeiro. Especially since it was able to bring four Premier League players: Aston Villa’s Emiliano Martinez and Emiliano Buendia and Tottenham’s Giovanni Lo Celso and Cristian Romero. “What matters the most is not to rest on past achievements and march on,” Argentina coach Lionel Scaloni Scaloni said after the 3-1 win in Venezuela. “It will be a different match against Brazil, everyone is available and whoever is at their best will play.” Leading the pack Brazil leads the South American qualifying group with a perfect 21 points after seven games, while Argentina is second on 15. But Brazil coach Tite is missing a big part of the team that started the Copa America final, including the suspended Marquinhos and England-based Thiago Silva, Fred and Richarlison. Tite used four forwards in Thursday’s 1-0 win at Chile but is unlikely to repeat that formation against Argentina, not only because he’s facing a more dangerous opponent but also because it didn’t work very well. The winning goal came from substitute Everton Ribeiro in the 64th minute, with star forward Neymar having a sub-par game. Chance for Gerson The uncertainty surrounding Brazil’s team is such that midfielder Gerson, who hadn’t even been called up by Tite for more than a year, hopes to start against Argentina. “If it is meant to be, I am ready,” said Gerson, who played in the second half of Brazil’s win in Chile. Also Sunday, third-place Ecuador hosts Chile and Uruguay takes on Bolivia. Colombia will travel to Paraguay, while Peru plays Venezuela. The first four teams will automatically qualify for the tournament in Qatar next year. The fifth-place team will take part in a playoff against a team from a different confederation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/depleted-brazil-faces-revamped-argentina/article36299395.ece
05 September 2021||LONDON,||Rohit and Pujara in roaring form as India fights back in Oval Test||Rohit Sharma displayed steely temperament to score his eighth Test century — his first away from home — and put India ahead by 171 runs with seven wickets in hand on the third day of the fourth Test against England at The Oval on Saturday. Rohit’s 127 (256b, 14x4, 1x6) saw the visitors end the day at 270 for three. His 153-run second-wicket stand with a confident Cheteshwar Pujara (61, 127b, 9x4) propelled Kohli’s men to a commanding position — 236 for one — before Ollie Robinson (21-4-67-2) got rid of both in quick succession with the second new ball. While Rohit misjudged a slower delivery and couldn’t keep his pull shot down, an in-cutter took the inside edge of Pujara’s bat, struck the pads and flew to slip. At stumps, skipper Virat Kohli (22 batting), who was looking good, and Ravindra Jadeja (nine batting), promoted ahead of Ajinkya Rahane once again, were at the crease. Rohit brought up his hundred in style, smashing Moeen Ali into the second tier of The Oval. It has taken eight years and 43 Tests for Rohit to get an overseas hundred and, that too, in the tough conditions in England. The openers began cautiously before K.L. Rahul (46, 101b, 6x4, 1x6) hit a straight drive. His first cover-drive came only at the end of the second hour when James Anderson (23-8-49-1) over-pitched one. Rahul also drove Robinson through covers for a boundary and hooked him for a six. But there was some anxious moments as the speedster got one to angle in and the on-field umpire ruled Rahul leg-before before the batsman successfully reviewed it. Rahul eventually edged Anderson behind to wicketkeeper Jonny Bairstow. At the other end, Rohit offered a couple of tough chances that Rory Burns, at slip, failed to catch. An uppish on-drive also caught Chris Woakes, stationed at mid-on, on the wrong foot. When Anderson over-pitched, Rohit dispatched the ball to the cover boundary. The Mumbai batsman also pulled Craig Overton for another four before playing some superb sweep shots after getting into the 80s. The fact that Pujara, too, counter-attacked helped Rohit’s cause. The No. 3 batman played some gorgeous shots, including a late cut and a ramp shot, that were well appreciated by the Oval crowd. Pujara hit nine fours, the pull off Moeen Ali giving India the lead. Rohit and Pujara’s knocks have set up an engrossing fourth day as any target in the range of 250 could be challenging on this track for an England batting line-up that relies heavily on captain Joe Root.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-and-pujara-in-roaring-form-as-india-fights-back-in-oval-test/article36299015.ece
05 September 2021||NEW YORK,||Fernandez dethrones an agitated Osaka||Defending champion Naomi Osaka and third seed Stefanos Tsitsipas became high-profile casualties in the third round of the U.S. Open on Friday as two 18-year-olds announced themselves on the big stage by advancing to the last-16 for the first time. Two-time champion Osaka’s title defence ended in tears as she suffered a stunning 5-7, 7-6(2), 6-4 loss to Canadian Leylah Fernandez and the Japanese, who uncharacteristically lost her cool during the match, said she planned to take a break from the sport. Osaka said she will take an indefinite break from playing tennis. “Basically I feel like I’m kind of at this point where I’m trying to figure out what I want to do,” said Osaka, wiping away a tear at the media session. “I honestly don’t know when I’m going to play my next tennis match. I think I’m going to take a break from playing for a while.” With that, she put on a mask, rose from her chair and ended the session. Spain’s Carlos Alcaraz, the heir apparent to Rafael Nadal, upset Tsitsipas 6-3, 4-6, 7-6(2), 0-6, 7-6(5) to move into the fourth round of a Grand Slam for the first time in his career. Not distracted “This victory means a lot to me. It’s the best match, the best win of my career,” said Alcaraz, who was not distracted by another infamous bathroom break from the Greek who was jeered by the crowd. Second seeds Daniil Medvedev and Aryna Sabalenka advanced with straight-set victories in their third round matches while German Angelique Kerber beat Sloane Stephens 5-7, 6-2, 6-3 in the battle of the former champions. Meanwhile in mixed doubles, Sania Mirza and Rajeev Ram made a first round exit from the mixed doubles after losing to Dayana Yastremska from Ukraine and Australia’s Max Purcell, here 3-6, 6-3, [7-10].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fernandez-dethrones-an-agitated-osaka/article36299020.ece
05 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam gears up for new season||Gokulam Kerala FC boarded the flight to Bengaluru from the Calicut Airport on Friday afternoon. It was a new-look team that thus took its first step towards the long journey in the new domestic football season. Gokulam’s first assignment is the Durand Cup, which kicks off at Kolkata on Sunday. Its opening match, though, is only scheduled for September 12, when it will take on Army Red. The expectations are huge about Gokulam, not just because it is the defending champion. When it won the tournament, the history of which dates back to 1888, it had become only the second team from Kerala to do so. Contract renewed This past season also saw Gokulam emerging as the I-League champion. Little wonder the management has renewed coach Vincenzo Alberto Annese’s contract. He has been able to work with the players for a month-long session at the Corporation Stadium, the team’s home ground. All the new players, except the latest recruit — Nigerian striker Chisom Chikatara — have been part of the training sessions. He is expected to join the squad at Kolkata within a couple of days. Gokulam will need him to fire, given the fact that the team has let go its leading scorer of the last season, Dennis Antwi of Ghana. The team would also be hoping that Sharif Mukhammad, the new captain who had played a stellar role in the midfield in the I-League campaign, continues from where he left off. The Afghan is the only foreigner retained by the club. He is also one of the 11 men that are part of the team that won the I-League. As many as 12 players of the current squad are from Kerala; two of them, P.P. Rishad and K. Abhijith, have been promoted from the reserve team. The new foreign imports include striker Rahim Osumanu (Ghana) and defender Aminou Boubo (Cameron). Before the team’s departure, the coach exuded confidence. “Our aim is to defend the Durand Cup,” Annese said. “It is a historic tournament and we will try our best to win it (again). I believe that we have a strong squad to make this happen.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-gears-up-for-new-season/article36299817.ece
05 September 2021||Puducherry,||Puducherry ropes in former Aussie pacer Tait as bowling coach||Former Australia pacer Shaun Tait has been roped in as the bowling coach of the Puducherry cricket team, sources in the Cricket Association of Pondicherry (CAP) said on Saturday. Tait joins a coaching team that includes head coach Dishant Yagnik and manager and strength and conditioning coach Kalpendra Jha, the sources said. The former Australia player had recently been appointed bowling coach of the Afghanistan team for a period of five months. However, the uncertainty in Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by Taliban has raised doubts over his stint there. CAP sources said Tait could join the Puducherry team later this month. “Tait has expressed his willingness to join the Puducherry team later this month. However, if he gets a call from Afghanistan he may join them and stay with the team before rejoining Puducherry for his duties,” the sources said. D. Rohit will lead the Puducherry team in the forthcoming domestic season where Puducherry will feature in the Elite category in the Ranji Trophy, Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy and Vijay Hazare Trophy tournaments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/puducherry-ropes-in-former-aussie-pacer-tait-as-bowling-coach/article36299441.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Poncha elected ASF vice-president||Cyrus Poncha, secretary of Squash Rackets Federation of India (SRFI), was on Saturday elected the vice-president of the Asian Squash Federation (ASF) for a four-year term at the 41st ASF AGM held virtually. The other elected VPs are Fayez Abdullah S. Al Mutairi (Kuwait) and Tae-sook Heo (Korea). David Mui of Hong Kong was elected unopposed for his second term as the president. Poncha is the third Indian to become the vice-president of ASF after N. Ramachandran, the former World Squash president, and Debendranath Sarangi, president of SRFI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/poncha-elected-asf-vp/article36299403.ece
05 September 2021||Kathmandu,||Below-par India will look to raise its level||Held by a lowly Nepal in its last match, the Indian men’s football team will settle for nothing less than victory in the second international friendly against the Himalayan nation here on Sunday. The team, meanwhile, is not at all happy with the training facilities provided by the hosts. At 105, India is ranked much above the 171st placed Nepal, but still the Sunil Chhetri-led side produced a below-par show in the first match to be held 1-1 draw on Thursday. On Sunday, India will have to raise its game to outwit a determined Nepal, which will be brimming with confidence. India head coach Igor Stimac was not happy with the performance but hoped for a better show from his wards on Sunday. Positive mood “The mood is positive and our boys are aware that they can do much better. Of course, we are still short with the energy level because we are just at the end of the second week of preparation, and the legs are still heavy. But, they are looking forward to put in a better performance,” he said.  “We are going to change a few things, and see if that can help us in terms of passing with more confidence, and getting forward easier.” India custodian Gurpreet Singh Sandhu too feels that the team needs to raise its bar on Sunday to come out on the positive side of the result. “The last game was a tough one and Nepal were very organised. We had moments where we could have done better as a team, and there were moments where we did get better. “We need to make sure that we have a strong mentality going into the second game. “We need to make sure that we use it to prepare for the SAFF Championship in good order,” he said. Fit to play Anirudh Thapa, who suffered an ankle injury scare in the last match, is fit to play. “I am fine now,” assured Thapa. “I have been working on my short sprints, especially my start. That allowed me to connect the ball ahead of my marker, and even goalkeeper Kiran Limbu,” he said. “We were much better in the second half in the first match and wished the match could have continued for some more time for us to find the winner,” Thapa concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/below-par-india-will-look-to-raise-its-level/article36299405.ece
05 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Holder Gokulam leads the charge||Defending champion Gokulam Kerala FC will lead the charge in the 130th edition of the Durand Cup football, which gets underway here at the Salt Lake Stadium on Sunday. The opening match will see local outfit Mohammedan Sporting taking on Indian Air Force in a group A fixture. The initial league stage will feature a total of 16 teams divided into four groups. With the tournament coming just ahead of the Indian Super League pre-season a total of five ISL sides will be seen in action. The knock-out stage starts with the quarterfinals on September 23 while the semifinals are schedule on September 27 and 28. The final is on October 3. Impressive The most impressive among the participants is FC Goa, which has committed four foreigners with Spain’s Edu Bedia the standout. The other ISL teams like Hyderabad FC, Jamshedpur FC, Kerala Blasters and Bengaluru FC will have a mix of age-group and first team players. Gokulam Kerala FC has announced a squad that is a mix of young recruits from the hinterland in north Kerala and three foreign signings under Italian head coach Vincenzo Alberto Annese. Sudeva Delhi FC and Mohammedan Sporting are the other two I-League teams in the fray. Delhi Football Club and FC Bengaluru United are the two Second Division clubs while Army Red and Green, Indian Air Force, Indian Navy, CRPF and Assam Rifles are the six defence and paramilitary sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/holder-gokulam-leads-the-charge/article36298915.ece
05 September 2021||GREATER NOIDA,||Tiana shows Aishwarya the door||Tiana Parasrampuria knocked out fourth seed Aishwarya Khubchandani 9-11, 11-3, 5-11, 11-3, 11-9 in the women’s pre-quarterfinals of the HCL PSA Challenger squash tournament here on Saturday. Tiana will play Anjali Semwal in the quarterfinals. Anjali beat the fifth seed Janet Vidhi in three straight games. Akshaya Sri beat eighth seed Aradhana Kasturiraj to set up a quarterfinal against Tanvi Khanna, the champion of the last event in Chennai. Young Anahat Singh won two rounds against quality players to set up a quarterfinal against top seed Sunayna Kuruvilla.   The results (pre-quarterfinals): Men: Abhishek Agarwal bt Mohit Bhatt 12-10, 11-1, 12-14, 11-5; Sandeep Ramachandran bt Kanhav Nanavati 11-6, 11-5, 11-8; Jaideep Sethi bt Rounak Yadav 13-11, 11-9, 11-7; Abishek Pradhan bt Tarun Mammen 11-3, 11-9, 11-7; Navaneeth Prabhu bt Ravi Dixit 11-9, 8-3 (retd.).   Women: Sunayna Kuruvialla bt Sunita Patel 11-7, 11-3, 11-3; Anahat Singh bt Rathika Seelan 11-8, 11-8, 11-7; Abhisheka Shannon bt Radhika Rathore 11-4, 11-9, 12-10; Urwashi Joshi bt Shameena Riaz 11-4, 11-4, 11-5; Tiana Parasrampuria bt Aishwarya Khubchandani 9-11, 11-3, 5-11, 11-3, 11-9.   Anjali Semwal bt Janet Vidhi 11-8, 11-8, 11-1; Akshaya Sri bt Aaradhana Kasturiraj 11-3, 11-9, 11-3; Tanvi Khanna bt Mithali Surana 11-5, 11-6, 11-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tiana-shows-aishwarya-the-door/article36298921.ece
05 September 2021||maina (Goa),||Gerrari offroaders wins||Kabir Waraich and co-driver Dushyant Khosla of Gerrari Offroaders, Chandigarh, won the overall title in the Rainforest Challenge (RFC) India 2021 which concluded here on Saturday. The Gerrari team won the seventh season of the RFC, the toughest off road motorsport in India, with a total score of 2155 out of the possible 2600.  The Gerrari team also won a free entry to the RFC global series finale which will be held in Malaysia. Anand V. Manjooran (co-driver Vishnu Raj) of KTM Jeepers from Kerala came second with 2144 points. Dr V.P. Mohammed Fahed (co-driver Rajeev Lal) of Team Gulf First from Kerala came third with 2014 points. Sam Kurian Kalarickal (co-driver Sacharia Saji) of R &T Off-Road club (Kerala) finished fourth with 1836 points. Twenty one teams from across the country took part in the seventh edition of the RFC India which was held after a hiatus of one year due to Covid-19 pandemic. The competitors had to undertake 26 special stages that tested their overall skills under extreme conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gerrari-offroaders-wins/article36299401.ece
05 September 2021||Hyderabad:,||In-form Falcon Edge for the feature event||Trainer R.H. Sequeira’s Falcon Edge who is unbeaten in his last four starts, is in rousing form and should win the Deccan Colts Championship Stakes (Gr. 3), the stellar attraction of Sunday’s (Aug. 5) races.  BLUE PETER PLATE (Div. I) (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.30 p.m.: 1. Blue Label (6) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Dizizdtymtowin (10) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 3. Sharp Mind (5) P. Gaddam 56, 4. Aarya (2) C. Umesh 54.5, 5. Ahanu (7) Rafique Sk. 54.5, 6. Angelita (4) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 7. Cabello (1) G. Naresh 54.5, 8. Despang (8) Mukesh Kumar 54.5, 9. Exotic Dancer (9) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 10. Hot Seat (3) Akshay Kumar 54.5 and 11. Lucky Lady (11) P. Sai Kumar 54.5.  1. DESPANG, 2. HOT SEAT, 3. DIZIZDTYMTOWIN   BLUE PETER PLATE (Div. II) (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 2.05: 1. Cosmico (8) Rafique Sk. 56, 2. Sea Of Class (11) Mukesh Kumar 56, 3. That’s My Way (6) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 4. Challenger (4) C.P. Bopanna 54.5, 5. Good Tidings (3) Md. Ismail 54.5, 6. Halle Berry (1) Surya Prakash 54.5, 7. N R I Sugar (5) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 8. Racing Rani (2) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 9. Rising Queen (7) Abhay Singh 54.5, 10. Sally (10) A.A. Vikrant 54.5 and 11. Shelly Anne (9) G. Naresh 54.5.  1. HALLE BERRY, 2. N R I SUGAR, 3. SEA OF CLASS   GOLDEN BABY PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.40: 1. Cosmic Run (6) Kiran Naidu 61, 2. Call Of The Blue (8) Gaurav Singh 60, 3. Colachel Battle (4) Trevor 60, 4. Committed Warrior (2) Koushik 57.5, 5. Big Brave (10) S.S. Tanwar 57, 6. Muaser (3) Nakhat Singh 56, 7. Rhythm Selection (11) Kuldeep Singh 55.5, 8. Solo Winner (1) C.P. Bopanna 54.5, 9. Thunder Road (9) Zervan 54, 10. Art In Motion (7) B. Nikhil 52 and 11. Sputnic (5) Ajeeth Kumar 50.  1. COLACHEL BATTLE,   2. COMMITTED WARRIOR,   3. MUASER   SHAPHIR PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.15: 1. N R I Elegance (1) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Private Empire (5) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 3. Dandy Man (9) Ashad Asbar 58.5, 4. Incredulous (11) Md. Ismail 58, 5. King Maker (2) C.S. Jodha 56.5, 6. City Of Wisdom (6) Mukesh Kumar 56, 7. Once More (7) Nakhat Singh 55.5, 8. Lockhart (3) Ajeeth Kumar 55, 9. Rapid Fire (4) A.A. Vikrant 55, 10. Red Snaper (8) C. Umesh 54.5 and 11. Sublime (10) Santosh Raj 53.  1. PRIVATE EMPIRE,   2. CITY OF WISDOM, 3. LOCKHART   GOLDEN BABY PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.50: 1. Miss Marvellous (11) N.B. Kuldeep 61, 2. Siyavash (9) Ashad Asbar 59.5, 3. Blickfang (1) Md. Ismail 58, 4. Brisbane (2) Surya Prakash 57, 5. Explosive (10) Gaurav Singh 56.5, 6. Nearest (8) G. Naresh 56.5, 7. Star Dancer (7) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 8. Royal Pal (5) Nakaht Singh 54, 9. Story Teller (4) R.S. Jodha 52.5, 10. Franklin (3) Akshay Kumar 52 and 11. Healthandhappiness (6) Santosh Raj 50.  1. BRISBANE,   2. STAR DANCER,   3. FRANKLIN   DECCAN COLTS CHAMPIONSHIP STAKES (Gr. III) (1,600m), (Terms) 3-y-o only, 4.25: 1. Angelico (4) Sandesh 56, 2. Aries (1) Bhawani 56, 3. Falcon Edge (10) Akshay Kumar 56, 4. Fire Power (2) Zervan 56, 5. Kensington (7) Antony Raj 56, 6. Knotty Dancer (8) A. Imran Khan 56, 7. Southern Dynasty (6) C.S. Jodha 56, 8. Spinoza (5) Trevor 56, 9. Stockbridge (3) Neeraj 56 and 10. Zuccarelli (9) P.S. Chouhan 56.  1. FALCON EDGE,   2. SPINOZA,   3. ZUCCARELLI   SHAPHIR PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 5.00: 1. Full Volume (2) Ajit Singh 60, 2. Blazer (9) C. Umesh 59.5, 3. Balius (1) Gaurav Singh 59, 4. Shaquille (10) Ashad Asbar 57.5, 5. City Of Blossom (8) Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 6. The Special One (3) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 7. Max (6) Zervan 56, 8. N R I Magic (7) A.A. Vikrant 56, 9. Super Angel (4) Abhay Singh 55 and 10. Blazing Jupiter (5) B. Nikhil 52.5.  1. BALIUS, 2. MAX, 3. N R I MAGIC  Day’s Best: COLACHEL BATTLE  Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Mini Jackpot: (i) 1, 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 4, 5, 6 & 7. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 5, 6 & 7. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/in-form-falcon-edge-for-the-feature-event/article36298914.ece
05 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Major stadia likely to open from Monday||The Mayor Radhakrishnan hockey Stadium and the Nehru Indoor Stadium here have been closed for a while now. But if Siva V. Meyyanathan, Tamil Nadu Minister for Youth Welfare and Sports Development, is to be believed, they could be opened on Monday if the Revenue Secretary gives his approval. “The Principal Secretary, Sports has been in touch with the Revenue Secretary and on Monday a final decision will be made. Once that is done, the stadiums will be opened without any delay,” said Meyyanathan to The Hindu here on Saturday. As far as holding competitions in the State are concerned, the Minister said that the decision has been left to the Chief Minister M.K. Stalin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/major-stadia-likely-to-open-from-monday/article36299444.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Opening was my last chance: Rohit||On a day when he scored his first Test century away from home, Rohit Sharma said the decision to open the innings back in 2019 was one of the biggest decisions of his career. “At the back of my mind I knew this was the last chance for me, trying another position in the batting order,” said Rohit, after making 127 on day three of the fourth Test on Saturday. “Mentally I was prepared for it. I wanted to take up that challenge and see how I performed at the top of the order. I had batted in the middle-order before that and things didn’t turn out the way I wanted them to. I knew this was going to be my last opportunity. “When you are playing a sport, you always have to take those chances. I would say that I was very much ready for it.” About the state of the match, the Mumbai batsman said, “We are in a good position but they still have a new ball. The first hour on Sunday will be crucial. If we bat well, we have a good chance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/opening-was-my-last-chance-rohit/article36299394.ece
05 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Qamar to meet Sood in summit clash||Fardeep Qamar beat top seed Chandril Sood 6-4, 7-6(2) to set up a title clash against Anuj Malik in the Rs. 100,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament here on Saturday. Anuj beat Chandril’s twin brother Lakshit Sood 6-1, 6-4 in the other semifinal.  The results (semifinals): Fardeen Qamar bt Chandril Sood 6-4, 7-6(2); Anuj Malik bt Lakshit Sood 6-1, 6-4.   Quarterfinals: Chandril Sood bt Chinmay Dev Chauhan 7-5, 6-0; Fardeep Qamar bt Neeraj Yashpaul 6-2, 6-4; Lakshit Sood bt Jagmeet Singh 6-2, 6-0; Anuj Malik bt Amit Bzad 6-4, 6-4 .   Pooja reigns In the Rs. 1,00,000 AITA women’s ranking tennis tournament at Jhajjar, third seed Pooja Ingale emerged champion, beating the top seed Jagmeet Kaur 7-5, 4-6, 6-3 in the final on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/qamar-to-meet-sood-in-summit-clash/article36299548.ece
05 September 2021||Mallorca,||Ramkumar loses||Ramkumar Ramanathan lost 4-6, 6-4, 7-6(5) to the top seed Yasutaka Uchiyama of Japan in the €44,820 Challenger tennis quarterfinals.  Other results:   €44,820 Challenger, Mallorca: Doubles: Semifinals: Fernando Romboli (Bra) & Jan Zielinski (Pol) bt Sriram Balaji & Ramkumar 6-2, 7-6(2).   $25,000 ITF women, Marbella (Spain): Doubles: Semifinals: Yvonne Cavalle-Reimers & Angela Fita Boluda (Esp) bt Akvile Parazinskaite (Ltu) & Vasanti Shinde 6-0, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-loses/article36299404.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Harish pips Srikanth||Harish (SSA) edged out Srikanth of Telangana 4-3 in the St. Gobain-S.A. Faheem memorial 6-red snooker tournament on Saturday.  Other results: Sikkender (QBC) bt Ranjith (GA) 4-0; Rathesh (TC) bt Kadher (QBGS) 4-2; Sasi (CZ) bt Vijendra (SNK IN) 4-2; Daksh Reddy (MCC) bt Karthi (QBGT) 4-0; Parthiban (Pondy) bt Harirajamani (SSA) 4-3; Musthaq Khan (TS) bt Amin (CS) 4-2; Damumenon (TNBSA) bt Murali (QBGZ) 4-2; Mustaq (QBGT) bt Shabir (QBC) 4-2; Hruthivik (PB) bt Sriram (TNBSA) 4-3.     All Stars CC scored a three-wicket win over Sumangali in the CDCA second division league recently.  The scores: II div.: Sumangali 144/9 in 25 overs (K. Hari Krishnan 50, R. Nageswaran 3/17) lost to All Stars 145/7 in 24.2 overs (G. Santosh Kumar 38, K. Jagadish 3/29) .    Elite NN & RPS Academy will conduct u-13 and u-16 inter-school and academies tournaments from September 10. Entries close on September 8. For details, call V.P. Giri Narain (9094066288) or Chandrasekaran (9884820848).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harish-pips-srikanth/article36299439.ece
05 September 2021||Chennai,||Chennaiyin FC ropes in Vladimir Koman||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) has signed Hungarian midfielder Vladimir Koman, its sixth and final foreign signing, on a season-long deal, the club announced on Saturday. Vladimir made his senior national team debut for Hungary in 2010 and went on to play 36 matches, netting seven goals. He was a vital cog in the country’s third-place finish in the 2009 FIFA U-20 World Cup and emerged as the second-highest scorer with five goals. “I’m happy to join Chennaiyin, because it’s a completely new atmosphere for me and a new experience. I would like to do my best to help the team to be successful and make the fans proud and happy,” Vladimir said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennaiyin-fc-ropes-in-vladimir-koman/article36299443.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Nikhil Advani on ‘Mumbai Diaries 26/11’: A feature film is like a sprint; a series is like running a marathon||Writer-director-producer Nikkhil Advani wears multiple hats and makes it look easy. At his production house Emmay Entertainment, work is on in full swing on feature films and web series in different stages of development. There is a method to the madness, Advani explains, as he takes time out to talk about Mumbai Diaries 26/11 , a medical drama series that will premiere on Amazon Prime Video on September 9. Starring Konkona Sen Sharma, Mohit Raina, Shreya Dhanwanthary, Satyajeet Dubey, Natasha Bharadwaj, Mrunmayee Deshpande and Prakash Belawadi, the series is jointly directed by Advani and Nikhil Gonsalves. Excerpts from an interview with Advani:  The trailer indicates a story unfolding in a hospital, against the backdrop of 26/11 attacks. What prompted you to write a medical drama?   Vijay Subramaniam and Aparna Purohit of Amazon Prime Video approached me to do a show in the same grungy, gritty space as D-Day (2013 film) and P.O.W - Bandi Yudd Ke (2016 series for Star Plus).I wasn’t keen on another espionage story or pitting India against Pakistan. I wanted to make a medical drama about doctors, nurses and ward staff in a Mumbai hospital. In a large, government hospital in Mumbai, they handle about 300 admissions a day. It is like going to war. What happens when they go through an extraordinary day like 26/11? COVID-19 has made all of us more aware of the shortcomings in the healthcare system and how much healthcare workers do to keep our cities alive. This series was planned (and filmed) before the pandemic.  Does Mumbai Diaries 26/ 11 become the story of a city as well as the characters?  I believe everyone has a story to tell about 26/11, irrespective of whether they watched the traumatic events on television or had a friend/acquaintance in one of the affected areas. The line ‘people who are meant to heal us are quite broken themselves’ defines the series. The characters are dealing with their own demons. Early in the day, Mohit’s character has an argument with his wife, who is an F&B manager at The Taj hotel. As the attacks happen, he is unable to reach her. Someone else is anxious about their parents who are stuck at the hotel. We began by wanting to narrate personal stories and it became the story of the city.  Can you discuss the process of writing fictional stories inspired by real life events? You have had quite a few — D-Day, Batla House, P.O.W and this series.  The advantage is that no matter how incredible an event may sound, no one can dispute that it happened. On 27/11, the first train left from Churchgate station to Virar as usual, which means the driver somehow managed to reach his workplace. That is a symbol of Mumbai’s resilience. So many came forward to donate blood. There is also tremendous responsibility of narrating these stories without sensationalising them. When a ward boy or a nurse sees Mumbai Diaries 26/11 , they have to feel proud of seeing their story on screen. Nurses protected patients by hiding them under the beds and switching off lights. A woman who took six bullets managed to survive...  Does the digital space lend itself better to narrate longform stories?  Absolutely. Writing for a series on a digital platform allows us to write episodic stories and longer character arcs. A feature film is like a sprint; a series is like running a marathon.      You began your career with Kal Ho Naa Ho and Salaam-e-Ishq and later moved to gritty stories...  I am a big fan of Mani Ratnam. Whatever be the genre, there is great characterisation and drama in his films. I loved Roja, Thiruda Thiruda, Iruvar, Yuva and Kannathil Muthamittal , all of which were different from each other. At this stage of my life, I value companionship more than romance. When I have an interesting story to narrate in that space, I will definitely do it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/nikhil-advani-on-mumbai-diaries-2611-a-feature-film-is-like-a-sprint-a-series-is-like-running-a-marathon/article36299806.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The community troops into the classroom||There is a flip side to programmes done for free. Without watchfulness, they can slip into dilettantish efforts, palming gimcrack offerings off on the beneficiaries. The lack of quality can be eloquently explained away: “Amateurs are attempting what professionals themselves often struggle at, so be charitable with your comments!” With criticism headed off in this manner, the giver can stay buoyed up on a do-gooder high, and the farce would continue. When it started an elaborate after-school programme seven years ago, the Greater Chennai Corporation-run Chennai High School in Kottur skirted around this pitfall. It could have conveniently walked the path of mediocrity. No questions would have been asked. After all, the exercise lies outside the curriculum and also the teachers’ line of duty. The school steered away from this easy option, ensuring nobody but the experts would handle the training. That meant it shut out the possibility of upskilling teachers to get them to double as after-school activity coaches. In any case, that would have been a tough ask, given the height at which the bar had been set. From the time it launched the initiative, the school has sought to offer students a wide palette of activities, and has continually displayed a tendency to shoehorn one extra programme into a tightly-packed after-school schedule. “It is definitely not possible to conduct such programmes for 400 children with just 12 teachers. It is not possible for these teachers to be allrounders. We wanted at least 30 to 40 volunteers from the community,” says K Maheswari Kalpana, headmistress of Chennai High School, Kottur. With certain activities, those low on complexity, teachers were however imparted just enough skills to enable them to be facilitators. Before treading this path, Kalpana — and through her influence, her team — were gripped by a vision. “I believe in joyful learning even in a government school. That is my vision,” reveals Kalpana and goes on to explain what sharpened the focus of this vision. “In 2014, the US Consulate invited Greater Chennai Corporation to have teachers from its schools apply for a five-week traning in the United States. Out of the applications from 70 schools, there was mine from Chennai High School, Kottur. I wanted to learn about the best practices being followed in the schools at the United States and implement them in our school. The US consulates in all the Indian cities will choose one candidate each for the shortlist. Out of this shortlist from from India, I was selected. Over those five weeks, along with teachers selected from 19 other countries, I got to visit schools in the US and discover what made them tick. They also facilitated exposure to the US education system through a programme at California state university,” she explains. “Vikram Kapur sir, then GCC Commissioner, asked me what I wanted to do after this training.” There was just one answer to it, and it greeted her at every turn. One striking feature of the school education in the United States that she noticed was the irrepressible enthusiasm with which the community dandled the schools. “Every college or university in the region is connected with the school. They come to the school to offer it the benefit of their volunteering and after-school programme. I wanted to replicate the model in Kottur, creating an after-school programme with a body of volunteers. As many formalities and protocols go with inviting people from outside, I had to get permission to first run a pilot project for creating a model school with community support. When I sought his permission, Vikram Kapur sir said, ‘You can introduce as many after-school programmes as you want. Either you get volunteers or I will send volunteers.’ was his encouraging response.” When it emerged fully, the resultant picture was striking. Skilled professionals in various fields, around 40 volunteers from the community have kept the after-school programme at this GCC school in Kottur running like a well-oiled machine. So, from music and dance, to eco-studies and sporting pursuits, there is quite of diversity of skills on tap for these students. Until the pandemic, these volunteers would merrily trip over the doormat, and now, the volunteering has an IP code. The volunteering is driven by names from the top drawer. Sample these. “TM Krishna sir is in constant touch, even paying us a visit regularly. He has arranged for his students to teach our children mridangam and vaipattu ,” begins Kalpana. She continues, “Restaurateur M Mahadevan sir is a well-wisher of the school, and it was he who made it possible for the school to partner with KC High School in the areas of arts & culture, sports and gardening. Our students would visit the KC High school campus — now on Old Mahabalipuram Road, and in Kotturpuram at that time — once a week as part of this collaborative project.” The tree NGO Nizhal and its well-known founder-trustee Shobha Menon have been associating with this Greater Chennai Corporation-run school over the long haul, with the Kotturpuram Urban Forest becoming an informal second school to the students. “There are so many things that are happening with Nizhal’s support on our campus and also at tree park. Every year, volunteers from this tree-NGO organise a minimum of five programmes for our students. Even teachers have been hugely impacted by this association. For instance, Shobha Menon ma’am brought someone who taught our teachers how to observe and study and take measurements of trees to ascertain their age; about their leaves and flowers and medicinal value. The programme which happened around five years ago was called mugam maarum marangal .” These efforts produced its most impactful result when students took ownership of a terrace garden two years ago, and their dedication to it was reaffirmed during the pandemic. “Not wanting to see their efforts wilt away, some of the boys told me they would come and water the plants, and they did. However, as these visits could not continue during the lockdown resulting from the Second Wave, the terrace garden has reduced to half its size.” In its better days, the harvest from the garden would regularly go into the noon meal. The after-school programme has enriched Kalpana’s faith in establishing and fostering connections with people who make up institutions. Just like Nizhal, the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSC) in Taramani has been a fount of learning for these students. “I feel that connections are important. When invited to IMSC in Taramani, I make sure that I talk to them and get their continuous support. Even if GCC organised a one-day training, I would find out who at IMSC would be interested to come to my school and meet my students. It was there that I met Ramanujam sir who is teaching our children excellently. IMSC is bringing Vigyanshala kind of research people to our school. The result is that our students learn physics concepts the fun way, which includes an ability to make rockets from water bottles and cycle pumps.” Kalpana underlines the role of the Inner Wheel volunteers who teach communicative English to the students. Even during the lockdown, they persisted with this exercise, taking the classes online.” “Aanmajothi, a voluntary organisation, arranged for dance teachers from Kalakshetra to train two batches for the past five years, at the rate of two classes every week.” Collaborations with schools and colleges are common, and notable associates include MOP Vaishnav College for Women and Vidyasagar. “MOP runs what is called Aahaar project giving breakfast to our students, every week day.” Kalpana believes greater synergy can be achieved if Chennai schools that have chalked up enterprising holistic programmes have a forum to exchange notes and learn from each other’s unique experiences.  It is definitely not possible to conduct such programmes for 400 children with just 12 teachers. We wanted at least 30 to 40 volunteers from the community K Maheswari Kalpana,HM, Chennai High School, Kottur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-community-troops-into-the-classroom/article36299205.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||From medicine to teaching||With the diagnosis of her son’s hearing loss, J Vijayalakshmy, a medical doctor, turned into a rehabilitation worker. In the 1990s, the family even relocated from Kerala to Chennai in search of a school for the boy. She began her journey as teacher at Clarke School for the Deaf in RK Salai. Now working with National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD), Vijayalakshmy has found her calling in teaching special children. While her son would be in the class, she would wait right outside the classroom. “Founder of Clarke School for the Deaf, Dr Leelavathy Patrick asked me to help them in creating a medical record of all the students at the school as she knew my background,” says Vijayalakshmy, a paediatrician. There began the grooming, which has included a slew of responsibilities and being sent to conferences and even stints beyond the Indian shores. “In 1995, the first deaf-blind student joined the school and I was asked to work with the child,” says Vijayalakshmy. In 1997, the school management sent her on a sponsored trip to Netherland to help her with a deeper understanding of deaf-blindness, early identification of multiple disabilities and multi-disciplinary aspects in holistic schooling. This was followed by a six-month stint in London. After 14 years at Clarke’s, she moved to NIEPMD as lecturer in Medical Sciences, focussing on early identification, diagnosis, programme planning and parent training. Those were the early years of NIEPMD and the team had the task of creating awareness about the centre. “We adapted a number of teaching learning material like B Active Box, Resonance Box for the Institute to our requirements. I was one of the first teachers in the deaf-blind unit (cerebral palsy was the only other unit it housed then),” says Vijayalakshmy, a resident of Kelambakkam. Vijayalakshmy has spearheaded various programmes at NIEPMD, which includes being a course coordinator for a diploma in special education and deafblindness, a post graduate programme in early intervention — enrolling students for these courses was a challenge as awareness about multiple disabilities was low those days. Besides, she has also trained professionals of district Early Intervention Centres of Tamil Nadu. The teacher, who has won a few awards for her work in the area, is currently working on a hand book on multiple disabilities, with focus on autism and its causes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-medicine-to-teaching/article36299216.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Resume underground power cable work’||Though work on laying underground electricity cables at Kazura Garden in Neelankarai on East Coast Road began last August, it is far from reaching its logical conclusion. Until this February, only the roads had been dug up, beyond which there was no marked development. “After years of representation to Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangeco), the work began. However, the work was moving at a snail’s pace, with the pandemic being cited as reason for it. Lack of permission from the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to dig the roads was cited as another reason. However, it is six months since GCC granted permission but there is no sign of the work being resumed,” says K Srilakshmi Mohan Rao, vice-president, Kazura Garden Welfare Association. A Tangedco official says that the needful will be done at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/resume-underground-power-cable-work/article36299197.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers on a learning curve||There is an echo of John Steinback’s The Moon Is Down in Ganapthy Iyer Girls High School’s pandemic experience. In Steinbeck’s novel, when thrust into a war, a small nation of unarmed, peace-loving people flounder their way to resistance, slowly becoming firm-footed in their mission. Signalling the early stage of the shift from “peace-loving” to “combative”, the pickaxe turns into a weapon of destruction. In the Gopalapuram school, when thrust into online classes, a clutch of digital-immigrant, textbook-loving teachers bumble their way to digital literacy, slowly becoming comfortable in front of the screen. The first sign of the shift from “bewilderment” to “poise” is a fridge glass tray that morphs into a makeshift stand cum see-through screen. Before going into the details of the innovation, here is what led up to it. On June 15, 2020, the headmistress of the school, Saradhamani Subramanian had summoned the teachers for an urgent meeting. No sooner had she broached the topic than she found herself in one lonely corner of the room. The rest of the teachers had broken into two groups, neither of them warming up to Saradhamani's suggestion. The headmistress had asked them to video-record all the lessons in WhatsApp to be shared with students. “One set of teachers just opposed the idea, considering it impractical. The other set was bewildered by the very thought of attempting it,” laughs Saradhamani. But the facts had to be faced: There was no alternative to pre-recording the lessons. A majority of the students from the school — run by the Gopalapuram Educational Society — is from one-smartphone households. The lone smart device would usually be out with the bread-winner of the house. Attending live online classes during the day was out of the question for these students. A necessity Pre-recorded video lessons with the easy medium of WhatsApp seemed the perfect solution. Saradhamani knew with cast-iron certainty that it would not just work, but work spectacularly. The sense of certainty derived from a guinea-pig experiment that had been carried out with evident success. “I had suggested it to a friend who was a teacher of primary classes in another school. She had acted on it with impressive results.” When Saradhamani shared a couple of those WhatsApp video-lessons with her colleagues, she noticed a faint glimmer of cooperation. “When it came to online classes, the teachers themselves had a lot of unanswered questions. I was watching a lot of videos on how to record lessons in WhatsApp.” That studiousness helped sort out one issue. “To display the textbooks and the worksheets and drawing sheets for the students, I asked the teachers to use a fridge glass tray. The teacher had to place the tray on at least two sturdy and tall objects of equal height and place the worksheet, textbook or drawing sheet under the tray. The mobile placed on the tray would be tilted to face what lies under it,” explains Saradhamani. A teacher’s video of a rangoli drawing session traces each line and spotlights every dot, all under the transparent fridge glass tray. Just as the pickaxe gives way to more sophisticated weaponry in Steinbeck’s tale of resilience and innovation, the fridge tray gives way to Google Drive and Google Classrooms. Saradhamani states that the teachers learnt fast. And as digital natives, there was no way the students would lag behind. “The teachers learnt how to use Google Drive to make and share videos; and they also started sharing videos on YouTube. When the unit test had to be conducted for Class X students, the teachers put to use a feature they had discovered in Google Classrooms. The students were at ease using it. Writing their answers, they created pdf files of their answer sheets and shared them with the teachers in no time.” The subject teachers make video-lessons and share them with the class teacher (classes range from sixth to tenth) who in turn share it with the students. In this time-table, a subject defines an entire day — to give an idea, Monday for science, Tuesday for English and so on, with video-lessons pertaining to a subject being shared on the day marked for it. Looking back, the principal cannot but marvel at the journey from videos overlaid with ‘woof-woofs’ and ‘meows’ to videos with hardly any hint of ambient noise. “The freedom extended to us by our school correspondent Dr. Nirmal Subramanian, a plastic surgeon, has helped us innovate along the way as we go about achieving our objectives.” The Rotary Club of Madras Temple City is now driving a digital literacy programme for the students. Says Saradhamani, “The Club conducted a hepatitis awareness session online for the students. One hundred and twenty students participated, and I was impressed with how poised they were online, how well they managed the lighting. There are children who live in modest homes, even huts, but they did not mind the fact as they showed the settings in the call.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-on-a-learning-curve/article36299213.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sobha Meritta RWA sets up library||At Sobha Meritta, a seven-year-old gated community in Pudupakkam on Kelambakkam-Vandalur Road, a library has been established for residents by Sobha Meritta Owners Association, using one of its rarely used rooms. Though conceived six months ago, the idea did not come to fruition until recently, due to the second wave. In the meantime, the Association started to collect books. The library, opened in July, offers 600 books of various genres, including fiction, non-fiction, spiritual, classics in English literature, and books suitable for children under the age of 15. Besides, there are also books in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam. The library is making use of Librarika, a software for cataloguing and circulating books. Only if we have stocked 2000 or more books do we need to pay for the use of this software. A small team of residents have volunteered to manage the library. Residents can become a member of the library by paying a refundable deposit of Rs. 200. Twice a week — on Wednesday and Saturday — the library is open from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. As the library receives good patronage, the Association plans to have it open one more day. In the coming days, the Association has plans to conduct storytelling sessions and language-based games as part of the library activities. As part of COVID 19 precautionary measures, not more than five persons are allowed inside the library at a given point in time. Next, books that are returned after reading will not be lent immediately to another member, kept separately, sanitised and lent only the next day. N Ranjit is the vice-president of Sobha Meritta Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sobha-meritta-rwa-sets-up-library/article36299186.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Road milling is still being ignored’||When I constructed my house in 2012, the road abutting it was three feer lowe. With each passing year, the road level is significantly rising, due to lack of milling before being relaid. Residents of houses constructed in the 1990s are in worse situation. Let me recall that last year the Madras High Court sought an explanation from top bureaucrats for the stubborn practice of relaying roads without milling. The High Court further admonished the officials for laying roads with scant regard for the buildings found along the roads. It also cited the example of the War Memorial on Kamarajar Salai, pointing out that in the 1980s, the platform around the memorial was five feet above the ground and it would be difficult to climb to on it from the road. But now the road’s height has gone up, and the platform’s height has come down correspondingly. If negligence marks the relaying of an arterial road, one imagine the state of other roads, the Court observed. I would also like to point out that in 2018, government officials gave an undertaking that they would ensure proper laying of roads. In May this year, the present Chief Secretary issued a directive that milling should ensured before roads are relaid. Despite such orders, the problem persists. I request the Greater Chennai Corporation to do the needful. M.B. Madhusudanan is a resident of Palavakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/road-milling-is-still-being-ignored/article36299190.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||How well do we know this neighbour?||The commonplace remains unnoticed. It takes unusual circumstances, sometimes a breakdown of the regular order, for it to gain attention. Does anyone have memories of “oxygen” dominating quotidian chatter before the Second Wave? The white-breasted waterhen is an avian example of the commonplace — ten a penny, as megatick seekers among birders would uncharitably put it. The bird is widespread in its range. It is easily sighted in its habitat, in striking contrast to some of its painfully attention-shy resident rallidae cousins — the slaty-breasted rail, the ruddy-breasted crake and the Baillon’s crake. And therefore, it is unconsciously ignored, ironically concealed from sight, and missing from birders’ field notes. In later part of August, this writer would have looked through a white-breasted waterhen pair if not for how they herded their brood to safety. Parent-birds of most feathers have a strong gathering instinct, which they use through subtle cues to the young. But this particular pair seemed to herd their young with the efficiency of a Belgian sheepdog. There were five chicks, and a majority of them seemed bent on straggling away from the flock. The scene was unfolding in a pool of water right outside the massive bund of a lake on the winding Gandhi Road in Nedungundram, with the Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road just a walking distance away. One parent led the pack and the other brought up the rear. However, the main point of interest is how the chicks helped themselves to safety the next day, when this writer watched these precocial chicks plunge into the same pool of water, alarmed by what they assumed to be intrusive steps, and deftly climbing on to the vegetation and disappear to safety. The swiftness with which they slipped away was impressive. It was as if they had a claw in each of their wings. That is hardly figurative, because apparently the young of the white-breasted waterhen do possess them. But there is no recorded evidence of white-breasted waterhen chicks putting those wing claws to any use. A few years ago, Pune-based animal rehabilitator Devna Arora put out an interesting note about wing claws that she noticed in a white-breasted waterhen chick that had been brought into her centre for rehabilitation. “I just made an observation, because I know that it has not been recorded properly. I have not gone into studying the subject in detail — as I am a rehabilitator, and not an ornithologist. I have made an observation note, in case it is of use to anybody in the future,” explains Devna, whose note can be accessed at her website (the link: http://rehabbersden.org/ rehabbers/PresenceOf AWingClawInWhite- breastedWaterhenYoung. html). Wing claws should theoretically be a valuable prop to chicks of nidifugous species, particualry those that have much clambering to do. Of the raillidae family, the white-breasted waterhen is essentially a bird of the reeds, though it does not restrict itself to it. Ornithologist V Santharam points out that use of wing claws by chicks as a safety prop has been documented in the hoatzin, a bird found in the Amazon. He remarks that in the context of wing-claw use, more observation of the young of species like the white-breasted waterhen is required. However, he notes: “Besides the hoatzin, it appears that wing claws in most other species are just a vestigial organ like the appendix in human beings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-well-do-we-know-this-neighbour/article36299182.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Bridges linking ECR and OMR need design tweak’||Design improvements are needed at the five-decade-old bridges connecting East Coast Road (ECR) and Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) across Buckingham Canal. The five locations on ECR are Periyar Street and Govind Nagar in Palavakkam, Sarasawathi Nagar in Neelankarai, Venkatesapuram and Coronet Garden in Kottivakkam.  Constructed and mainmaintained by the Public Works Department, these bridges are narrow. Used by a huge mumber of motorcyclists during rush hour, they are congested. Another new road connecting ECR and OMR is coming up. It is being laid from CLRI Nagar in Neelankarai to Thoraipakkam. When this new road is opened to traffic, we hope traffic congestion on these five bridges will reduce. Following that, these bridges are likely to be mostly used by local residents. Hence, we request that the design of these bridges be altered and make friendly for motorists, but without compromising on the safety of pedestrians. Further, their maintenance should not be ignored even if the new link road is opened to traffic. M. Hari Baskaran is one of the secretaries of Confederation of Sholinganallur Constituency Residents Welfare Associations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bridges-linking-ecr-and-omr-need-design-tweak/article36299188.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The mother in the driving seat||In Ironic, Alanis Morissette presents life as Janus-faced, one face contorted with cruelty (“life has a funny way of sneaking up on you when you think everything’s okay”) and the other crinkled with compassion ( “life has a funny way of helping you out when you think everything’s gone wrong”). Every time it pokes in one of those two faces, it is usually the face one least expects to see. The Chennai High School on Eldams Road in Teynampet has had an “Ironic” moment, one it is basking in. Amidst talk of plummeting numbers in government-run schools and the ever-present bogey of closure, this Greater Chennai Corporation school is witnessing a surge in admissions against the backdrop of a pandemic. K Revathy, headmistress, Chennai High School on Eldams Road, enthuses over the numbers, “From 357, the school’s strength has risen to 457. In fact, it should be counted as a leap from 307 to 457, if one factors in the 50 students from the school-leaving tenth-grade.” The school is known for its aggressive enrolment campaign, marked by a novel exercise of teachers going from door to door, carrying a salver piled high with fruits to request parents to have their children join the school. “For this academic year, we started the campaign in March. The teachers are extremely cooperative, and come with me wherever I go,” shares Revathy. “When a child joins our school, they are presented with a chess board.” Marked by ceremony, these visits surely elevate potential students and parents to a heady sense of importance. However, it would be naive to think this is what is bumping up the numbers. It is the “after-sales service” that seems to be making much of the impact for the school. It has gained a reputation for being parent-friendly, watching out for the families of its students. Revathy explains, “The voluntary organisation Sethu Foundation runs a multi-skills development programme for our students, training them in photography and chess and teaching them spoken English and good handwriting techniques. I want to ensure that these students go a level higher than where they currently are in their economic standing, by concentrating on their mothers’ growth. If you impart skills to the mother, the entire family would be benefitted. Sethu Foundation recently started driving classes for the mothers of our students. It is also starting a programme to train these mothers in skills required for jobs that can be done from home.” During the pandemic, the teachers made sure underprivileged students in the tenth grade had a mobile device and data to attend online classes. “Around 30 students from Grade 10 were identified as requiring this assistance. Teachers passed the hat around and also sought the generosity of their friends and relatives to get gently-used mobiles. Similarly, they made sure these mobiles were recharged regularly. If I identify people among my circle who want to help out, I would share some numbers for them to recharge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-mother-in-the-driving-seat/article36299200.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Shades of learning||Spread out wide, the branches of the tamarind tree at the entrance of Ambattur Municipal Primary School in Mogappair had made a whole lot of things possible for students and teachers — outdoor events, lunch breaks and meet-ups. It continued the good work during the pandemic, when it was an ally to teachers who wanted to conduct reading sessions and art and craft activities, among others, to help some children better utilise their time. “Since July 2020, teachers have been going to school, except during the peak of the second wave. At least 20 children from the neighbourhood, a majority of them our students, would hang out on the campus,” says S. Krishnaveni, who has been the school’s headmistress since 2009. These children needed to be engaged, as their parents would be away on work and they did not have any gadget to even tune in to the lessons being telecast on Kalvi TV. Krishnaveni points out that she has come across students whose parents earn a living as scavengers. These children would loiter around to collect recyclable plastic and sell them to buy snacks. “That sight really hurt me, so we started working with these children by engaging them in activities like wall painting and drawing,” says Krishnaveni. But were not the schools shuttered? Krishnaveni says they never opened the classroom and the activities were orchestrated under the tree. “We have two teachers — K Pushpalatha and S. Umaparvathy — along with me who would park themselves under its shade along with five children each and help them with the extra-curricular activities for a few hours every day,” says Krishnaveni, adding that this engagement still continues. “A majority of the children are from economically weak backgrounds and in the absence of anyone at home they spend their time in unhealthy activities,” she says. During the lockdown last year, one of the first things the school did was to ensure none of students’ families went without food. “I got help from my extended family who donated ration kits and once that dried up, I had many well-wishers who gave rice bags that benefited 70 of our parents,” says Krishnaveni, adding that the initiative continues. Early this year, Chennai photojournalists played host to an event under the tree where sports uniforms were distributed to children. State Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan graced the event. On August 15, there was a meet-up of students to share library books and exchange what they read. Started in 1935, the school is one of the oldest government institutions in the neighbourhood. It offers classes from LKG to V. In 2009, the school had 45 students. In the last academic year, it crossed 100 and its strength now is 195 with three teachers on the rolls. “When I joined the school, neighbours referred to it as a pulliamaram school and I felt bad about that then, but now I take pride in the name and the difference the tree has made in these children’s lives,” says Krishnaveni, adds that it is satisfying when one manages to spot talent among these youngsters. Santhosh and Mani are among the names she mentions. She notes, “Santhosh now goes to the home of a child on the spectrum to teach his art.”  That sight of children loitering around to collect recyclable plastic items and selling them to buy snacks really hurt me, so we started working with these children by engaging them in activities like wall painting and drawing S. Krishnaveni,HM, Ambattur Municipal Primary School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shades-of-learning/article36299209.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Dry waste drive brings smiles to un derprivileged children||At the dry waste collection organised last week by the Valmiki Nagar Residents Welfare Association, children had their hands full with takeaways. Between them, U Varsha and Vandana picked up dupattas, salwars, T-shirts, track pants, home gowns, leggings and kurtis. Many other children from the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenement at Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Thiruvanmiyur were similarly benefitted by the two-day drive, with the takeaways including toys and footwear. Their parents were only too happy about this. (The government has made an announcement that henceforth theTamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board would be called the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board). A mother of one of the children says: “A salon worker, my salary has been cut by half due to a drop in business. No incentives, no festival bonuses since last March. The same goes for my husband who is a cable operator. Hence, we did not buy anything for our children, and felt bad for them. The waste recycling drive has come as boon to our children who were deprived of shopping for the past many months. I am sure the clothes brought by my daughter must be worth Rs. 5,000; they were sparsely used and as good as brand new clothes.” Jayanthi Premchander, a member of the Association and one who engages the tenement’s children in constructive activities like gardening and painting, says: “The response was good. A good number of Valmiki Nagar residents walked in to discard dry waste items, and many residents from the nearby enement took some of the discarded items. Some picked vessels, non-stick pans and glass bottles.” The Association organised this drive, teamimg up with Wasted 360 Solutions, a waste management company. “Around 3.8 tonnes of clothes, 400 kg of toys, 100kg of footwear, 650 kg of miscellaneous household waste and seven to eight mattress were collected. Clothes that are in good condition will be reused. And the ones that are tattered will be recycled to make mops, bags and doormats,” says Jayanthi. There was also a haul of electronic and electrical waste at the event. “The residents’ association at nearby Kasturba Nagar organised an exclusive drive for e-waste just a month ago. Therefore, we did not expect much e-waste to turn up at our drive. On the contrary, close to 1.4 tonnes of e-waste was collected, which only illustrates the need for every residents’ association to organises an e-waste drive at periodical intervals,” says Jayanthi. Valmiki Nagar association plans to organise its next dry waste drive by December or January.  “The clothes brought by my daughter must be worth Rs. 5,000; they look as good as brand-new clothes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dry-waste-drive-brings-smiles-to-un-derprivileged-children/article36299195.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Inter-school contest||Globalart is conducting its sixth edition of Kreative Star 21, an inter-school contest. According to a press release, the contest is meant for students from class one to five. The event aims to develop creativity in children and allows them to express their thoughts. There will be three rounds — namely, centre level, area level and national level. The first round will be conducted between August and October 2021. Round two in November and the final round in December, adds the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inter-school-contest/article36299184.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Build a speed breaker at Karpagam Avenue entrance’||Due to the lack of speed-breakers, accidents are a near miss at the entrance of Karpagam Avenue Main Road in Raja Annamalaipuram. This road intersects with Santhome High Road, and many of the motorists entering Karpagam Avenue Main Road from Santhome High Road do so at a fast clip. There are many instances of minor accidents taking place at this spot. Hence, we request the Greater Chennai Corporation to lay a speed-breaker at the earliest and also install a road safety convex mirror at the entrance of Karpagam Avenue Main Road. Shahul Appavu is vice-president of Karpagam Avenue Residents Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/build-a-speed-breaker-at-karpagam-avenue-entrance/article36299192.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article36299193.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Backed by a committed team||Kalpana Kannan, principal of Chennai High School, Kottur credits its teachers and ever-widening body of volunteers from its trailblazing initiatives. The principal singles out science teacher Gangadevi for her unstinted contribution to the eco-club, and how she goes the extra mile in making a sucess of tree walks and keeping the terrace-garden initiative going. “She is extremely enthusiastic in any work relating to the eco-club that she takes up,” adds Kalpana. She illustrates the espirit de corps that exists among teachers and volunteers with a pandemic-related effort. “Last year, Greater Chennai Corporation had donated money towards purchase of mobiles for tenth graders, and the amount could cover 80 percent of the students. I could not bring myself to say ‘no’ to the 20 percent of the class. I learnt about crowdfunding through Milaap. In one day, we did it. My teachers and I contributed and all my volunteers were ready to support the initiative. The volunteers spread the word and also contributed towards the cause.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/backed-by-a-committed-team/article36299201.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The community troops into the classroom||There is a flip side to programmes done for free. Without watchfulness, they can slip into dilettantish efforts, palming gimcrack offerings off on the beneficiaries. The lack of quality can be eloquently explained away: “Amateurs are attempting what professionals themselves often struggle at, so be charitable with your comments!” With criticism headed off in this manner, the giver can stay buoyed up on a do-gooder high, and the farce would continue. When it started an elaborate after-school programme seven years ago, the Greater Chennai Corporation-run Chennai High School in Kottur skirted around this pitfall. It could have conveniently walked the path of mediocrity. No questions would have been asked. After all, the exercise lies outside the curriculum and also the teachers’ line of duty. The school steered away from this easy option, ensuring nobody but the experts would handle the training. That meant it shut out the possibility of upskilling teachers to get them to double as after-school activity coaches. In any case, that would have been a tough ask, given the height at which the bar had been set. From the time it launched the initiative, the school has sought to offer students a wide palette of activities, and has continually displayed a tendency to shoehorn one extra programme into a tightly-packed after-school schedule. “It is definitely not possible to conduct such programmes for 400 children with just 12 teachers. It is not possible for these teachers to be allrounders. We wanted at least 30 to 40 volunteers from the community,” says K Maheswari Kalpana, headmistress of Chennai High School, Kottur. With certain activities, those low on complexity, teachers were however imparted just enough skills to enable them to be facilitators. Before treading this path, Kalpana — and through her influence, her team — were gripped by a vision. “I believe in joyful learning even in a government school. That is my vision,” reveals Kalpana and goes on to explain what sharpened the focus of this vision. “In 2014, the US Consulate invited Greater Chennai Corporation to have teachers from its schools apply for a five-week traning in the United States. Out of the applications from 70 schools, there was mine from Chennai High School, Kottur. I wanted to learn about the best practices being followed in the schools at the United States and implement them in our school. The US consulates in all the Indian cities will choose one candidate each for the shortlist. Out of this shortlist from from India, I was selected. Over those five weeks, along with teachers selected from 19 other countries, I got to visit schools in the US and discover what made them tick. They also facilitated exposure to the US education system through a programme at California state university,” she explains. “Vikram Kapur sir, then GCC Commissioner, asked me what I wanted to do after this training.” There was just one answer to it, and it greeted her at every turn. One striking feature of the school education in the United States that she noticed was the irrepressible enthusiasm with which the community dandled the schools. “Every college or university in the region is connected with the school. They come to the school to offer it the benefit of their volunteering and after-school programme. I wanted to replicate the model in Kottur, creating an after-school programme with a body of volunteers. As many formalities and protocols go with inviting people from outside, I had to get permission to first run a pilot project for creating a model school with community support. When I sought his permission, Vikram Kapur sir said, ‘You can introduce as many after-school programmes as you want. Either you get volunteers or I will send volunteers.’ was his encouraging response.” When it emerged fully, the resultant picture was striking. Skilled professionals in various fields, around 40 volunteers from the community have kept the after-school programme at this GCC school in Kottur running like a well-oiled machine. So, from music and dance, to eco-studies and sporting pursuits, there is quite of diversity of skills on tap for these students. Until the pandemic, these volunteers would merrily trip over the doormat, and now, the volunteering has an IP code. The volunteering is driven by names from the top drawer. Sample these. “TM Krishna sir is in constant touch, even paying us a visit regularly. He has arranged for his students to teach our children mridangam and vaipattu ,” begins Kalpana. She continues, “Restaurateur M Mahadevan sir is a well-wisher of the school, and it was he who made it possible for the school to partner with KC High School in the areas of arts & culture, sports and gardening. Our students would visit the KC High school campus — now on Old Mahabalipuram Road, and in Kotturpuram at that time — once a week as part of this collaborative project.” The tree NGO Nizhal and its well-known founder-trustee Shobha Menon have been associating with this Greater Chennai Corporation-run school over the long haul, with the Kotturpuram Urban Forest becoming an informal second school to the students. “There are so many things that are happening with Nizhal’s support on our campus and also at tree park. Every year, volunteers from this tree-NGO organise a minimum of five programmes for our students. Even teachers have been hugely impacted by this association. For instance, Shobha Menon ma’am brought someone who taught our teachers how to observe and study and take measurements of trees to ascertain their age; about their leaves and flowers and medicinal value. The programme which happened around five years ago was called mugam maarum marangal .” These efforts produced its most impactful result when students took ownership of a terrace garden two years ago, and their dedication to it was reaffirmed during the pandemic. “Not wanting to see their efforts wilt away, some of the boys told me they would come and water the plants, and they did. However, as these visits could not continue during the lockdown resulting from the Second Wave, the terrace garden has reduced to half its size.” In its better days, the harvest from the garden would regularly go into the noon meal. The after-school programme has enriched Kalpana’s faith in establishing and fostering connections with people who make up institutions. Just like Nizhal, the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSC) in Taramani has been a fount of learning for these students. “I feel that connections are important. When invited to IMSC in Taramani, I make sure that I talk to them and get their continuous support. Even if GCC organised a one-day training, I would find out who at IMSC would be interested to come to my school and meet my students. It was there that I met Ramanujam sir who is teaching our children excellently. IMSC is bringing Vigyanshala kind of research people to our school. The result is that our students learn physics concepts the fun way, which includes an ability to make rockets from water bottles and cycle pumps.” Kalpana underlines the role of the Inner Wheel volunteers who teach communicative English to the students. Even during the lockdown, they persisted with this exercise, taking the classes online.” “Aanmajothi, a voluntary organisation, arranged for dance teachers from Kalakshetra to train two batches for the past five years, at the rate of two classes every week.” Collaborations with schools and colleges are common, and notable associates include MOP Vaishnav College for Women and Vidyasagar. “MOP runs what is called Aahaar project giving breakfast to our students, every week day.” Kalpana believes greater synergy can be achieved if Chennai schools that have chalked up enterprising holistic programmes have a forum to exchange notes and learn from each other’s unique experiences.  It is definitely not possible to conduct such programmes for 400 children with just 12 teachers. We wanted at least 30 to 40 volunteers from the community K Maheswari Kalpana,HM, Chennai High School, Kottur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-community-troops-into-the-classroom/article36299239.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A measure against bovine mishaps||The Inner Wheel Club of Chennai Korattur 323 has initiated a project to provide reflective collars for cows and buffaloes. ‘Glow in the Dark Belt’ was launched on August 31 at an event in a gated community in Korattur with Club members and cattle owners from the neighbourhood in attendance. Ten cattle have been collared with fluorescent-coloured flip-flop belts in an effort to ensure their safety as well as road users’ at night. The project managers clarify that the exercise does not tolerate the practice of letting cattle loose on the roads, and has to be seen as a protection being offered to cattle and motorists if the latter do for some reason end up on dimly-lit roads. Rekha Agarwal, a member of the Club who sponsored the collars, reveals that the project was inspired by a similar initiative in Jharkhand. In this pilot project, 100 cattle will be collared. “A majority of us are from around the neighbourhood, and so we plan to identify cattle owners and hand over the collars to them, but not before telling them that they should not let cattle stray on to roads,” says K Rani, president, Inner Wheel Club of Chennai Korattur. Based on the response and sponsorship, a decision will be taken on extending the initiative to other areas. “The Club has 56 chapters in Chennai district and if all of them come forward to support the initiative it would have great impact,” says Rani. While lauding the initiative Dr V Sookalingam, veterinary officer, is quick to caution that the badge on the cattle should not be a reason for cattle owners to allow their livestock to roam freely on roads. Greater Chennai Corporation has been asking cattle owners to move their herd to the outskirts as there have been many instances of stray cattle causing accidents in Chennai. “A majority of cattle roam freely late in the night and collide with speeding motorists, so the least we can do to these animals is tie reflective bands,” says Sookalingam.  The Club has 56 chapters in Chennai district and if all of them come forward to support the initiative it would have great impact||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-measure-against-bovine-mishaps/article36299221.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The wait is longer at Ambattur railway station’||There is a lot left to be desired at Ambattur railway station. First, the roofs on platforms two and three are not fully covered. The roofs cover only nine cars of the suburban trains and if it is a 12-car suburban train or a 24-car express train, commuters stand exposed to the elements of nature on the rest of the platform. It gets more difficult when it rains. Next, the work on the extension of these two platforms should resume. It began in June 2019. However, the work is progressing at a tardy pace, especially following the outbreak of the COVID=19 pandemic in March 2020. The extension work is aimed to accommodating the 24-car Chennai Jolarpet Express and Chennai Tirupathi Balaji Express which halt at Ambattur railway station since early 2019. However, commuters of these two express trains find it difficult to board and alight at the Ambattur railway station. The ladies’ compartment is beyond the platform area. Yet another grievance has to do with the closure of footover bridge at the railway station. It is kept closed for the past many months citing maintenance work. Here, I request the Southern Railway to do away with the footover bridge (FOB) and construct a vehicular subway with space dedicated for pedestrians. Because commuters hardly use the FOB as it is quite steep and it is a common sight to find commuters crossing the tracks. Some cross the tracks carrying their cycles. Even when goods trains are parked, commuters cross through the space between two compartmentsm which is extremely dangerous. It is all the more difficult for senior citizens and differently-abled people. Hence, I request the Southern Railway to consider the aforementioned grievances and do the needful without much delay. T. Gunaseelan is a resident of Ambattur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-wait-is-longer-at-ambattur-railway-station/article36299225.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||From medicine to teaching||With the diagnosis of her son’s hearing loss, J Vijayalakshmy, a medical doctor, turned into a rehabilitation worker. In the 1990s, the family even relocated from Kerala to Chennai in search of a school for the boy. She began her journey as teacher at Clarke School for the Deaf in RK Salai. Now working with National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD), Vijayalakshmy has found her calling in teaching special children. While her son would be in the class, she would wait right outside the classroom. “Founder of Clarke School for the Deaf, Dr Leelavathy Patrick asked me to help them in creating a medical record of all the students at the school as she knew my background,” says Vijayalakshmy, a paediatrician. There began the grooming, which has included a slew of responsibilities and being sent to conferences and even stints beyond the Indian shores. “In 1995, the first deaf-blind student joined the school and I was asked to work with the child,” says Vijayalakshmy. In 1997, the school management sent her on a sponsored trip to Netherland to help her with a deeper understanding of deaf-blindness, early identification of multiple disabilities and multi-disciplinary aspects in holistic schooling. This was followed by a six-month stint in London. After 14 years at Clarke’s, she moved to NIEPMD as lecturer in Medical Sciences, focussing on early identification, diagnosis, programme planning and parent training. Those were the early years of NIEPMD and the team had the task of creating awareness about the centre. “We adapted a number of teaching learning material like B Active Box, Resonance Box for the Institute to our requirements. I was one of the first teachers in the deaf-blind unit (cerebral palsy was the only other unit it housed then),” says Vijayalakshmy, a resident of Kelambakkam. Vijayalakshmy has spearheaded various programmes at NIEPMD, which includes being a course coordinator for a diploma in special education and deafblindness, a post graduate programme in early intervention — enrolling students for these courses was a challenge as awareness about multiple disabilities was low those days. Besides, she has also trained professionals of district Early Intervention Centres of Tamil Nadu. The teacher, who has won a few awards for her work in the area, is currently working on a hand book on multiple disabilities, with focus on autism and its causes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-medicine-to-teaching/article36299242.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A trip to remember||Getting out of the home, camping, trekking and spending time with friends has become more of a fantasy in this new normal, especially for special needs children and their caregivers. As a parent of a neuro-diverse child, I continue to experience this. With schools closed and therapy classes unavailable, the turns of events since last year has taken on toll on people, physically, mentally and emotionally. This has had an effect on stress levels and behaviour, making things more difficult for parents. Recently, 28 special children from Chennai got a much-needed break when Brio Sports Academy conducted a life skill development camp for them at Yercaud. What was unique about the camp was that parents did not accompany the children during the five-day programme. The group left from the city taking the train and reaching the camp with 12 coaches from the Academy conducting activities like trekking, sightseeing and group work. The camp was a life-changing experience for my 17-year-old son Daniel. He learnt many day-to-day life skills. After a long time, I had a break and personal time for myself. Muthuperiyanayaki, a parent of a child with visual impairment and mental retardation, also felt the same way. It was the first time in 15 years that her son was on his own. More importantly it has given many of us the confidence to allow our children to travel without the support of their parents or caregivers. The coaches started as swimming coaches and slowly expanded to form a team under the guidance of Sathish Kumar. Many of the coaches help parents of special needs children individually. Talking about the trip, Sathish Kumar says: “It is important to understand that each student behaves differently, so you need to identify their triggers and communicate clearly.”  (Grace Santosh is mother of a special need child and a resident of Anna Nagar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-trip-to-remember/article36299236.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers on a learning curve||There is an echo of John Steinback’s The Moon Is Down in Ganapathy Iyer Girls High School’s pandemic experience. In Steinbeck’s novel, when thrust into a war, a small nation of unarmed, peace-loving people flounder their way to resistance, slowly becoming firm-footed in their mission. Signalling the early stage of the shift from “peace-loving” to “combative”, the pickaxe turns into a weapon of destruction. In the Gopalapuram school, when thrust into online classes, a clutch of digital-immigrant, textbook-loving teachers bumble their way to digital literacy, slowly becoming comfortable in front of the screen. The first sign of the shift from “bewilderment” to “poise” is a fridge glass tray that morphs into a makeshift stand cum see-through screen. Before going into the details of the innovation, here is what led up to it. On June 15, 2020, the headmistress of the school, Saradhamani Subramanian had summoned the teachers for an urgent meeting. No sooner had she broached the topic than she found herself in one lonely corner of the room. The rest of the teachers had broken into two groups, neither of them warming up to Saradhamani's suggestion. The headmistress had asked them to video-record all the lessons in WhatsApp to be shared with students. “One set of teachers just opposed the idea, considering it impractical. The other set was bewildered by the very thought of attempting it,” laughs Saradhamani. But the facts had to be faced: There was no alternative to pre-recording the lessons. A majority of the students from the school — run by the Gopalapuram Educational Society — is from one-smartphone households. The lone smart device would usually be out with the bread-winner of the house. Attending live online classes during the day was out of the question for these students. A necessity Pre-recorded video lessons with the easy medium of WhatsApp seemed the perfect solution. Saradhamani knew with cast-iron certainty that it would not just work, but work spectacularly. The sense of certainty derived from a guinea-pig experiment that had been carried out with evident success. “I had suggested it to a friend who was a teacher of primary classes in another school. She had acted on it with impressive results.” When Saradhamani shared a couple of those WhatsApp video-lessons with her colleagues, she noticed a faint glimmer of cooperation. “When it came to online classes, the teachers themselves had a lot of unanswered questions. I was watching a lot of videos on how to record lessons in WhatsApp.” That studiousness helped sort out one issue. “To display the textbooks and the worksheets and drawing sheets for the students, I asked the teachers to use a fridge glass tray. The teacher had to place the tray on at least two sturdy and tall objects of equal height and place the worksheet, textbook or drawing sheet under the tray. The mobile placed on the tray would be tilted to face what lies under it,” explains Saradhamani. A teacher’s video of a rangoli drawing session traces each line and spotlights every dot, all under the transparent fridge glass tray. Just as the pickaxe gives way to more sophisticated weaponry in Steinbeck’s tale of resilience and innovation, the fridge tray gives way to Google Drive and Google Classrooms. Saradhamani states that the teachers learnt fast. And as digital natives, there was no way the students would lag behind. “The teachers learnt how to use Google Drive to make and share videos; and they also started sharing videos on YouTube. When the unit test had to be conducted for Class X students, the teachers put to use a feature they had discovered in Google Classrooms. The students were at ease using it. Writing their answers, they created pdf files of their answer sheets and shared them with the teachers in no time.” The subject teachers make video-lessons and share them with the class teacher (classes range from sixth to tenth) who in turn share it with the students. In this time-table, a subject defines an entire day — to give an idea, Monday for science, Tuesday for English and so on, with video-lessons pertaining to a subject being shared on the day marked for it. Looking back, the principal cannot but marvel at the journey from videos overlaid with ‘woof-woofs’ and ‘meows’ to videos with hardly any hint of ambient noise. “The freedom extended to us by our school correspondent Dr. Nirmala Subramanian, a plastic surgeon, has helped us innovate along the way as we go about achieving our objectives.” The Rotary Club of Madras Temple City is now driving a digital literacy programme for the students. Says Saradhamani, “The Club conducted a hepatitis awareness session online for the students. One hundred and twenty students participated, and I was impressed with how poised they were online, how well they managed the lighting. There are children who live in modest homes, even huts, but they did not mind the fact as they showed the settings in the call.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-on-a-learning-curve/article36299241.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The gift of a lifetime||Ambika, a domestic help from south Kolathur, has difficulty walking to work. Now, she just needs to get on her bicycle to cover that distance.   Srinivasan S, working as a plumber in Thiruvottiyur, travels to work without much of a hassle, carrying his tools in the rear seat of his new Hercules cycle.   Babu, a cobbler living in Perumbakkam who travels to Kodambakkam every day to run his shop, hopes the new cycle will reduce his commute time and the expense he incurs.  These three are among nine beneficiaries of ‘Project Annamalai’, a social initiative of WCCG (We’re Chennai Cycling Group) launched in August 2020 to empower the less-privileged. In this project, we identify a deserving recipient and a willing donor (any citizen of Chennai willing to sponsor) to donate a new or refurbished bicycle so as to make the life of ordinary people easy. Due to the pandemic, the process of identifying the beneficiaries took time. The recipients can be nominated by anyone. Then we have a separate team working on shortlisting the beneficiaries. The team would talk and scrutinise the recipients thus focusing on the most deserving. It took us almost a month for assessing the candidates, procurement of cycles and distribution. We planned to organise a few donation drives during the year to generate funds for this project but it could not happen, luckily WCCG came forward to sponsor nine bicycles as part of their ninth anniversary celebration. All the nine recipients got brand new Hercules cycle and, as they would say, the gift of a lifetime.  (Felix John is the Bicycle Mayor of Chennai)   It took us almost a month for assessing the candidates, procurement of cycles and distribution||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-gift-of-a-lifetime/article36299234.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The mother in the driving seat||In Ironic, Alanis Morissette presents life as Janus-faced, one face contorted with cruelty (“life has a funny way of sneaking up on you when you think everything’s okay”) and the other crinkled with compassion ( “life has a funny way of helping you out when you think everything’s gone wrong”). Every time it pokes in one of those two faces, it is usually the face one least expects to see. The Chennai High School on Eldams Road in Teynampet has had an “Ironic” moment, one it is basking in. Amidst talk of plummeting numbers in government-run schools and the ever-present bogey of closure, this Greater Chennai Corporation school is witnessing a surge in admissions against the backdrop of a pandemic. K Revathy, headmistress, Chennai High School on Eldams Road, enthuses over the numbers, “From 357, the school’s strength has risen to 457. In fact, it should be counted as a leap from 307 to 457, if one factors in the 50 students from the school-leaving tenth-grade.” The school is known for its aggressive enrolment campaign, marked by a novel exercise of teachers going from door to door, carrying a salver piled high with fruits to request parents to have their children join the school. “For this academic year, we started the campaign in March. The teachers are extremely cooperative, and come with me wherever I go,” shares Revathy. “When a child joins our school, they are presented with a chess board.” Marked by ceremony, these visits surely elevate potential students and parents to a heady sense of importance. However, it would be naive to think this is what is bumping up the numbers. It is the “after-sales service” that seems to be making much of the impact for the school. It has gained a reputation for being parent-friendly, watching out for the families of its students. Revathy explains, “The voluntary organisation Sethu Foundation runs a multi-skills development programme for our students, training them in photography and chess and teaching them spoken English and good handwriting techniques. I want to ensure that these students go a level higher than where they currently are in their economic standing, by concentrating on their mothers’ growth. If you impart skills to the mother, the entire family would be benefitted. Sethu Foundation recently started driving classes for the mothers of our students. It is also starting a programme to train these mothers in skills required for jobs that can be done from home.” During the pandemic, the teachers made sure underprivileged students in the tenth grade had a mobile device and data to attend online classes. “Around 30 students from Grade 10 were identified as requiring this assistance. Teachers passed the hat around and also sought the generosity of their friends and relatives to get gently-used mobiles. Similarly, they made sure these mobiles were recharged regularly. If I identify people among my circle who want to help out, I would share some numbers for them to recharge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-mother-in-the-driving-seat/article36299237.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Shades of learning||Spread out wide, the branches of the tamarind tree at the entrance of Ambattur Municipal Primary School in Mogappair had made a whole lot of things possible for students and teachers — outdoor events, lunch breaks and meet-ups. It continued the good work during the pandemic, when it was an ally to teachers who wanted to conduct reading sessions and art and craft activities, among others, to help some children better utilise their time. “Since July 2020, teachers have been going to school, except during the peak of the second wave. At least 20 children from the neighbourhood, a majority of them our students, would hang out on the campus,” says S. Krishnaveni, who has been the school’s headmistress since 2009. These children needed to be engaged, as their parents would be away on work and they did not have any gadget to even tune in to the lessons being telecast on Kalvi TV. Krishnaveni points out that she has come across students whose parents earn a living as scavengers. These children would loiter around to collect recyclable plastic and sell them to buy snacks. “That sight really hurt me, so we started working with these children by engaging them in activities like wall painting and drawing,” says Krishnaveni. But were not the schools shuttered? Krishnaveni says they never opened the classroom and the activities were orchestrated under the tree. “We have two teachers — K Pushpalatha and S. Umaparvathy — along with me who would park themselves under its shade along with five children each and help them with the extra-curricular activities for a few hours every day,” says Krishnaveni, adding that this engagement still continues. “A majority of the children are from economically weak backgrounds and in the absence of anyone at home they spend their time in unhealthy activities,” she says. During the lockdown last year, one of the first things the school did was to ensure none of students’ families went without food. “I got help from my extended family who donated ration kits and once that dried up, I had many well-wishers who gave rice bags that benefited 70 of our parents,” says Krishnaveni, adding that the initiative continues. Early this year, Chennai photojournalists played host to an event under the tree where sports uniforms were distributed to children. State Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan graced the event. On August 15, there was a meet-up of students to share library books and exchange what they read. Started in 1935, the school is one of the oldest government institutions in the neighbourhood. It offers classes from LKG to V. In 2009, the school had 45 students. In the last academic year, it crossed 100 and its strength now is 195 with three teachers on the rolls. “When I joined the school, neighbours referred to it as a pulliamaram school and I felt bad about that then, but now I take pride in the name and the difference the tree has made in these children’s lives,” says Krishnaveni, adds that it is satisfying when one manages to spot talent among these youngsters. Santhosh and Mani are among the names she mentions. She notes, “Santhosh now goes to the home of a child on the spectrum to teach his art.”  That sight of children loitering around to collect recyclable plastic items and selling them to buy snacks really hurt me, so we started working with these children by engaging them in activities like wall painting and drawing S. Krishnaveni,HM, Ambattur Municipal Primary School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shades-of-learning/article36299240.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||How well do we know this neighbour?||The commonplace remains unnoticed. It takes unusual circumstances, sometimes a breakdown of the regular order, for it to gain attention. Does anyone have memories of “oxygen” dominating quotidian chatter before the Second Wave? The white-breasted waterhen is an avian example of the commonplace — ten a penny, as megatick seekers among birders would uncharitably put it. The bird is widespread in its range. It is easily sighted in its habitat, in striking contrast to some of its painfully attention-shy resident rallidae cousins — the slaty-breasted rail, the ruddy-breasted crake and the Baillon’s crake. And therefore, it is unconsciously ignored, ironically concealed from sight, and missing from birders’ field notes. In later part of August, this writer would have looked through a white-breasted waterhen pair if not for how they herded their brood to safety. Parent-birds of most feathers have a strong gathering instinct, which they use through subtle cues to the young. But this particular pair seemed to herd their young with the efficiency of a Belgian sheepdog. There were five chicks, and a majority of them seemed bent on straggling away from the flock. The scene was unfolding in a pool of water right outside the massive bund of a lake on the winding Gandhi Road in Nedungundram, with the Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road just a walking distance away. One parent led the pack and the other brought up the rear. However, the main point of interest is how the chicks helped themselves to safety the next day, when this writer watched these precocial chicks plunge into the same pool of water, alarmed by what they assumed to be intrusive steps, and deftly climbing on to the vegetation and disappear to safety. The swiftness with which they slipped away was impressive. It was as if they had a claw in each of their wings. That is hardly figurative, because apparently the young of the white-breasted waterhen do possess them. But there is no recorded evidence of white-breasted waterhen chicks putting those wing claws to any use. A few years ago, Pune-based animal rehabilitator Devna Arora put out an interesting note about wing claws that she noticed in a white-breasted waterhen chick that had been brought into her centre for rehabilitation. “I just made an observation, because I know that it has not been recorded properly. I have not gone into studying the subject in detail — as I am a rehabilitator, and not an ornithologist. I have made an observation note, in case it is of use to anybody in the future,” explains Devna, whose note can be accessed at her website (the link: http://rehabbersden.org/ rehabbers/PresenceOf AWingClawInWhite- breastedWaterhenYoung. html). Wing claws should theoretically be a valuable prop to chicks of nidifugous species, particualry those that have much clambering to do. Of the raillidae family, the white-breasted waterhen is essentially a bird of the reeds, though it does not restrict itself to it. Ornithologist V Santharam points out that use of wing claws by chicks as a safety prop has been documented in the hoatzin, a bird found in the Amazon. He remarks that in the context of wing-claw use, more observation of the young of species like the white-breasted waterhen is required. However, he notes: “Besides the hoatzin, it appears that wing claws in most other species are just a vestigial organ like the appendix in human beings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-well-do-we-know-this-neighbour/article36299251.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Helping youngsters to own their neighbourhood||On August 20, five boys of Maduram Nagar at Kolathuvanchery in Iyappanthangal were honoured by the Mangadu police as they were instrumental in nabbing an anti-social gang. P Palani, Assistant Commissioner of Police, SRMC range, felicitated the boys with a certificate of appreciation. Ramesh Nivash, secretary, Maduram Nagar Residents Association, recalls that on the evening of August 15, these boys, aged 13 to 16, were out playing, when they saw a man and a woman roaming in the colony. The look of the duo evoking suspicion, the boys alerted the association, which in turn informed the police. Investigation by the police revealed they were indeed engaing in anti-social activities as part of a gang. Since 2018, Ramesh has taken charge of the holistic development of around 40 children (aged between 12 and 16) at Maduram Nagar, seeking to mould them into responsible citizens. “I sensitise children on security. Earlier, many thefts took place in the neighbiourhood, — motorcycles, cattle, and construction materials disappeared. Impersonating as a courier staff, a thief once entered an apartment and stole footwear. Such incidents increased since the pandemic began. So, I asked the children to keep an eye on stangers. Further, these children were tasked with distributing pamphlets issued by the police department on safety,” says Ramesh, vice-president at a private bank. Ramesh also encourages these children to pursue ourdoor sports and environment conservation. “Children are encouraged to play kabbadi, football and badminton. On weekends we go jogging and cycling. While cycling, I teach them about road safety rules. Once, I took them to a private badminton court and a gym. As there is no playground in our locality and nearby areas, we turned vacant plots in the colony into play areas, clearing the vegetation with the support of our association and plot owners,” says Ramesh. Visits to the Porur lake are a regular feature. “I take the children to Porur lake to help them understand the importance of waterbodies and what garbage dumping is doing to them. These children are sensitised to need for waste segregation and disposal so that they carry the messages to their families,” adds Ramesh. Ramesh coaches these children on how to approach competitive examinations, partly because he still harbours the disappointment of not becoming a civil servant. “I aspired to become a civil servant and started preparations for it, but had to give up the dream with financial commitments in our family forcing me to take up a job immediately after studies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/helping-youngsters-to-own-their-neighbourhood/article36299232.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Correct the SWD design’||At Kamaraj Nagar, 9th Street in Korattur, residents fear the monsoon. The stormwater drain stands at an elevation and the construction has blocked the manholes, causing rainwater to enter the premises of houses. We want Greater Chennai Corporation to look into this matter. Underground drainage Open sewage runs by the side of the 20 feet road, making it a breeding ground for mosquitoes and causing other health issues. Residents have expressed their concern many a time to GCC, seeking completion of the underground sewage connection work. Kamaraj Nagar residents now rely on septic tanks, which are cleared twice a month, entailing a huge expenditure.  (Haris Sultan and Raj are residents of 9th Street, Kamaraj Nagar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/correct-the-swd-design/article36299227.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Thiruvengada Nagar residents honour Tangedco staff||Our heartfelt gratitude to Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) staff who swung into action when there was power outage at Thiruvengada Nagar in Ambattur following a heavy downpour on the evening of July16. A huge tree on First Main Road got uprooted and severed the power lines and a half dozen lampposts got damaged. Even the transformer was not spared. It was resting on the balcony on the first floor of an apartment. The power supply got cut around 7 p.m. The Tangedco staff worked through the pouring rain and the power supply resumed by 9 p.m., except for a few houses as the power lines were severely damaged. The Greater Chennai Corporation also extended a helping a hand by providing an excavator. The next morning, to our surprise, a big team of EB staff was at our colony and they worked through the day, clearing the tree branches and replacing the poles and transformer. And the power was resumed for the remaining houses and normality was restored by 4 p.m. As a token of thanks, residents of First Main Road honoured the Tangedco staff by presenting them with raincoats and boxes of sweets. We gave them raincoats because they were working without raincoats through the heavy rain.  (K.S. Sreedharan and S. Suresh are residents of Thiruvengada Nagar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thiruvengada-nagar-residents-honour-tangedco-staff/article36299229.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Backed by a committed team||Kalpana Kannan, principal of Chennai High School, Kottur credits its teachers and ever-widening body of volunteers from its trailblazing initiatives. The principal singles out science teacher Gangadevi for her unstinted contribution to the eco-club, and how she goes the extra mile in making a sucess of tree walks and keeping the terrace-garden initiative going. “She is extremely enthusiastic in any work relating to the eco-club that she takes up,” adds Kalpana. She illustrates the espirit de corps that exists among teachers and volunteers with a pandemic-related effort. “Last year, Greater Chennai Corporation had donated money towards purchase of mobiles for tenth graders, and the amount could cover 80 percent of the students. I could not bring myself to say ‘no’ to the 20 percent of the class. I learnt about crowdfunding through Milaap. In one day, we did it. My teachers and I contributed and all my volunteers were ready to support the initiative. The volunteers spread the word and also contributed towards the cause.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/backed-by-a-committed-team/article36299238.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||New dental centre at Melayanambakkam||Geethalaya Dental Center has opened a new centre in Anna Nagar, which offers complete dental services including root canal treatment, dental implants, invisible braces, removable and fixed dentures, complete dentures and paediatric dental treatments. Dr Vasanthi, chief dental surgeon of Geethalaya Dental Center, comes with 10 years of clinical experience, says a press release. The centre is working towards creating awareness on oral hygiene, health hazards of tobacco smoking and arecanut-chewing. The centre is at No 68A, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Melayanambakkam. For details, call 9940559919/ 9600076300||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-dental-centre-at-melayanambakkam/article36299245.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival special||Mc Kenzie's, a fashion readymade garment showroom at 12th Main Road, Shanthi Colony, Anna Nagar, has stocked a wide variety of collections ranging from designer salwar suits, studio jeans, party wear dresses and western wear. It is having a special sale where it is offering up to 50% off on selected garments. According to a release, the outlet has a private car park for shoppers. Contact: 9790932303||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/festival-special/article36299247.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Anna Nagar resident gets toastmaster award||Karthikeyan Balasubramanian, a resident of Anna Nagar, won the “Distinguished Toastmaster (DTM)” award recently. According to a release, Karthikeyan has completed both the leadership and communication tracks, earning many awards to reach DTM status. He served as club coach of Hillview Toastmasters till last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/anna-nagar-resident-gets-toastmaster-award/article36299248.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Yoga classes at Mogappair||Mogappair Panneer Nagar Manavalakalai Trust is conducting its monthly yoga foundation course from September 6 to 18, from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. Venue: Seethakathi Salai 4th cross St, Behind Velammal Mat.School, Mogappair. For details, call 9444418241 / 9840861519||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/yoga-classes-at-mogappair/article36299249.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Inter-school contest||Globalart is conducting its sixth edition of Kreative Star 21, an inter-school contest. According to a press release, the contest is meant for students from class one to five. The event aims to develop creativity in children and allows them to express their thoughts. There will be three rounds — namely, centre level, area level and national level. The first round will be conducted between August and October 2021. Round two in November and the final round in December, adds the release. For details, call 95662 62366/95001 69017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inter-school-contest/article36299252.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/be-our-volunteer-writer/article36299230.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Teacher’s Day: Shades of learning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-day-shades-of-learning/article36299217.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Readers write about issues in their neighbourhoods||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/readers-write-about-issues-in-their-neighbourhoods/article36299219.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||colours of Singara Chennai||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/colours-of-singara-chennai/article36299244.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The community troops into the classroom||There is a flip side to programmes done for free. Without watchfulness, they can slip into dilettantish efforts, palming gimcrack offerings off on the beneficiaries. The lack of quality can be eloquently explained away: “Amateurs are attempting what professionals themselves often struggle at, so be charitable with your comments!” With criticism headed off in this manner, the giver can stay buoyed up on a do-gooder high, and the farce would continue. When it started an elaborate after-school programme seven years ago, the Greater Chennai Corporation-run Chennai High School in Kottur skirted around this pitfall. It could have conveniently walked the path of mediocrity. No questions would have been asked. After all, the exercise lies outside the curriculum and also the teachers’ line of duty. The school steered away from this easy option, ensuring nobody but the experts would handle the training. That meant it shut out the possibility of upskilling teachers to get them to double as after-school activity coaches. In any case, that would have been a tough ask, given the height at which the bar had been set. From the time it launched the initiative, the school has sought to offer students a wide palette of activities, and has continually displayed a tendency to shoehorn one extra programme into a tightly-packed after-school schedule. “It is definitely not possible to conduct such programmes for 400 children with just 12 teachers. It is not possible for these teachers to be allrounders. We wanted at least 30 to 40 volunteers from the community,” says K Maheswari Kalpana, headmistress of Chennai High School, Kottur. With certain activities, those low on complexity, teachers were however imparted just enough skills to enable them to be facilitators. Before treading this path, Kalpana — and through her influence, her team — were gripped by a vision. “I believe in joyful learning even in a government school. That is my vision,” reveals Kalpana and goes on to explain what sharpened the focus of this vision. “In 2014, the US Consulate invited Greater Chennai Corporation to have teachers from its schools apply for a five-week traning in the United States. Out of the applications from 70 schools, there was mine from Chennai High School, Kottur. I wanted to learn about the best practices being followed in the schools at the United States and implement them in our school. The US consulates in all the Indian cities will choose one candidate each for the shortlist. Out of this shortlist from from India, I was selected. Over those five weeks, along with teachers selected from 19 other countries, I got to visit schools in the US and discover what made them tick. They also facilitated exposure to the US education system through a programme at California state university,” she explains. “Vikram Kapur sir, then GCC Commissioner, asked me what I wanted to do after this training.” There was just one answer to it, and it greeted her at every turn. One striking feature of the school education in the United States that she noticed was the irrepressible enthusiasm with which the community dandled the schools. “Every college or university in the region is connected with the school. They come to the school to offer it the benefit of their volunteering and after-school programme. I wanted to replicate the model in Kottur, creating an after-school programme with a body of volunteers. As many formalities and protocols go with inviting people from outside, I had to get permission to first run a pilot project for creating a model school with community support. When I sought his permission, Vikram Kapur sir said, ‘You can introduce as many after-school programmes as you want. Either you get volunteers or I will send volunteers.’ was his encouraging response.” When it emerged fully, the resultant picture was striking. Skilled professionals in various fields, around 40 volunteers from the community have kept the after-school programme at this GCC school in Kottur running like a well-oiled machine. So, from music and dance, to eco-studies and sporting pursuits, there is quite of diversity of skills on tap for these students. Until the pandemic, these volunteers would merrily trip over the doormat, and now, the volunteering has an IP code. The volunteering is driven by names from the top drawer. Sample these. “TM Krishna sir is in constant touch, even paying us a visit regularly. He has arranged for his students to teach our children mridangam and vaipattu ,” begins Kalpana. She continues, “Restaurateur M Mahadevan sir is a well-wisher of the school, and it was he who made it possible for the school to partner with KC High School in the areas of arts & culture, sports and gardening. Our students would visit the KC High school campus — now on Old Mahabalipuram Road, and in Kotturpuram at that time — once a week as part of this collaborative project.” The tree NGO Nizhal and its well-known founder-trustee Shobha Menon have been associating with this Greater Chennai Corporation-run school over the long haul, with the Kotturpuram Urban Forest becoming an informal second school to the students. “There are so many things that are happening with Nizhal’s support on our campus and also at tree park. Every year, volunteers from this tree-NGO organise a minimum of five programmes for our students. Even teachers have been hugely impacted by this association. For instance, Shobha Menon ma’am brought someone who taught our teachers how to observe and study and take measurements of trees to ascertain their age; about their leaves and flowers and medicinal value. The programme which happened around five years ago was called mugam maarum marangal .” These efforts produced its most impactful result when students took ownership of a terrace garden two years ago, and their dedication to it was reaffirmed during the pandemic. “Not wanting to see their efforts wilt away, some of the boys told me they would come and water the plants, and they did. However, as these visits could not continue during the lockdown resulting from the Second Wave, the terrace garden has reduced to half its size.” In its better days, the harvest from the garden would regularly go into the noon meal. The after-school programme has enriched Kalpana’s faith in establishing and fostering connections with people who make up institutions. Just like Nizhal, the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSC) in Taramani has been a fount of learning for these students. “I feel that connections are important. When invited to IMSC in Taramani, I make sure that I talk to them and get their continuous support. Even if GCC organised a one-day training, I would find out who at IMSC would be interested to come to my school and meet my students. It was there that I met Ramanujam sir who is teaching our children excellently. IMSC is bringing Vigyanshala kind of research people to our school. The result is that our students learn physics concepts the fun way, which includes an ability to make rockets from water bottles and cycle pumps.” Kalpana underlines the role of the Inner Wheel volunteers who teach communicative English to the students. Even during the lockdown, they persisted with this exercise, taking the classes online.” “Aanmajothi, a voluntary organisation, arranged for dance teachers from Kalakshetra to train two batches for the past five years, at the rate of two classes every week.” Collaborations with schools and colleges are common, and notable associates include MOP Vaishnav College for Women and Vidyasagar. “MOP runs what is called Aahaar project giving breakfast to our students, every week day.” Kalpana believes greater synergy can be achieved if Chennai schools that have chalked up enterprising holistic programmes have a forum to exchange notes and learn from each other’s unique experiences.  It is definitely not possible to conduct such programmes for 400 children with just 12 teachers. We wanted at least 30 to 40 volunteers from the community K Maheswari Kalpana,HM, Chennai High School, Kottur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-community-troops-into-the-classroom/article36299259.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers on a learning curve||There is an echo of John Steinback’s The Moon Is Down in Ganapathy Iyer Girls High School’s pandemic experience. In Steinbeck’s novel, when thrust into a war, a small nation of unarmed, peace-loving people flounder their way to resistance, slowly becoming firm-footed in their mission. Signalling the early stage of the shift from “peace-loving” to “combative”, the pickaxe turns into a weapon of destruction. In the Gopalapuram school, when thrust into online classes, a clutch of digital-immigrant, textbook-loving teachers bumble their way to digital literacy, slowly becoming comfortable in front of the screen. The first sign of the shift from “bewilderment” to “poise” is a fridge glass tray that morphs into a makeshift stand cum see-through screen. Before going into the details of the innovation, here is what led up to it. On June 15, 2020, the headmistress of the school, Saradhamani Subramanian had summoned the teachers for an urgent meeting. No sooner had she broached the topic than she found herself in one lonely corner of the room. The rest of the teachers had broken into two groups, neither of them warming up to Saradhamani's suggestion. The headmistress had asked them to video-record all the lessons in WhatsApp to be shared with students. “One set of teachers just opposed the idea, considering it impractical. The other set was bewildered by the very thought of attempting it,” laughs Saradhamani. But the facts had to be faced: There was no alternative to pre-recording the lessons. A majority of the students from the school — run by the Gopalapuram Educational Society — is from one-smartphone households. The lone smart device would usually be out with the bread-winner of the house. Attending live online classes during the day was out of the question for these students. A necessity Pre-recorded video lessons with the easy medium of WhatsApp seemed the perfect solution. Saradhamani knew with cast-iron certainty that it would not just work, but work spectacularly. The sense of certainty derived from a guinea-pig experiment that had been carried out with evident success. “I had suggested it to a friend who was a teacher of primary classes in another school. She had acted on it with impressive results.” When Saradhamani shared a couple of those WhatsApp video-lessons with her colleagues, she noticed a faint glimmer of cooperation. “When it came to online classes, the teachers themselves had a lot of unanswered questions. I was watching a lot of videos on how to record lessons in WhatsApp.” That studiousness helped sort out one issue. “To display the textbooks and the worksheets and drawing sheets for the students, I asked the teachers to use a fridge glass tray. The teacher had to place the tray on at least two sturdy and tall objects of equal height and place the worksheet, textbook or drawing sheet under the tray. The mobile placed on the tray would be tilted to face what lies under it,” explains Saradhamani. A teacher’s video of a rangoli drawing session traces each line and spotlights every dot, all under the transparent fridge glass tray. Just as the pickaxe gives way to more sophisticated weaponry in Steinbeck’s tale of resilience and innovation, the fridge tray gives way to Google Drive and Google Classrooms. Saradhamani states that the teachers learnt fast. And as digital natives, there was no way the students would lag behind. “The teachers learnt how to use Google Drive to make and share videos; and they also started sharing videos on YouTube. When the unit test had to be conducted for Class X students, the teachers put to use a feature they had discovered in Google Classrooms. The students were at ease using it. Writing their answers, they created pdf files of their answer sheets and shared them with the teachers in no time.” The subject teachers make video-lessons and share them with the class teacher (classes range from sixth to tenth) who in turn share it with the students. In this time-table, a subject defines an entire day — to give an idea, Monday for science, Tuesday for English and so on, with video-lessons pertaining to a subject being shared on the day marked for it. Looking back, the principal cannot but marvel at the journey from videos overlaid with ‘woof-woofs’ and ‘meows’ to videos with hardly any hint of ambient noise. “The freedom extended to us by our school correspondent Dr. Nirmala Subramanian, a plastic surgeon, has helped us innovate along the way as we go about achieving our objectives.” The Rotary Club of Madras Temple City is now driving a digital literacy programme for the students. Says Saradhamani, “The Club conducted a hepatitis awareness session online for the students. One hundred and twenty students participated, and I was impressed with how poised they were online, how well they managed the lighting. There are children who live in modest homes, even huts, but they did not mind the fact as they showed the settings in the call.”  More Teacher’s Day stories on pages 2 and 3   One set of teachers just opposed the idea, considering it impractical. The other set was bewildered by the very thought of attempting it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-on-a-learning-curve/article36299255.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A train of thoughts||Recently, in a tweet, TS Tirumurti, the permanent representative of India to the United Nations, recalled a train accident that had occurred 40 years ago to the day. He wrote on his handle, @TSTirumurti: “On this day – 31st August 1981, the train we were travelling in derailed and our compartment overturned at Sirpur-Kagaznagar.” Tirumurti was travelling to New Delhi, together with a few other students of Vivekananda College for an inter-collegiate cultural fest by IIT-Delhi. In 2020 too, on the same day, Tirumurti had tweeted about the incident. “We met again today to commemorate an incident of 39 years ago – 31 August, 1981.” The post features a screenshot of a video call among friends, accompanied by a black-and-white group photo. Tirumurti’s mother Kalpakam Srinivasamurti, a resident of Poes Garden, terms it an unforgettable incident for everybody in the family. Recalling the tragic events of the day, she says 24 students from the college pursuing there undergraduate studies were on that Tamil Nadu Express. According to The Hindu Archives , 15 persons were killed and 88 injured when the train derailed near Asifabad Road Station on the Kazipet Balharsha section of South Central Railway, around 6 p. m. Fourteen coaches of the super-fast express derailed with five of these turning turtle. “The compartment carrying the group from Vivekananda College had a narrow escape as their bogey overturned but fell on a field and all of them escaped unhurt,” says Kalpakam. Tirumurti had informed his parents that all of them were safe, that same night. “My son and another friend hitched a ride to get access to the closest telephone booth to inform us that they were all safe. We had not heard the news until then,” says Kalpakam. Tirumurti, who was pursuing BCom was the group leader, and he had a responsibility to shoulder, particularly because no faculty had accompanied the contingent. Fortunately, Tirumurti had left names of all his batchmates along with their residential contact numbers in a sheet of paper, with his parents and they informed the parents of the other children before the news could come as a shock to them the next morning. “My husband went to the Central Railway Station that night so that they could put up a board saying all the students of the college were safe, and that was how message was relayed those days. Initially, the official was reluctant as he had not received any communication from his colleagues from the site of the accident, but the message was relayed,” says the septuagenarian. The group continued with their journey and went on to win many prizes at the fest. “I think Tirumurti got first prize in drawing and many others won prizes,” she says, jogging her memory. Later, when the team returned to Chennai, they received a hero’s welcome at the Central Station. “Some parents came with aarti to welcome the boys,” says Kalpakam. “The boys had helped rescue some of the passengers who were trapped. I remember one of the Lions Club’s asking my son to give a talk where he narrated the happenings of the train journey and in return received a book titled Alive. He has also penned his thoughts in Ananda Vikatan with sketches of the train and the site of the accident from those days.”  My son and his friend hitched a ride to get access to the closest telephone booth and inform us that all of them were safe||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-train-of-thoughts/article36299267.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The mother in the driving seat||In Ironic, Alanis Morissette presents life as Janus-faced, one face contorted with cruelty (“life has a funny way of sneaking up on you when you think everything’s okay”) and the other crinkled with compassion ( “life has a funny way of helping you out when you think everything’s gone wrong”). Every time it pokes in one of those two faces, it is usually the face one least expects to see. The Chennai High School on Eldams Road in Teynampet has had an “Ironic” moment, one it is basking in. Amidst talk of plummeting numbers in government-run schools and the ever-present bogey of closure, this Greater Chennai Corporation school is witnessing a surge in admissions against the backdrop of a pandemic. K Revathy, headmistress, Chennai High School on Eldams Road, enthuses over the numbers, “From 357, the school’s strength has risen to 457. In fact, it should be counted as a leap from 307 to 457, if one factors in the 50 students from the school-leaving tenth-grade.” The school is known for its aggressive enrolment campaign, marked by a novel exercise of teachers going from door to door, carrying a salver piled high with fruits to request parents to have their children join the school. “For this academic year, we started the campaign in March. The teachers are extremely cooperative, and come with me wherever I go,” shares Revathy. “When a child joins our school, they are presented with a chess board.” Marked by ceremony, these visits surely elevate potential students and parents to a heady sense of importance. However, it would be naive to think this is what is bumping up the numbers. It is the “after-sales service” that seems to be making much of the impact for the school. It has gained a reputation for being parent-friendly, watching out for the families of its students. Revathy explains, “The voluntary organisation Sethu Foundation runs a multi-skills development programme for our students, training them in photography and chess and teaching them spoken English and good handwriting techniques. I want to ensure that these students go a level higher than where they currently are in their economic standing, by concentrating on their mothers’ growth. If you impart skills to the mother, the entire family would be benefitted. Sethu Foundation recently started driving classes for the mothers of our students. It is also starting a programme to train these mothers in skills required for jobs that can be done from home.” During the pandemic, the teachers made sure underprivileged students in the tenth grade had a mobile device and data to attend online classes. “Around 30 students from Grade 10 were identified as requiring this assistance. Teachers passed the hat around and also sought the generosity of their friends and relatives to get gently-used mobiles. Similarly, they made sure these mobiles were recharged regularly. If I identify people among my circle who want to help out, I would share some numbers for them to recharge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-mother-in-the-driving-seat/article36299257.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Shades of learning||Spread out wide, the branches of the tamarind tree at the entrance of Ambattur Municipal Primary School in Mogappair had made a whole lot of things possible for students and teachers — outdoor events, lunch breaks and meet-ups. It continued the good work during the pandemic, when it was an ally to teachers who wanted to conduct reading sessions and art and craft activities, among others, to help some children better utilise their time. “Since July 2020, teachers have been going to school, except during the peak of the second wave. At least 20 children from the neighbourhood, a majority of them our students, would hang out on the campus,” says S. Krishnaveni, who has been the school’s headmistress since 2009. These children needed to be engaged, as their parents would be away on work and they did not have any gadget to even tune in to the lessons being telecast on Kalvi TV. Krishnaveni points out that she has come across students whose parents earn a living as scavengers. These children would loiter around to collect recyclable plastic and sell them to buy snacks. “That sight really hurt me, so we started working with these children by engaging them in activities like wall painting and drawing,” says Krishnaveni. But were not the schools shuttered? Krishnaveni says they never opened the classroom and the activities were orchestrated under the tree. “We have two teachers — K Pushpalatha and S. Umaparvathy — along with me who would park themselves under its shade along with five children each and help them with the extra-curricular activities for a few hours every day,” says Krishnaveni, adding that this engagement still continues. “A majority of the children are from economically weak backgrounds and in the absence of anyone at home they spend their time in unhealthy activities,” she says. During the lockdown last year, one of the first things the school did was to ensure none of students’ families went without food. “I got help from my extended family who donated ration kits and once that dried up, I had many well-wishers who gave rice bags that benefited 70 of our parents,” says Krishnaveni, adding that the initiative continues. Early this year, Chennai photojournalists played host to an event under the tree where sports uniforms were distributed to children. State Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan graced the event. On August 15, there was a meet-up of students to share library books and exchange what they read. Started in 1935, the school is one of the oldest government institutions in the neighbourhood. It offers classes from LKG to V. In 2009, the school had 45 students. In the last academic year, it crossed 100 and its strength now is 195 with three teachers on the rolls. “When I joined the school, neighbours referred to it as a pulliamaram school and I felt bad about that then, but now I take pride in the name and the difference the tree has made in these children’s lives,” says Krishnaveni, adds that it is satisfying when one manages to spot talent among these youngsters. Santhosh and Mani are among the names she mentions. She notes, “Santhosh now goes to the home of a child on the spectrum to teach his art.”  That sight of children loitering around to collect recyclable plastic items and selling them to buy snacks really hurt me, so we started working with these children by engaging them in activities like wall painting and drawing S. Krishnaveni,HM, Ambattur Municipal Primary School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shades-of-learning/article36299260.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Colony in Teynampet finds a solution to parking problem at intersections||Haphazard parking is a huge problem in cities, and is acutely felt at street ends that cut into main roads, because the junction is a convenient spot for food carts and autorickshaws as it gives them good visibility. Banks and other business establishments situated nearby without parking facilities also add to the parking problem. The length of a motorcycle is almost the width of a small car and that says everything, particularly when the street is only 35 to 40 feet wide. This was precisely the problem faced by residents of Seethamma Extension at Teynampet until about seven months ago when they had to drive into the main roads of the colony from KB Dasan Road or vice versa. Free flow of traffic was severely affected and it became more acute during college timings (there is a women’s college in the area). The residents had to complain to the police very frequently. The police responded very well every time and imposed a fine on the offender, and on one occasion, the collected fines exceeded Rs. 10,000. But this was only a temporary solution. A couple of members in the residents’ welfare association felt that providing a median for a length of 40 to 50 feet leading into the first and second main roads of the colony would reduce the lane width and eliminate the problem, since even a single car or bike parked on either side of the road can block the traffic completely and create chaos. The residents decided to carry out a trial and make sure it will work before they spend money on the exercise. In January 2021, the office bearers approached the traffic police to obtain a few blocks of plastic road dividers to carry out the trial . The arrangement was for a stretch of 40-feet on first main road. The result was that the nuisance of road choking due to haphazard parking of two wheelers and other types of vehicles was greatly reduced and the traffic flowed freely. Then it was a matter of finetuning the median-line placement and length for best results. The trial was extended to second main road and they found that the solution was equally effective. Approvals from GCC and the police were obtained to proceed with the installation. The cost was borne by the residents’ welfare association. Considering the safety aspects, the core group members involved in this project, decided to go for flexible spring posts made of polymer with reflective surface. Since the installation was completed, the traffic flow is smooth and parking of vehicles of all types has been completely eliminated.  (Bharath Srinivasan is secretary, Seethamma Extension Welfare Association)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/colony-in-teynampet-finds-a-solution-to-parking-problem-at-intersections/article36299270.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||From the pages of history||Over 1000 passengers were travelling on the Tamil Nadu Express on August 31, 1981 when it derailed near the Asifabad Road Station at Kazipet-Balharsha section of the South Central Railway, according to a report published in The Hindu.  The 21-bogie train is one of the first super-fast trains to meet with such a major accident and it sparked a heated debate in the Lok Sabha the next day. According to The Hindu Archives , C K Jaffar Sharief, then Union Minister of State for Railways, read out a statement in the Lok Sabha on September 1, and said that out of the 17 coaches that had derailed, five had overturned. The pantry car suffered maximum damage as it was in the middle. There were also questions over whether the Railways had identified all the dead. A A report asked: “Did only 15 persons die in the Tamil Nadu Express disaster as has been put out by the Railway Ministry so far?” In those days, a compensation of Rs. 1,000 was made to the families of those killed, and Rs. 700 and Rs. 250 would go to the seriously injured and those with minor injuries, respectively. Deputy Minister Mallikarjun did not agree with an “Opposition suggestion that a parliamentary committee should be set up to inquire into the causes of the accident and make recommendations to the Government.” Special booths Apart from 24 students of Vivekananda College travelling in the train, a group from the Madras Christian College was also on the train. A student from Vivekananda College informed his parents in Madras over the telephone from Kazipet that none of his friends was injured, according to a report from The Hindu Archives.  Five special booths were opened at Madras Central Station in the night to give information to the public about the accident. “The authorities are keeping one tram ready to be run as a special from Madras to the accident spot for the benefit of the relatives of the victims,” says a report, adding that the train might leave Madras around 10 a.m. Among the various reports are stories of how many passengers came forward to help each other. RT Parthasarathy, former Rajya Sabha member, who was travelling to Delhi by that train, talks about Dr Cherian, a surgeon in the Perambur railway hospital, who organised medical aid for the injured. Purushottam Rao, a medical technologist on a holiday to Madras, acknowledged the role of his co-passengers, students of Vivekananda College, for pulling him out of the toilet. The local telephone exchange allowed free calls to be made to Madras, Bangalore and New Delhi by those who had travelled by the train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-the-pages-of-history/article36299262.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Digital skill lab launched at Stella Maris college||A new digital skill lab has been established at Stella Maris College in memory of Jayshree Venkatraman, erstwhile Chairman of AMCO Batteries and Director of TAFE, by TAFE - Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited and her family members. “Jayshree Venkatraman Digital Learning and Research Centre” was inaugurated by Mallika Srinivasan and Murali Venkatraman. Business Analytics, Get Creative with Photography, Video Creation and Editing, and Hosting are Live Streaming are some of the learning modules that were launched. The lab will offer a smooth transition from the campus to the corporate world, said a release. Sr. Rosy Joseph, principal, Stella Maris College; Sr. Susan Mathiekal, secretary, Stella Maris College, faculty members, students and members of corporate sector graced the event. Shobhana Ravi, Chief IT, Innovation and Learning Officer, TAFE, provided an overview of the centre’s objectives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/digital-skill-lab-launched-at-stella-maris-college/article36299271.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Inter-school contest||Globalart is conducting its sixth edition of Kreative Star 21, an inter-school contest. According to a press release, the contest is meant for students from class one to five. The event aims to develop creativity in children and allows them to express their thoughts. There will be three rounds — namely, centre level, area level and national level. The first round will be conducted between August and October 2021. For details, call 95662 62366/95001 69017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inter-school-contest/article36299256.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Backed by a committed team||Kalpana Kannan, principal of Chennai High School, Kottur credits its teachers and ever-widening body of volunteers from its trailblazing initiatives. The principal singles out science teacher Gangadevi for her unstinted contribution to the eco-club, and how she goes the extra mile in making a sucess of tree walks and keeping the terrace-garden initiative going. “She is extremely enthusiastic in any work relating to the eco-club that she takes up,” adds Kalpana. She illustrates the espirit de corps that exists among teachers and volunteers with a pandemic-related effort. “Last year, Greater Chennai Corporation had donated money towards purchase of mobiles for tenth graders, and the amount could cover 80 percent of the students. I could not bring myself to say ‘no’ to the 20 percent of the class. I learnt about crowdfunding through Milaap. In one day, we did it. My teachers and I contributed and all my volunteers were ready to support the initiative. The volunteers spread the word and also contributed towards the cause.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/backed-by-a-committed-team/article36299258.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Drawing competition to mark World Food Day||Neighbourhood Foundation, a Chennai-based NGO dedicated to health, education and other social causes, is conducting ‘Feed by Art’, an art competition for school students to raise funds for its hunger relief efforts. The virtual competition is accepting submissions of arts until September 25. The registration fee of Rs. 100 will go towards the foundation’s project, says a release. The registration can be made over the phone/WhatsApp (7200741106) or by visiting the Foundation’s website, https://nhf-global.org/ feedbyart/. The art competition is being organised to mark World Food Day 2021, which falls on October 16. It invites submissions under four categories, ‘No Junk Food’ (class I -III), ‘Don’t Waste Food (class IV and V), ‘Healthy Food, Healthy Planet’ (VI-VIII) and ‘Hunger-Free Nation’ (class IX-XII).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/drawing-competition-to-mark-world-food-day/article36299268.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Build a speed breaker at Karpagam Avenue entrance’||Due to the lack of speed-breakers, accidents are a near miss at the entrance of Karpagam Avenue Main Road in Raja Annamalaipuram. This road intersects with Santhome High Road, and many of the motorists entering Karpagam Avenue Main Road from Santhome High Road do so at a fast clip. There are many instances of minor accidents taking place at this spot. Hence, we request the Greater Chennai Corporation to lay a speed-breaker at the earliest and also install a road safety convex mirror at the entrance of Karpagam Avenue Main Road. Shahul Appavu is vice-president of Karpagam Avenue Residents Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/build-a-speed-breaker-at-karpagam-avenue-entrance/article36299273.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article36299274.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||New outlet at Royapettah||Automall, a unit of Anand & Co, has opened a new showroom at Whites Road, Royapettah offering various services for cars and bikes. It also has a bikers zone where two-wheeler accessories and services will be available. Rajini Krishnan, chief instructor at RACR, inaugurated the store, says a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-outlet-at-royapettah/article36299272.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Colony in Teynampet finds a solution to parking problem||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/colony-in-teynampet-finds-a-solution-to-parking-problem/article36299254.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The community troops into the classroom||There is a flip side to programmes done for free. Without watchfulness, they can slip into dilettantish efforts, palming gimcrack offerings off on the beneficiaries. The lack of quality can be eloquently explained away: “Amateurs are attempting what professionals themselves often struggle at, so be charitable with your comments!” With criticism headed off in this manner, the giver can stay buoyed up on a do-gooder high, and the farce would continue. When it started an elaborate after-school programme seven years ago, the Greater Chennai Corporation-run Chennai High School in Kottur skirted around this pitfall. It could have conveniently walked the path of mediocrity. No questions would have been asked. After all, the exercise lies outside the curriculum and also the teachers’ line of duty. The school steered away from this easy option, ensuring nobody but the experts would handle the training. That meant it shut out the possibility of upskilling teachers to get them to double as after-school activity coaches. In any case, that would have been a tough ask, given the height at which the bar had been set. From the time it launched the initiative, the school has sought to offer students a wide palette of activities, and has continually displayed a tendency to shoehorn one extra programme into a tightly-packed after-school schedule. “It is definitely not possible to conduct such programmes for 400 children with just 12 teachers. It is not possible for these teachers to be allrounders. We wanted at least 30 to 40 volunteers from the community,” says K Maheswari Kalpana, headmistress of Chennai High School, Kottur. With certain activities, those low on complexity, teachers were however imparted just enough skills to enable them to be facilitators. Before treading this path, Kalpana — and through her influence, her team — were gripped by a vision. “I believe in joyful learning even in a government school. That is my vision,” reveals Kalpana and goes on to explain what sharpened the focus of this vision. “In 2014, the US Consulate invited Greater Chennai Corporation to have teachers from its schools apply for a five-week traning in the United States. Out of the applications from 70 schools, there was mine from Chennai High School, Kottur. I wanted to learn about the best practices being followed in the schools at the United States and implement them in our school. The US consulates in all the Indian cities will choose one candidate each for the shortlist. Out of this shortlist from from India, I was selected. Over those five weeks, along with teachers selected from 19 other countries, I got to visit schools in the US and discover what made them tick. They also facilitated exposure to the US education system through a programme at California state university,” she explains. “Vikram Kapur sir, then GCC Commissioner, asked me what I wanted to do after this training.” There was just one answer to it, and it greeted her at every turn. One striking feature of the school education in the United States that she noticed was the irrepressible enthusiasm with which the community dandled the schools. “Every college or university in the region is connected with the school. They come to the school to offer it the benefit of their volunteering and after-school programme. I wanted to replicate the model in Kottur, creating an after-school programme with a body of volunteers. As many formalities and protocols go with inviting people from outside, I had to get permission to first run a pilot project for creating a model school with community support. When I sought his permission, Vikram Kapur sir said, ‘You can introduce as many after-school programmes as you want. Either you get volunteers or I will send volunteers.’ was his encouraging response.” When it emerged fully, the resultant picture was striking. Skilled professionals in various fields, around 40 volunteers from the community have kept the after-school programme at this GCC school in Kottur running like a well-oiled machine. So, from music and dance, to eco-studies and sporting pursuits, there is quite of diversity of skills on tap for these students. Until the pandemic, these volunteers would merrily trip over the doormat, and now, the volunteering has an IP code. The volunteering is driven by names from the top drawer. Sample these. “TM Krishna sir is in constant touch, even paying us a visit regularly. He has arranged for his students to teach our children mridangam and vaipattu ,” begins Kalpana. She continues, “Restaurateur M Mahadevan sir is a well-wisher of the school, and it was he who made it possible for the school to partner with KC High School in the areas of arts & culture, sports and gardening. Our students would visit the KC High school campus — now on Old Mahabalipuram Road, and in Kotturpuram at that time — once a week as part of this collaborative project.” The tree NGO Nizhal and its well-known founder-trustee Shobha Menon have been associating with this Greater Chennai Corporation-run school over the long haul, with the Kotturpuram Urban Forest becoming an informal second school to the students. “There are so many things that are happening with Nizhal’s support on our campus and also at tree park. Every year, volunteers from this tree-NGO organise a minimum of five programmes for our students. Even teachers have been hugely impacted by this association. For instance, Shobha Menon ma’am brought someone who taught our teachers how to observe and study and take measurements of trees to ascertain their age; about their leaves and flowers and medicinal value. The programme which happened around five years ago was called mugam maarum marangal .” These efforts produced its most impactful result when students took ownership of a terrace garden two years ago, and their dedication to it was reaffirmed during the pandemic. “Not wanting to see their efforts wilt away, some of the boys told me they would come and water the plants, and they did. However, as these visits could not continue during the lockdown resulting from the Second Wave, the terrace garden has reduced to half its size.” In its better days, the harvest from the garden would regularly go into the noon meal. The after-school programme has enriched Kalpana’s faith in establishing and fostering connections with people who make up institutions. Just like Nizhal, the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSC) in Taramani has been a fount of learning for these students. “I feel that connections are important. When invited to IMSC in Taramani, I make sure that I talk to them and get their continuous support. Even if GCC organised a one-day training, I would find out who at IMSC would be interested to come to my school and meet my students. It was there that I met Ramanujam sir who is teaching our children excellently. IMSC is bringing Vigyanshala kind of research people to our school. The result is that our students learn physics concepts the fun way, which includes an ability to make rockets from water bottles and cycle pumps.” Kalpana underlines the role of the Inner Wheel volunteers who teach communicative English to the students. Even during the lockdown, they persisted with this exercise, taking the classes online.” “Aanmajothi, a voluntary organisation, arranged for dance teachers from Kalakshetra to train two batches for the past five years, at the rate of two classes every week.” Collaborations with schools and colleges are common, and notable associates include MOP Vaishnav College for Women and Vidyasagar. “MOP runs what is called Aahaar project giving breakfast to our students, every week day.” Kalpana believes greater synergy can be achieved if Chennai schools that have chalked up enterprising holistic programmes have a forum to exchange notes and learn from each other’s unique experiences.  It is definitely not possible to conduct such programmes for 400 children with just 12 teachers. We wanted at least 30 to 40 volunteers from the community K Maheswari Kalpana,HM, Chennai High School, Kottur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-community-troops-into-the-classroom/article36299325.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A train of thoughts||Recently, in a tweet, TS Tirumurti, the permanent representative of India to the United Nations, recalled a train accident that had occurred 40 years ago to the day. He wrote on his handle, @TSTirumurti: “On this day – 31st August 1981, the train we were travelling in derailed and our compartment overturned at Sirpur-Kagaznagar.” Tirumurti was travelling to New Delhi, together with a few other students of Vivekananda College for an inter-collegiate cultural fest by IIT-Delhi. In 2020 too, on the same day, Tirumurti had tweeted about the incident. “We met again today to commemorate an incident of 39 years ago – 31 August, 1981.” The post features a screenshot of a video call among friends, accompanied by a black-and-white group photo. Tirumurti’s mother Kalpakam Srinivasamurti, a resident of Poes Garden, terms it an unforgettable incident for everybody in the family. Recalling the tragic events of the day, she says 24 students from the college pursuing there undergraduate studies were on that Tamil Nadu Express. According to The Hindu Archives , 15 persons were killed and 88 injured when the train derailed near Asifabad Road Station on the Kazipet Balharsha section of South Central Railway, around 6 p. m. Fourteen coaches of the super-fast express derailed with five of these turning turtle. “The compartment carrying the group from Vivekananda College had a narrow escape as their bogey overturned but fell on a field and all of them escaped unhurt,” says Kalpakam. Tirumurti had informed his parents that all of them were safe, that same night. “My son and another friend hitched a ride to get access to the closest telephone booth to inform us that they were all safe. We had not heard the news until then,” says Kalpakam. Tirumurti, who was pursuing BCom was the group leader, and he had a responsibility to shoulder, particularly because no faculty had accompanied the contingent. Fortunately, Tirumurti had left names of all his batchmates along with their residential contact numbers in a sheet of paper, with his parents and they informed the parents of the other children before the news could come as a shock to them the next morning. “My husband went to the Central Railway Station that night so that they could put up a board saying all the students of the college were safe, and that was how message was relayed those days. Initially, the official was reluctant as he had not received any communication from his colleagues from the site of the accident, but the message was relayed,” says the septuagenarian. The group continued with their journey and went on to win many prizes at the fest. “I think Tirumurti got first prize in drawing and many others won prizes,” she says, jogging her memory. Later, when the team returned to Chennai, they received a hero’s welcome at the Central Station. “Some parents came with aarti to welcome the boys,” says Kalpakam. “The boys had helped rescue some of the passengers who were trapped. I remember one of the Lions Club’s asking my son to give a talk where he narrated the happenings of the train journey and in return received a book titled Alive. He has also penned his thoughts in Ananda Vikatan with sketches of the train and the site of the accident from those days.”  My son and his friend hitched a ride to get access to the closest telephone booth and inform us that all of them were safe||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-train-of-thoughts/article36299328.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Helping youngsters to own their neighbourhood||On August 20, five boys of Maduram Nagar at Kolathuvanchery in Iyappanthangal were honoured by the Mangadu police as they were instrumental in nabbing an anti-social gang. P Palani, Assistant Commissioner of Police, SRMC range, felicitated the boys with a certificate of appreciation. Ramesh Nivash, secretary, Maduram Nagar Residents Association, recalls that on the evening of August 15, these boys, aged 13 to 16, were out playing, when they saw a man and a woman roaming in the colony. The look of the duo evoking suspicion, the boys alerted the association, which in turn informed the police. Investigation by the police revealed they were indeed engaing in anti-social activities as part of a gang. Since 2018, Ramesh has taken charge of the holistic development of around 40 children (aged between 12 and 16) at Maduram Nagar, seeking to mould them into responsible citizens. “I sensitise children on security. Earlier, many thefts took place in the neighbiourhood, — motorcycles, cattle, and construction materials disappeared. Impersonating as a courier staff, a thief once entered an apartment and stole footwear. Such incidents increased since the pandemic began. So, I asked the children to keep an eye on stangers. Further, these children were tasked with distributing pamphlets issued by the police department on safety,” says Ramesh, vice-president at a private bank. Ramesh also encourages these children to pursue ourdoor sports and environment conservation. “Children are encouraged to play kabbadi, football and badminton. On weekends we go jogging and cycling. While cycling, I teach them about road safety rules. Once, I took them to a private badminton court and a gym. As there is no playground in our locality and nearby areas, we turned vacant plots in the colony into play areas, clearing the vegetation with the support of our association and plot owners,” says Ramesh. Visits to the Porur lake are a regular feature. “I take the children to Porur lake to help them understand the importance of waterbodies and what garbage dumping is doing to them. These children are sensitised to need for waste segregation and disposal so that they carry the messages to their families,” adds Ramesh. Ramesh coaches these children on how to approach competitive examinations, partly because he still harbours the disappointment of not becoming a civil servant. “I aspired to become a civil servant and started preparations for it, but had to give up the dream with financial commitments in our family forcing me to take up a job immediately after studies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/helping-youngsters-to-own-their-neighbourhood/article36299311.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers on a learning curve||There is an echo of John Steinback’s The Moon Is Down in Ganapathy Iyer Girls High School’s pandemic experience. In Steinbeck’s novel, when thrust into a war, a small nation of unarmed, peace-loving people flounder their way to resistance, slowly becoming firm-footed in their mission. Signalling the early stage of the shift from “peace-loving” to “combative”, the pickaxe turns into a weapon of destruction. In the Gopalapuram school, when thrust into online classes, a clutch of digital-immigrant, textbook-loving teachers bumble their way to digital literacy, slowly becoming comfortable in front of the screen. The first sign of the shift from “bewilderment” to “poise” is a fridge glass tray that morphs into a makeshift stand cum see-through screen. Before going into the details of the innovation, here is what led up to it. On June 15, 2020, the headmistress of the school, Saradhamani Subramanian had summoned the teachers for an urgent meeting. No sooner had she broached the topic than she found herself in one lonely corner of the room. The rest of the teachers had broken into two groups, neither of them warming up to Saradhamani's suggestion. The headmistress had asked them to video-record all the lessons in WhatsApp to be shared with students. “One set of teachers just opposed the idea, considering it impractical. The other set was bewildered by the very thought of attempting it,” laughs Saradhamani. But the facts had to be faced: There was no alternative to pre-recording the lessons. A majority of the students from the school — run by the Gopalapuram Educational Society — is from one-smartphone households. The lone smart device would usually be out with the bread-winner of the house. Attending live online classes during the day was out of the question for these students. A necessity Pre-recorded video lessons with the easy medium of WhatsApp seemed the perfect solution. Saradhamani knew with cast-iron certainty that it would not just work, but work spectacularly. The sense of certainty derived from a guinea-pig experiment that had been carried out with evident success. “I had suggested it to a friend who was a teacher of primary classes in another school. She had acted on it with impressive results.” When Saradhamani shared a couple of those WhatsApp video-lessons with her colleagues, she noticed a faint glimmer of cooperation. “When it came to online classes, the teachers themselves had a lot of unanswered questions. I was watching a lot of videos on how to record lessons in WhatsApp.” That studiousness helped sort out one issue. “To display the textbooks and the worksheets and drawing sheets for the students, I asked the teachers to use a fridge glass tray. The teacher had to place the tray on at least two sturdy and tall objects of equal height and place the worksheet, textbook or drawing sheet under the tray. The mobile placed on the tray would be tilted to face what lies under it,” explains Saradhamani. A teacher’s video of a rangoli drawing session traces each line and spotlights every dot, all under the transparent fridge glass tray. Just as the pickaxe gives way to more sophisticated weaponry in Steinbeck’s tale of resilience and innovation, the fridge tray gives way to Google Drive and Google Classrooms. Saradhamani states that the teachers learnt fast. And as digital natives, there was no way the students would lag behind. “The teachers learnt how to use Google Drive to make and share videos; and they also started sharing videos on YouTube. When the unit test had to be conducted for Class X students, the teachers put to use a feature they had discovered in Google Classrooms. The students were at ease using it. Writing their answers, they created pdf files of their answer sheets and shared them with the teachers in no time.” The subject teachers make video-lessons and share them with the class teacher (classes range from sixth to tenth) who in turn share it with the students. In this time-table, a subject defines an entire day — to give an idea, Monday for science, Tuesday for English and so on, with video-lessons pertaining to a subject being shared on the day marked for it. Looking back, the principal cannot but marvel at the journey from videos overlaid with ‘woof-woofs’ and ‘meows’ to videos with hardly any hint of ambient noise. “The freedom extended to us by our school correspondent Dr. Nirmala Subramanian, a plastic surgeon, has helped us innovate along the way as we go about achieving our objectives.” The Rotary Club of Madras Temple City is now driving a digital literacy programme for the students. Says Saradhamani, “The Club conducted a hepatitis awareness session online for the students. One hundred and twenty students participated, and I was impressed with how poised they were online, how well they managed the lighting. There are children who live in modest homes, even huts, but they did not mind the fact as they showed the settings in the call.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-on-a-learning-curve/article36299312.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Roads finally relaid’||Just a few days ago, Fifth Cross Street and Sixth Cross Street in Kurunji Nagar were relaid. For the past few weeks, the roads had remained battered with slipshod milling work. Citing shortage of funds, the work was stopped midway. Travelling on these roads was a waking hightmare for motorists. Thankfully, the ordeal has come to an end. S. Raja, secretary, Kurunji Nagar Residents Welfare Association in Ramapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/roads-finally-relaid/article36299319.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Powerhouse bus stop lacks shelter’||The Powerhouse bus stop on Dr. Ambedkar Salai in Kodambakkam (opposite the office of Zone 10 of the Greater Chennai Corporation) does not have a bus shelter, forcing commuters to brave sun and rain. The authorities concerned are requested to do the needful without any delay. A. Jainulabdeen is a resident of Ashok Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/powerhouse-bus-stop-lacks-shelter/article36299315.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The mother in the driving seat||In Ironic, Alanis Morissette presents life as Janus-faced, one face contorted with cruelty (“life has a funny way of sneaking up on you when you think everything’s okay”) and the other crinkled with compassion ( “life has a funny way of helping you out when you think everything’s gone wrong”). Every time it pokes in one of those two faces, it is usually the face one least expects to see. The Chennai High School on Eldams Road in Teynampet has had an “Ironic” moment, one it is basking in. Amidst talk of plummeting numbers in government-run schools and the ever-present bogey of closure, this Greater Chennai Corporation school is witnessing a surge in admissions against the backdrop of a pandemic. K Revathy, headmistress, Chennai High School on Eldams Road, enthuses over the numbers, “From 357, the school’s strength has risen to 457. In fact, it should be counted as a leap from 307 to 457, if one factors in the 50 students from the school-leaving tenth-grade.” The school is known for its aggressive enrolment campaign, marked by a novel exercise of teachers going from door to door, carrying a salver piled high with fruits to request parents to have their children join the school. “For this academic year, we started the campaign in March. The teachers are extremely cooperative, and come with me wherever I go,” shares Revathy. “When a child joins our school, they are presented with a chess board.” Marked by ceremony, these visits surely elevate potential students and parents to a heady sense of importance. However, it would be naive to think this is what is bumping up the numbers. It is the “after-sales service” that seems to be making much of the impact for the school. It has gained a reputation for being parent-friendly, watching out for the families of its students. Revathy explains, “The voluntary organisation Sethu Foundation runs a multi-skills development programme for our students, training them in photography and chess and teaching them spoken English and good handwriting techniques. I want to ensure that these students go a level higher than where they currently are in their economic standing, by concentrating on their mothers’ growth. If you impart skills to the mother, the entire family would be benefitted. Sethu Foundation recently started driving classes for the mothers of our students. It is also starting a programme to train these mothers in skills required for jobs that can be done from home.” During the pandemic, the teachers made sure underprivileged students in the tenth grade had a mobile device and data to attend online classes. “Around 30 students from Grade 10 were identified as requiring this assistance. Teachers passed the hat around and also sought the generosity of their friends and relatives to get gently-used mobiles. Similarly, they made sure these mobiles were recharged regularly. If I identify people among my circle who want to help out, I would share some numbers for them to recharge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-mother-in-the-driving-seat/article36299323.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Shades of learning||Spread out wide, the branches of the tamarind tree at the entrance of Ambattur Municipal Primary School in Mogappair had made a whole lot of things possible for students and teachers — outdoor events, lunch breaks and meet-ups. It continued the good work during the pandemic, when it was an ally to teachers who wanted to conduct reading sessions and art and craft activities, among others, to help some children better utilise their time. “Since July 2020, teachers have been going to school, except during the peak of the second wave. At least 20 children from the neighbourhood, a majority of them our students, would hang out on the campus,” says S. Krishnaveni, who has been the school’s headmistress since 2009. These children needed to be engaged, as their parents would be away on work and they did not have any gadget to even tune in to the lessons being telecast on Kalvi TV. Krishnaveni points out that she has come across students whose parents earn a living as scavengers. These children would loiter around to collect recyclable plastic and sell them to buy snacks. “That sight really hurt me, so we started working with these children by engaging them in activities like wall painting and drawing,” says Krishnaveni. But were not the schools shuttered? Krishnaveni says they never opened the classroom and the activities were orchestrated under the tree. “We have two teachers — K Pushpalatha and S. Umaparvathy — along with me who would park themselves under its shade along with five children each and help them with the extra-curricular activities for a few hours every day,” says Krishnaveni, adding that this engagement still continues. “A majority of the children are from economically weak backgrounds and in the absence of anyone at home they spend their time in unhealthy activities,” she says. During the lockdown last year, one of the first things the school did was to ensure none of students’ families went without food. “I got help from my extended family who donated ration kits and once that dried up, I had many well-wishers who gave rice bags that benefited 70 of our parents,” says Krishnaveni, adding that the initiative continues. Early this year, Chennai photojournalists played host to an event under the tree where sports uniforms were distributed to children. State Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan graced the event. On August 15, there was a meet-up of students to share library books and exchange what they read. Started in 1935, the school is one of the oldest government institutions in the neighbourhood. It offers classes from LKG to V. In 2009, the school had 45 students. In the last academic year, it crossed 100 and its strength now is 195 with three teachers on the rolls. “When I joined the school, neighbours referred to it as a pulliamaram school and I felt bad about that then, but now I take pride in the name and the difference the tree has made in these children’s lives,” says Krishnaveni, adds that it is satisfying when one manages to spot talent among these youngsters. Santhosh and Mani are among the names she mentions. She notes, “Santhosh now goes to the home of a child on the spectrum to teach his art.”  That sight of children loitering around to collect recyclable plastic items and selling them to buy snacks really hurt me, so we started working with these children by engaging them in activities like wall painting and drawing S. Krishnaveni,HM, Ambattur Municipal Primary School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shades-of-learning/article36299326.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Land meant for park in a state of neglect’||A parcel of land at Balaji Avenue in Iyappanthangal is dedicated for the creation of a park. However, for the past many years, this piece of land has not been developed with sufficient facilities. A few years ago, a cricket pitch was readied on this land, but was allowed to go to seed. Further, construction debris is being dumped in this land. I request the authorities concerned to look into the matter, and also build a compound wall around the land to ensure its protection. J Giridharan is a resident of Iyappanthangal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/land-meant-for-park-in-a-state-of-neglect/article36299321.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||From the pages of history||Over 1000 passengers were travelling on the Tamil Nadu Express on August 31, 1981 when it derailed near the Asifabad Road Station at Kazipet-Balharsha section of the South Central Railway, according to a report published in The Hindu.  The 21-bogie train is one of the first super-fast trains to meet with such a major accident and it sparked a heated debate in the Lok Sabha the next day. According to The Hindu Archives , C K Jaffar Sharief, then Union Minister of State for Railways, read out a statement in the Lok Sabha on September 1, and said that out of the 17 coaches that had derailed, five had overturned. The pantry car suffered maximum damage as it was in the middle. There were also questions over whether the Railways had identified all the dead. A A report asked: “Did only 15 persons die in the Tamil Nadu Express disaster as has been put out by the Railway Ministry so far?” In those days, a compensation of Rs. 1,000 was made to the families of those killed, and Rs. 700 and Rs. 250 would go to the seriously injured and those with minor injuries, respectively. Deputy Minister Mallikarjun did not agree with an “Opposition suggestion that a parliamentary committee should be set up to inquire into the causes of the accident and make recommendations to the Government.” Special booths Apart from 24 students of Vivekananda College travelling in the train, a group from the Madras Christian College was also on the train. A student from Vivekananda College informed his parents in Madras over the telephone from Kazipet that none of his friends was injured, according to a report from The Hindu Archives.  Five special booths were opened at Madras Central Station in the night to give information to the public about the accident. “The authorities are keeping one tram ready to be run as a special from Madras to the accident spot for the benefit of the relatives of the victims,” says a report, adding that the train might leave Madras around 10 a.m. Among the various reports are stories of how many passengers came forward to help each other. RT Parthasarathy, former Rajya Sabha member, who was travelling to Delhi by that train, talks about Dr Cherian, a surgeon in the Perambur railway hospital, who organised medical aid for the injured. Purushottam Rao, a medical technologist on a holiday to Madras, acknowledged the role of his co-passengers, students of Vivekananda College, for pulling him out of the toilet. The local telephone exchange allowed free calls to be made to Madras, Bangalore and New Delhi by those who had travelled by the train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-the-pages-of-history/article36299327.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A library keeps adding new chapters||A bibliotheque at Ceebros Gardens in Virugambakkam is up and running for years due to the enthusiastic participation of resident-volunteers. The gated community has established a small library and a reading room in a community hall, and given residents a wide range of books and reading material to choose from — encyclopaedias, fiction, history and religious books; a fascicle of newspapers, magazines and periodicals that the Association subscribes to; and novels in Tamil, English and Hindi, to name just a few categories. Managed by resident-volunteers and overseen by the office bearers, the library continues to be built steadily by donations of books by residents. Besides, the hall serves as a networking hub for residents. During the pandemic, the library was operated with safety protocols in place. The initiative is novel and makes a sumptuous treat for the residents, especially the senior bookworms. (Deepa Makesh is committee member at Ceebros Gardens. With inputs from S Mogan, secretary and Pandurangan, library-in-charge)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-library-keeps-adding-new-chapters/article36299305.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents of neighbourhood in Teynampet resolve parking issue||Haphazard parking is a huge problem in cities, and is acutely felt at street ends that cut into main roads, because the junction is a convenient spot for operators of food carts and autorickshaws as it gives them good visibility. Banks and other business establishments situated nearby without parking facilities add to this parking problem. The length of a motorcycle is almost the width of a small car and that says everything, particularly when the street is only 35 to 40 feet wide. This was precisely the problem faced by residents of Seethamma Extension at Teynampet until about seven months ago when they had to drive into the main roads of the colony from KB Dasan Road or vice versa. Free flow of traffic was severely affected and it became more acute during college timings (there is a women’s college in the area). Residents had to complain to the police frequently. The police would respond well every time and impose a fine on the offender, and on one occasion, the collected fines exceeded Rs. 10,000. But this was only a temporary solution. A couple of members in the residents’ welfare association felt that providing a median for a length of 40 to 50 feet leading into the first and second main roads of the colony would reduce the lane width and eliminate the problem, since even a single car or bike parked on either side of the road can block the traffic completely and create chaos. The residents decided to carry out a trial and make sure it will work before they spend money on the exercise. In January 2021, the office bearers approached the traffic police to obtain a few blocks of plastic road dividers to carry out the trial . The arrangement was for a stretch of 40 feet on first main road. The result was that the nuisance of road choking due to haphazard parking of two wheelers and other types of vehicles was greatly reduced and the traffic flowed freely. Then it was a matter of finetuning the median-line placement and length for best results. The trial was extended to second main road and they found that the solution was equally effective. Approvals from GCC and the police were obtained to proceed with the installation. The cost was borne by the residents’ welfare association. Considering the safety aspects, the core group members involved in this project, decided to go for flexible spring posts made of polymer with reflective surface. Since the installation was completed, the traffic flow is smooth and parking of vehicles of all types has been completely eliminated.   (Bharath Srinivasan is secretary, Seethamma Extension Welfare Association)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-of-neighbourhood-in-teynampet-resolve-parking-issue/article36299308.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘MTC should restore S23 service’||It is a welcome move that the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) is introducing new routes and restoring services that were withdrawn. At this juncture, let me request that MTC consider restoriing the small bus service S23, which was plying from Iyappanthangal to Kumananchavadi via Oil Mills Road and Puliyambedu. Though extremely useful, MTC terminated it two years ago before the pandemic. In the absence of the service, residents rely on autorickshaws. I hope MTC does the needful P. Senthil Kumar is a resident of Iyappanthangal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mtc-should-restore-s23-service/article36299316.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||New office-bearers take charge||New office-bearers have taken charge of Vivekanandapuram First Street Welfare Association in West Mambalam. According to a press release, S Sridhar of Krishna Flats will be the president; AK Rajaram of Happy Apartments, the vice-president; Balakrishnan of Sudha Flats, the secretary; Srinivasan Pandurangan of Sudha Flats, the treasurer; Parthasarathi of Door No 22, Janaki Rajesh of Vivek Flats, and B Thiyagarajan of Old Door No: 25 will be the joint secretary. S Murali, who was the founder-president of the Association, will be the honorary president, says the press note. The new office-bearers have plans to install CCTV cameras with fibre cables replacing the conventional cables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-office-bearers-take-charge/article36299309.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Inter-school contest||Globalart is conducting its sixth edition of Kreative Star 21, an inter-school contest. According to a press release, the contest is meant for students from class one to five. The event aims to develop creativity in children and allows them to express their thoughts. There will be three rounds — namely, centre level, area level and national level. The first round will be conducted between August and October 2021. Round two in November and the final round in December, adds the release. For details, call 95662 62366/95001 69017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inter-school-contest/article36299313.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/be-our-volunteer-writer/article36299322.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Backed by a committed team||Kalpana Kannan, principal of Chennai High School, Kottur credits its teachers and ever-widening body of volunteers from its trailblazing initiatives. The principal singles out science teacher Gangadevi for her unstinted contribution to the eco-club, and how she goes the extra mile in making a sucess of tree walks and keeping the terrace-garden initiative going. “She is extremely enthusiastic in any work relating to the eco-club that she takes up,” adds Kalpana. She illustrates the espirit de corps that exists among teachers and volunteers with a pandemic-related effort. “Last year, Greater Chennai Corporation had donated money towards purchase of mobiles for tenth graders, and the amount could cover 80 percent of the students. I could not bring myself to say ‘no’ to the 20 percent of the class. I learnt about crowdfunding through Milaap. In one day, we did it. My teachers and I contributed and all my volunteers were ready to support the initiative. The volunteers spread the word and also contributed towards the cause.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/backed-by-a-committed-team/article36299324.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Rainwater harvesting drive by RWA||Postal Colony First Steet and Kamakshipuram First Street Residents Welfare Association in West Mambalam have started a rainwater harvesting awareness drive along the lines of the rainwater harvesting and water safety awareness week launched by the State Government. The association is campaigning for the cause of open wells. “A good number of apartments and houses in our colony still have open wells. We are advising those residents to connect their rainwater harvesting (RWH) structures to the open wells; and to also clean the RWH structures and wells as the north-east monsoon is approaching. In fact, we started the open wells campaign following the acute water crisis the city witnessed in 2019. Back then we noticed that houses and apartments with open wells fared better. Besides, if a new apartment is coming up, we request the builder to retain the open well,” says K Ramanathan, the Association secretary. G Swaminathan, a resident of Paduka Apartments in the colony, says: “We have three open wells on our premises. Because of these wells, we did not have any water shortage in the past many years.” Another resident K. Bhaskar says “Five houses in and around our house are maintaining open wells due to which we have not bought water from private suppliers or water tankers for the past 10 years. There have been times when water supply through the pipes of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) was disrupted. However, that did not bother us. Our open wells helped us.” A similar awareness drive was conducted by a team from Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) at Kurunji Nagar in Ramapuram. According to S. Rajaram, Executive Engineer and Area 11 Engineer with CMWSSB, “At present, we are conducting a survey on rainwater harvesting structures, the type of residential building — apartment or independent house, number of floors, whether they have open wells or bore-wells. Besides, water samples are taken to test for TDS (total dissolved solids) and RC (residual chlorine).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rainwater-harvesting-drive-by-rwa/article36299303.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers on a learning curve||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-on-a-learning-curve/article36299301.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A train of thoughts||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-train-of-thoughts/article36299302.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The community troops into the classroom||There is a flip side to programmes done for free. Without watchfulness, they can slip into dilettantish efforts, palming gimcrack offerings off on the beneficiaries. The lack of quality can be eloquently explained away: “Amateurs are attempting what professionals themselves often struggle at, so be charitable with your comments!” With criticism headed off in this manner, the giver can stay buoyed up on a do-gooder high, and the farce would continue. When it started an elaborate after-school programme seven years ago, the Greater Chennai Corporation-run Chennai High School in Kottur skirted around this pitfall. It could have conveniently walked the path of mediocrity. No questions would have been asked. After all, the exercise lies outside the curriculum and also the teachers’ line of duty. The school steered away from this easy option, ensuring nobody but the experts would handle the training. That meant it shut out the possibility of upskilling teachers to get them to double as after-school activity coaches. In any case, that would have been a tough ask, given the height at which the bar had been set. From the time it launched the initiative, the school has sought to offer students a wide palette of activities, and has continually displayed a tendency to shoehorn one extra programme into a tightly-packed after-school schedule. “It is definitely not possible to conduct such programmes for 400 children with just 12 teachers. It is not possible for these teachers to be allrounders. We wanted at least 30 to 40 volunteers from the community,” says K Maheswari Kalpana, headmistress of Chennai High School, Kottur. With certain activities, those low on complexity, teachers were however imparted just enough skills to enable them to be facilitators. Before treading this path, Kalpana — and through her influence, her team — were gripped by a vision. “I believe in joyful learning even in a government school. That is my vision,” reveals Kalpana and goes on to explain what sharpened the focus of this vision. “In 2014, the US Consulate invited Greater Chennai Corporation to have teachers from its schools apply for a five-week traning in the United States. Out of the applications from 70 schools, there was mine from Chennai High School, Kottur. I wanted to learn about the best practices being followed in the schools at the United States and implement them in our school. The US consulates in all the Indian cities will choose one candidate each for the shortlist. Out of this shortlist from from India, I was selected. Over those five weeks, along with teachers selected from 19 other countries, I got to visit schools in the US and discover what made them tick. They also facilitated exposure to the US education system through a programme at California state university,” she explains. “Vikram Kapur sir, then GCC Commissioner, asked me what I wanted to do after this training.” There was just one answer to it, and it greeted her at every turn. One striking feature of the school education in the United States that she noticed was the irrepressible enthusiasm with which the community dandled the schools. “Every college or university in the region is connected with the school. They come to the school to offer it the benefit of their volunteering and after-school programme. I wanted to replicate the model in Kottur, creating an after-school programme with a body of volunteers. As many formalities and protocols go with inviting people from outside, I had to get permission to first run a pilot project for creating a model school with community support. When I sought his permission, Vikram Kapur sir said, ‘You can introduce as many after-school programmes as you want. Either you get volunteers or I will send volunteers.’ was his encouraging response.” When it emerged fully, the resultant picture was striking. Skilled professionals in various fields, around 40 volunteers from the community have kept the after-school programme at this GCC school in Kottur running like a well-oiled machine. So, from music and dance, to eco-studies and sporting pursuits, there is quite of diversity of skills on tap for these students. Until the pandemic, these volunteers would merrily trip over the doormat, and now, the volunteering has an IP code. The volunteering is driven by names from the top drawer. Sample these. “TM Krishna sir is in constant touch, even paying us a visit regularly. He has arranged for his students to teach our children mridangam and vaipattu ,” begins Kalpana. She continues, “Restaurateur M Mahadevan sir is a well-wisher of the school, and it was he who made it possible for the school to partner with KC High School in the areas of arts & culture, sports and gardening. Our students would visit the KC High school campus — now on Old Mahabalipuram Road, and in Kotturpuram at that time — once a week as part of this collaborative project.” The tree NGO Nizhal and its well-known founder-trustee Shobha Menon have been associating with this Greater Chennai Corporation-run school over the long haul, with the Kotturpuram Urban Forest becoming an informal second school to the students. “There are so many things that are happening with Nizhal’s support on our campus and also at tree park. Every year, volunteers from this tree-NGO organise a minimum of five programmes for our students. Even teachers have been hugely impacted by this association. For instance, Shobha Menon ma’am brought someone who taught our teachers how to observe and study and take measurements of trees to ascertain their age; about their leaves and flowers and medicinal value. The programme which happened around five years ago was called mugam maarum marangal .” These efforts produced its most impactful result when students took ownership of a terrace garden two years ago, and their dedication to it was reaffirmed during the pandemic. “Not wanting to see their efforts wilt away, some of the boys told me they would come and water the plants, and they did. However, as these visits could not continue during the lockdown resulting from the Second Wave, the terrace garden has reduced to half its size.” In its better days, the harvest from the garden would regularly go into the noon meal. The after-school programme has enriched Kalpana’s faith in establishing and fostering connections with people who make up institutions. Just like Nizhal, the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSC) in Taramani has been a fount of learning for these students. “I feel that connections are important. When invited to IMSC in Taramani, I make sure that I talk to them and get their continuous support. Even if GCC organised a one-day training, I would find out who at IMSC would be interested to come to my school and meet my students. It was there that I met Ramanujam sir who is teaching our children excellently. IMSC is bringing Vigyanshala kind of research people to our school. The result is that our students learn physics concepts the fun way, which includes an ability to make rockets from water bottles and cycle pumps.” Kalpana underlines the role of the Inner Wheel volunteers who teach communicative English to the students. Even during the lockdown, they persisted with this exercise, taking the classes online.” “Aanmajothi, a voluntary organisation, arranged for dance teachers from Kalakshetra to train two batches for the past five years, at the rate of two classes every week.” Collaborations with schools and colleges are common, and notable associates include MOP Vaishnav College for Women and Vidyasagar. “MOP runs what is called Aahaar project giving breakfast to our students, every week day.” Kalpana believes greater synergy can be achieved if Chennai schools that have chalked up enterprising holistic programmes have a forum to exchange notes and learn from each other’s unique experiences.  It is definitely not possible to conduct such programmes for 400 children with just 12 teachers. We wanted at least 30 to 40 volunteers from the community K Maheswari Kalpana,HM, Chennai High School, Kottur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-community-troops-into-the-classroom/article36299294.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||How well do we know this neighbour?||The commonplace remains unnoticed. It takes unusual circumstances, sometimes a breakdown of the regular order, for it to gain attention. Does anyone have memories of “oxygen” dominating quotidian chatter before the Second Wave? The white-breasted waterhen is an avian example of the commonplace — ten a penny, as megatick seekers among birders would uncharitably put it. The bird is widespread in its range. It is easily sighted in its habitat, in striking contrast to some of its painfully attention-shy resident rallidae cousins — the slaty-breasted rail, the ruddy-breasted crake and the Baillon’s crake. And therefore, it is unconsciously ignored, ironically concealed from sight, and missing from birders’ field notes. In later part of August, this writer would have looked through a white-breasted waterhen pair if not for how they herded their brood to safety. Parent-birds of most feathers have a strong gathering instinct, which they use through subtle cues to the young. But this particular pair seemed to herd their young with the efficiency of a Belgian sheepdog. There were five chicks, and a majority of them seemed bent on straggling away from the flock. The scene was unfolding in a pool of water right outside the massive bund of a lake on the winding Gandhi Road in Nedungundram, with the Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road just a walking distance away. One parent led the pack and the other brought up the rear. However, the main point of interest is how the chicks helped themselves to safety the next day, when this writer watched these precocial chicks plunge into the same pool of water, alarmed by what they assumed to be intrusive steps, and deftly climbing on to the vegetation and disappear to safety. The swiftness with which they slipped away was impressive. It was as if they had a claw in each of their wings. That is hardly figurative, because apparently the young of the white-breasted waterhen do possess them. But there is no recorded evidence of white-breasted waterhen chicks putting those wing claws to any use. A few years ago, Pune-based animal rehabilitator Devna Arora put out an interesting note about wing claws that she noticed in a white-breasted waterhen chick that had been brought into her centre for rehabilitation. “I just made an observation, because I know that it has not been recorded properly. I have not gone into studying the subject in detail — as I am a rehabilitator, and not an ornithologist. I have made an observation note, in case it is of use to anybody in the future,” explains Devna, whose note can be accessed at her website (the link: http://rehabbersden.org/ rehabbers/PresenceOfA WingClawInWhite-breasted WaterhenYoung.html). Wing claws should theoretically be a valuable prop to chicks of nidifugous species, particularly those that have much clambering to do. Of the raillidae family, the white-breasted waterhen is essentially a bird of the reeds, though it does not restrict itself to it. Ornithologist V Santharam points out that use of wing claws by chicks as a safety prop has been documented in the hoatzin, a bird found in the Amazon. He remarks that in the context of wing-claw use, more observation of the young of species like the white-breasted waterhen is required. However, he notes: “Besides the hoatzin, it appears that wing claws in most other species are just a vestigial organ like the appendix in human beings.”  I just made an observation, because I know that it has not been recorded properly. I have not gone into studying the subject in detail — as I am a rehabilitator, and not an ornithologist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-well-do-we-know-this-neighbour/article36299299.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizens’ groups clean Nemilichery lake||With permission from the Chengalpattu District Collectorate and Public Works Department, the Federation of Civic and Welfare Associations of Pallavaram has taken up the exercise of removing water hyacinths from Nemilichery lake. The cleaning drive began this August. The Federation is carrying out this exercise with the support of People’s Awareness Centre, a citizens’ forum engaged in addressing civic issues, and Senior Citizens’ Forum in Chromepet. “In June 2019, the Federation cleaned the lake with permission from the erstwhile Kancheepuram District Collectorate. More than 250 volunteers including members from Pasumai Iyakkam, a non-governmental organisation and a private hospital took part in it. For this purpose, we mobilised funds through public donations. A sum of Rs. 19 lakh was collected, of which Rs. 15 lakh was used. The remaining amount is being spent towards the present exercise. It is not sufficient though. We are trying to pool in more funds. Pallavaram MLA E. Karunanidhi, and S. M. Govindarajan, a resident of Chromepet. have agreed to extend financial support,” says V. Santhanam, a member of People’s Awareness Centre. According to Federation members, the cleaning drive had bcome imperative because the 45-acre Nemilichery Eri lake had shrunk to 10 acres. With dumping of garbage, plastic waste and all other kinds of trash, the lake was reduced to a deplorable state. Further, the lake was desilted and deepened for a depth of 10-feet in the 2019 exercise, say Federation members. “The 2019 exercise was rewarding because it was followed by good rainfall,” says Kanchi S. Ganesan, president, Nemilichery Eri Lake Committee, another forum that engages in conservation of Nemilichery Eri Lake. “Since the lake was cleaned and desilted in 2019, the residents’ dependence on water tankers has reduced to a large extent,” says V. Dhanajayan, a member of the federation residing at Bashyam Nagar in Chromepet. Nemilichery Eri Lake Committee is supporting the current hyacinth removal exercise by taking care of the rental expense of earth-movers. “The exercise is essential as monsoon is approaching. Hyacinths need to be removed to enhance the storage capacity of the waterbody. This in turn will help in replenishing the groundwater,” says C R Arivazhagan. The Federation wants the Pallavaram Municipality to take measures to arrest discharge of sewage into the lake. “In this regard, the Municipality’s Commissioner has promised to do needful,” says Santhanam. The Federation is also seeking construction of a footpath and a park around the lake.  More than 250 volunteers took part in the 2019 cleaning exercise||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizens-groups-clean-nemilichery-lake/article36299285.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||From medicine to teaching||With the diagnosis of her son’s hearing loss, J Vijayalakshmy, a medical doctor, turned into a rehabilitation worker. In the 1990s, the family even relocated from Kerala to Chennai in search of a school for the boy. She began her journey as teacher at Clarke School for the Deaf in RK Salai. Now working with National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD), Vijayalakshmy has found her calling in teaching special children. While her son would be in the class, she would wait right outside the classroom. “Founder of Clarke School for the Deaf, Dr Leelavathy Patrick asked me to help them in creating a medical record of all the students at the school as she knew my background,” says Vijayalakshmy, a paediatrician. There began the grooming, which has included a slew of responsibilities and being sent to conferences and even stints beyond the Indian shores. “In 1995, the first deaf-blind student joined the school and I was asked to work with the child,” says Vijayalakshmy. In 1997, the school management sent her on a sponsored trip to Netherland to help her with a deeper understanding of deaf-blindness, early identification of multiple disabilities and multi-disciplinary aspects in holistic schooling. This was followed by a six-month stint in London. After 14 years at Clarke’s, she moved to NIEPMD as lecturer in Medical Sciences, focussing on early identification, diagnosis, programme planning and parent training. Those were the early years of NIEPMD and the team had the task of creating awareness about the centre. “We adapted a number of teaching learning material like B Active Box, Resonance Box for the Institute to our requirements. I was one of the first teachers in the deaf-blind unit (cerebral palsy was the only other unit it housed then),” says Vijayalakshmy, a resident of Kelambakkam. Vijayalakshmy has spearheaded various programmes at NIEPMD, which includes being a course coordinator for a diploma in special education and deafblindness, a post graduate programme in early intervention — enrolling students for these courses was a challenge as awareness about multiple disabilities was low those days. Besides, she has also trained professionals of district Early Intervention Centres of Tamil Nadu. The teacher, who has won a few awards for her work in the area, is currently working on a hand book on multiple disabilities, with focus on autism and its causes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-medicine-to-teaching/article36299297.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Muthamizh Nagar residents dread the rains||Following the recent spells of rain, Cholan Street at Muthamizh Nagar in Pammal has turned slushy. In the absence of a proper road, residents of Cholan Street are put to a lot of inconvenience. They want a road to be laid before the onset of north-east monsoon. Residents say that they have been enduring this problem for the past many years. Revathy Prabhakaran, a resident, says, “In fact, we dread the monsoon. The stretch gets stagnant even after a light shower.” Residents say they have petitioned the authorities concerned, including the Commissioner of the Pammal Municipality and elected representatives over the years. But of no avail. The stretch has not been laid till date. Kumari Suseendran, another resident, says, “During the rains, water enters the houses as it is a low-lying area.” Till this June, Cholan Street was lacking in stormwater drains and that had caused either stagnation or flooding. Residents are unhappy with how the drains have been constructed. G Nirmala, a resident, says, “The stormwater drains are built above the road level. This hinders flow of water into the drains. This needs to be corrected.” Residents also seek desilting of the drains before the onset of the monsoon. A Pammal Municipality official says the road will be laid at the earliest  “The stormwater drains are built above the road level. This hinders the flow of water into the drains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/muthamizh-nagar-residents-dread-the-rains/article36299281.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Thiruneermalai residents seek cleaning of SWDs||Stormwater drains in Saraswathypuram Extension Fourth Street in Thiruneermalai have not been desilted for years. According to B Saravanan, a resident of the locality, “Even, as part of monsoon-preparedness, the drains have not been cleaned. In the absence of underground sewage drains, the stormwater drains are misused for discharge of sewage and this results in contaminating of groundwater.” The water from the stormwater drains flows into Nattukalvai canal. For years, this canal is also being misused for discharging sewage and industrial effluents. This causes a conducive environment for mosquito breeding. Another issue plaguing the locality is disposal of garbage in the vacant plots. Further, the plots are overrun with vegetation. “Thiruneermalai Town Panchayat should ensure plot owners maintain their properties properly. In 2019, residents mobilised funds and cleaned the plots,” adds Saravanan. A Chengalpattu District Collectorate official says, “A plan is being drawn to desilt stormwater drains and major canals in the area. The work will start soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thiruneermalai-residents-seek-cleaning-of-swds/article36299283.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers on a learning curve||There is an echo of John Steinback’s The Moon Is Down in Ganapathy Iyer Girls High School’s pandemic experience. In Steinbeck’s novel, when thrust into a war, a small nation of unarmed, peace-loving people flounder their way to resistance, slowly becoming firm-footed in their mission. Signalling the early stage of the shift from “peace-loving” to “combative”, the pickaxe turns into a weapon of destruction. In the Gopalapuram school, when thrust into online classes, a clutch of digital-immigrant, textbook-loving teachers bumble their way to digital literacy, slowly becoming comfortable in front of the screen. The first sign of the shift from “bewilderment” to “poise” is a fridge glass tray that morphs into a makeshift stand cum see-through screen. Before going into the details of the innovation, here is what led up to it. On June 15, 2020, the headmistress of the school, Saradhamani Subramanian had summoned the teachers for an urgent meeting. No sooner had she broached the topic than she found herself in one lonely corner of the room. The rest of the teachers had broken into two groups, neither of them warming up to Saradhamani's suggestion. The headmistress had asked them to video-record all the lessons in WhatsApp to be shared with students. “One set of teachers just opposed the idea, considering it impractical. The other set was bewildered by the very thought of attempting it,” laughs Saradhamani. But the facts had to be faced: There was no alternative to pre-recording the lessons. A majority of the students from the school — run by the Gopalapuram Educational Society — is from one-smartphone households. The lone smart device would usually be out with the bread-winner of the house. Attending live online classes during the day was out of the question for these students. A necessity Pre-recorded video lessons with the easy medium of WhatsApp seemed the perfect solution. Saradhamani knew with cast-iron certainty that it would not just work, but work spectacularly. The sense of certainty derived from a guinea-pig experiment that had been carried out with evident success. “I had suggested it to a friend who was a teacher of primary classes in another school. She had acted on it with impressive results.” When Saradhamani shared a couple of those WhatsApp video-lessons with her colleagues, she noticed a faint glimmer of cooperation. “When it came to online classes, the teachers themselves had a lot of unanswered questions. I was watching a lot of videos on how to record lessons in WhatsApp.” That studiousness helped sort out one issue. “To display the textbooks and the worksheets and drawing sheets for the students, I asked the teachers to use a fridge glass tray. The teacher had to place the tray on at least two sturdy and tall objects of equal height and place the worksheet, textbook or drawing sheet under the tray. The mobile placed on the tray would be tilted to face what lies under it,” explains Saradhamani. A teacher’s video of a rangoli drawing session traces each line and spotlights every dot, all under the transparent fridge glass tray. Just as the pickaxe gives way to more sophisticated weaponry in Steinbeck’s tale of resilience and innovation, the fridge tray gives way to Google Drive and Google Classrooms. Saradhamani states that the teachers learnt fast. And as digital natives, there was no way the students would lag behind. “The teachers learnt how to use Google Drive to make and share videos; and they also started sharing videos on YouTube. When the unit test had to be conducted for Class X students, the teachers put to use a feature they had discovered in Google Classrooms. The students were at ease using it. Writing their answers, they created pdf files of their answer sheets and shared them with the teachers in no time.” The subject teachers make video-lessons and share them with the class teacher (classes range from sixth to tenth) who in turn share it with the students. In this time-table, a subject defines an entire day — to give an idea, Monday for science, Tuesday for English and so on, with video-lessons pertaining to a subject being shared on the day marked for it. Looking back, the principal cannot but marvel at the journey from videos overlaid with ‘woof-woofs’ and ‘meows’ to videos with hardly any hint of ambient noise. “The freedom extended to us by our school correspondent Dr. Nirmala Subramanian, a plastic surgeon, has helped us innovate along the way as we go about achieving our objectives.” The Rotary Club of Madras Temple City is now driving a digital literacy programme for the students. Says Saradhamani, “The Club conducted a hepatitis awareness session online for the students. One hundred and twenty students participated, and I was impressed with how poised they were online, how well they managed the lighting. There are children who live in modest homes, even huts, but they did not mind the fact as they showed the settings in the call.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-on-a-learning-curve/article36299296.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A parody of a park||VOC Children’s Park at Jain Nagar in Hasthinapuram is a parody of a park. A big section of boundary wall is broken and the play equipment are rusty, and hardly present an inviting sight to children. The walls collapsed during the rains in October 2020 but there was no initiative from the Pallavapuram Municipality to have it reconstructed. Adjacent to the park, an open stormwater drain canal runs, and it receives water from the network of drains in areas on the eastern side of Chromepet, including SBI Colony and Radha Nagar. A few other sections of the walls (adjacent to the broken walls) are in a slanting position and may fall anytime. During heavy rains, the water from the canal overflows and floods the premises of the park. Play equipment, in particular the see-saw, swing and merry-go-round are damaged. K Sanjaya Kumar, secretary, Jain Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, says, “Our repeated petitions to the Commissioner of the Pallavapuram Municipality to reconstruct the walls and repair the play equipment have not yielded any response.” After the boundary of the park is constructed we plan to develop a badminton and volleyball court, adds Kumar. A Chengalpattu District Collectorate Official says steps are being taken to prepare estimates to reconstruct the walls and repair the play equipment. Once the estimates are prepared and tenders are finalised, the construction work will begin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-parody-of-a-park/article36299276.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Bus shelter in Chromepet usurped||Parking of vehicles near Saravana Stores bus-stop, a non-parking zone on Grand Southern Trunk Road in Chromepet is forcing commuters to stand on the carriageway. This stop is meant for buses going towards Tambaram Sanatorium and Thiruneermalai. The area adjacent to the shelter is taken over by parked cars. Further, the bus-stop is frequented by cows and dogs. Therefore, the buses halt near a restaurant situated before the bus-stop. “Commuters have to be very careful while waiting for the buses because vehicles come from all directions. The traffic police remains a mute spectator to the woes faced by the commuters and pedestrians,” says G. Raja Ram, a commuter. It is the same scenario at the bus stop on the opposite side. Here also commuters stand away from the stop. “Traffic police and MTC officials should be deployed at the stops to end this menace,” says another commuter. In this respect, an MTC official says “Action will be taken to curb unauthorised parking of vehicles.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bus-shelter-in-chromepet-usurped/article36299288.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Shades of learning||Spread out wide, the branches of the tamarind tree at the entrance of Ambattur Municipal Primary School in Mogappair had made a whole lot of things possible for students and teachers — outdoor events, lunch breaks and meet-ups. It continued the good work during the pandemic, when it was an ally to teachers who wanted to conduct reading sessions and art and craft activities, among others, to help some children better utilise their time. “Since July 2020, teachers have been going to school, except during the peak of the second wave. At least 20 children from the neighbourhood, a majority of them our students, would hang out on the campus,” says S. Krishnaveni, who has been the school’s headmistress since 2009. These children needed to be engaged, as their parents would be away on work and they did not have any gadget to even tune in to the lessons being telecast on Kalvi TV. Krishnaveni points out that she has come across students whose parents earn a living as scavengers. These children would loiter around to collect recyclable plastic and sell them to buy snacks. “That sight really hurt me, so we started working with these children by engaging them in activities like wall painting and drawing,” says Krishnaveni. But were not the schools shuttered? Krishnaveni says they never opened the classroom and the activities were orchestrated under the tree. “We have two teachers — K Pushpalatha and S. Umaparvathy — along with me who would park themselves under its shade along with five children each and help them with the extra-curricular activities for a few hours every day,” says Krishnaveni, adding that this engagement still continues. “A majority of the children are from economically weak backgrounds and in the absence of anyone at home they spend their time in unhealthy activities,” she says. During the lockdown last year, one of the first things the school did was to ensure none of students’ families went without food. “I got help from my extended family who donated ration kits and once that dried up, I had many well-wishers who gave rice bags that benefited 70 of our parents,” says Krishnaveni, adding that the initiative continues. Early this year, Chennai photojournalists played host to an event under the tree where sports uniforms were distributed to children. State Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan graced the event. On August 15, there was a meet-up of students to share library books and exchange what they read. Started in 1935, the school is one of the oldest government institutions in the neighbourhood. It offers classes from LKG to V. In 2009, the school had 45 students. In the last academic year, it crossed 100 and its strength now is 195 with three teachers on the rolls. “When I joined the school, neighbours referred to it as a pulliamaram school and I felt bad about that then, but now I take pride in the name and the difference the tree has made in these children’s lives,” says Krishnaveni, adds that it is satisfying when one manages to spot talent among these youngsters. Santhosh and Mani are among the names she mentions. She notes, “Santhosh now goes to the home of a child on the spectrum to teach his art.”  That sight of children loitering around to collect recyclable plastic items and selling them to buy snacks really hurt me, so we started working with these children by engaging them in activities like wall painting and drawing S. Krishnaveni,HM, Ambattur Municipal Primary School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shades-of-learning/article36299295.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Waiting for a sluice shutter to be restored||Residents of Urapakkam and Kilambakkam have requested the Water Resources Department (WRD) in Chengalpattu to restore the shutter of a sluice in Kilambakkam Eri. The sprawling waterbody has two water channels — a sluice and an irrigation channel. More than two years ago, anti-social elements stole the shutter of the sluice, residents point out. S Kannan, social activist and a long-time resident of Urapakkam, says, “At a ‘Jamabandi’ held in 2019, we residents of Urapakkam and Kilambakkam submitted a petition to then District Collector of Kancheepuram District requesting to restore the shutter of the sluice. The same was forwarded to the Assistant Engineer, WRD, Chengalpattu but no action has been taken.” Residents say if the concern was attended to then, water would have been stored in the lake. “The shutter can be opened to release the water when needed for irrigation purposes,” says Kannan. The excess water from the lake flows to Mannivakkam Eri. A major portion of the remaining lake resembles a grazing ground for cattle. The agricultural lands abutting the waterbody are overrun with grass and bushes. Only a small percentage of the farmers are involved in agriculture and others have taken to other jobs, say residents. The rainwater from Kilambakkam bus stand cannot discharge into the lake due to encroachments in the lake area, and the rainwater inlet channel of the lake. “The bunds should be cleared of weeds and strengthened,” he added. The waterbody was last desilted in 1967.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/waiting-for-a-sluice-shutter-to-be-restored/article36299290.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The mother in the driving seat||In Ironic, Alanis Morissette presents life as Janus-faced, one face contorted with cruelty (“life has a funny way of sneaking up on you when you think everything’s okay”) and the other crinkled with compassion ( “life has a funny way of helping you out when you think everything’s gone wrong”). Every time it pokes in one of those two faces, it is usually the face one least expects to see. The Chennai High School on Eldams Road in Teynampet has had an “Ironic” moment, one it is basking in. Amidst talk of plummeting numbers in government-run schools and the ever-present bogey of closure, this Greater Chennai Corporation school is witnessing a surge in admissions against the backdrop of a pandemic. K Revathy, headmistress, Chennai High School on Eldams Road, enthuses over the numbers, “From 357, the school’s strength has risen to 457. In fact, it should be counted as a leap from 307 to 457, if one factors in the 50 students from the school-leaving tenth-grade.” The school is known for its aggressive enrolment campaign, marked by a novel exercise of teachers going from door to door, carrying a salver piled high with fruits to request parents to have their children join the school. “For this academic year, we started the campaign in March. The teachers are extremely cooperative, and come with me wherever I go,” shares Revathy. “When a child joins our school, they are presented with a chess board.” Marked by ceremony, these visits surely elevate potential students and parents to a heady sense of importance. However, it would be naive to think this is what is bumping up the numbers. It is the “after-sales service” that seems to be making much of the impact for the school. It has gained a reputation for being parent-friendly, watching out for the families of its students. Revathy explains, “The voluntary organisation Sethu Foundation runs a multi-skills development programme for our students, training them in photography and chess and teaching them spoken English and good handwriting techniques. I want to ensure that these students go a level higher than where they currently are in their economic standing, by concentrating on their mothers’ growth. If you impart skills to the mother, the entire family would be benefitted. Sethu Foundation recently started driving classes for the mothers of our students. It is also starting a programme to train these mothers in skills required for jobs that can be done from home.” During the pandemic, the teachers made sure underprivileged students in the tenth grade had a mobile device and data to attend online classes. “Around 30 students from Grade 10 were identified as requiring this assistance. Teachers passed the hat around and also sought the generosity of their friends and relatives to get gently-used mobiles. Similarly, they made sure these mobiles were recharged regularly. If I identify people among my circle who want to help out, I would share some numbers for them to recharge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-mother-in-the-driving-seat/article36299292.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Inter-school art contest||Globalart is conducting its sixth edition of Kreative Star 21, an inter-school contest. According to a press release, the contest is meant for students from class one to five. The event aims to develop creativity in children and allows them to express their thoughts. There will be three rounds — namely, centre level, area level and national level. The first round will be conducted between August and October 2021. Round two in November and the final round in December, adds the release. For details, call 95662 62366/95001 69017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inter-school-art-contest/article36299286.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/be-our-volunteer-writer/article36299291.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Backed by a committed team||Kalpana Kannan, principal of Chennai High School, Kottur credits its teachers and ever-widening body of volunteers from its trailblazing initiatives. The principal singles out science teacher Gangadevi for her unstinted contribution to the eco-club, and how she goes the extra mile in making a sucess of tree walks and keeping the terrace-garden initiative going. “She is extremely enthusiastic in any work relating to the eco-club that she takes up,” adds Kalpana. She illustrates the espirit de corps that exists among teachers and volunteers with a pandemic-related effort. “Last year, Greater Chennai Corporation had donated money towards purchase of mobiles for tenth graders, and the amount could cover 80 percent of the students. I could not bring myself to say ‘no’ to the 20 percent of the class. I learnt about crowdfunding through Milaap. In one day, we did it. My teachers and I contributed and all my volunteers were ready to support the initiative. The volunteers spread the word and also contributed towards the cause.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/backed-by-a-committed-team/article36299293.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||How well do we know this neighbour?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-well-do-we-know-this-neighbour/article36299277.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The community troops into the classroom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-community-troops-into-the-classroom/article36299278.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Mind-altering garden plants||Michael Pollan has been bedazzling us with his writing about our relationships with plants and nature. He has considered questions such as how and why plants evolved to gratify humans, what we should eat, why our connection to nature matters, and how our food emerges through water, heat, fire and earth. His writing is elegant, original, entertaining and thrilling. His latest book, This is your Mind on Plants , is no different. Utterly absorbing, it is a continuation of How to Change your Mind, where he opens the door on psychedelics — psilocybin, mushrooms and LSD. In the current volume, he draws us in through lyrical historical and cultural narratives, takes us on a path that explores the biology of some mind-altering chemicals, punches at confusing government policies on drugs, describes indigenous communities’ ancient practices with peyote, and tries to explain his own transformational experience with the guided consumption of psychedelics. He examines human involvement with three mind-altering chemicals: opium, caffeine and mescaline.     The earliest reference to poppy is by the Sumerians in 3400 BC in Mesopotamia. Poppy has been used in medicine for thousands of years and appears on Greek and Roman coins. It was a vital trade commodity, and the 19th century opium wars between the Qing Dynasty and the British and French enabled control of opium trade and territory. The U.S. government has waged an unequal drug war against narcotics; for instance, while there is a stiff penalty and jail time for growing Papaver somniferum , the opium poppy, seductive disinformation from manufacturers about the safety of oxytocin led to over-prescription and widespread addiction. Pollan skirts a cautious path around the legality of poppy cultivation. He grew it in his garden for a time and sipped its bitter, nauseating tea, which makes the “sadness leave”. Ideas from a café You would be surprised if I called you an addict of something potent that changes the state of your mind. 1,3,7-trimethylxanthine, or ‘caffeine’ in coffee, tea, or soda, is a widely used psychoactive consumed by almost everyone. Pollan is hilarious when he describes his attempt to forsake his soothing daily routine of coffee and tea. He misses caffeine’s energising and confidence-raising effects but plods on gamely. First discovered in Ethiopia, coffee was traded across the Arabian Peninsula and drunk in the Arab world. Spreading west and north with the Ottoman Empire, coffeehouses nurtured conversations, news and gossip.    The first coffeehouse in Europe came up in 1629 in Venice and in 1650 in Oxford, England. These enclaves shaped scientific and financial revolutions of the modern world by creating a new space for the exchange of ideas, commerce and political intrigue. Earlier, the governor of Mecca and later, Charles II, had tried to close them down. The French linked coffeehouses with sedition. “The mob that ultimately stormed the Bastille assembled in the Café de Foy, roused to action by the eloquence of political journalist Camille Desmoulins and intoxicated not by alcohol but by caffeine.” Coffee provides “focused, linear, abstract, and efficient cognitive processing”. The Enlightenment writers were invigorated by coffee, and Honoré de Balzac relied heavily on it for his creative outputs. “What work of genius has ever been composed on chamomile tea?” Pollan laments in his decaffeinated state. The secrets of tea production were stolen from the Chinese by Robert Fortune, a Scottish botanist, and grown on land seized from peasant farmers in Assam. The East India Company began growing tea and opium in India. Pollan speculates that the disparity in the drinking cultures of coffee and tea must be due to their different histories. Moving on mescaline The third section covers mescaline, a psychedelic that naturally occurs in some cacti. Pollan recalls Aldous Huxley’s The Doors of Perception , which describes his experience with mescaline. He wonders if the indigenous communities’ consideration of nature, “not merely as a symbol of spirit but as immanent — a manifestation of it”, was due to their intake of mescaline. Pollan realises that he has been unknowingly growing San Pedro, a cactus with mescaline, in his yard. The Huichol or Wixáritari, an indigenous people who live deep in the Sierra Madre of Mexico, have used peyote for thousands of years. Their ritual practices using peyote were complex and interwoven into their culture. These observations made me wonder about ‘soma’, highlighted in the Rigveda . Were its poets also enraptured by mind-altering plants?    Psychedelics and therapy   In carefully delivered doses, psychedelics can dissolve structures of the ego, unlock and expand the consciousness and on occasion create mystical experiences. Their use by certain communities and in more recent studies has reopened research with psychedelics, especially for those with depression or terminal disease. Why is the free-flowing expanded consciousness not our natural state? Huxley’s impression was that the role of “ordinary consciousness is to protect us from reality by a process of reduction or filtration”. Human consciousness has been shaped by natural selection to maximise our survival, not necessarily to represent reality scrupulously. We do not see “the truth,” just our version of it — always.  This is your Mind on Plants is worth burying oneself in even as the planet burns and drowns in floods and humans have lost touch with their connectedness with nature.  The reviewer is a scientist who studies science, technology and development policy.  This is your Mind on Plants Michael Pollan Penguin Random House  Rs. 665 (Kindle price)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mind-altering-garden-plants/article36299367.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Birthing an art ecosystem||270artists. 3,000 artworks. 600,000 sq. ft. of display space spread across 3 sq km. And this does not include the 11,000 sq. ft. Durbar Hall in Kochi. If there’s one thing the ongoing Lokame Tharavadu art show in Kerala’s Alappuzha town has in spades, it’s ambition. Matching and possibly surpassing the Kochi Biennale at least in scale, this brainchild of artist Bose Krishnamachari, who is also the president of the Kochi Biennale Foundation (KBF), had a rather unfortunate birth. Like everyone else, Bose underestimated the pandemic and scheduled the show’s opening for April this year, only to be rebuffed rudely by the second wave. Now, the show is back, with extended dates, renewed vigour and sanitiser galore. Sometime in September 2020, Bose had wanted KBF to cobble together something to support Kerala’s artists — “it was important to give them confidence” — and the Board asked him to pick up the gauntlet. The artist took it on. “Unpredictability is beautiful,” he says. “I was up for it.” Existing travel restrictions initially confined focus to Kerala-resident artists, but soon Bose expanded it into a Malayali-only collection, with artworks shipped in from Paris, Dubai, Delhi, etc. For local artists, Bose scoured the State, from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram, visiting homes and studios over two months. “I found artists who had never shown anywhere,” he says. As the discoveries mounted, the modest idea soon morphed into its present mammoth shape. For almost a year now, the Mumbai-based Bose has been stationed in Alappuzha, in a rented flat run over by artists and volunteers and one chechi feeding them all. “Come to Shed D,” Bose tells me, when I call from the Kerala State Coir Corporation gate. I trudge over to a cavernous building, crossing grounds overgrown with vegetation, past a broken office chair basking in the sun, and am met by three stunning V.V. Vinu installations, in his signature material, the wood of the odollam or suicide tree. Transformed into a gigantic gallery space, all white walls and focussed lighting, the innards of the erstwhile coir factory are unrecognisable. The makeover story is repeated across the five Alappuzha venues — two restored factory sheds and one restored port office from the government, and two sheds courtesy Betty Karunakaran, local industrialist. These enormous spaces with their soaring ceilings and endless hallways lend infinite atmosphere, with the locale becoming art in its own right. In the Eastern Produce Company shed, for instance, much of the floor is carpeted with gravel to cover its unevenness, which segues seamlessly into Vipin Dhanurdharan’s installation of a stretch of railway track to memorialise the tragedy of the migrant labourers who were run over by a train last May. Canal city’s riches This collocation is not providential — Bose had the nous to plug into the ongoing Alappuzha Heritage Project, under which Kerala’s tourism ministry is restoring and conserving the town’s old buildings and converting many of them into museums. For this enormous undertaking, designed to bring back Alappuzha’s ‘golden era’, the collaboration makes sense. As P.M. Nowshad, managing director of the Muziris project, walks me through the sites, one gets an early glimpse of the immense potential that can be unleashed here. Kerala’s former Minister for Finance and Coir, Thomas Isaac, long known for his patronage of culture, encouraged Bose to come to the canal city, extending logistical and financial support via the tourism department. “The idea is to make Alappuzha a rich heritage town,” Isaac tells me, and “working with this art project is in line with that.” The government has promised Rs. 2 crore to the roughly Rs. 4.5 crore Lokame Tharavadu budget, Bose sold some of his pieces to raise money, sponsors were found for painting, lighting, landscaping works, and various private donors chipped in. Some artists have also volunteered a portion of any sales to KBF. The Lokame Tharavadu office, set up in the Coir Corporation building, is busy, with long worktables, PCs and laptops, unused artworks leaning against walls, and an army of volunteers buzzing around. Visitors have begun to trickle in, and I see Bose giving a talk to 40-odd students from an architecture college. “The Kochi Biennale can be extended here, or a parallel one can be held,” says Bose. “There is space and there is local participation.” Parochial or practical? Given that Lokame Tharavadu translates into ‘The world is one family’, there is some discomfort in the hint of parochialism inherent in any collection driven by regional identity, although Bose says the idea was driven more by practical considerations. Also, as art critic Sadanand Menon points out, a numerical aggregation of artists from one linguistic group is conceptually limiting. “A quantity called Malayaliness is seemingly made to triumph over a quality called art. It could be a slippery slope,” he says. However, the negatives of the approach appear offset here by the sheer possibilities that have been unearthed. In Irinjalakuda, Bose discovered E.N. Santhi in a one-room house, dozens of detailed village drawings stored under her bed. In Ernakulam, Asha Nandan was using her kitchen as studio. Alappuzha yielded G.S. Smitha, whose canvases glow with teeming, fecund life. C.M. Shanta, a self-taught 65-year-old who sold eggs in Kozhikode, has delicate abstracts on the walls. In effect, the project has become an extraordinary art census for the State, both enumerating and platforming artists. A rich diversity of practice is on show — from realism to abstract, surreal and conceptual works, from sculpture and installations to cartoon, tapestry and photographs. While they’re not all uniformly of a high order, the nucleus of talent is unmistakeable. As much as the big guns — V. Viswanadhan, A. Ramachandran, Akkitham Narayanan (displayed in the climate-controlled Durbar Hall), Jitish Kallat, C. Douglas, K. Reghunadhan, E.P. Unny, Gigi Scaria, K.S. Radhakrishnan, Alex Davis — it’s exciting to stumble upon fresh stuff — Joseph Mathew’s wooden sculptures, Sumedh Rajendran’s stone and bronze works, K.S. Sooraja’s astonishing series depicting hair almost as a woman’s prison, Tenzing Joseph’s vivid and surreal imagery in wooden relief, Anilash Sukumaran’s unusual bronzes. Abuzz with energy Alappuzha-based V.S. Blodsow, who did a stint at Cholamandal, has two conceptual works displayed across 23 feet in New Model Society. One, titled Article 19, is a series of 19 fibreglass figures with embroidered masks that spell Constitution of India. Opposite this, and almost twinning it, is a colour spectrum created from blouse pieces, symbolising the history of lower-caste women forced to bare their breasts in 19th-century Kerala. “I imagined these in Chennai, but had no space for execution,” says Blodsow. “The scale this show has offered is vital.” It has also been a significant experiential opportunity for the community. “Production, curation, how to install, exhibit, frame… it’s been a huge learning curve,” says Blodsow. Equally, opening it up for sales has meant a big deal. It’s a buzz many of the artists have seldom experienced. “Many works have been sold,” says Bose. “And many galleries are already showing interest.” A French curator saw one of the works on Bose’s Insta page and has chosen it for a 2022 show. Despite its substantial contribution to cinema, theatre and the performing arts, Menon points out that Kerala hasn’t really figured on the country’s visual arts radar. With few display spaces and little patronage for shows and catalogues, most artists have made it big outside. In such a scenario, this exercise in consolidation can become the base for an arts ecosystem. If the energy I sensed is anything to go by, then, to echo Bose, I see residencies, workshops and lectures, I see Alappuzha emerging as an art city in the not so distant future.  ON SHOW: ‘Lokame Tharavadu’, Alappuzha and Ernakulam, till September 30.  These enormous spaces with their soaring ceilings and endless hallways lend infinite atmosphere, with the locale becoming art in its own right||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/birthing-an-art-ecosystem/article36299334.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The little master of Kummarapet||Tell this any way you like, but tell it. Fill in the gaps. Work with whatever earth you get. A potter knows how to do that.” Anuradha Roy’s new novel comes like a breath of sweet, fresh air. The first thing about the novel is its gentleness of tone. Though it tells of violent and traumatic acts, it does so with such a calm, reflective and understanding tone that one is left thinking, with a touch of sadness, of so much that could have been otherwise. Fractures in the lives of communities can take place in a moment of rage, while it can take years, even decades, to repair the damage. “Today, I wonder at the certainty in these people that their world would heal in a matter of weeks… As the city was remade, Kummarapet itself would melt back to earth.” Compelled to create The second thing about the novel is its setting. The main story is set somewhere in the Deccan, but the location is not specified. A character dreams of travelling “where the dry land stretched as far as the eye could see, where hill-sized boulders perched on each other.” It could be anywhere, any tiny town, brought to life by a few signs — a river, a forest, a potters’ habitation, an autorickshaw ferrying children to school, a handful of petty crimes reported in the local newspaper. A microcosm of how we have lived for decades, and how we could live. The third thing about The Earthspinner is its powerful description of the process of artistic creation. “My father would have said change was the work of the earth spinning, spinning as it always had.” The central metaphor is that of the earth and its soil, of work with hands and clay and a potter’s wheel. A river to wash sorrows away. A terracotta lamp that, when lit, casts the shadow of a flower. A sculptor who creates pots and lamps every day; and who, one morning, wakes up from a dream suddenly compelled to create a monumental terracotta horse. “In his dream the horse had risen on its own like an earthen fountain. It wore a necklace of beads and its ears were like two mango leaves on either side of its magnificent head… The mane swept down the neck in a wave, the eyes stared straight ahead, gazing at eternity.” Lives left behind Alongside the clay work is calligraphy: the intricate and beautiful writing of words, created by humans to communicate and consecrate. A blind calligrapher dreams of the beauty of script: “His fingers had forgotten how it was to hold his bamboo quill or hear its sound on paper — inaudible to all but himself — to see the strokes appear one by one, forming pages of beauty and learning.” Sculpture, text, and syncretism. The epigraph from Kabir, beautifully translated by Arvind Krishna Mehrotra, brings these diverse elements together into one whole: “I’m bowl/ And I’m platter/ I’m man/ And I’m woman… I’m nothing/ Says Kabir /I’m not among the living/ Or the dead”. But it is as easy to destroy peace as it is to shatter a clay pot into pieces. A man falls in love with a woman who lives in the same town, but they are separated by insurmountable barriers of religion. “In this country it’s just film stars and cricketers who get to marry whom they please,” says one character. Ways to heal Years later, the narrator meets a friend from her childhood and they reflect on the tragic turn of events and everything that they have, separately, left behind: “I didn’t know when I would hear again these intonations and words, this particular language of my childhood. I listened as if my life depended on remembering every word.” At the warm, throbbing heart of the story is a little dog: once called Tashi or good fortune, now he is Chinna, “little one”, walking proudly anywhere and everywhere within village and town. “‘Chinna, Chinna,’ Elango crooned to the dog, whose cries of sorrow became fainter and more forlorn as the night passed. He kept stroking its back and it moved something deep inside him that he did not know was there.” As dogs do, Chinna teaches the human characters what it is to be human. It is the little dog who can cross the boundaries that seem impassable to humans. “He was Chinna, the grand old dog of Kummarapet, who had lived and loved and populated the neighbourhood with versions of himself.” Chinna connects people whose disparate lives would not otherwise intersect: a couple from the city, assaulted on the border of a forest; a working-class potter who doubles as the local autorickshaw driver, ferrying kids to school; two little girls, sisters, whose father is ill and whose mother is a reporter for the local newspaper; a young girl with a limp and her grandfather, a near-blind calligrapher. Chinna brings them all together with his fearless and unconditional love. And shows them a way to heal and reconcile, a way out of the painful darkness. The reviewer is in the IAS.  The Earthspinner Anuradha Roy  Hachette India  Rs. 599    The central metaphor is that of the earth and its soil, of work with hands and clay and a potter’s wheel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-little-master-of-kummarapet/article36299350.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Mind and medicine||As children of the early 1940s, we had no choice for medical treatments. If injured, I used to run down to a doctor who lived two houses down the road. He used to chide me while cleaning the wound and applying tincture of iodine. I would be busy thinking of the game I had missed or what my friends were up to in my absence. By late 1960s, the doctor required blood and urine tests and X-rays, conducted at the attached labs. You spend two days in organising all these tests and collecting the results and fixing an appointment with the doctor. These take a day or two more! At the end, you are a well-organised documented patient. In my case, I became a number on a big fat file. Patients like me, however, were likely to lose track of their original ailment. The cost of such running around is nowadays borne by your insurance companies, which again prefer that you remain a number! Unfortunately, most large industries have highly qualified and experienced doctors on their rolls. For them too, the patient is a number. Hence, patients are often treated for ailments they do not have. I was treated for TB in the 1980s and given 16 injections out of the 21 prescribed and then it was stopped when my local doctor and nurse protested. It was later found out that the 21 injections were prescribed for the patient whose name was next on the register. I walked out alive from the system that made a mockery of the noble profession. At this time, it will be appropriate to quote a dental surgeon who as a student in Mumbai was told by her professor that anyone who enters her clinic remains a patient for life! To an extent, this was ensured by my dentist! In 1980, I found it very painful to climb even four or five steps. A specialist doctor in Madras advised immediate operation followed by three or four weeks of rest. I, however, could not extend my leave and decided to return to Zambia. So my sister-in-law came up with her own remedy. She asked me to continue it for a few weeks and later on whenever possible. I avoided the staircase, and within a fortnight, I began to go up the steps to the third or fourth floor without any problem. I found that for the treatment to be successful, you must have full faith in it. hemram1229@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mind-and-medicine/article36299344.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Building wealth and an identity on colonial plunder and loot||Some years ago, on a visit to Athens, I got into a conversation with a staffer at the Acropolis Museum. Thanks to my ignorance, I asked her where I could see the Parthenon Marbles. The affable woman turned terse. “If you want to see them, take a plane to London,” she said and turned away. It later struck me that her advice would hold good for some of the most prized cultural relics from Asia and Africa. Most were stolen, and can be found today in British museums. Colonial plunder may have happened in the past, but in the absence of restitution, it remains an active element of the present. The British Museum and the Louvre in Paris, to mention just two institutions, continue to earn millions of tourist dollars and cultural capital from stolen treasures. In August 1999, “the African World Reparations and Repatriation Truth Commission suggested $777 trillion as a suitable sum for reparations paid as compensation for lives lost during the African slave trade and the gold, diamonds and other resources stolen from the continent during colonisation,” notes Sathnam Sanghera in his new book, Empireland: How Imperialism Has Shaped Modern Britain . Multi-layered history But Empireland is much more than an accounting of the losses and gains accrued from Empire. Sanghera blends memoir, journalism and history to construct a multi-layered narrative that slowly builds toward an existential but also political question: if you take away Empire, and everything connected to it, what would be left of the elements that could be said to constitute British national identity? What is British identity minus Empire? Role in slavery Let’s try some of the answers. What about the quintessential English institution, the country home? It turns out that nearly one-third of British country homes and gardens were built on wealth earned from slavery or colonial loot. “If you accumulated significant amounts of money, country houses were the favoured asset through which to launder colonial booty,” notes Sanghera. What about Britain’s role in abolishing slavery, something Brits take pride in? Well, the compensation paid to slave owners for giving up profits from slavery (while no compensation was paid to the slaves) was practically the seed money for some of the biggest fortunes in British finance and industry. From Lloyds, Barclays and RBS, among the banks, to Alfred Waterhouse (founder of what would become PricewaterhouseCoopers), William Welch Deloitte (grandson of a West Indies planter), the British railways, and The Times newspaper, it is difficult to find a British institution untainted by slavery money. But Empire — mounted on the ideological axle of white supremacy — has not only shaped the British economy, it has also shaped the British mindset and worldview, suggests Sanghera, and these continue to find expression in British exceptionalism and racism, whose most recent, and spectacular, manifestation was the fiasco of Brexit. Painful legacy Starting with anecdotes of racial discrimination while growing up in a working class nighbourhood in Wolverhampton, Sanghera draws out the continuities between British attitudes toward native ‘servants’ during the Raj and the resentment triggered by the reappearance of erstwhile colonial subjects on British soil, now recast as neighbours and immigrants demanding rights on a par with their former masters. Post-colonial nation-states perforce have had to reckon with their histories as colonies. From language and culture to art, architecture, philosophy and political thought, it is impossible to escape the colonial legacy. What is not so obvious is that erstwhile imperial powers were also altered by the colonial project, although their memories of it are marked by self-serving amnesia. The glory evokes nostalgia while the atrocities are repressed. Whether it is soccer hooliganism, dealing with the pandemic, or prevailing racial stereotypes, Sanghera demonstrates that contemporary Britain is as much a post-colonial society as any other.  Empireland: How Imperialism Has Shaped Modern Britain Sathnam Sanghera Penguin Viking  Rs. 999||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/building-wealth-and-an-identity-on-colonial-plunder-and-loot/article36299363.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Born on September 5, 1638, this person was known as ‘The Sun King’ and his reign of 72 years is the longest recorded of any monarch of a sovereign country in history. He consolidated a system of absolute monarchy in France, which lasted till the French Revolution. Who was this king who built the Palace of Versailles and was the most famous of the 18 French Kings who shared the name? 2 Born on September 5, 1826, John ____ was a businessman who played first-class cricket in England. His greatest feat on-field was taking all 10 wickets in an innings at Lord’s in 1850, and all of them bowled out. The same year he set up a company in his name that brought out an ‘almanack’ a few years later. This has now become the longest running sports annual in history and is commonly referred to as the ‘Bible of Cricket’. What was John’s full name? 3 Born on September 5, 1872, V. O. Chidambaram Pillai was a Tamil lawyer and freedom fighter. He was a prominent member of the Indian National Congress and along with Subramania Bharathi spoke for the cause of the Madras Presidency. In response to the British monopolising a certain industry, he started the first indigenous company in a particular field which led to him earning the sobriquet ‘The Tamil Helmsman’. What service did he start? 4 Born on September 5, 1888, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan was the second President of India and his birthday is celebrated as Teachers’ Day. After India gained independence, he was elected as chairman of the executive board of which international organisation, which actively fights against prejudice and discrimination and for the defence of human rights and the protection of cultural heritage? 5 Born on September 5, 1912, John Cage was an avant-garde American music composer. One of his compositions, As Slow as Possible , was started on September 5, 2001, in a church in Germany. It is the longest-lasting musical performance ever. His piece, 4'33" , is said to be influenced by Zen Buddhism. Due to the nature of the piece, it is also known as “four minutes thirty-three seconds of _____”. What word fills in the blank? 6 Born on September 5, 1939, George Lazenby is an Australian actor well known for playing an iconic role in a film that is regarded as the most faithful adaptation in a string of movies based on a series of novels. His movie is the only one to feature the protagonist getting married in a series known for the character’s many short relationships. What role did Lazenby play? 7 Born on September 5, 1946, in Zanzibar (in present day Kenya), this gentleman was renowned for his incredible voice range and song-writing skills. His stage name was one he chose himself from a song he wrote called ‘My Fairy King’. His charismatic stage presence led to his band becoming one of the biggest in the world, with songs that still rule the radio. He refused to record with Michael Jackson because MJ insisted on bringing a llama to the studio. Who was this legendary singer who passed away in 1991? 8 On September 5, 1958, The Huckleberry Hound Show produced by Hanna-Barbera premiered on US TV. One of the characters that debuted was the first ever to become a breakout character on animated television. Named after a baseball star, who was known for his amusing quotes, this character and his sidekick Boo-Boo’s adventures revolve around their antics in trying to steal picnic baskets from campers at Jellystone park. What is the name of this character? 9 On September 5, 1960, this athlete faced three-time European champion Zbigniew Pietrzykowski of Poland for the Olympic light heavyweight boxing gold medal at the Rome Games. At the final bell, the verdict was in favour of the 18-year-old American. Though celebrated around the world, he faced racist comments back home; so in a fit of anger, he threw his gold medal in a river. Who was this legendary athlete, who was re-awarded the gold medal at the 1996 Olympic Games, where he lit the Olympic flame? 10 On September 5, 1977, NASA launched this spacecraft that was designed to study the interstellar space beyond the Sun’s heliosphere. As of 2021, it is the most distant man-made object from Earth, having travelled 22.9 billion km in 44 years. What spacecraft is this which carries a gold-plated audio-visual disc that carries images and sound of Earth for any intelligent life elsewhere in the universe? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article36299377.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The warmth of a book||For bibliophiles, there’s no greater joy than being in the company of people who will endlessly talk books — what was read, what was loved and hated or wondered about, why an ending didn’t work or why an author disappointed or delighted, and what to read next. Tsundoku-related angst aside, the pandemic period has given many of us the time to pick up books languishing on our shelves and catch up on literary events we would not had time for otherwise. From a season of litfests that required leave (and ability) to travel, we’ve now grown accustomed to a regular stream of online events, available to catch on YouTube at our leisure. Love for litfests While litfests have a certain aura, there’s nothing like long cozy conversations with bookish friends. And when said friends are not available, I turn to a small set of podcasts that have kept me company for a while now. One of these, which came highly recommended, has the flavour of English tea with scones and clotted cream, while the other is most definitely a mid-morning chai-and-samosa session (though glucose biscuits are mentioned).  The Slightly Foxed podcast , hosted by the “good looking, intelligent and slightly eccentric” (their description) eponymous literary magazine, is a ramble “off the beaten track”. Magazine staffers Gail, Hazel, Stephanie and host Philippa chat with a guest or two about themes ranging from crime fiction to the classics, dwelling on forgotten and overlooked books and their histories. Their deep knowledge of the literary landscape (granted, all English language and largely Western) lead to some fascinating revelations — for instance, that siblings Charles and Mary Lamb were united by their tragic family history of matricide (Ep 24), or that Evelyn Waugh wrote several bad cheques to the Ritz Hotel. It’s not all literary gossip — they deal with that with quiet humour and empathy — but also thoughtful meanders that give us a new way to think about genre fiction. One of my favourite episodes, Picnic at Hanging Rock & Other Stories (Ep 32), talks us through generations of boarding school stories (from Enid Blyton to Donna Tartt) while also situating them against the notions of empire, colonialism, and class. Much of the show’s appeal is the easy banter and the sense of sitting around a table somewhere in the English countryside — including dogs barking (with Philippa profusely apologising) and chairs scraping back. It’s homey, yet rich with information and insight. We’re treated not only to recommendations for unusual books, but also must-visit bookstores, museums and libraries. Smart & witty Closer to home, The Lit Pickers from the house of Maed in India, hosted by writers Supriya Nair and Deepanjana Pal is a podcast I’ve come to enjoy. The exchanges are smart and witty, peppered with contrarian views about popular books and iconic authors (check out The Literary Bro Code , August 20), and touch on a wide range of work, from Indian writing in English to translations from regional languages. A sub-series called Slim Pickings offers specially curated recommendations — “Need to gift a food book. Help!” or “What’s a good bedtime read for an 8-year-old?” Incidentally, both podcasts were started during the pandemic, when we felt the world was spinning out of control and possibly the only way to keep sane was to lose ourselves in a good book. Or to feel the warmth of a cozy conversation about books.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-warmth-of-a-book/article36299386.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||She stoops to conquer||In Mira Sethi’s Are You Enjoying? the boundaries between the real and the fictional are enticingly blurry, for, like her characters, the author too wears many hats. Sethi’s current fame as an actor in Pakistani television dramas was preceded by a noted career as a writer and journalist in the U.S. In her debut short story collection, she draws on these experiences to give us six vignettes exploring religion, desire, identity, sexuality and power in contemporary Pakistan. The stories, around 20-30 pages each, are quick, crisp reads that nudge the reader into the everyday lives of the relatable protagonists. Take the story titled ‘Breezy Blessings.’ One of the most memorable pieces in the collection, the story zooms in on the ordeals of a budding actor who gets a television role which the director describes as being “a little violent. Nothing serious. Just a few slaps.” Mehak is thrilled at her luck until she is confronted with the exploitative side of the industry. When her role gets cut midway without any explanation given, Mehak is faced with a choice — fight or flight? Minor rebellions Sethi brings to life the bustling sets of television serials with elan. The “unspoken decorum” imposed by judgmental senior artists, the mildly creepy director, and the random acts of kindness (“I use bottled water in your tea, tap water in everyone else’s,” confesses a set assistant to Mehak) are vividly depicted alongside Mehak’s pain and humiliation. It is not all glum, though. Sethi’s women are strong, regardless of their circumstances. Sometimes they are evidently so, as the woman who works menial jobs to support her incompetent husband, or the one who ends a brief affair on her own terms. In some stories, it is less straightforward. In one, a single mother chooses to bring up her three kids alone but also frets about them being daughters (“I have not one, not two, but three of you,” she says at one point — “as if her daughters were benign tumors that had to be removed for her to be at peace”). Intense bursts And sometimes, that strength needs a nudge to surface, as Syeda Zareena Bokhari finds in ‘A Life of its Own’. ZB, as the matriarch of the wealthy political family is known, meets her match in her daughter-in-law Farah, a respected journalist. Farah had dreamt of a life in New York with her husband Kashif, but when ZB suffers a heart attack, the two return to Kashif’s family haveli in Maujpur, despite Farah’s unease about the family’s “sleepy glimmer of wealth”. Though the initial interactions between the mother-in-law and daughter-in-law are coloured by predictable tensions, their relationship takes a different hue when ZB’s brother is named in a police report. The stories fan across a broad spectrum of social hierarchy, but Sethi is at her best when writing about the quirks of the wealthy and the elite. She cleverly satirises the upper class’s tendency to worship all things Western (education, accents), but stumbles when it comes to the lone story that touches upon religious rigidity. It is not that ‘A Man for His Time’, the story of a Lahore-based young man from an impoverished background, is flimsy, but considering the existing body of literature on the topic, Sethi’s cautious approach seems tepid. Minor hiccups aside, Are You Enjoying? is the perfect airport read, to be consumed in brisk, intense bursts. Fans of narrative closure be warned, you might not always find what you are looking for. The writer is a journalist and reviewer. She tweets @navmikrishna  Are You Enjoying? Mira Sethi Bloomsbury Publishing  Rs. 699    The stories fan across a broad spectrum of social hierarchy, but Sethi is at her best when writing about the quirks of the wealthy and the elite||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/she-stoops-to-conquer/article36299348.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Love me do||In his latest collection of short stories, First Person Singular , Haruki Murakami continues to delight his fans with breezy tales that are snapshots of life. Murakami uses magical elements in his fiction, but unlike, say, Márquez or Rushdie, doesn’t employ them as fictional technique. They come as a part of human life that is experienced as confusing, illogical and mysterious even as it appears to be plain, orderly and sensible. Dollops of wisdom In between, he inserts little homilies about life. For instance, in this collection, the narrator of one of the stories says, “Real-life wisdom arises not so much from knowing how we might beat someone as from learning how to accept defeat with grace.” Such epigrams, offered for the reader’s benefit, abound. Two of the stories stand apart in evoking the unusual while imparting dollops of wisdom. In the very first story, ‘Cream’, a girl invites the narrator to a piano recital, but when he goes to the venue, he is disappointed to find no one there. An unknown voice speaks to him, asking him to imagine “the circle with many centres but no circumference.” The attempt leads the narrator to a simple but useful truth: “There’s nothing worth getting in this world that you can get easily.” And, “Our brain is made to think about difficult things, and to help us get to a point where we understand something that we didn’t understand at first. That becomes the cream of our life — crème de la crème. ” Weird relationships In ‘Confessions of a Shinagawa Monkey’, we meet a monkey whose habit is to steal the names of women and rob them of their identity. We are told that he doesn’t feel a speck of sexual desire for female monkeys, but adores women. He delivers a sermon on the value of love: “Love is the indispensable fuel that allows us to go on living. Someday that love may end. Or it may never amount to anything. But even if love fades away, even if it’s unrequited, you can still hold on to the memory of having loved someone, of having fallen in love with someone. And that’s a valuable source of warmth. Without that heat source a person’s heart — and a monkey’s heart, too — would turn into a bitterly cold, barren wasteland.” The narrator has weird relationships, especially with women, most of them unnamed. ‘On a Stone Pillow’ — about the sexual encounters of the narrator with a tanka poet — brings out the strangeness of human sexuality. Music, Murakami’s favourite theme, forms the backdrop of a couple of stories. In ‘Carnaval’, the narrator shares a common interest in Schumann’s piano solo Carnaval with an ugly but attractive woman, who is later found guilty of assisting her husband in a senseless crime. This makes the narrator reformulate his aesthetic ideal. Having initially declared, “Just as a beautiful woman has imperfections, there is always a part of an ugly woman that is beautiful,” he revises his opinion to label beauty or ugliness as a mask: “An ugly mask and a beautiful face beneath it — a beautiful mask and an ugly face.” Such instances of the working of the male gaze are, of course, found throughout Murakami. But are we to take such statements at their face value? Is the omniscient narrator to be identified with Murakami or is it an assumed persona? As usual, Murakami combines fact and fiction in an utterly incomprehensible way. ‘The Yakult Swallows Poetry Collection’  is explicitly autobiographical, documenting his attempts at publishing poetry. ‘With the Beatles’ — which is a long dialogue between the narrator and his girlfriend’s brother — swings to the other end, with the narrator speaking as what Walter Benjamin called “the storyteller,” rather than as Murakami. Stories outlive their authors and we are not sure how these stories will be received in the future. Will they be judged on the basis of their intrinsic power or merely on the basis of the author’s fame? It will be interesting to wait and watch. The reviewer teaches English at Tumkur University.  First Person Singular Haruki Murakami, trs Philip Gabriel Harvill Secker  Rs. 799    Is the omniscient narrator to be identified with Murakami or is it an assumed persona? As usual, Murakami combines fact and fiction in an utterly incomprehensible way||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/love-me-do/article36299353.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Hakuna matata||Dear Agony Akka,  I think the end of the world is upon us. Recently I read a report about a Belgian zoo banning a woman from visiting the park’s chimpanzee because she was allegedly having an affair with the primate. Now, I have nothing against (wo)man-animal love, which can inspire award-winning movies like The Shape of Water , where the heroine falls in love with a fish. What I find objectionable is that the zoo said it was banning the woman for the chimp’s wellbeing. What’s going on? The other day I saw on Twitter a notice in a Dublin zoo that said: “Don’t stand, sit, climb or lean on zoo fences. If you fall, animals could eat you and that might make them sick.” Hello, what next? Will the koala and the kangaroo be placed at the centre of the universe? How do we buck this anarchic trend? — Concerned And Tense    Dear CAT,  You are very correct to feel angry and upset about the kind of importance being given to animals when we humans are suffering so much every single day. Imagine spending lakhs and crores on zoos and animal sanctuaries when the money can be used to build a giant new statue somewhere. In fact, I think that’s a very good idea. We should get rid of all animals and erect animal statues here and there in all cities. Our grandchildren and great-grandchildren can see what a gorilla or rhino looks like without everyone wasting time and energy trying to keep them alive and safe from poachers and industrialists and what not. And it’s not just about keeping them alive, is it? Next thing you know, people are demanding that their habitats must also be kept safe. So nobody is allowed to cut down trees or dig mines or extract minerals or anything. I mean, come on, this is ridiculous. How on earth will we become a five trillion economy with no mines and only mongoose and macaques? If we keep on conserving trees and forests, I am warning you soon there will be no place for people to live. I am especially concerned because my friend Monisha has just bought a flat in an upcoming condo project. They are going to build in a beautiful spot on the outskirts of the city where they have reclaimed some swampland. Very soon, all those noisy pelicans and herons will be gone and there will only be tall, soaring concrete in the skyline. Construction cranes instead of water cranes. But if some busybody had demanded that swamps also must be protected, what would have happened to the many Monishas? Builders are anyway growing lots of trees in the compound and it is a green building and has eco certificate. Monisha is also keeping two-three pet parakeets because she is very fond of wildlife. Enough is enough. In Chennai, long ago, like this only one crazy American started place to grow crocodiles. Can you imagine? Trying to preserve one animal that can open its mouth and swallow two-three humans casually for snacks. If you go there, you will see them lying there in the sun, hundreds of them, just lying there doing nothing. Unlike monkeys or birds, they don’t look cute. Unlike oxen or horses, they’re not useful. No justification whatsoever for their existence in same format for over 200 million years. I am saying, why not rent out the place as useful disposal spot for relatives, politicians and godmen? Good money during lockdown, and creatures can finally make themselves useful. However, as you say, the reptiles might fall sick. No worries, we will give them some Croconil. — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hakuna-matata/article36299375.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Growing up under curfew||Farah Bashir has written an extraordinary, poignant account of life as an adolescent in the conflict-ridden Kashmir of the 1990s. A narrative on the death and funeral preparations for Bobeh, the protagonist’s beloved grandmother, is interspersed with multiple flashbacks where the author recounts growing up in Srinagar when militancy was at its peak. The chapters of Rumours of Spring follow the day of Bobeh’s funeral — Evening, Night, Early Hours, Dawn, Morning, Afterlife — and each touches on different aspects of Farah’s life. Kashmir is often seen through the lens of politics and violence. Farah humanises the violence in a heartrending way and makes you reflect on the kind of life it must have been for a young girl growing up in constant curfew, with sounds of gunfire and convoys, and the perpetual talk of death. Every simple aspect of life we take for granted is fraught with terror. Exchanging love letters with a young man is brutally interrupted and never resumed when the post office is burnt down; attempting to escape the strict Islamic dress code by wearing a high pony tail and lowering her socks ends when a friend has acid thrown on her because she was wearing jeans; she makes herself invisible and less attractive by wearing a headscarf, plucking out her hair, not washing her face for days, not wanting to look attractive in any way, so that she doesn’t attract unwanted attention. Killing field An asthmatic neighbour cracks open a tightly shut window to get a breath of fresh air and is instantly killed by a stray bullet; Farah suffers from pain during her periods and does not get up for a medicine in case a creaking staircase attracts dangers for the family. No wonder that she suffers from anxiety, palpitations, sleeplessness and is diagnosed with PTSD — as a friend jokes, in Kashmir it should mean Perennially Traumatic Stress Disorder. Time is measured before and after 1990, when “crackdown” or search operations and curfew become a part of life. The simple pleasures of life are curtailed: the joy of eating freshly baked bread is lost when the aroma is blended with jackboots. Children don’t play hopscotch or hide and seek in the courtyard at the evening play hour; instead, “these days it was common to see children enact scenes of an ‘encounter’ between the troops and the militants or be busy making toy guns out of wooden planks and discarded wires.” Happy moments The adolescent Farah yet tries to steal some happy moments, carrying the imported music system bought by her father in Saudi Arabia to a forgotten storeroom and having secret afternoons dancing to Nazia Hassan’s ‘Disco Deewane’. Also shining through are glimpses of the rich cultural heritage of Kashmir — from pherans, kangas, kahwa and nun chai to traditional foods served at weddings and funerals, and practices such as storing grain for the whole year and drying vegetables to eat during the harsh winters. Through the protagonist’s memories we get a view of history in a deeply personal manner; the exodus of Sikhs and Kashmiri Pandits from the valley in 1990 is understood through the eyes of the girl whose neighbour Lakshmisree Kaul suddenly vanishes with her family in 1990. The fall of the Babri Masjid in 1992 and the siege of the Hazratbal shrine in 1993 are events that show her that her exam grades are no longer of any importance, and she loses the will to perform well.   Rumours of Spring: A Girlhood in Kashmir Farah Bashir HarperCollins  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/growing-up-under-curfew/article36299365.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Machines in bad company||Vending machines have been around for over 40 years in India. The earliest recollection of one was the “weighing machine” at railway stations. You inserted a 25 paisa coin and out came a card that showed your weight. When someone came back from a “foreign tour”, they spoke about machines that doled out a cup of coffee! We heard their tales with fascination and wondered how machines could be so sophisticated. Our prayers were answered. Today, vending machines are found all over India in corporate cafeteria and restaurants, in cinema halls and railway stations. We now see these chameleons in their true colours. Dealing with a vending machine is like feeding your one-year- old child. There are days when it is easy and then there are days when nothing works. You insert the rupee note into the vending machine and it instantly spits it out. You turn the side of the note. It rejects the note again. Perhaps, the note is too old and creased. You try a new note and the result is no different. By now, people in the queue get impatient. They break the queue and everyone gathers around the machine. Out of the blue, one of the notes is accepted by the machine. But the eureka moment is short-lived. The machine has digested your rupee, but does nothing more. At wits’ end, you try everything — insert your finger, give the machine a violent shake, but it stares back impassively. Now, someone wants to try his luck. Surprisingly, the machine is well behaved and issues the ticket. He casually struts away with his ticket. You cajole and coax the machine, but it stays adamant. Just as you give up and walk away, you hear a sudden clank! You rush back to see if it is your ticket. All you get back is one coin. It has ejected the pocket-change to reward you for the effort. In anger, you could manhandle the machine, but then, such boorish behaviour would not look decent in public! We hear the future is going to be all about Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI and ML). We wonder what these machines are learning. We learn from the company we keep. And in human company, we fear machines are picking up our negative traits. They learn to laze around and ape our whimsical behaviour. At least with a human, you can appeal to his goodness. He may relent. With a machine, it is like hitting your head against a stone wall. shankar.ccpp@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/machines-in-bad-company/article36299342.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Greed is good||South was too strong to bid one no trump at his first turn, so he doubled hoping to get a chance to bid one no trump at his next turn. His next turn was at the two level, and he could not have been comfortable bidding two no trump, but he saw it through and caught a useful dummy. The defense started with the king, ace, and jack of diamonds. South took his queen and paused for thought. West would not have bid two diamonds with only three of them, so East had opened a three-card suit. East’s most likely distribution was therefore 4-4-3-2, as he would have opened one club with other balanced distributions. Eight tricks were in the bag, so South set out after overtricks. He cashed the ace and king of hearts, felling the queen from West. He now had nine tricks. Could he get a tenth? South might be able to endplay East if East started with king doubleton of clubs. East could unblock his king under the ace, but to make that more difficult, declarer crossed to dummy’s ace of spades and led a low club. East played low, and South was smiling when he took his ace. Three more spades came next, East following. There was a chance that East started with just queen doubleton of clubs, but South couldn’t help himself. He exited with a low club. East won with his king but had to lead a heart into dummy’s jack-nine. The greedy declarer had 10 tricks and a top on the board!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/greed-is-good/article36299380.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Operation Trojan Horse||Abhishek Sharan & D.P. Sinha  HarperCollins Rs. 399 In this thriller inspired by real events, five Indian intelligence agents are planted in the Lashkar-e-Taiba to challenge it and sabotage its operations. Shekhar Singh of the Counter Terrorism Cell masterminds the operation in which his men will risk their lives for India in the enemy country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/operation-trojan-horse/article36299357.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Midnight at Malabar House||Vaseem Khan  Hodder & Stoughton Rs. 499 Bombay, 1949. Inspector Persis Wadia, India’s first female police detective, is mistrusted and sidelined. Yet the country’s most sensational case — the murder of English diplomat Sir James Herriot — falls into her lap. Navigating a country in turmoil, Persis must solve the murder, whatever the cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/midnight-at-malabar-house/article36299359.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Politics and Geopolitics: Decoding India’s Neighbourhood Challenge||Edited by Harsh V. Pant  Rupa Rs. 595 A book of essays examines some of the recent changes and challenges in India’s neighbourhood. They argue why India has to prioritise South Asia in its foreign policy matrix, particularly in the face of growing India-China rivalry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/politics-and-geopolitics-decoding-indias-neighbourhood-challenge/article36299361.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Stargazing: The Players in my Life||Ravi Shastri  HarperCollins Rs. 699 From being Champion of Champions and commentator to Team India’s head coach, Shastri has an all-round perspective on the game of cricket. Written with veteran sports journalist Ayaz Memon, he looks back at the extraordinary players he has encountered over the years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/stargazing-the-players-in-my-life/article36299369.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The Violence in Our Bones: Mapping the Deadly Fault Lines within Indian Society||Neera Chandhoke  Aleph Rs. 699 The Buddha, Ashoka, Gandhi are emblematic of non-violence. Yet, paradoxically, their country of origin is a violent place. Chandhoke explores why violence continues to be endemic in democratic India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-violence-in-our-bones-mapping-the-deadly-fault-lines-within-indian-society/article36299371.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramrao: The Story of India’s Farm Crisis||Jaideep Hardikar  HarperCollins Rs. 399 In 2014, Ramrao Panchleniwar, a cotton grower in Maharashtra’s Vidarbha region, consumed two bottles of pesticide and miraculously survived. A journalist puts a face to the country’s unending farm crisis by narrating Ramrao’s story.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ramrao-the-story-of-indias-farm-crisis/article36299373.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3166||Across  1 In South Germany, sailors on Rhine perhaps delivering drink (11) 9 Endless nubility vigorously essential (7) 10 Primarily, a Latinate locution expressly gainsaying ritenuto, orchestrally! (7) 11 Sinned a little, altogether redeemable (5) 12 Disposes of Tories with hesitant utterances about Europe (8) 14 Ice-cream option, on plate, in a shambles (10) 15 Data derived from rainforests (4) 17 Workers get benefits in this cage (2-2) 19 Dutch society procuring English beer runs joint franchise (10) 21 Country’s leaderless state shown in film; not, oddly, optimal (8) 23 In itself, Money Bag #1, so to speak! (3,2) 25 Ill-used, warped, depraved (7) 26 Makes corrupt run for money in sweepstakes? (7) 27 Prepared salad to follow balls — too fancy? (11)  Down  1 South European peninsula where it snows a lot (7) 2 A little water moving penny down drain, runs over penny (8) 3 Raising fuss, namby-pambies (4) 4 About A Boy: accomplished, wise (10) 5 On radio, covers glens (5) 6 Most of wine and spirits Everyman imbibed, needing healthier routine (7) 7 Chinese weaned off dairy and booze (4,3,6) 8 Invitation to gratification in seedy São Paulo resort (2,2,3,6) 13 Agreeing it’s dear to acquire distressed denim (4-6) 16 Quiet Greek regularly strips off, gets ready (8) 18 Bit of drama in early part of Bible: well, well! (7) 20 With time being taken, dashed over hazard, ultimately! (7) 22 Part of nibbles: I’m surprised the French including starters of inedible veloutés (5) 24 Then going in Jack’s direction, finding giant (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3166/article36299383.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Jhajharia shines silver||The Paralympic legend, javelin thrower Devendra Jhajharia, 40, beat his own record and won a silver in Tokyo, his third medal at the Paralympics. He won golds in Rio in 2016 and Athens in 2004, making him India’s most decorated Paralympic sportsperson. Jhajharia’s best throw of 64.35m exceeded his own record of 63.97m that he had set at the 2016 Games. As an eight-year-old, his left arm had to be amputated after he touched a live electric cable while climbing a tree. But buoyed by encouragement from his mother, he went on to own the sports field. His historic win 17 years ago was seen as a turning point for India in the Paralympics. In 2017, Jhajharia, who comes from Churu district in Rajasthan, became the first Para athlete to receive the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna, India’s highest award in sports. “My father is not in this world any more. It was his dream that I win a hat-trick of medals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/jhajharia-shines-silver/article36299338.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sultan: The Legend of Hyder Ali||Shubendra  Pan Rs. 399 In the tumultuous years of the 18th century, Hyder Ali, an ordinary soldier, rises through the ranks to take over Mysore, which is in danger of being swallowed by the Marathas and the Nizam. Hyder Ali forges an empire right under their noses through tact, bravery and clever military strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sultan-the-legend-of-hyder-ali/article36299346.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Harijan||Gopinath Mohanty, trs Bikram Das  Aleph Rs. 599 First published in the Odia in 1948,Harijanis about a group of Mehentars — manual scavengers — living in a slum. One night a fire razes the entire slum to the ground. The Mehentars have nowhere to go but they are past all worries — they know that no matter where they go, they will still be exploited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/harijan/article36299355.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article36299336.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Why the priority should be to reopen primary schools||At least six States in India reopened schools in mid-August, while schools in Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan reopened on September 1. However, contrary to scientific evidence and ICMR recommendations, except Bihar where classes for primary and middle-school students have reopened on priority, all other States did the reverse — first reopened classes for secondary school students. “States prioritising schools for higher classes and not reopening primary schools reflects many things. One, scientific and epidemiological evidence is not what is used for decision-making. Two, policy makers go by assumption that older children are more likely to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. Finally, the decision is also influenced by fear and apprehension among parents that younger children may be at higher risk,” says Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, physician-epidemiologist. Relative risks “Based on Indian as well as global data, the risk of severe disease and death are low in adolescents and children younger than 12 years. Adults have almost 15 times higher risk of death and severe disease compared with children below 18 years,” Dr. N.K. Arora, a senior member of National COVID-19 Task Force had earlier told The Hindu. While children can get asymptomatic infection or have very mild disease, the risk of severe disease or death is rare. Even susceptibility to infection is low in younger children. According to epidemiologist Dr. Giridhara Babu from Bengaluru’s Public Health Foundation of India, 15 contact-tracing studies indicate that children and adolescents have lower susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection than adults. “If you examine the data carefully, lower susceptibility is mostly confined to children younger than 10-14 years,” he says. J-shaped curve In an email, Dr. Lahariya says: “The available global data on age distribution of COVID-19 indicates that all children are naturally at low risk from COVID-19. The age distribution of moderate to severe illness and mortality follows a ‘J’ shaped curve, where at the base of the ‘J’ are 10-year-old children who are at the lowest risk among all age groups.” He adds: “Children aged 6-14 years or the age group in the primary and upper primary schools form the base of the ‘J’ and have the lowest risk of COVID-19. Amongst other reasons, this is why primary schools must be the first to resume classes.” The fourth serosurvey of ICMR did indicate that seroprevalence in children was comparable to adults. Seroprevalence among children aged 6-17 years was about 60% (57.2% among children 6-9 years and 61.6% among children 10-17 years), while unvaccinated adults had 62% seropositivity. According to Dr. Lahariya, independent serosurveys undertaken in a few cities have found seropositivity around 75% for children. Thus, the notion that children have been largely sheltered leading to low seroprevalence and thus have elevated risk of infection and disease once schools reopen is not supported by data. Especially when daily cases are well under control in most parts of the country, the risk of reopening schools is minimal precisely because seropositivities from prior infection exceed 50% currently across the country and in a number of States this number is in excess of 60-70%, says Dr. Gautam Menon, Professor of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University and co-author of COVID-19 modelling studies. “There should be no major impact of opening schools and colleges in terms of setting up a large second wave, although cases will rise,” he says. Transmitting the virus However, even when children may not suffer from serious illness, they are very likely to spread the virus to adults leading to an increase in cases particularly in areas with lower seroprevalence. This is particularly of concern when they transmit the virus to adults older than 60 years and those with comorbidities who are more vulnerable to severe disease and even death. This brings the focus back to targeted vaccination of teachers and non-teaching staff at schools and parents of school-going children. Any plan for reopening schools should include strategies to mitigate the risk to parents, teachers, and all other contacts to enable children's safety bubbles, says Dr. Babu. This strategy of providing a protective ring around children helps in reducing their risk of getting infected and spreading the infection to adults. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka had started vaccinating teachers on priority some time back. Dr. Menon says that in modelling, there is certainly some mitigation that results from targeted vaccination of parents and teachers. The States that have already reopened schools have recorded new cases among children but no large outbreaks have been reported. There has also been a concomitant increase in testing of school children in States where schools have reopened. “These cases in children are the outcome of improved testing and reporting. What we need to remember is that infection is common in children and that is not an immediate concern at this stage of the pandemic,” says Dr. Lahariya. Role of testing Will regular testing in schools and colleges help prevent or minimise outbreaks? “There's never been a test of this in any evidence-based way, so we don't really know. While some US-based campuses, such as Cornell, do this and have been successful in controlling outbreaks, the levels of prior exposure and seropositivity there are considerably less than in India, so the same intuition might not apply,” says Dr. Menon. Dr. Lahariya doesn’t see any particular benefit accruing from regular testing in schools. “It could be a good idea to conduct testing in schools. However, knowing the fact that children do get infected and do not develop severe disease, it is not very clear what purpose it would serve,” he says. The priority should be on making sure COVID-appropriate behaviour is strictly adhered to at all times both by teachers and students. Important in this is mask-wearing. The Health Ministry has recommended masks for anyone older than five years, and this should be followed in schools as well. According to Dr. Babu, Karnataka COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee has recommended masks for children older than two years. Increased ventilation, reduced crowding by limiting the number of students in a class, increased physical distancing, reduced mixing of different cohorts, and more outdoor activity can further reduce the risk of virus spread. When cases in children get reported, how should schools decide when to shut down? In nearly all countries, reporting of a case or a few cases in the schools does not mean school shutdown. Children are already exposed and that’s why classes may continue,” Dr. Lahariya says. “However, if a few clusters of cases are reported or cases are reported from more than one class, then other measures need to be taken. However, I repeat, finding one or a few cases does not mandate school or class closure.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/why-the-priority-should-be-to-reopen-primary-schools/article36298991.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Soil microbes can make for a greener revolution||Plants appear to be simple enough in their organisation. Whether small shrubs or tall trees, all they seem to be made up of is leaves, flowers, fruits, stems and roots. But simple they are not. Being rooted to one spot has required very special personality traits. The ability to make food from sunlight and the carbon dioxide in air has given them a central position in life forms on earth. They cannot run, but ably defend themselves. A fascinating aspect of their abilities lies out of sight, in the soil from which they sprout, and from which they derive water, micronutrients, and a host of other benefits. Ancient association The association between plants and fungi is ancient. Fossils of plants from about 400 million years ago show the first evidence of roots, and these roots are fungus associations – rhizoids – suggesting that roots co-evolved with fungi. One good example is species of Penicillium, the fungus from which Alexander Fleming isolated the antibiotic penicillin. Fungus–root associations, called mycorrhizae, appear at first glance to be simple mutualisms that are beneficial to both. The root-invading fungus gains nutrients made by the plant, and the plants get difficult-to-find minerals like phosphorus from the microbe. But the association is deeper. The Wood Wide Web Suzanne Simard of the University of British Columbia, working in the dense forests of the Pacific Northwest, made an interesting finding. In carefully controlled experiments with saplings of birch and fir trees enclosed in clear plastic bags that contained some radioactive carbon dioxide gas, she showed that the birch converted this labelled gas to radioactive sugars by photosynthesis, and within two hours, traces of this radioactive sugar appeared in the leaves of the fir saplings growing nearby. The exchange is mainly though the mycelia of fungi, and may extend through the whole forest, with young trees that are struggling on a dry patch being helped out by carbon transfer from their luckier counterparts. A reviewer writing in the journal Nature called such systems as the Wood Wide Web. Bacteria that associate with roots are called rhizobacteria, and a very wide range of these species are plant growth promoters. Like the fungi, mutualism operates in these relationships too. In exchange for sugars, these bacteria offer plants a wide range of benefits. They may help plants ward off pathogens that cause diseases of the root. They may even trigger systemic resistance to a pathogen throughout the plant. Hybrid vigour The green revolution brought a sea change in the growing of agricultural produce in our country. The key to this was the establishing of hybrid varieties of crop plants. Today, a vast majority of commercially grown crops are hybrids, where two inbred lines are crossed, with their first-generation hybrid offspring exhibiting a vigour that is lacking in either of its parents. The property of hybrid vigour, called heterosis, has been known for centuries, but remains only partly understood. Root cause A new and fascinating aspect to hybrid vigour has been found in the rhizomicrobiome – the rich collection of microbes that surround the roots of every plant. Maggie Wagner of the University of Kansas (at the heart of one of the great corn-producing areas of the world) addressed heterosis from the viewpoint of plant–root microbe interactions. Using maize as the model crop, her group has recently shown that the rich biomass of roots in hybrid maize, as well as other positive traits, is reliant on appropriate soil microbes ( PNAS, Volume 118(30), July 27, 2021). In laboratory-sterilised soils that are totally devoid of microbes, both the inbred parents and hybrid offspring grow equally well, there being no sign of vigour in the latter. Then they started to ‘rebuild’ the soil environment, one bacterium at a time. They could attain the normal parent–offspring difference in vigour by introducing just seven species of bacteria into the sterile soil. The experiment could be extrapolated to the fields too: Fumigating, or steaming the soil in one experimental plot led to decreased heterosis, because this soil was depleted of microbes. Agronomists estimate that depending on the fertility of the soil, hybrid maize requires 180–225 kg of artificial fertilizer for a yield of nine tons of grain per hectare. Producing this fertilizer is an energy intensive task. As our nation strives towards lofty goals for sustainable agriculture, using simple microbial ways of improving crop quality (and quantity) would be a small step in that direction.  (This article has been written in collaboration with Sushil Chandani who is a professional computational biologist, sushilchandani@gmail.com)  dbala@lvpei.org  Rhizobacteria are bacteria that associate with roots, and a very wide range of these are plant growth promoters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/soil-microbes-can-make-for-a-greener-revolution/article36298978.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Antimalarial vaccine–drug combo proves most efficacious in Africa trial||When the World Health Organization’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunisation (SAGE) considers, on October 6, evidence to decide on the roll out of the first malarial vaccine (RTS,S), the latest body of research – testing a vaccine combination with antimalarial drugs which demonstrated efficacy in preventing hospitalisations from severe malaria and deaths – is likely to bolster the case for voting aye. Without drugs According to a paper recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine, the study measured the efficacy of vaccination with or without chemoprevention (drugs). The authors noted: “The combination of these interventions resulted in a substantially lower incidence of uncomplicated malaria, severe malaria, and death from malaria than either intervention alone.” One of the authors of the paper, Daniel Chandramohan, of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, says: “In the phase III trial, vaccine RTS,S was 50% efficacious in children more than one year old and 25% in infants, compared to a control vaccine during an 18 months follow up period.”  When the vaccine was used along with chemoprevention, efficacy went up to 70%, or over. The protective efficacy of the combination as compared with chemoprevention alone was 62.8% against clinical malaria, 70.5% against hospital admission with severe malaria and 72.9% against death from malaria. The protective efficacy of the combination as compared with the vaccine alone against these outcomes was 59.6% , 70.6%, and 75.3% respectively, the study notes. “We were surprised by this incredible effect of the combination of vaccine plus chemo. That is the reason these results are likely to shift the WHO’s position on using this combination,” he says. Dr. Chandramohan who is from Nagercoil in Tamil Nadu, qualified in medicine at the Madurai Medical College, is a professor of public health with special interest in malaria, pneumonia and meningitis. He goes on to explain that the Malaria vaccine was first authorised in 2015 by the European Medicines Agency for use in Africa in infants and children. However, WHO requested for more safety data and a large pilot study was done in Kenya, Malawi and Ghana involving 7,50,000 children. The results of this study will be presented to WHO expert committee on October 6, he explains.  The instant study involving a combination of the vaccine and drugs was done among 6,861 children (five to 17 months of age) in the Sahel and sub-Sahel regions of Africa, seasonally, with three groups randomly receiving just the drugs, the vaccine alone, and the vaccine and drugs together. They were followed up for three years. “We have now shown that indeed in seasonal transmission areas in Africa this vaccine is safe and is more efficacious when given along with chemoprophylaxis during the transmission season,” he adds. The malaria vaccine prevents the parasite developing in humans. However, some break through infections could happen. When there is a vaccine break through infection, the antimalarial drug kills those parasites. In addition, each course of the drug has chemoprophylactic effect for at least 3 weeks and during that period the vaccine and drugs together prevent any new infections, Dr. Chandramohan explains further. “The results of this trial are applicable to Africa only,” he says, “We don’t know how effective it will be in India, as we have not yet tested this vaccine outside Africa.” Logistical issues Are there logistical issues delivering a five-dose vaccine and additional antimalarial drugs in resource-poor countries? For the five-dose vaccine, the first three doses can be given to infants through Expanded Programme of Immunisation (EPI) and the annual booster doses can be given either through EPI or in campaign mode. “In Africa, the seasonal malaria chemoprevention that involves the administration of antimalarial drugs four times a year, has been successfully given to around 25 million children in West Africa. So I think it is feasible to deliver the combination at scale, though there may be logical challenges,” says Dr. Chandramohan.  [We have shown] this vaccine is safe in seasonal transmission areas in Africa and is more efficacious with chemoprophylaxis during the transmission season, Daniel Chandramohan London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/antimalarial-vaccinedrug-combo-proves-most-efficacious-in-africa-trial/article36298983.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The listening brain||How does our brain process sounds and words? Researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, have discovered a new pathway in the human brain that processes the sounds of language. They found that auditory and speech processing occur in parallel (Cell).  For decades, scientists have thought that speech processing in the auditory cortex followed a serial pathway. It was thought that first, the primary auditory cortex processes simple acoustic information, such as frequencies of sounds. Then, an adjacent region, the superior temporal gyrus (STG), extracts more important features, like consonants and vowels, transforming sounds into meaningful words. But direct evidence for thishas been lacking. Nine participants who underwent brain surgeries had arrays of small electrodes to cover their entire auditory cortex to collect neural signals for language and seizure mapping. The recordings were analysed to understand how the auditory cortex processes speech sounds. When short phrases and sentences were played, the researchers found that some areas located in the STG responded as fast as the primary auditory cortex, suggesting that both areas started processing acoustic information simultaneously. When the participants’ primary auditory cortex was stimulated with small electric currents, they experienced auditory hallucinations but were still able to clearly hear and repeat the said words. But when the STG was stimulated, the participants reported that they could hear people speaking, but couldn’t make out the words, the press release says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/the-listening-brain/article36298982.ece
05 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Argument over noise, man stabbed to death||A 26-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death by two persons after he asked them to not make noise when they were travelling in an e-rickshaw in Outer Delhi’s Mohan Garden, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said that the accused have been identified as Lav Kumar (21), a resident of Mohan Garden, Sainik Enclave, and Deepak (23), a resident of Faridkot in Punjab. The victim has been identified as Dalip, resident of Roorkee, the police said. The police said that on Friday, a PCR call was received at Ranhola police station around 11.30 p.m. regarding murder at main Gandhi Chowk in Mohan Garden. “When the police reached the spot, they found a man was lying on the ground in a pool of blood. The injured was immediately shifted to DDU Hospital where he was declared dead,” the officer said. Tried to escape The police said that Dalip received three stab injuries on the chest, waist and thigh. An eyewitness, Gopal, who said that he works as a watchman at Jayswal Vatika said that around 11 p.m., he was standing at Gandhi Chowk where he saw that a person with golden hair was beating the victim. Meanwhile, the other person standing there took a knife and stabbed him a few times. When the injured fell down, the assailants tried to escape, however, Gopal tried to stop them and managed to catch hold of one of the accused, the DCP said. The police said that a case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC at Ranhola police station. Lav Kumar allegedly revealed that he and his friend Deepak were returning to Mohan Garden from a birthday party in Dwarka. “They boarded an e-rickshaw in which the victim was also sitting who was regularly interrupting them not to make noise, and and using foul language. An argument broke out when all of them got down at Gandhi Chowk. The accused stabbed the victim. When the accused realised that Dalip has grievously injured, they tried to flee. However, one of them was caught,” Mr. Singh said. Knife recovered CCTV footages of nearby areas were checked and co-accused Deepak was nabbed. The knife used in the crime has been recovered, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-stabbed-to-death-for-objecting-to-noise/article36299568.ece
05 September 2021||Panaji,||‘Mandate to revive Cong. ahead of polls in Goa’||Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram on Saturday said he has been given the task of restructuring and reviving the party in Goa, where Assembly polls are scheduled next year. The former Union minister, who is back in Goa within a week of his first visit to the coastal State after taking over as election observer, on Saturday held a number of meetings with the local party office-bearers and leaders, including the heads of election committees. When asked, he refused to talk about the possible alliance with the like-minded parties for the next year’s Assembly polls, saying that his mandate was only to restructure and revive the State unit of the party ahead of the elections scheduled in February 2022. “My mandate is only on restructuring and reviving the party, reconstituting the block committees and enrolling members,” he told reporters at Congress House. ‘Will contest all seats’ Mr. Chidambaram arrived in the State on Friday on a three-day visit. During his visit last week, he had said that the Congress was getting “battle-ready” to fight all 40 seats of the Goa Assembly, and also claimed that the political atmosphere in the State was “extremely favourable” for the party. Meanwhile, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar said, “The party is planning to chalk out a strategy for the next year’s elections. We are reworking all the booths across the State. Several leaders are joining the Congress in Goa as they look to the party as a hope against the BJP. People have decided to defeat the BJP in the next elections and the pulse is in favour of the Congress.” The Congress had won the highest seats — 17 — in the 40-member House in the 2017 Assembly elections, restricting the main opponent BJP to 13. But the saffron party had moved swiftly to join hands with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mandate-to-revive-cong-ahead-of-polls-in-goa/article36299808.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. identifies 9 road stretches for beautification||Public Works Department (PWD) Minister Satyendar Jain held a meeting with department consultants and officials to take stock of the ongoing streetscaping project in the Capital here on Saturday. The Delhi government has identified nine stretches of roads for redevelopment. Mr. Jain said that the Delhi government will make separate lanes for buses on 540 km length of roads identified for streetscaping. The government will push to remove illegal parking from bus lanes and that special lighting will be installed to intensify the beauty of redesigned roads, he said. Mr. Jain discussed decongestion of roads to ensure smooth movement of traffic. The government stated it is planning to redesign and decongest nine roads which include Sri Aurobindo Marg, a 3-km stretch from Majlis Park to Azadpur, K.N. Katju Marg, Road no. 58 near Leela Hotel, Shanti Van road, Road opposite India Habitat Centre, Tikri border entry, Road no. 59 near Signature Bridge and Nelson Mandela Marg. Best to be replicated These roads will be developed keeping the aesthetics of their surroundings in mind on a pilot basis and the best-designed road will be replicated at other places, the government stated. “We are planning to redesign and decongest 540 km length of roads in Delhi. For this, we will make separate lanes for buses and goods transport on roads. This will decongest roads and ease the flow of traffic,” Mr. Jain was quoted as having said. Mr. Jain also asserted the importance of impact-based output to the officials and said that they should think of ways to integrate surprise elements into the landscape. Special lighting systems, Mr. Jain stated, will be made with the help of lighting consultants and installed on roads to make sure that the aesthetics of the roads are visible during the night and additionally will also eliminate the chances of black spots. Mr. Jain further directed the officials to revamp the aesthetics of roads, keeping environmental prospects in mind. He stressed planting different varieties of trees alongside roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-identifies-9-road-stretches-for-beautification/article36299570.ece
05 September 2021||September 05 2021 00:00 IST,||App store challenge||The story so far: On August 31, the South Korean Parliament passed an amendment to the country’s Telecommunications Business Act that has been dubbed the “anti-Google” law. The law prevents dominant app store operators — effectively Alphabet’s Google and Apple — from forcing South Korean app developers to use their in-store payment systems. This effectively prevents Apple and Google from charging commissions on payments made in their app stores. The law also empowers the South Korean government to intervene in payment disputes within app stores, and to haul up app store operators for delaying the publishing of apps or deleting them. What have Google and Apple been doing? Google’s Play Store and Apple’s App Store strictly regulate how apps in their environment charge money from their users. Till recently, app publishers had been allowed to deploy only Google’s and Apple’s proprietary payment systems to collect money from app store users for digital purchases, which include the apps themselves, or ‘in-app purchases’ such as additional content or services. Google and Apple charged a 30% commission on all such purchases. As many app developers started to push back against what they said was a steep commission, Google announced in March this year that it was cutting the commission to 15%. However, it later announced that the change was being postponed to March 2022. In November 2020, Apple cut its commission to 15% for developers with less than $1 million in annual sales on its platform. On September 2, in response to a fair trade probe in Japan, Apple changed its policy to allow some app developers like Netflix and Spotify to add links that will send their users outside the app to make payments, effectively bypassing its commission. Recently, in response to a U.S. lawsuit, Apple agreed to let app developers email users about other options of payment. On the apps front, Google has a more relaxed approach than Apple, which does not allow users of its iPhones to download apps from any other source than the App Store. Phones with Google’s Android can ‘sideload’ apps; that is, download and install apps from websites or other sources. Android phones also support downloads from multiple app stores. What makes the South Korean law important? It is the first legal restriction on Google and Apple’s control over how money changes hands within their app stores. This could become a template for the many countries that have been looking at ways to control the clout of these online behemoths that take a cut from the digital sales of everyone from the gaming industry to publishers. The European Union has a draft Digital Markets Act in the pipeline that would force large internet “gatekeeper companies” that act as platforms for others to conduct transactions to change their business practices and level the playing field for smaller companies. In the U.S., Senators have introduced a Bill similar to the South Korean one that would force Apple and Google to allow app makers to deploy different payment systems. There is more trouble brewing in the U.S. as a federal judge is set to rule on the case by Epic, the makers of the ‘Fortnite’ videogame, against Apple’s in-app payment practices. Epic has sued Google in a separate case but on the same grounds. Adding to Google’s woes is another case filed by 36 U.S. States. In another indication that the trend is spreading globally, Reuters is reporting that Apple faces a legal challenge to its in-app payment system in India. The case is reportedly being reviewed by the Competition Commission of India. How have Apple and Google responded? Both companies point to the cost of maintaining the app store environment to justify the commissions. Responding to The Verge, an American technology news website, on the South Korean law, Apple said opening up the payment system will expose users to fraud and security breaches. Google argues these charges are a major reason why it is able to keep its Android mobile phone operating system free, and hence lower the cost of phones running on it. “Just as it costs developers money to build an app, it costs us money to build and maintain an operating system and app store,” a Google spokesperson told The Verge. “We’ll reflect on how to comply with this law while maintaining a model that supports a high-quality operating system and app store.”  The South Korean law is the first legal restriction on Google and Apple’s control over how money changes hands within their app stores. This could become a template for other countries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/app-store-challenge/article36298926.ece
05 September 2021||Alibaug,||Water Department finds pollutants in 291 samples collected from Raigad||At least 291 out of 4,640 water samples collected in Maharashtra's Raigad district were found to be polluted, an official from the local administration said on Saturday. The Water Department of the Raigad Zilla Parishad had collected samples from all talukas to keep a check on illnesses caused due to polluted water in the region, the official said. Out of the 4,640 water samples collected by the department, 291 were found to be polluted, he said, adding that the samples were sent to a district-level laboratory and five other taluka-level testing facilities. At least 125 samples from Karjat were found to be polluted, which is the highest, while pollutants were detected in two samples each from Uran, Roha and Poladpur talukas, the official said. No pollutants were found in water samples from Murud, Tala, Mhasala and Shrivardhan, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/water-department-finds-pollutants-in-291-samples-collected-from-raigad/article36299812.ece
05 September 2021||Palghar,||Two killed, 5 hurt in blast at Palghar textile factory||Two workers were killed and five others were injured in an explosion and resultant fire at a textile factory in Tarapur industrial area in Maharashtra’s Palghar district on Saturday morning, an official said. The incident took place at Jakharia Industries at 5.50 a.m., said district Disaster Management Cell chief Vivekanand Kadam. Injured in hospital The explosion took place in a ‘thermic fluid heater’ used to circulate hot thermic fluid for drying of textiles, Mr. Kadam said. The injured were admitted to a local hospital and were said to be out of danger. Teams of MIDC Tarapur fire brigade reached the spot by 6 a.m. and extinguished the blaze within an hour, Mr. Kadam said. The deceased workers were identified as Mithilesh Rajwanshi (34) and Chhotelal Saroj (36). Both died due to burn injuries, the official said. The police were conducting further probe, he added. The sound of the explosion was so loud that it was heard four to five kilometres away. The explosion triggered a major fire at the unit located in Tarapur Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation in Boisar, the official said. Two workers missing “Two people were killed in the incident, while five others suffered injuries and have been admitted to a local hospital,” he said, adding that two factory workers have reportedly gone missing after the incident and efforts were on to find them. The fire brigade personnel and police rushed to the spot on being alerted and launched a rescue operation, Mr. Kadam said. As per the information available, the explosion occurred in one of the units of the factory, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-killed-5-hurt-in-blast-at-palghar-textile-factory/article36299563.ece
05 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||Five arrested as illegal arms factory busted||Five men have also been arrested after the police busted an illegal arms factory here and seized a huge cache of weapons and ammunition, officials said on Saturday. The illegal arms factory was being run near the culvert of Shahzadpur village road of Muradnagar town here, the police said. Senior Superintendent of Police Pawan Kumar said that five pistols of .32 bore, 72 cartridges, 20 half-furnished pistols, 55 barrels of 32 bore, 13 magazines, 250 magazine springs, 10 semi-prepared magazines, 90 side plates, 17 trigger guards along with manufacturing instruments and other parts of pistols have been seized. The accused have been identified as Mohammad Mustafa, Salam, Kaifi Alam, Salman, and a woman, Asgari. Two of their accomplices, Zahiruddin and Faiyyaz, are absconding, Mr. Kumar said. The police have recovered Rs. 1.5 lakh cash from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-arrested-as-illegal-arms-factory-busted/article36299572.ece
05 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 held in visa, passport fraud case at IGI Airport||Three men have been arrested for their alleged involvement in passport and visa forgery cases, the police said on Saturday. A total of 99 agents or masterminds involved in passport and visa forgery cases have been nabbed by IGI Airport police during a special drive in 2020 and 2021, they said. DCP (Airport) Vikram Porwal said the accused have been identified as Mehboob Khan, resident of Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh, Mahesh Kumar, resident of Gurugram and Saif Bari, a resident of Jamia Nagar. According to the police, on the intervening night of August 25 and 26, four passengers arrived as deportees from Armenia via Sharjah. They had departed from IGI Airport for Armenia, but were refused entry at Yerevan airport on the ground of holding fake visas. On the complaint from immigration officials, a case was registered and all the four accused were arrested, the police said. “They disclosed that the alleged fake e-visas of Armenia were arranged by agent Bari and each of them paid Rs. 1.50 lakh to him. On their instance, Bari was arrested,” Mr. Porwal said. Later, Kumar and Khan were also arrested, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-held-in-visa-passport-fraud-case-at-igia/article36299566.ece
05 September 2021||Mumbai,||Uddhav announces Rs. 100 crore fund for Topiwala medical college, Nair hospital||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday announced a fund of Rs. 100 crore for Topiwala National Medical College and BYL Nair Hospital on the occasion of its centenary. Mr. Thackeray made the announcement while virtually attending the civic-run hospital’s centenary celebrations. He lauded the efforts of the institution in “adapting to modern technology while providing effective healthcare services”. He said, “COVID-19 was unexpected and unprecedented. Doctors are saving the lives of patients selflessly. It is because of them that the pandemic is under control.” Mr. Thackeray said 100 years ago, the Spanish flu had wreaked havoc and very little information about it may be available now. He said, “The need of the hour is to document the steps taken to tackle the novel coronavirus and what needs to be done in case another pandemic breaks out in future. Such information should be available and preserved for another 50 to 100 years.” Mr. Thackeray said this institution came into being thanks to philanthropists. He said when the pandemic broke out, there were only two labs in the State: Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai and the National Institute of Virology in Pune. He added, “Today there are over 600 labs. The bed capacity has risen from 7,000-8,000 to 4.5 lakh.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/uddhav-announces-rs-100-crore-fund-for-topiwala-medical-college-nair-hospital/article36299810.ece
05 September 2021||Mumbai,||Firefighter hurt in blaze at Borivali||A fire broke out on the top floor of a seven-storey residential building in Borivali on Saturday and a firefighter was injured during the operation, an official said. The blaze erupted in Ganjawala Residency building around 7 a.m., he said. “After being informed about the incident, some fire brigade personnel and police staff rushed to the spot and launched the firefighting operation and started rescuing people. Forty-three-year-old fireman, Nathu Sarjerao Badhak, sustained 8 to 12% burn injuries,” he said, adding that all residents of the building were safe. The fire was doused by 9.30 a.m., the official said, adding that Mr. Badhak was admitted to Shatabdi Hospital and discharged after treatment. The fire was caused due to an electrical short circuit at an office that was shut, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/firefighter-hurt-in-blaze-at-borivali/article36299809.ece
05 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Stay updated about latest crime trends’||Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana on Saturday exhorted the newly recruited constables to remain updated on latest crime trends and make optimal use of technology in conducting investigation, gathering evidence and for prosecution procedures. He was addressing the passing out parade at Police Training College, Jharoda Kalan. The 116th batch of 312 constables completed their training and will now be joining various districts and units of Delhi Police. According to a statement released by the police, 171 candidates have been appointed on compassionate grounds in the place of their blood relations, who lost their lives while discharging duty. There are 11 postgraduates, 116 graduates, three people with BTech, one with BBA and one BCA among these recruits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stay-updated-about-latest-crime-trends/article36299571.ece
