06 September 2021||Srinagar,||Agencies flag surge in number of foreign ultras in north Kashmir||Taking the security agencies by surprise, foreign militants outnumber local militants in north Kashmir — comprising the three districts of Baramulla, Bandipora and Kupwara — in a changing trend, according to official figures. The sudden spike in numbers has forced the police to restrict the movement of mainstream leaders and elected grassroots representatives because of fears of an increase in attacks on them, top police sources said. ‘Only 11 local militants’ According to the latest data of the police, there are 40 to 50 foreign militants active in north Kashmir, compared with just 11 local militants. It is for the first time in a decade that north Kashmir is witnessing heightened militant activities compared with south Kashmir, which remained the hub of militants after the hanging of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru in 2013. “The foreign militants’ build-up was taking place for a long time and cannot be connected with the recent situation in Afghanistan. The changing trend was visible in the past two months,” a police officer said. The presence of foreign militants in the ranks of insurgent groups such as the Jaish-e-Muhammad, Al-Badr, Lashkar-e-Taiba and The Resistance Front (TRF) had dried up in the first quarter of 2021. In fact, the first foreign militant, Hamas alias Asrar alias Saria, who was active since March 2018, was killed on May 4 in north Kashmir’s Sopore, according to the police. Against 32 foreign militants killed in 2020, only nine foreign militants have been killed this year so far, according to official figures. A total of 102 militants, “mostly commanders”, were killed, 88 youth recruited, 30 arrested and 425 over ground workers held this year, according to the police data. “The biggest success against foreign militants this year was the killing of Saifullah alias Adnan alias Lamboo,” an officer said. An IED expert Saifullah had played a role in the 2019 Pulwama attack on July 31, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/surge-in-foreign-ultras-in-kashmir/article36313091.ece
06 September 2021||Kozhikode,||12-year-old dies as Nipah reappears in Kozhikode||After a gap of over three years, a case of the zoonotic Nipah virus infection was reported in Kozhikode district of Kerala on Sunday morning, with the death of a 12-year-old boy from Pazhoor, near Chathamangalam, at a private hospital. State Health Minister Veena George told the media that a contact list of 188 persons, a majority of them healthcare workers, had been prepared. “A total of 20 of them, termed high-risk contacts, are being shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode (MCH). Two of the healthcare workers — at the MCH and a private hospital — are symptomatic,” she said. Others were under isolation. Kozhikode is reporting the deadly infection for the second time in three years. Eighteen lab-confirmed cases and seven suspected ones were reported from the district in May-June 2018. A couple of the infected persons were from the nearby Malappuram district. There were 16 lab-confirmed deaths and seven suspected deaths. Two persons survived the infection. One more infection and recovery was reported from Ernakulam in June 2019. The virus is transmitted to people from animals and can also be passed on through contaminated food or directly from person-to-person. Fruit bats are considered to be a natural reservoir of the virus. Symptoms include acute encephalitis and respiratory illnesses. Multiple hospitals The Minister said the boy was initially taken to a private clinic at Eranjimavu with fever and other symptoms on August 29. He was taken to two private hospitals on August 31, before being shifted to the MCH. He spent around 20 hours at the MCH and was again shifted to another private hospital on September 1. Alert staff at the private hospital, who suspected the infection to be Nipah, sent body fluid samples for testing. The initial tests were done at the National Institute of Virology’s Alappuzha unit. D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12-year-old-dead-as-nipah-reappears-in-kozhikode/article36313083.ece
06 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Satheesan on a whirlwind peace mission||On Sunday, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan made a high profile attempt at peacemaking between the official Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) leadership and the traditional ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups in the Congress. He called on Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala, and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan at their homes to lay the ground for inner-party harmony. The disputes between the official group and the ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions had come to a head recently over the contentious appointment of District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents. The factions presumed that Mr. Satheesan and KPCC president K. Sudhakaran had instituted a “rule of the two” in the party to sideline the “old guard”. The factions felt the incumbent “power pair” had All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary, Organisation, K.C. Venugopal’s tacit approval. Realignment of forces The perception had caused a realignment of forces in the Congress in Kerala, with Mr. Chennithala emerging as a powerful proponent of Mr. Chandy and vice versa. Both leaders shared the grievance that the official group had excluded them from DCC reorganisation to render their factions organisationally insignificant. In Kottayam, Mr. Chandy strongly repudiated the KPCC’s current “no group, only party” mantra. “Congress first and group second,” he told journalists after meeting Mr. Satheesan. Last week, Mr. Chandy hinted that Mr.Sudhakaran had acted in bad faith by revealing their private consultations on reorganisation. Secondly, Mr. Chandy reportedly felt strongly that the official leadership had attempted to create disarray among ‘A’ group loyalists by insinuating that he had endorsed the DCC presidents list. In Haripad, Mr. Chennithala was circumspect in the public statement about his meeting with Mr. Satheesan. “I welcome the Opposition Leader’s initiative,” he said. A party insider said Mr. Satheesan’s “peace tour” was a growing reflection of the thinking in the Congress that the current conflict would create no winners. Moreover, it would lend credence to the theory that the party was disintegrating and more leaders would defect to the Left Democratic Front. Hence, the AICC has reportedly initiated below-the-radar attempts at peacemaking to ensure a rancour-free power-sharing agreement between senior leaders in reorganisation matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/satheesan-on-a-whirlwind-peace-mission/article36313411.ece
06 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||Heavy rain lashes parts of Kalaburagi||With parts of Kalaburagi district receiving heavy rain on Saturday night, communication between many villages was disconnected due to floods in several streams and rivers, including the Lower Mullamari in Chincholli taluk and the Kagina in Sedam taluk, in the district. Normal life in the city was disrupted as rainwater entered houses and commercial establishments in some localities. Residents turned helpless as multiple stretches turned into streams full of water and left the city clogged. It started raining at 8 p.m. on Saturday and later turned into a heavy downpour. It continued to rain till 6 a.m on Sunday. With heavy rain lashing for around 10 hours, several parts of the district were inundated and water entered several houses. Villages in Chittapur, Kalagi, Sedam, Kalaburagi and Aland were worst affected. According to reports, communication in some of the villages in Chincholli, Kalaburagi and Sedam taluks got severed in the night itself. Floods in the Kagina cut off road connectivity between Kalaburagi and Hyderabad via Sedam with the river flowing over the bridge near Malkhed near Sedam late on Saturday night. As per the latest reports, water level has not receded on the Malkhed Bridge. The road connecting Kalaburagi city with Chittapur via Dandoti remained cut-off by floodwaters. Rainfall According to India Meteorological Department, rainfall recorded till 8.30 a.m. on Sunday in the district stood at 46 mm rainfall. While Kalagi recorded the highest rainfall of 96.7 mm, Yaddrami taluk recorded the lowest rainfall of 20.9 mm in the period between Saturday night and Sunday morning. Meanwhile, Kalaburagi recorded 65.5 mm rainfall, Aland and Kamalapur taluks each recorded 53.5 mm rainfall, while Chincholi taluk received 48.2 mm, Shahabad 45.8 mm, Sedam 42.2 mm, Chittapur 38.9 mm, Jewargi 28.2 mm, Afzalpur 23.4 mm and Yaddrami taluk recorded 20.9 mm rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-lashes-kalaburagi/article36313351.ece
06 September 2021||Belagavi,||Counting of votes in local body polls today||Votes cast in the urban local body polls will be counted on Monday. Officials have made arrangements to count votes in the University of Agricultural Sciences in Dharwad. Votes cast in the election of members to the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation will be counted on tables put up there. Elections to 82 wards of the municipal corporation in the twin cities were held on Friday last. The turnout was low at 53.81%. As many as 420 candidates are in the fray. It seems to be a direct fight between the BJP and the Congress in the twin cities. But the smaller parties may gain significant number of votes to upset the major parties. The smaller parties are trying to make inroads to the three Assembly constituencies Hubballi-Dharwad West, Central and East and parts of Dharwad Ward No 71 are likely to upset the major political parties. There are rebels in some wards and that may affect the chances of the two major parties. The BJP has been in power in the municipal corporation for a decade. It is said to be facing anti-incumbency. It has fielded senior councillors in many wards. The Congress has used price rise as an election issue and asked the people to reject the BJP. Aam Aadmi Party, Janata Dal(S), AIMIM, Uttam Prajakiya Party and others have fielded their candidates. Deputy Commissioner and District Electoral Officer Nitesh Patil visited the counting centre at UAS and inspected the facilities on Sunday. Strict police security has been deployed at the centre. He told journalists that the counting of votes will begin at 8 a.m. on Monday. All preparations have been made for the counting of votes. As many as 140 officials have been trained. There will be 16 election officials at the centre. Each official will be in charge of three tables. Counting of votes in three wards will begin simultaneously under the supervision of each election officer. The election officer will be announcing the results after every round. Only the candidates and their election agents will be allowed inside the counting centre. COVID-19 appropriate behaviour will be strictly maintained at the counting centres and those with election counting pass will have to wear face masks and maintain social distancing, he said. In Belagavi, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath visited the counting centre at BK Model School on Saturday. Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan and Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amathe visited the centre on Sunday. As many as 385 candidates are testing their luck in the 58 corporation wards. Apart from the BJP and the Congress, Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, Janata Dal(S), AIMIM, Aam Aadmi Party and Uttama Prajakeeya have fielded their nominees. There are at least 238 Independents in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/counting-of-votes-in-local-body-polls-today/article36313349.ece
06 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Steps to expedite promotions, transfers of teachers: Sivankutty||Steps will be taken to expedite pending promotions and transfers of school teachers caught in legal tangles, General Education Minister V. Sivankutty has said. Necessary orders have been issued in this regard. Addressing the Teachers’ Day celebrations organised by the department on Sunday, Mr. Sivankutty said the government had adopted steps to ensure resolution of a case concerning the promotion of lower primary and upper primary school headmasters. He also reiterated the government’s inclination to conduct Plus One examinations. The necessary details would be submitted before the Supreme Court when the case concerning the exams would be taken up on September 13, Mr. Sivankutty said adding that it was the responsibility of the department to conduct the exams in the best possible manner. The government had successfully conducted the SSLC and Plus Two examinations even as the pandemic raged on in the State, he said. At the same time, he reiterated that the government was committed to implementing the directives issued by the Supreme Court in the case. Mr. Sivankutty also raised the issue of difficulties faced by students who were promoted without mark or grades in other States while applying for courses in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/steps-to-expedite-promotions-transfers-of-teachers-sivankutty/article36313412.ece
06 September 2021||Hassan,||Paralympics: Noida DM bags silver, family elated||“I am thrilled. The entire country is appreciating my son. What else could a mother want,” said Jayashree, the mother of Uttar Pradesh-cadre IAS officer Suhas L.Y. who won the silver medal in Paralympics in Tokyo. Ms. Jayashree spoke to The Hindu over phone from Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) where her son is currently posted as District Magistrate. “There have been so many calls since he won the medal. Just now I watched Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaking to my son on TV,” she said. According to Ms. Jayashree, her son had worked hard for the Paralym-pics for the last two months. Besides his achievements in badminton, Mr. Suhas has earned a good name as an officer in U.P. “He won appreciation from Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. He was posted in Gautam Buddha Nagar to help bring the COVID-19 situation under control,” she said. Mr. Suhas’s cousin Vishnu Priyan said he used to play badminton since childhood but never got any formal training. “Only after becoming an IAS officer he got trained and devoted time to practising,” said Mr. Priyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paralympics-noida-dm-bags-silver-family-elated/article36313274.ece
06 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. legislators push to promote Hindu sites||An analysis of a tourism development scheme in Uttar Pradesh shows that most of the MLAs, even those belonging to the Opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), have chosen Hindu religious, spiritual and cultural sites for promotion. Most of the Muslim MLAs of the main Opposition Samajwadi Party also preferred Hindu sites. There were only two dargahs in the list, including one dedicated to Sufi saint Latif Shah in Chandauli which was nominated by a BJP legislator. To put it in context, while the BJP has aggressively pushed the narrative of Hindutva nationalism, in recent times even its opponents, charged with allegations of “Muslim appeasement” and alarmed by communal polarisation during elections, have tried to keep pace with what some observers have described as “soft Hindutva” while trying to maintain distance from Muslim symbolism. While Uttar Pradesh has 403 MLAs, the State Tourism Department received proposals for development of sites in 373 constituencies. The proposals were sent as part of the Mukyamantri Paryatan Samvardhan Yojana launched by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath earlier this year to develop and promote local heritage and tourism sites, centres of spiritual, historical, cultural, natural and religious importance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-legislators-push-to-promote-hindu-sites/article36313457.ece
06 September 2021||MUZAFFARNAGAR,||Mega farmers’ rally vows to oust Yogi Adityanath||Lakhs of farmers streamed into Muzaffarnagar on Sunday for Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s largest mahapanchayat so far to hear Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait declare his determination to oust the BJP government in U.P. next year by tapping into rural anger and uniting farmers and workers across religion and caste. Mr. Tikait vowed to continue the farmers’ protest till Yogi Adityanath is overthrown though he was ambivalent about contesting the election himself. During his speech, Mr. Tikait called out both “Allahu Akbar” and “Har Har Mahadev”. His huge audience echoed his chants that rang across this western U.P. town, the site of brutal communal riots just eight years ago. “In my father’s time, it was common to hear both chants together at meetings, and we want to revive that atmosphere,” the BKU leader said. The SKM is a platform for farm unions which, for the last 10 months, has been protesting against three agricultural reform laws. Unlike in Punjab and Haryana, where the protests originated, there is no strong existing network of State-run markets or extensive government procurement of crops in U.P. Hence, for most farmers here, who support the Tikait group, the demand for a guaranteed MSP prices holds much promise. “We voted for the BJP in 2019 because it promised us MSP that would make farming profitable. But [Prime Minister Narendra] Modiji only lied to us,” said Veer Singh, a farmer from Meerut. Parkash, a farmer from the Charkhi Dadri tehsil in Haryana, noted that even as farm profits fell, input costs for everything from diesel to electricity to urea had risen. It is this anger and despair due to inflation, falling farm incomes and unemployment that the SKM hopes will unite farmers and workers as well as Hindus and Muslims in U.P. In what was seen as a significant gesture, BKU president Naresh Tikait and Muslim farmer leader Ghulam Jola sat next to each other on the mahapanchayat stage. “We have to get over the divisive politics of this government. There was a dip in our relationship after the Muzaffarnagar riots but now it is time to move ahead,” said Mr Naresh Tikait as Mr Jola echoed the sentiment. They insisted that the U.P. government’s recent overtures towards cane farmers are too little too late. “This government has to go,” said Naresh Tikait, adding he was not against “Yogi or Modi” but “their policies, which are anti-farmer.” Interestingly, the Rashtriya Lok Dal, which depends on the same support base as the Tikaits, provided back-end support for the gathering, and while leader Jayant Chaudhary was not on stage, his face was on a number of the hoardings around town. Crowd estimates varied from one to five lakh farmers, and even some police officers present on the grounds said that it was larger than any other gathering in the area in recent history. While the majority of those attending were from U.P. and Haryana, large contingents arrived from Punjab, and smaller groups represented most States. The ten-member team from Tamil Nadu received the loudest wave of applause apart from Mr. Tikait himself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muzaffarnagar-mega-farmers-rally-vows-to-oust-yogi-regime/article36313088.ece
06 September 2021||Pune,||Slapgate sees Yuva Sena come into its own||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and Union Minister Narayan Rane’s slapgate row has seen a revival of the Shiv Sena’s supposedly dormant aggressive spirit. Within hours of Mr. Rane’s controversial statement that he “would have slapped Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray” for allegedly forgetting the year of India’s Independence, Sena workers, mainly from the party’s youth wing, the Yuva Sena, led agitations at several places in the State, pelted the BJP offices and squared-off with its activists on the streets. According to observers, the most important takeaway from the fiasco is the coming of the Yuva Sena, led by Aaditya Thackeray, into its own. It also marks a forceful assertion of a party whose street-fighting disposition was thought to have ‘mellowed’ under Mr. Uddhav Thackeray’s leadership. “Now, the Chief Minister has succeeded in silencing Narayan Rane by unleashing the Yuva Sena who have been showcased as the next generation of Shiv Sainiks,” says Vivek Bhavsar, a Mumbai-based political analyst.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/slapgate-sees-yuva-sena-come-into-its-own/article36313505.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Twilight zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/twilight-zone/article36313414.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Surplus likely for Singur, Nizamsagar||Heavy rains in the local catchment areas as well as upstream areas in Karnataka and Maharashtra for the last couple of days have improved the prospects of Singur and Nizamsagar projects, which are yet to surplus this season, both based on Manjira river getting surplus over the next couple of days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/surplus-likely-for-singur-nizamsagar/article36313580.ece
06 September 2021||Patna,||Jharkhand BJP wants temple on Assembly’s new premises||The BJP in Jharkhand has demanded a Hanuman temple on the new Assembly premises, after a notification by Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto, which surfaced on September 4, said a “namaz hall” was allotted in the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jharkhand-bjp-wants-temple-on-assemblys-new-premises/article36313455.ece
06 September 2021||Patna,||BJP for temple on Jharkhand’s new Assembly premises||The BJP in Jharkhand has demanded a Hanuman temple and prayer halls for other religions on the new Assembly premises, after a notification by Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto said a “namaz hall” had been allotted in the building for Muslims. “We are not against namaz room but the Speaker should also construct a Hanuman temple inside the Assembly premises,” said senior BJP leader C.P. Singh. BJP Legislative Party leader Babulal Marandi also demanded that the Assembly Secretary “allot five rooms for other religions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-for-temple-on-jharkhands-new-assembly-premises/article36313522.ece
06 September 2021||MANGALURU,||People urged to opt for eco-friendly Ganesha idols||Udupi Deputy Commissioner Kurma Rao M. has asked people to opt for eco-friendly Gowri and Ganesha idols while celebrating Gowri Ganesha festival on Thursday and Friday. He has asked people to participate in large numbers in a campaign of Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to promote the use of turmeric-based Ganesha idols. People can make or purchase the idols made from turmeric mixed with wheat or ragi flour, he said in a statement. If such idols are immersed in water bodies, the water will not be contaminated. People should avoid using plastic-based decorative material. Instead, flowers and green leaves can be used for decoration. People can use coconut shells as the “peetha” or pedestal for installing mini idols, he said. If the idols made from plaster of Paris and painted with chemicals are used and immersed, they will pollute water bodies. The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has barred making and using such idols. He said that the KSPCB has taken up a campaign to promote the use of 10 lakh turmeric mixed flour Ganesh idols in the State. Accordingly, people after making and worshipping such idols in their homes can take a selfie with them and upload the photos on the website of the board which will announce prizes. Non-government organisations and other voluntary organisations should join hands with the government to promote the use of such eco-friendly idols in all places, Mr. Rao said. People can upload the selfies till 6 p.m. on September 10 on the website kspcb.karnataka.gov.in and also send them to Youtube@kspcbkarnataka, facebook@kspcbofficial, Twitter@karnatakakspcb, Instagram: kspcb_official, he said. The Deputy Commissioner said that people should follow social distancing while celebrating the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-urged-to-opt-for-eco-friendly-ganesha-idols/article36313487.ece
06 September 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active case tally dips again||Maharashtra reported 5,916 recoveries on Sunday against a surge of 4,057 COVID-19 cases as the active case tally dipped incrementally to 50,095. With 67 more fatalities, the State’s cumulative death toll rose to 1,37,774, while the case fatality rate remained at 2.12%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtras-active-case-tally-dips-again/article36313506.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||States warned of infiltration||In an alert sent to all States and Central Armed Paramilitary Forces, the Centre has warned that armed terrorists from Afghanistan could attempt to “aggressively infiltrate” into India, particularly Jammu & Kashmir.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-warned-of-infiltration/article36313116.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Internet curbs extended||Authorities in Jammu and Kashmir extended the mobile Internet blockade up to 5 p.m. on September 6. It was imposed after senior separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani died in Srinagar on Wednesday night.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/internet-curbs-extended/article36313086.ece
06 September 2021||Srinagar,||Only locals in Ladakh to get ‘Resident Certificate’||The Ladakh administration has decided to issue “Resident Certificate” only to Permanent Resident Certificate holders of the region unlike J&K, where new domicile laws allowed outsiders too to apply for jobs, land and other facilities. According to the Ladakh Resident Certificate Order 2021 passed on Saturday, “any person who possesses a Permanent Resident Certificate (PRC) issued by the competent authority in the districts of Leh and Kargil or belongs to a category of persons who would have been eligible to be issued PRC shall be eligible to receive the ‘Resident Certificate’.” The order, an official spokesman said, is “to temporarily define ‘Resident of Union Territory of Ladakh’ for appointment to all the non-gazetted posts in any department or service of administration of Ladakh”. All tehsildars have been authorised as the competent authority to issue the ‘Resident Certificate’.  “The administration also enhanced the upper age limit for entry into government services against all posts,” the order said. “The upper age limit has been enhanced for the reserved category candidates from 43 years to 45 years, for the general category candidates from 40 to 42 years and for the physically challenged candidates from 42 to 44 years.” Ladakh’s two main amalgams, the Kargil Democratic Alliance and the Leh Apex Body, have been campaigning for Article 370-like special status for the region, which was carved out as a separate UT from J&K on August 5, 2019. It has opposed settlement of outsiders in the region. The ‘Resident Certificate’ being restricted to locals of the region is unlike J&K. According to the Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020 issued on May 18, 2020, different categories of non-locals, including non-local government employees, to register for domicile certificates in J&K after meeting a few criteria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-locals-in-ladakh-to-get-resident-certificate/article36313089.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||T.N. steps up surveillance||Tamil Nadu has stepped up fever surveillance in nine districts bordering Kerala. Officials have been told to hold fever camps and test those entering the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-steps-up-surveillance/article36313120.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Central team visits family||A team from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) interacted with the boy’s parents, relatives and neighbours at Pazhoor in Kozhikode.page 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-team-visits-family/article36313121.ece
06 September 2021||Vijayawada,||8 die of COVID||The State reported eight COVID-19 deaths and 1,623 infections, the highest single-day tally in last 23 days, in the 24 hours ending Sunday, taking the tally to 20,21,325 and toll to 13,911.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8-die-of-covid/article36313081.ece
06 September 2021||MYSURU,||Nearly 30,000 students to get UoM degrees||Nearly 30,000 students will be conferred with various degrees at the 101st annual convocation of the University of Mysore (UoM) on Tuesday. Women have done better with 20,118 (67.39%), out of the 29,852 total candidates, will get degrees. A total of 9,734 men will also get their degrees. As many as 7,143 candidates, including 4,876 women (68.26%) and 2,267 men (31.73%) will get their master’s degree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearly-30000-students-to-get-uom-degrees/article36313509.ece
06 September 2021||bengaluru,||Many seniors caught off guard by Shah’s comment||Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s recent statement that the BJP would go into the 2023 Assembly elections under the leadership of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is believed to have caught many seniors in the party, including former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, off guard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-seniors-caught-off-guard-by-shahs-comment/article36313119.ece
06 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. legislators push to promote Hindu sites||An analysis of a tourism development scheme in Uttar Pradesh shows that most of the MLAs, even those belonging to the Opposition Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party, have chosen Hindu religious, spiritual and cultural sites for promotion. Most of the Muslim MLAs of the Samajwadi Party also preferred Hindu sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-legislators-push-to-promote-hindu-sites/article36313271.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNUSU protests against counterterrorism course||The JNU Students’ Union on Sunday demanded rollback of a course titled ‘counterterro- rism, asymmetric conflicts and strategies for cooperation among major powers’ to be taught to engineering students at the university pursuing a dual degree programme with specialisation in international relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jnusu-protests-against-counterterrorism-course/article36313273.ece
06 September 2021||Chennai,||5 youth killed as car rams parked lorry||The Tamil Nadu government is contemplating starting offline classes for primary and upper-primary levels, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said . A call will be taken by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin for start of offline classes , Mr. Poyyamozhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-youth-killed-as-car-rams-parked-lorry/article36313165.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,||States warned of ‘aggressive’ infiltration||The Union government has warned of possible infiltration by battle-hardened militants into India along the Afghanistan border, taking advantage of the weak and porous security systems there. Highly placed official sources told The Hindu here on Sunday that a Central agency, in an alert sent to all States and Central Armed Paramilitary Forces, cautioned that armed terrorists owing allegiance to the Islamic State Khorasan Province, the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammed could attempt to aggressively infiltrate into India, particularly Jammu & Kashmir. Pointing to various instances of security concerns in Afghanistan, including the explosions at the Kabul airport, that could have a bearing on the security scenario in India, the alert said developments in the neighbouring country were seen as a victory to puritanical Islam. This could embolden and reinforce the ideologies of leaders of various banned outfits in India who might provoke their cadres to derail public order, the sources said. While India was not affected by the activities of foreign terrorist fighters, the situation in Afghanistan under the Taliban regime might pave the way for convergence of radical sentiments and bring together armed fighters from other areas to pursue common goals. Security system had become extremely porous after the U.S. armed forces fully withdrew from the war-torn country, the sources said. Drug smuggling Besides the congregation of trained militants who were equipped with improvised explosive devices and sophisticated weaponry, the release of prisoners lodged in jails, including several foreign nationals, was also a matter of concern since it would revive organised crimes with trans-national network like smuggling of drugs, counterfeit Indian currency, weapons and so on, the sources said. The States were told to brief security personnel guarding VVIPs about the escalation in threat perceptions. While cybercrime police were asked to intensify vigil on social media and curtail the spread of communally sensitive content, emphasis was laid on strengthening of surveillance in areas of public gathering since the possibility of the infiltration of suicide bombers could not be ruled out. Vital installations The CAPFs protecting vital installations across the country would coordinate with the State administration in enhancing the security arrangements based on the perceived threat level. Security along the international land border and coastal districts would also be strengthened with adequate checkpoints, combing operations in vulnerable areas and intensified patrolling, the sources said. The States with Israeli establishments and Jewish settlements were also alerted to deploy additional manpower in view of a potential threat of terror attack during the forthcoming Jewish holidays in the third week of September. Security personnel were advised to conduct anti-sabotage checks in and around the Israeli Embassy and Consulate and also enforce strict access-control measures to the foreign missions, the sources said. According to police sources, there was intelligence input on Afghanistan-Pakistan based IS operatives coordinating with their associates in India to carry out a terror attack. The input also said that foreign terrorist fighters offered to fund terror activities in India and arrange supply of sophisticated weapons, explosives and so on. Though the input did not point to any specific target, the police have scaled up security detail for important places of worship, leaders of some Hindu organisations and sensitive establishments based on previous intelligence assessments, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-warned-of-aggressive-infiltration/article36312883.ece
06 September 2021||New Delhi,||Baghel waits for Rahul’s visit to Bastar||Amid the ongoing leadership tussle in Chhattisgarh, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel invited former Congress president Rahul Gandhi to the Bastar region when he met Mr. Gandhi in Delhi last week. The former Congress chief is yet to finalise his travel programme to the State but Mr. Baghel was quick to announce Mr. Gandhi’s acceptance of his invitation. While a visit by Mr. Gandhi may be interpreted as an endorsement of Mr. Baghel, the Chief Minister’s camp is also keen to “impress” Mr. Gandhi by showcasing his government’s “camp model of governance” in the Maoist insurgency-affected areas of the State. For the past several months, the Baghel government has focussed on holding “integrated development camps” in the seven tribal-dominated districts under the Bastar division — Sukma, Dantewada, Narayanpur, Kondagaon, Bijapur, Bastar (Jagdalpur) and Kanker — where citizens are being provided with various government services such as Aadhar cards, ration cards, health cards under the Ayushman scheme, caste certificates, and others. The local administration has been holding special camps for tribals living in the remote areas of the seven districts. Camp model Security forces, mainly the Central Reserve Police Force deployed in the area, first “sanitise” a particular area/village that can be easily accessed by several villages in a particular neighbourhood. Then a facility camp is held alongside a security camp where villagers are encouraged to visit and avail the services. The State government claims that it provides transport as well as food to incentivise villagers. It is the Chhattisgarh version of “governance at the doorstep” model that States such as West Bengal and Delhi have been trying out lately. “Apart from the security aspect, the biggest issue is Internet connectivity in the interior areas. To make an Aadhaar card, you need to connect to the server. That is why we set up camps where there is Internet connectivity,” said an official who didn’t wish to be quoted. The official claimed that in the Naxal-hit Bijapur district, over 11,484 new Aadhaar cards were issued while another 11,000 cards were updated. Similar camps have been held in Minapa, Silger and Sarkeguda. Police training Besides development camps, the Baghel government is also trying to induct tribal youth into the State police force through the local ‘Poona Narkom’ campaign, imparting police training at Chhindgarh in Sukma district. “There was a time when the youth of Bastar did not join in the recruitment of security forces due to fear of Naxalites, but now the circumstances have changed,” said the official. While the Baghel faction is keen to score on the “camp model” with the high command, his rival and Health Minister T. S. Singh Deo has made it clear that the final word on the leadership battle has not been spoken yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baghel-waits-for-rahuls-visit-to-bastar/article36312889.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||States told to identify fake vaccines||Following the World Health Organization’s (WHO) warning that it has identified counterfeit versions of the Covishield vaccine in Southeast Asia and Africa, the Union Health Ministry has written to all States and Union Territories to identify counterfeit/falsified Covishield vaccines in India. Monitoring teams for COVID-19 vaccination in States are being provided with details for due diligence. The Ministry said in its letter: “The States have been told to carefully authenticate vaccines before use. The Centre has provided details for identification of original labels of three vaccines being administered in India (Covishield, Covaxin, Sputnik V).” The Ministry has issued guidelines to ensure fake COVID-19 vaccines are not administered in India. The WHO noted that falsified Covishield (ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 Corona Virus Vaccines-Recombinant) has been identified in the WHO’s African Region and South-East Asia Region. “The falsified products were reported to WHO in July and August 2021. The genuine manufacturer of COVISHIELD (Serum Institute of India Pvt. Ltd.) has confirmed that the products listed are falsified. These falsified products have been reported at the patient level in Uganda, India and Myanmar,” it said. The genuine Covishield vaccine is indicated for active immunisation of individuals who are 18 years or older for the prevention of the disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, the WHO added. It advised: “The use of genuine COVID-19 vaccines should be in accordance with official guidance from national regulatory authorities. Falsified COVID-19 vaccines pose a serious risk to global public health and place an additional burden on vulnerable populations and health systems. It is important to detect and remove these falsified products from circulation to prevent harm to patients.” Identification methods The Ministry indicated various features to ascertain genuine products. The anti-counterfeit features in the Covaxin label include an invisible helix (DNA-like structure) that is only seen under UV light; micro text hidden in the label claim Dots, which is written as Covaxin; the green foil effect in the ‘x’ of Covaxin; and the holographic effect on Covaxin. On the Sputnik vaccine, the Ministry said that it’s an imported product from two different bulk manufacturing sites from Russia with two different labels for both these sites. “While all the information and design is the same, only the manufacturer’s name is different. For all the imported products till now, the English label is only available on the front and back of the carton of 5 ampoule packs while all other sides including the primary label on the ampoule is in Russian,” the Ministry said. It also listed indicators to identify the Serum Institute of India’s product labels for Covishield. It said the label’s colour shade is dark green (‘Shade: Pantone 355C’) as per approved artwork, and the brand name appears with trade mark mentioned, that is, ‘COVISHIELDTM’. The text font of the generic name appears ‘un-bold’, it said, while listing other features to be considered. Meanwhile, Additional Secretary, Education Ministry, Santosh Kumar Sarangi said earlier this week that over 80% of teaching and non-teaching staff in government and private schools had been vaccinated so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-identify-fake-vaccines/article36312903.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Health crusader Keshav Desiraju no more||Former Union Health Secretary Keshav Desiraju passed away in Chennai on Sunday due to “acute coronary syndrome”. He was 66. Grandson of former President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, Mr. Desiraju was an IAS officer from the 1978 batch of the Uttarakhand cadre. He had a Master’s degree in Economics from the University of Cambridge and a Master’s degree in Public Administration from the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University. He held many positions with the governments of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh and the Government of India and retired as the Union Secretary in the Department of Consumer Affairs. He is often referred to as the person who put mental health issues pertaining to India on the map of the world. His work and passion for ensuring accountability of the government in the health system and engagement to improving efficiency of service delivery was well-known, and he co-authoured with Samiran Nundy and Sanjay Nagral, Healers or Predators? Healthcare Corruption in India . Mr. Desiraju was known for his keen engagement with public health and clean governance. His colleagues and successors remember him as a man whose “silent courage and ability to carry his team with him” made him a valued mentor and leader. Tributes poured in for the senior bureaucrat from medical professionals and from the civil service fraternity. “Keshav Desiraju, grandson of Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, was loved and appreciated for his honesty and decency. This set him apart. He was a pillar of strength to many,’’ said K. Sujatha Rao, who served as Union Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare until 2010. Former Union Minister and senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh in his tweet said: “My dear, dear friend for 57 years, Keshav Desiraju, a most outstanding civil servant has just passed away. What a tragic irony that he left us on the day the country marks the birthday of his grandfather. Keshav has written the definitive biography of M.S. Subbulakshmi.” Mr. Desiraju is survived by two sisters and a brother. The funeral will be held at 11 a.m. on Monday at the Besant Nagar crematorium in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-crusader-keshav-desiraju-no-more/article36312905.ece
06 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘A good teacher is a nation-builder’||The National Teachers’ Awards were conferred on 44 teachers for their contribution to developing innovative methods of teaching by President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday. Every year, the awards are given on Teachers’ Day to celebrate the contributions of some of the finest teachers for their commitment to improve the quality of education and change lives of their students. “Teachers should pay special attention to the fact that each student has different abilities, talents, psychology, social background and environment. Therefore, emphasis should be laid on the all-round development of each child according to their special needs, interests and abilities,” President Kovind said during the virtual award ceremony. Multiple roles “The primary responsibility of combining the inherent talents of the students lies with the teachers. A good teacher is a personality-builder, a society-builder and a nation-builder.” Congratulating the awardees, he said, “Such teachers strengthen my belief that the future generation is safe in the hands of our well-qualified teachers. Teachers have a very important place in everyone’s life. People remember their teachers lifelong.” He said teachers who nurture their students with affection and devotion not only get respect from their students but can “shape the future of students through their behaviour, conduct and teaching”. President Kovind noted how teachers adapted to the challenges posed by the pandemic and didn’t allow education to be stopped despite schools closing down. Dedicated work “Some teachers have developed remarkable infrastructure in schools with their hard work and dedication. I appreciate such dedicated teachers and hope that the entire teaching community will keep on changing its teaching methods according to the changing circumstances.” The President said the National Education Policy (NEP) has set an ambitious objective of establishing India as a global knowledge superpower. Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said he was privileged to join the ceremony to recognise the efforts of the best teachers and lauded their key role in ensuring continuity of education during COVID-19. First instituted in 1958 to recognise the excellence and commitment of teachers, September 5 came to be the fixed date for the ceremony from the mid-60s to coincide with the birth anniversary of Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan, former President and an eminent educationist. This year, online self-nomination process was followed by a three-tier selection process at district, State and national level. A documentary film on each of the 44 awardee teachers was also shown during the presentation ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-good-teacher-is-a-nation-builder/article36312881.ece
06 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Cutting across party lines, U.P. MLAs shower munificence on Hindu sites||An analysis of a tourism development scheme in Uttar Pradesh shows that most of the MLAs, even those belonging to the Opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), have chosen Hindu religious, spiritual and cultural sites for promotion. Most of the Muslim MLAs of the main Opposition Samajwadi Party also preferred Hindu sites. There were only two dargahs in the list, including one dedicated to Sufi saint Latif Shah in Chandauli which was nominated by a BJP legislator. To put it in context, while the BJP has aggressively pushed the narrative of Hindutva nationalism, in recent times even its opponents, charged with allegations of “Muslim appeasement” and alarmed by communal polarisation during elections, have tried to keep pace with what some observers have described as “soft Hindutva” while trying to maintain distance from Muslim symbolism. While Uttar Pradesh has 403 MLAs, the State Tourism Department received proposals for development of sites in 373 constituencies. The proposals were sent as part of the Mukyamantri Paryatan Samvardhan Yojana launched by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath earlier this year to develop and promote local heritage and tourism sites, centres of spiritual, historical, cultural, natural and religious importance. A booklet published by the department shows that a majority of the MLAs have picked temples,  dhams, ashrams, pilgrimage sites and shrines and ghats considered holy. The legislators were asked to nominate the “most important site” in their constituency to be developed into a high-level tourism site, according to officials. A sum of Rs. 50 lakh was allotted to each constituency while the additional funds would come from the MLA fund and the CSR fund. The government earmarked a budget of Rs. 180 crore for the scheme. CM pleased In a recent interview with The Hindu , the Chief Minister expressed pleasure as he noted that while the scheme was open to sites of all faiths and heritage, most of the legislators had proposed temples. “... If a Muslim MLA has proposed a dargah, then funds would have gone even there. But because now even SP people are giving priority to mandirs instead of a dargah or a mosque, mostly temples have been proposed,” Mr. Adityanath said. Barring a few historical sites, forts, waterbodies, birthplaces of poets, parks, Buddhist and Jain sites and places linked to wildlife conservation, the BJP MLAs not surprisingly picked places connected with Hindu culture and faith. Of the 33 SP MLAs who proposed sites under the scheme, 29 chose Hindu temples and ashrams as well as sites dedicated to local Hindu deities. The remaining four chose a fort, a dargah, a gurdwara and a teela (mound) believed to be from the Mahabharata-era in Issopur, Shamli. Muslim MLAs from the SP too preferred temples and dhams, with the exceptions being senior MLA Alam Badi of Azamgarh, who picked a gurdwara, and Abrar Ahmad, who picked a fort in Issauli, Sultanpur. ‘No pressure’ Irfan Solanki, SP MLA from Sisamau in Kanpur, said he nominated the Balkhandeshwar temple as he felt there was no better spot in his constituency to be beautified and where families could come and spend quality time. Mr. Solanki said that the choice made by him was not under any pressure of Hindutva politics. Pointing to his Muslim background, he also suggested that it could help in creating bridges between communities. “If a Muslim steps forward for a temple, this would also help in tackling the feelings of Hindu-Muslim (communal) that people are fuelling,” he said. The BSP MLAs displayed a similar pattern. Of the 16 leaders who won in 2017 on BSP ticket, 13 picked Hindu religious sites, including jailed MLA from Mau, Mukhtar Ansari, whose family has been under the radar of the Yogi Adityanath government. Former Uttar Pradesh Speaker and current MLA from Didarganj in Azamgarh Sukhdeo Rajbhar, who recently announced retirement from active politics and facilitated his son’s entry into the SP after lamenting about the weakening of the “Bahujan movement”, nominated a temple of Lord Shiva. The other three picked a pond, the birthplace of poet Narottam Das in Sitapur and a site linked to the Mahabharata in Prayagraj, Lakshagraha. In comparison, the Congress list was fairly diverse. Of the seven MLAs the party has on paper, three, including State president Ajay Kumar Lallu, nominated two temples, two picked waterbodies, another nominated an Ambedkar park in Saharanpur while one legislator chose a site near a golf course in Kanpur. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s uncle Shivpal Yadav, Independent MLAs Raghuraj Pratap Singh, alias Raja Bhaiya, Vinod Saroj and Aman Mani Tripathi and three MLAs of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, including its president Om Prakash Rajbhar, also selected temples or dhams. Officials say the sites nominated by the legislators could indicate their electoral calculations, with the State heading to polls. The sites nominated were those where there was already a decent footfall of locals but had scope to expand amenities, said an official. Mukesh Meshram, Principal Secretary, Uttar Pradesh Tourism and Culture, said many legislators had even proposed renovation of temples but the proposals were rejected as the scheme only deals with developing amenities around the site or structure of interest. “We said we cannot touch the religious structures. We will only provide the facilities [around it],” Mr. Meshram said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cutting-across-party-lines-up-mlas-shower-munificence-on-hindu-sites/article36312887.ece
06 September 2021||New Delhi,||Samajwadi Party trying to shed its dominant Yadav image||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, the Samajwadi Party (SP) is trying to overcome its limitation of being and portrayed as a Yadav-dominated party. The leadership is now on an overdrive to reach out to the non-Yadav OBC bloc, and to expand further it has made electoral alliances with smaller caste-based parties. SP State president Naresh Uttam Patel on August 29 started the “Kisan Naujawan Patel Yatra” targeting the numerically strong “Kurmi” voters who for the past three elections — the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the 2017 Assembly election — have backed the BJP. Banking on the current farmers’ unrest against the Narendra Modi government, Mr. Patel, a Kurmi himself, is reaching out to these sections. “The Modi government is vacillating on the caste census. Even the reservation policy is in danger today. The farmers are not getting the promised minimum support price (MSP). Their justified demands are met with lathicharge and oppression. The government is busy branding the agitating farmers as separatists,” he said. Apart from this, on August 9 the party launched OBC ‘ sammelans ’. The first phase of these ‘ sammelans ’, or dialogues, are being organised in the central Uttar Pradesh and Bundelkhand areas, and later it will move into the Purvanchal belt. While keeping its distance from the Congress, the SP has now tied up with smaller caste-based parties such as the Mahan Dal, which is led by Keshav Dev Maurya, and the Janwadi Socialist Party of Sanjay Chauhan. Mr. Chauhan’s party has a strong hold among the Chauhan community, an extremely backward caste of the OBC category which has a considerable presence across eastern Uttar Pradesh. The Mahan Dal came into being in 2008 after Mr. Maurya left the Bahujan Samaj Party. The Maurya community is estimated to be around 6% of the total voters in the State. Though both parties are marginal forces — Mahan Dal had 0.1% vote share in the last State election — the SP is hoping that bringing them on board will broaden its reach. The non-Yadav OBCs that broke away from the umbrella social justice politics dominated by the Yadavs have become the bedrock of BJP politics in the State. One of the key reasons for the spectacular jump in the BJP’s electoral performance from 47 seats and a 15% vote share in the 2012 Assembly election,to 312 seats (40% vote share) in the 2017 election is consolidation of these non-Yadav OBCs under the “Grand Hindu Identity”. Last month, addressing the Mahan Dal meeting, SP president Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of driving a wedge between the backward communities by pitting Yadavs against the rest of the OBCs. His frustration is evident as the SP leaders themselves concede that the BJP’s strategy of isolating the Yadavs has worked. “Samajwadi Party stands for all backward classes, not only the Yadavs. The BJP has been successful in their smear campaign against us. But we are confident that in these seven years since 2014, the backward castes have understood the fraud perpetrated by the BJP,” SP’s chief spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said. The 2020 Bihar election results have also made the SP wary, where the RJD lost out to the BJP-JD(U) combine by a whisker because of counter-mobilisation against a possible accession of a ‘Yadav’ party to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/samajwadi-party-trying-to-shed-its-dominant-yadav-image/article36312892.ece
06 September 2021||new Delhi,||Delhi Police arrest actor Leena Paul in extortion case||The Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing arrested actor Leena Maria Paul on Sunday for allegedly helping her boyfriend Sukesh Chandrasekhar, an accused in 21 cases, in extorting Rs. 200 crore from a businessman’s wife. The police have invoked the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime (MCOCA) Act against the accused, a senior police officer said, adding that further investigation into the matter is under way. He said Ms. Paul allegedly helped Chandrasekhar in duping former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh’s wife Aditi Singh. An FIR was registered on August 7 after Ms. Singh informed the police that a man posing as a senior official of the Law Ministry in June last year had offered to help secure bail for her husband, who was in jail at that time, in return for money. Shivinder Singh was arrested in a money laundering case related to the alleged misappropriation of funds at Religare Finvest Ltd (RFL) in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-police-arrest-actor-leena-paul-in-extortion-case/article36313076.ece
06 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||MLAs’ forum to plug migration from Arunachal border areas||The MLAs of Arunachal Pradesh representing constituencies bordering Tibetan China have formed a forum to prevent the outmigration of villagers and modify the Border Area Development Programme (BADP) to suit local needs. A decades-old plan of the State government to prepare border area residents as a line of defence backfired after they began migrating to urban areas within Arunachal Pradesh or beyond for livelihood. Many such villages are almost abandoned today. Set of guidelines One of the reasons was the set of guidelines that made it difficult to implement the BADP in the sparsely populated and spaced-out villages across the Eastern Himalayas running along the international border. “The border areas need to be developed to prevent further exodus of the people,” Assembly Speaker Passang Dorjee Sona said after a meeting of most of the border area MLAs. Mr. Sona represents Mechuka, one of the 11 constituencies of Arunachal Pradesh bordering Tibet. Chief Minister Pema Khandu also represents a border constituency (Mukto). The forum was formed during the meeting for coming up with ideas to develop the border areas and suggest modifications in the BADP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mlas-forum-to-plug-migration-from-arunachal-border-areas/article36313045.ece
06 September 2021||Patna,||BJP wants Hanuman temple on Jharkhand Assembly premises||The BJP in Jharkhand has demanded a Hanuman temple and prayer halls for other religions on the new Assembly premises, after a notification by Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto, which surfaced on September 4, said a “namaz hall” had been allotted in the building for Muslims. “We are not against namaz room but the Speaker should also construct a Hanuman temple inside the Assembly premises,” former Speaker and senior BJP leader C.P. Singh said. BJP Legislature Party leader and former Chief Minister Babulal Marandi too demanded that the Assembly Secretary “allot five rooms for other religions and a hall for Hindus as well to recite Hanuman Chalisa there”. Chief Whip of the BJP Legislature Party and Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan told The Hindu over phone that the Speaker should withdraw the “unconstitutional” order; otherwise, he would be forced to approach the court. The notification dated September 2 said “room number TW348 has been earmarked as namaz hall for offering namaz in the new Assembly building”. The ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and the Congress had supported the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-wants-hanuman-temple-on-jharkhand-assembly-premises/article36312893.ece
06 September 2021||Pune,||Why such hatred for Nehru?: Raut||The exclusion of the picture of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru from a poster released by the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) was an “act of political vindictiveness” on the part of the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre and an “insult to the memory of every freedom fighter”, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, who is the party’s chief spokesperson, said on Sunday. In his weekly column ‘Rokhthok’  in the Sena’s mouthpiece Saamna , Mr. Raut launched a broadside against the BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). “Those who had no participation in the freedom struggle and in creating history are now keeping out one of the heroes [Pandit Nehru] of the Independence struggle. This reeks of political vindictiveness, shows the narrow mindset of the Central government,” he wrote. The ICHR caused a furore after it had excluded pictures of stalwart Congressmen Nehru and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad from its poster marking the 75th anniversary of the country’s Independence. Demanding to know the reason behind the BJP’s “acrimonious attitude” towards Nehru, Mr. Raut asked: “Is the history of the country’s freedom struggle now changing as well?” “There may be differences about Pandit Nehru and his Congress party, but how can anyone deny his immense role in securing Independence? asked Mr. Raut. The Sena MP, pointed that Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. K. Stalin recently decided to not remove pictures of his rivals and former chief ministers Jayalalithaa and Edappadi Palaniswami from school bags being distributed free to children in the southern State. “If he [Mr. Stalin] can show political maturity, why do you have such hatred against Pt. Nehru? You owe an answer to the nation,” Mr. Raut said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-such-hatred-for-nehru-raut/article36313460.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||12-year-old dead as Nipah reappears in Kozhikode||A team from the National Centre for Disease Control reached the State to provide support. Kozhikode is reporting the deadly infection for the second time in three years. Eighteen lab-confirmed cases and seven suspected ones were reported from the district in May-June 2018. A couple of the infected persons were from the nearby Malappuram district. There were 16 lab-confirmed deaths and seven suspected deaths. The virus is transmitted to people from animals and can also be passed on through contaminated food or directly from person-to-person. Fruit bats are considered to be a natural reservoir of the virus. Symptoms include acute encephalitis and respiratory illnesses. The Minister said the boy was initially taken to a private clinic at Eranjimavu with fever and other symptoms on August 29. He was taken to two private hospitals on August 31, before being shifted to the MCH. He spent around 20 hours at the MCH and was again shifted to another private hospital on September 1. It was the staff at the private hospital who suspected the infection to be Nipah. The initial tests were done at the National Virology Institute’s Alappuzhua unit. Ms. George said the final report from the NIV lab in Pune came by Saturday night and steps were being taken to shift him to the MCH. However, the boy passed away by 5 a.m. on Sunday. An alert has been declared in Kozhikode and surrounding districts of Malappuram and Kannur. Ms. George said the government had contacted the Indian Council of Medical Research to procure monoclonal antibodies for the treatment. It would be made available from Australia in a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/12-year-old-dead-as-nipah-reappears-in-kozhikode/article36312871.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Mega farmers’ rally vows to oust Yogi regime in U.P.||His huge audience echoed his chants that rang across this western Uttar Pradesh town, the site of brutal communal riots just eight years ago. “In my father’s time, it was common to hear both chants together at meetings, and we want to revive that atmosphere,” the BKU leader said. The SKM is a platform for farm unions which, for the last 10 months, has been protesting against three agricultural reform laws which could affect State-run markets, and has also called for a legal guarantee for minimum support prices for all farm produce. Unlike in Punjab and Haryana, where the protests originated, there is no strong existing network of State-run markets or extensive government procurement of crops in Uttar Pradesh. Hence, for most farmers here, who support the Tikait group, the demand for a guaranteed MSP prices holds much promise. “We voted for the BJP in 2019 because it promised us MSP rates that would make farming profitable. But [Prime Minister Narendra] Modiji only lied to us,” said Veer Singh, a farmer from Meerut. Mr. Singh said he had sold his paddy crop at prices 22% below the announced MSP rate this year. “What is the point of declaring MSP if there are no mandis to sell to the government and the private trader refuses to buy at that rate,” he asked. Rising input costs Parkash, a farmer from the Charkhi Dadri tehsil in Haryana, noted that even as farm profits fell, input costs for everything from diesel to electricity to urea had risen. “It is not only for farmers, even the price of cooking oil, of a gas cylinder have all surged under the Modi government. He is only looking to help his corporate friends, not the common farmers who voted for him.” It is this anger and despair due to inflation, falling farm incomes and unemployment that the SKM hopes will unite farmers and workers as well as Hindus and Muslims in Uttar Pradesh. In what was seen as a significant gesture, BKU president Naresh Tikait and Muslim farmer leader Ghulam Jola sat next to each other on the stage. “We have to get over the divisive politics of this government. There was a dip in our relationship after the Muzaffarnagar riots but now it is time to move ahead,” said Mr. Naresh Tikait as Mr. Jola echoed the sentiment. They insisted that the Uttar Pradesh government’s recent overtures towards cane farmers are too little too late. “This government has to go,” said Mr. Tikait, adding that he was not against “Yogi or Modi” but “their policies, which are anti-farmer.” While he ruled out any direct entry into electoral politics, his younger brother hedged his bets. “There are still six months until the elections, so there is time to decide,” he told The Hindu . Interestingly, the Rashtriya Lok Dal, which depends on the same support base as the Tikaits, provided back-end support for the gathering, and while leader Jayant Chaudhary was not on stage, his face was on a number of the hoardings around town. Crowd estimates varied from one to five lakh farmers. While the majority of those attending were from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, large contingents arrived from Punjab, and smaller groups represented most Indian States. “The farm laws have done one good thing in that they integrated farmers across India and helped them rise above regional barriers. The demand for an MSP law is a national one,” said Easan, founder of the Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mega-farmers-rally-vows-to-oust-yogi-regime/article36312872.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Logistics agreement with Russia to be signed soon||India is all set to conclude the bilateral logistics agreement with Russia soon while the agreement with the U.K. is in the final stages of conclusion. The Navy has been the biggest beneficiary of these administrative arrangements, signed with several countries, improving operational turnaround and increasing inter-operability on the high seas. “With Russia, the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS) is likely to be signed in a month or two while the one with the U.K. is in the final stages and should see conclusion soon,” a defence source said. Negotiations with a few more countries including Vietnam are in the preliminary stages, officials said. India has signed several logistics agreements with all Quad countries, France, Singapore and South Korea beginning with the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) with the U.S. in 2016. The agreements are administrative arrangements facilitating access to military facilities for exchange of fuel and provisions on mutual agreement simplifying logistical support and increasing operational turnaround of the military when operating away from India. The agreement with Russia is expected to be signed during the visit of Defence Minister Gen. Sergei Shoigu in two months to co-chair the Inter-Governmental Commission meeting along with his Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/logistics-agreement-with-russia-to-be-signed-soon/article36312873.ece
06 September 2021||New Delhi,||RSS distances itself from article on Infosys||The Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) went on record on Sunday to distance itself from an article that appeared in a magazine associated with the organisation, Panchjanya , which alleged that software major Infosys was with “anti-national” forces, in the way that it had messed up the Centre’s Income Tax portal. Sunil Ambekar, the all-India prachaar pramukh of the RSS, took to Twitter to clarify the organisation’s position on the article and its allegations against Infosys, two days after a report in The Hindu highlighted the story. “As an Indian company, Infosys has made seminal contribution in the progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys, but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects individual opinion of the author,” he tweeted adding that “ Panchjanya is not a mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS.” The article, a cover story in Panchjanya ’s September 5 edition, alleged that Infosys had badly messed up not just the Income Tax and Goods and Services Tax portals, for which it is the technology vendor, but that Infosys Trust, through its other activities including funding was encouraging forces inimical to the security of India, and encouraging “urban naxals” et al. The magazine’s editor, Hitesh Shankar, spoke to The Hindu on Friday and said that the article was done because “it pertained to the country, and a lot of common people had been affected”. With the RSS distancing itself from what is regarded as its own mouthpiece, it casts an interesting light on a possible division of opinion on Infosys within the Sangh Parivar, between those who see a conspiracy behind the non-functioning tax portal and others who only allege incompetency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-distances-itself-from-article-on-infosys/article36312876.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Only locals in Ladakh to get ‘Resident Certificates’||The order, an official spokesman said, is “to temporarily define ‘Resident of Union Territory of Ladakh’ for the purpose of appointment to all the non-gazetted posts or service of administration of Ladakh”. All tehsildars have been authorised to issue the ‘Resident Certificate’. “The administration also enhanced the upper age limit for entry into government services against all posts,” the order said. “The upper age limit has been enhanced for the reserved category from 43 years to 45 years, for the general category from 40 to 42 years and for the physically challenged from 42 to 44 years.” Ladakh’s two main amalgams, the Kargil Democratic Alliance and the Leh Apex Body, have been campaigning for Article 370-like special status for the region, which was carved out as a separate Union Territory from J&K on August 5, 2019. It has opposed the settlement of outsiders in the region. The ‘Resident Certificate’ being restricted to locals of the region is unlike J&K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-locals-in-ladakh-to-get-resident-certificates/article36312877.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Surge in number of foreign ultras in Kashmir||The presence of foreign militants in the ranks of the groups such as the Jaish-e-Mohammed, the Al-Badr, the Lashkar-e-Taiba and The Resistance Front had dried up in the first quarter of 2021. In fact, the first foreign militant, Hamas alias Asrar, alias Saria, who was active since March 2018, was killed on May 4 in north Kashmir’s Sopore, according to the police. Against 32 foreign militants killed in 2020, only nine foreign militants have been killed this year so far, according to official figures. A total of 102 militants, “mostly commanders”, were killed, 88 youth recruited, 30 arrested and 425 over ground workers held this year, according to the police data. “The biggest success against foreign militants in Kashmir this year was the killing of Saifullah, alias Adnan alias Lamboo, an IED expert who played a role in the 2019 Pulwama attack on July 31,” a police officer said. The rising numbers of militants in north Kashmir, which is already over 50, has forced the security agencies to re-strategise their response. A senior official said most mainstream leaders and elected grassroots representatives have been asked to lie low and provided with dos and don’ts when they plan to move around. “I have been asked not to visit Sopore during the daytime, not to take the interior routes in Handwara and Rafiabad and ensure that police personnel remain on alert after the sundown,” a north Kashmir-based mainstream leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/surge-in-foreign-ultras-in-kashmir/article36312879.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Revise nursing council’s clause for the disabled’||The Indian Nursing Council’s (INC) recent notification restricting the 5% reservation for persons with disabilities (PwD) in B.Sc. Nursing courses only to those with lower limb disability, and that too for the 40-50% disabled, has come under criticism from a pan-India group of health professionals with disabilities. The group has now written to the Union Health Ministry and the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities seeking the allegedly discriminatory clause be repealed, and that nurses with disabilities and disability rights activists be involved in the framing of new guidelines. Unique connect Speaking on the issues, nursing officer Monika Dhankar said nurses with disabilities have a unique way of connecting with their patients because of their experiences in actually being patients. “Nursing as a profession embraces the need to avoid discrimination, yet disability as an equal opportunity issue is relatively neglected in nursing,” she said. Ms. Dhankar added that nurses have an obligation to promote disability equality in relation to the provision of health care. “Adoption of the social model of disability in nursing practice, education and research as a strategy to challenge discrimination should be seriously considered,” she said. The group in its letter has said that the INC drafted the “revised Nursing Curriculum in the year we commemorated the 200th anniversary of Florence Nightingale’s birth, and despite the passage of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act (RPDA) in 2016, has continued with the discriminatory, unfair, and unethical guidelines that prevent otherwise qualified applicants with disabilities from entering nursing”. “The Union Health Ministry, which INC also reports to, enabled people with locomotor disabilities to enroll in MBBS with a disability percentage of 50-70%. Furthermore, in 2007, members of the Adhoc Committee established by the Supreme Court recommended expanding disability percentage from 40% to 70% in a gazette notification dated March 31, 2009,” said Satendra Singh, founder, Doctors with Disabilities: Agents of Change, and co-chair, International Council for Disability Inclusion in Medical Education. He said that the Indian Parliament passed the new disability law, which now has 21 disabilities, in 2016. “The erstwhile Medical Council of India in 2018 modified its guidelines to accommodate candidates with newer disabilities. The INC, however, has defied the new law and not provided 5% reservation to those with upper limb disabilities, dyslexia, low vision, dwarfism, hearing impairment, thalassemia, haemophilia, sickle cell disease, and acid attack survivors, etc., despite the gazette notifying the new revised nursing curriculum,” Dr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/revise-nursing-councils-clause-for-the-disabled/article36312901.ece
06 September 2021||Raipur,||Case against Baghel’s father for ‘derogatory remarks’||The Raipur police have registered a case against Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel’s father, Nand Kumar Baghel, for allegedly making derogatory comments against a community, an official said on Sunday. After a controversy erupted over the alleged remarks of his father, the Chief Minister said he was pained by such comments and asserted that the police would take appropriate action in the matter. Following a complaint filed by the ‘Sarv Brahmin Samaj’, the D.D. Nagar police here registered an FIR late on Saturday night against Nand Kumar Baghel, 86, the official said. The case was registered under IPC Sections 153-A and 505(1)(b). The outfit, in its complaint, alleged that Mr. Nand recently appealed to people to boycott Brahmins by terming them as foreigners, and also asked people to not let them enter their villages. It also accused him of asking people to “evict” Brahmins out of the country.  According to the police, Mr. Nand reportedly made the remarks at an event in Uttar Pradesh recently. ‘Pained by comments’ The Chief Minister, in a statement, said, “The remarks made by my father Nand Kumar Baghel against a specific class have come to my attention. The comments have hurt the sentiments of the class as well as social harmony and I am also pained by it.”  “Nobody is above the law in my government even if he is the Chief Minister’s 86-year-old father,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/case-against-baghels-father-for-derogatory-remarks/article36312885.ece
06 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP must re-engage with farmers: Varun||BJP MP from Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh Varun Gandhi on Sunday said there was a need to re-engage with the protesting farmers, in a departure from the public positioning taken by the ruling party on the protests.  “Lakhs of farmers have gathered in protest today [Sunday] in Muzaffarnagar. They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner: understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-must-re-engage-with-farmers-varun/article36313072.ece
06 September 2021||Srinagar,||Situation improves in Kashmir||The J&K authorities on Sunday extended the mobile Internet blockade up to Monday amid signs of improvement in the situation, four days after senior separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, 92, died here. “Mobile Internet shall remain suspended till 17:00 of September 6 unless modified earlier,” an order issued by Principal Secretary to government Shaleen Kabra reads. The law enforcement agencies had apprehended “misuse of data services for rumour mongering, circulation of fake news, instigation for violence etc”. While the situation had by and large remained peaceful, there have been “sporadic incidents”. “There was apprehension of breach of peace and public order due to the nefarious designs by the Pakistan supported handlers from across the border and the secessionists forces within, through misuse of mobile data services.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/situation-improves-in-kashmir/article36312878.ece
06 September 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. rules out alliance with SP, BSP||Virtually ruling out an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, Congress’ State unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Sunday said his party would forge alliances only with small parties and would “not even think about” joining hands with the big ones. He also said the governments of the BJP, the BSP and the SP that ruled Uttar Pradesh in the last 32 years failed to live up to the expectations of the people and the Congress was set for a comeback. In an interview with PTI , Mr. Lallu said in the eyes of the people of Uttar Pradesh, the Congress was the main challenger to the BJP. He said the party would fight the polls under the supervision of Priyanka Gandhi as she is the general secretary in-charge of the State and a call on the chief ministerial face would be taken by the national leadership. Both the SP and the BSP have also ruled out tying up with the Congress, with SP’s Akhilesh Yadav saying the party will forge alliances only with small parties and BSP chief Mayawati asserting that the party would go solo in the polls. Mr. Lallu said the people’s anger against the BJP over issues such as price rise, unemployment, farmers’ plight, poverty, reservation and “murder of democracy” would manifest in the 2022 election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-rules-out-alliance-with-sp-bsp/article36312884.ece
06 September 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata to contest from Bhabanipur||The Trinamool Congress on Sunday announced its candidates for bypolls in three Assembly constituencies in West Bengal scheduled for September 30. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will contest from Bhabanipur in Kolkata. Ms. Banerjee had represented the constituency in 2011 and 2016. In the Assembly poll held earlier this year, Ms. Banerjee had contested from Nandigram and lost to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes. To continue as Chief Minister, she has to get elected to the Assembly within six months. The announcement of bypolls have come as a relief to the Trinamool Congress leadership but the State BJP questioned why polling in four other constituencies where bypolls are due has not been announced. From the Jangipur Assembly seat, the Trinamool is fielding former Minister Jakir Hossain, while the candidate from Samserganj is Amirul Islam. The BJP leadership is yet to announce its candidates. The bypolls will also test the Left-Congress alliance. The Congress is not keen on fielding any candidate against the Chief Minister at Bhabanipur. The Left parties are likely to put up a candidate if the Congress does not field anyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-to-contest-from-bhabanipur/article36312890.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article36312895.ece
06 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||New mediator for Naga peace pact sought||MPs and activists have called for replacing R.N. Ravi as the interlocutor in the Naga peace process to prevent it from derailing. Mr. Ravi is the Governor of Nagaland and has been crossing swords with the extremist Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland . The Naga Peoples Movement for Human Rights (NPMHR) had organised a conference in Delhi on Saturday. The participants noted the “ derailment” of the peace process due to the “trust deficit” between Mr. Ravi and NSCN (I-M).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-mediator-for-naga-peace-pact-sought/article36313044.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC firm but friendly with govt.||Half of the 12 names reiterated by the Supreme Court Collegium for judicial appointments to various High Courts were originally sent to the government two years ago. These six names, reiterated by the Collegium led by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana on September 1, were recommended by an earlier Collegium headed by then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi in July and October 2019. The present CJI was part of the Gogoi Collegium. Advocates Jaytosh Majumdar, Amitesh Banerjee, Raja Basu Chowdhury and Lapita Banerji were first recommended by the Gogoi Collegium for the Calcutta High Court Bench on July 24, 2019. Advocate Farzand Ali was recommended to the Rajasthan High Court Bench by the Gogoi Collegium on the very same day. In both cases, the Collegium explained that it had interacted with the advocates, “carefully scrutinised” the names for assessing “merit and suitability” and was of the “considered view” that they were fit to be High Court judges. Yet, they had not been cleared by the government. The sixth name, advocate Moksha Kazmi (Khajuria), was first recommended to the Jammu and Kashmir High Court Bench on October 15, 2019. The remaining six names reiterated by the Ramana Collegium, variously on August 24 and September 1, include three judicial officers to the Allahabad High Court Bench, an advocate to the Jammu and Kashmir High Court and two advocates to the Karnataka High Court. The recommendations of their names date back to February and March this year. The reiteration of these names, along with the recommendation of 56 new ones to various High Courts in one go, was closely followed by Chief Justice Ramana’s friendly nudge to the government at a public function on Saturday to clear all of them expeditiously. This nuanced approach of getting the message across to the government through the reiteration of the names while carefully maintaining a measured bonhomie was evident from the CJI’s account of his first meeting with the new Law Minister, Kiren Rijiju. “He asked me ‘what is the problem?’. I told him the first problem is filling up the vacancies. To expedite the filling up of vacancies... That is the first priority,” Chief Justice Ramana recounted in Mr. Rijiju’s presence on the dais. Having said that, the CJI complimented the Law Minister for getting to work immediately and clearing the nine names recommended by the Collegium for the Supreme Court. “Nine names were cleared in six days. That is a record. Thanks to him, they were cleared with jet-speed. I am very happy to be a party with him in all the decision-making process. I must thank the Prime Minister and the Law Minister… I expect the same jet-speed in clearing the names for the High Courts,” the CJI conveyed. The CJI also made it clear that judicial appointments were an “on-going process” in which speed in decision-making was of the essence. This seems to be a clear signal to the government that promptness in clearing names should not be a one-off. The court expects the government to show the same alacrity with which it cleared the nine names in future appointments to the High Courts. “We hope to live up to the herculean challenge of filling up nearly 41% vacancies existing in all the High Courts… In another month, we expect at least 90% of the vacancies filled up in the country,” the Chief Justice spoke for the judicial institution. Mr. Rijiju, in turn, has politely returned the court's compliment. “In our first interaction, I realised that we have a CJI in whom we have full faith and trust,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-firm-but-friendly-with-govt/article36312875.ece
06 September 2021||Panaji,||President arrives in Goa for 3-day visit||President Ram Nath Kovind arrived in Goa on Sunday for his three-day visit to the State, during which he is scheduled to take part in an event organised by the Navy. An aircraft carrying Mr. Kovind arrived at Dabolim airport in the afternoon, from where he was flown in a helicopter to Bambolim helipad. He was welcomed by State Deputy CM Chandrakant Kavlekar and Protocol Minister Mauvin Godinho there. Mr. Kovind will present the President’s Colour to naval aviation on Monday morning during the event being hosted by INS Hansa, a naval air station located near Dabolim. “The event coincides with the diamond jubilee of INS Hansa and the liberation of Goa,” a Navy spokesman said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-arrives-in-goa-for-3-day-visit/article36313275.ece
06 September 2021||New Delhi,||Parts of south, west, north India to witness heavy rainfall activity during next 3 days: IMD||Several parts of south, west and north India are likely to receive heavy rainfall during the next three days with the revival of the southwest monsoon, the Indian Meteorological Department said on Sunday. It said enhanced rainfall activity with fairly widespread and isolated heavy to very heavy rains is very likely over Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala in the coming days. It further said that there will be a reduction in intensity and distribution thereafter. North Marathawada, north Konkan, and Gujarat is likely to receive rainfall from September 7 to 9. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over north Konkan during September 7 and 8, and central Maharashtra and Gujarat on September 8.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parts-of-south-west-north-india-to-witness-heavy-rainfall-activity-during-next-3-days-imd/article36313459.ece
06 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||BJP alleges corruption in installation of CCTV cameras in Odisha police stations||The Odisha unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party on Sunday accused the Naveen Patnaik government of indulging in corruption in the installation of closed-circuit television cameras in all police stations across the State. “The State government through the Odisha Computer Application Centre has given a purchase order for the installation of CCTV cameras at all 593 police stations for Rs. 104.96 crore, ” said Thakur Ranjit Das, BJP leader. Mr. Das said the price quoted for a police station was Rs. 15.57 lakh. “In the open market, not more than Rs. 6 lakh would be required for one police station. For obvious reasons, the government is spending an additional Rs. 60 crore,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-alleges-corruption-in-installation-of-cctv-cameras-in-odisha-police-stations/article36312899.ece
06 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul may offer prayers at Vaishno Devi||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi could offer prayers at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine during his two-day tour of the Jammu region next week. Though there is no official word so far, sources said Mr. Gandhi is likely to visit Jammu on September 9 and 10. Last month, he had gone to the Kashmir Valley, and addressed a gathering at the party office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-may-offer-prayers-at-vaishno-devi/article36313041.ece
06 September 2021||Pune,||Direct fight against preventing ‘third wave’, Uddhav tells parties||Appealing to parties to stop playing politics over COVID-19, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said ‘agitations’ must be directed at preventing the recurrence of a third wave and not for reopening of temples which would only serve to spread the virus. Warning the public against letting down their guard, Mr. Thackeray reminded citizens that there was a surge in cases after festivities during the same time last year. “The Ganesha festival is round the corner. But one must not be complacent and remember that there was a big spike in cases after festivities last year. So, I request all of you to avoid crowding and strictly follow pandemic norms like wearing face masks even after vaccination,” said the Chief Minister, adding that even if the third wave did strike, the aim should be to remain one step ahead and focus on how to lessen the intensity. Mr. Thackeray was addressing the virtual Majha Doctor (‘My Doctor’) conference where State health authorities, including Health Minister Rajesh Tope, Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte and members of the COVID-19 task force were present. Boosting infrastructure The Chief Minister said that the State government had shored up the health infrastructure since the eruption of the pandemic in March last year and was trying to increase the oxygen capacity to 3,000 metric tonnes (MT) from the present level of 1,200-1300 MT to prepare for a possible third wave. “I can confidently say that the speed with which Maharashtra has ramped up its medical infrastructure to meet the challenges thrown by the virus and its mutations is truly laudable. But we must not let this [third] wave come at all and must do our utmost to halt it or at least lessen its intensity. So, it is up to the public to decide whether they want to invite a third wave by not following norms,” he said. Fixing oxygen deficit Reiterating that the State had faced a nightmare oxygen deficit scenario a few months ago during the second wave, Mr. Thackeray said that it would take a while to set up additional oxygen plants and that the public must not be reckless during this time. “Our oxygen capacity during the time was 1,200-1,300 MT while the demand had surged to 1,750-1,800 MT and securing the additional 500 MT from neighbouring States was difficult,” he said. Mr. Thackeray strongly criticised the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party and Raj Thackeray’s Maharashtra Navnirman Sena for attempting to pressure the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government to reopen temples. ‘Don’t play politics’ “There are people who are in a hurry demanding the reopening of everything. I urge them not to bring politics during the present coronavirus pandemic. If they want to agitate, they should do it against the virus. Because at the end, while we play politics, it is the people who lose their lives,” he said, justifying the government’s decision to reopen establishments cautiously. Urging elected representatives to behave with decorum and follow COVID-appropriate behaviour during political functions, Mr. Thackeray said that if leaders themselves flouted norms, then the public would have no incentive to follow them and would rightly accuse the political class of double standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/direct-fight-against-preventing-third-wave-uddhav-tells-parties/article36313043.ece
06 September 2021||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Bring out the best in students: Minister||Minister for Backward Classes S. S. Sivasankar on Sunday urged teachers to work hard to improve the performance of students in the changed environment due to the impact of COVID-19. Speaking at a function after giving away best teacher awards here, he said that COVID-19 pandemic had brought significant changes in teaching and learning methods. Taking into account the new challengers, the teachers should adapt themselves to bring out the best in the students. K. Mozhiarasi, Principal, Government Teacher Education and Training Institute, Keelapalur, T. Inbarani, Headmistress, Government Higher Secondary School, Thirumanur, T. Pandian, physical education teacher, Government High School, Chinnavalayam, P. Alagudurai, painting teacher, Government Higher Secondary School, Elakurichi, A. Anthonysamy Chezhian, Principal, Monford Matric Higher Secondary School, P. Prema, Headmistress, Adi Dravidar Welfare Primary School, Sivamurthy, Headmaster, Panchyayat Union School, Manappattur, L. Senguttuvan, teacher, Panchayat Union Middle School, Puduchavadi were awarded Dr. Radhakrishnan State award for best teachers on Teacher’s Day celebrations. Tiruchi In Tiruchi district, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi honoured 13 teachers with the State Government's Dr. Radhakrishnan Best Teacher Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bring-out-the-best-in-students-minister/article36313306.ece
06 September 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen generator inaugurated at Aruppukottai govt. hospital||A new oxygen generator was inaugurated at Aruppukottai Government Hospital on Sunday. Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran and Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu inaugurated the oxygen generator installed at a cost of Rs. 1.86 crore through PM-CARES fund. After the inauguration, the Ministers said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had instructed that all hospitals should become self-reliant on oxygen supply to face a possible third wave of COVID-19. Accordingly, Virudhunagar district administration had ensured installation of oxygen generators at Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital and Government Hospital at Rajapalayam and on the premises of Ramco Cements factory and Sripathi Paper Mills near Sivakasi. The new plant at the government hospital in Aruppukottai would produce 1,000 litres of oxygen a minute and it would provide uninterrupted oxygen supply to 150 to 200 patients. The Ministers added that the Public Works Department had set up 175 beds with oxygen supply. They also inspected a 24-hour vaccination centre run on the GH premises. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, Aruppukottai Revenue Divisional Officer Kalyankumar, Joint Director of Health Services R. Manoharan, Aruppukottai Tahsildar Ravichandran and Chief Medical Officer Venkateswaran were among those who were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-generator-inaugurated-at-aruppukottai-govt-hospital/article36313331.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Karnataka allows Ganesha festival, while A.P. slaps a ban||The State government has relaxed curbs on public celebration of Ganesha Chaturthi festival and allowed placing one Ganesha idol in one ward in the limits of city corporations, including Bengaluru, and restricted the number of people to 20at a time. In the wake of COVID-19, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday chaired a crucial meeting with his Cabinet colleagues and experts and permitted public celebrations of the festival only for five days. The authorities have imposed over a dozen restrictions on public celebrations of the festival that falls on Friday (September 10). The government in its revised guidelines clearly stated that the height of the idols placed at public places and in houses should not be more than 4 ft and 2 ft, respectively. Organisers have to obtain permission from the local municipal authorities/local authorities for placing idols in public places. Organisers or committee members have to produce COVID-19 negative reports and vaccination certificates to authorities to seek permission to place idols in public places.  The Deputy Commissioners of border districts had been empowered to take decisions on granting permission to public celebrations of the festival depending on the COVID-19 cases. Permission would not be given in places which have more than 2 per cent of COVID-19 positive cases, according to Revenue Minister R. Ashok. The revised guidelines said organisers had been instructed to hold COVID-19 vaccination camps at places of public celebrations. Placing idols should not cause inconvenience to the public and movement of the people and not give rise to law and order problems. Idols of Ganesha should be placed on the permitted locations and pandals to be erected on 50x50 sq ft area in city corporation limits, Mr. Ashok said. The guidelines said all types of cultural and entertainment programmes were strictly prohibited during the festival. Processions had been banned during taking of idols to houses or public places for worship and during immersion. Idols had to be immersed at the designated tanks/ponds/mobile tanks identified by the local authorities. Public places where idols would be kept for worship should be sanitised and arrangements made for thermal scanning and sanitisation for devotees visiting temples. Wearing face masks and maintaining social distance of 6 ft were mandatory for devotees visiting temples/public places, guidelines said. The Minister said the government had strictly barred placing of idols on the premises of schools and colleges during the festival. No celebrations would be allowed after 9 p.m. Night curfew has been imposed in the State from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. It may be noted that several BJP leaders and legislators and a few organisations had urged the government to allow public celebrations of the festival.  ‘Celebrate for 11 days’  Though the government has announced various restrictions, a doubt has arisen on their strict enforcement as BJP MLA for Belagavi North Anil Benake has released a video on his social media handles telling people in Belagavi to celebrate the festival for 11 days, as per the Hindu cultural practices. “The CM has announced some restrictions for the festivals and said that it can be celebrated only for five days. But the practice in Belagavi is that we celebrate it for 11 days. We will continue the tradition this year too. The only thing is that we need to follow all COVID-19 protocols properly. I want to assure the Ganesh Mandal members and other devotees that they can celebrate the 11 day festival without any problems. You can be bindaas about it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karnataka-allows-ganesha-festival-while-ap-slaps-a-ban/article36313058.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation shortlists 10 themes for Singara Chennai 2.0||The Greater Chennai Corporation has shortlisted 10 themes for the implementation of Singara Chennai 2.0, at an estimated cost of Rs. 300 crore, to make the city beautiful, sustainable and climate resilient. Residents’ associations have started sending suggestions to the civic body about projects under the themes: heritage and culture, beautification, education, cleanliness, greenery, wellness, safety, water security, smart civic solutions and tourism friendly aspects. “The Corporation will get Rs. 300 crore and the Metrowater will get Rs. 200 crore for Singara Chennai 2.0. The draft of the vision document is ready. The government order is expected shortly,” an official said. Once the government order is issued for the Corporation components of Singara Chennai 2.0, the civic body is expected to take up projects to give heritage buildings a makeover. Under the theme ‘Ezhilmigu Chennai’, a redesign of roads, an intelligent traffic management system and dynamic lighting of heritage buildings are expected to be implemented shortly. Landscaping of unutilised spaces under Pantheon Road Bridge, IIT Bridge, Moopanar Bridge (Cenotaph Road), Kathipara Junction and Koyambedu Junction will also be implemented. In addition to this, multilevel car parks will be built at the Broadway bus terminus and Richards Park, Saidapet. Eco-parks planned A few of the identified projects under the theme ‘Pasumai Chennai’ include eco-parks in Madhavaram lake, Raman Thangal lake, Anai Eri, Chinna Chekkadu, Kadappa lake, Kolathur Thangal and Narayanapuram lake. Urban forests have been proposed in biomining areas, such as Athipattu, Perungudi, Pallikarannai, Sathangadu and Kodingaiyur. Under another theme, ‘Neermigu Chennai’, 25 waterbodies will be restored with waterfront beautification, improving groundwater recharge and attracting tourists. Niranjana R., urban research scholar from Chennai who is based at the London School of Economics, said, “In all these plans, and particularly for the work on waterways, the explicitly stated aim to deliver social, environmental and anti-caste justice is much required to avoid further eviction and displacement of the oppressed caste and working class communities. We also need to build a ‘Socially Just Chennai’.” Corporation officials said the aim is to improve public health in the city by appropriate solid waste disposal and providing access to clean and hygienic public toilets. Public toilets “Public toilets play an important role in improving the livability index of a city. It also minimises the spread of communicable diseases. Hence, public toilet facilities in Chennai will be improved by the refurbishment of existing facilities and the construction of new ones,” an official from the Corporation said. Currently, the city has only around 800 public toilets. Velachery West AGS Colony Residents’ Welfare Association secretary Geetha Ganesh said awards or points-based reduction in property taxes and parking charges and some discount for residents who consistently follow source segregation could be entertained by the Corporation. “Eco-friendly public spaces around waterways and waterbodies, eco-parks around lakes with boating facilities and creation of small natural habitats for birds could make the city more attractive,” Ms. Ganesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-shortlists-10-themes-for-singara-chennai-20/article36313202.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nipah: fever surveillance stepped up on border||After a 12-year-old boy succumbed to the Nipah virus in Kerala, Tamil Nadu has stepped up fever surveillance in its border areas. “As soon as we received information about the boy being affected by Nipah infection this morning, we informed health officials, Deputy Directors and Joint Directors of Health — from nine districts sharing borders with Kerala,” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian told reporters on Sunday, after an event held to distribute assistance to beneficiaries in Saidapet constituency. “In addition to this, we have shared information about the virus and have asked officials to hold fever camps and take up testing in the border areas among those coming by road — whether on two-wheelers or four-wheelers,” he said. Earlier, when Zika virus cases surfaced in Kerala, fever camps were held in the border areas to screen those coming from Kerala, he said, adding that COVID-19 prevention measures were already in place in these border districts. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, in a message to Collectors and health teams, said the border districts, as part of fever surveillance, should cover all communicable diseases, especially Zika and now, the Nipah virus infection. While Deputy Directors of Health Services were alerted, officials have also been also told to keep local bodies in these districts informed about the diseases. New variant On a new COVID-19 variant identified in South Africa, the Minister said the international airport in Chennai had installed thermal scanning equipment and put in place an RT-PCR testing facility that could provide results in 13 minutes. “We are vigilant, and there is no need to worry,” he said. The Minister later travelled by a suburban train from Chennai Beach to the Guindy railway station to check the adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. MLAs Thayagam Kavi and A.M.V. Prabhakara Raja were present with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nipah-fever-surveillance-stepped-up-on-border/article36313167.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents lend a hand in beautification of crematorium||A residents welfare association and a voluntary organisation have joined hands and spruced up the crematorium at the Officers’ Colony in Anna Nagar Western Extension. Illegal parking of vehicles and dumping of garbage had turned the place into an eyesore. To change this, the Anna Nagar Western Extension Phase I Residents’ Welfare Association decided to paint the walls with colourful sketches conveying socially relevant messages. Association president V. Rajagopal said, “We decided to clean the space with the help of the Greater Chennai Corporation and approached Karam Korpom, a city-based non-governmental organisation, to do up the compound wall.” The association has decided to plant saplings along the wall for a width of five feet and and maintain it to prevent misuse of the space, he said. Residents, however, said the crematorium too needed maintenance and have taken up the issue with the civic body. Community involvement Several residents were involved in the painting of the walls for four days. Uma Shivakumar, one of the founding trustees of Karam Korpom, said a similar initiative had been taken in many other areas in the city, including Mandaveli, R.A. Puram and Thiruvanmiyur, in association with the educational institutions and residents welfare associations. “We engage residents of the area in such activities to create a sense of ownership of the space, focus on maintenance and spread awareness,” Ms. Uma added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-lend-a-hand-in-beautification-of-crematorium/article36313196.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Another dull year for artisans at Kosapet||For the second consecutive year, artisans of Kosapet are struggling to sell idols for the Vinayaka Chaturthi festival. Many are left with a huge unsold stock carried forward from 2020. The artisans say the order books are lean, and business is likely to be down 50% this year. “Last year, we made over 5,000 idols and sold only half of them. The remaining pieces are here,” K. Kumar says, pointing to idols wrapped in old papers and kept in shelves. “We are clearing this stock first, and we are making some new idols too, depending on the orders.” Mr. Kumar, who has been in this trade for the past 34 years, says the sales were low for Krishna Jayanthi too. For the last one year, many artisans have been struggling to repay bank loans, which they had taken in 2019. Many have pledged gold jewels with local pawnbrokers, while the others have borrowed money at a huge interest, he says. Until last month, the artisans were optimistic. But Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s announcement that installation of Vinayaka idols at public places would be banned to prevent the spread of COVID-19 has dampened their spirits. “After this announcement, retailers who had placed orders with us are asking us to reduce the number of pieces. And since many of them have done business with us for decades, we oblige,” says one of the artisans. Raw material rates have zoomed, adding to their trouble. For instance, the cost of clay (per vehicle), which stood at Rs. 4,500 last year, is now Rs. 7,000. The artisans source clay from Periyapalayam, 40 km north of Chennai. The cost of paint, used for colouring the idols, has increased by Rs. 20-Rs. 30 a litre. Finding labour has become a challenge. In the last 10 years, many families at Kosapet have started quitting the trade, and artisans now depend on workers who have little experience but charge more. S. Manikandan, another old-timer, has cut down on production. “Last year, I made idols. But this year, I’m being cautious and doing only the moulding work,” he says. The pandemic has almost killed this industry. “Earlier consignments went to the neighbouring States and districts. But now we are selling in and around Chennai only.” Order size slashed D. Vasu, a retailer from the Ayanavaram market, was at Kosapet to pick up stocks ahead of the festival, which falls on September 10. He has slashed his order size this year. “I have been coming here for over 25 years. But I’m picking up only 150 idols this time [as against 300-500 pieces earlier],” he says. “Unsold stocks get cleared during navaratri but even navaratri has become a low-key event because of the pandemic.” This year, artisans have focused on smaller idols priced at Rs. 50-Rs. 100 (wholesale price). With consumers tightening their belt, artisans do not want to experiment with bigger idols. S. Nagarajan, an artisan, says, “We usually make idols which are 2 feet high. But now we are focusing on idols which are one foot or one-and-a-half feet.” A 70-year-old artisan is busy putting the finishing touches on tiny idols of 4-5 inches. “A trend we noticed last year was many people were picking up smaller idols, which they can immerse in water at home and in their gardens. So I’m making 200 such pieces for this season,” she says. The few artisans who remain are worried that the hub could become a thing of the past in another 3-5 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-dull-year-for-artisans-at-kosapet/article36313205.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu logs 1,592 fresh COVID-19 infections||As many as 1,592 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Sunday. Five districts — Coimbatore, Chennai, Chengalpattu, Erode and Tiruvallur — accounted for nearly 45% of the fresh cases. Fresh infections continued to fluctuate in some parts. The day’s count was a small rise from 1,575 the previous day. While the daily tally stood at 229 in Coimbatore, there were 165 fresh cases in Chennai. In Chengalpattu, infections rose from 99 the previous day to 127. There were 104 cases in Erode, while Tiruvallur saw 84. Tiruppur recorded 81 cases, while Thanjavur saw a further dip 70 people tested positive. There were 62 cases in Namakkal, 58 in Salem and 56 in Tiruchi. Six districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 26,22,678. Tamil Nadu recorded another 18 deaths due to COVID-19, taking the toll to 35,018. No deaths were reported in 25 of the 38 districts. These included Coimbatore and Erode. Among the remaining districts, there were two deaths each in Dharmapuri, Madurai, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruvannamalai, while Chennai saw one fatality. Thirteen of the deceased had co-morbidities. Among the deceased were two people in their 40s who did not have co-morbidities. Another 1,607 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,71,378. The State’s active caseload stood at 16,282. In the last 24 hours, 1,62,119 samples were tested. A total of 3,64,965 people were vaccinated on Sunday, taking the total coverage in government centres to 3,31,84,824. Among those inoculated were 2,36,172 people in the 18-44 age group and 99,091 people aged 45 to 59.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-logs-1592-fresh-covid-19-infections/article36313170.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK may witness another round of churning||The principal opposition party, AIADMK, may witness another round of churning soon, if one is to go by the impact generated by the meetings that former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala and AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran separately had last week with AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, to condole the death of his wife. Several sections of office-bearers and members of the AIADMK and the AMMK say the unexpected end of the AIADMK leader’s wife has brought the camps of Mr. Panneerselvam and Ms. Sasikala-Mr. Dhinakaran, closer. “It is nothing but a reunification of the leaders,” a functionary of the AIADMK from the southern region said. Though the talk of rapprochement between Mr. Panneerselvam and Ms. Sasikala existed during the run-up to the Assembly election in April, the difference this time is that the contact between the two camps took place publicly, amid media glare. While Ms. Sasikala visited the AIADMK coordinator at a private hospital in Chennai, where the latter’s wife died last Wednesday, Mr. Dhinakaran called on him later in the day in Periyakulam, Theni district, where the cremation took place. “You no longer have to speculate whether the two camps are in touch with each other,” the functionary said. It was for the first time in the last four years that the three leaders met. In February 2017, a few days after then Chief Minister Mr. Panneerselvam took part in a meeting of legislators to elect Ms. Sasikala as leader of the legislature party, he revolted against her. Five months later, he met Mr. Dhinakaran at the residence of a “common friend” in the city. In August that year, he joined hands with AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who was chosen by Ms. Sasikala to succeed Mr. Panneerselvam six months earlier, and became the Deputy Chief Minister. When M. Natarajan, Ms. Sasikala’s husband, died in March 2018, no one from the AIADMK condoled his death. What did not go unnoticed now was the absence of Mr. Palaniswami and his supporters during the meeting between Ms. Sasikala and Mr. Panneerselvam at the hospital. “We did not want to be seen there. That was why we left the place much before she arrived,” a former Minister and a prominent member of the former Chief Minister’s camp said. What is adding discomfiture to the camp is that the latest development has happened when the police is conducting further investigation into the Kodanad Estate heist-cum-murder case. According to the opposition party, an attempt is being made to implicate Mr. Palaniswami in the case, even though Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has stated that there is “no political motive” behind the move. Last month, protesting against the Speaker’s decision in the Assembly to disallow a plea of the Leader of the Opposition to raise a matter in connection with the case, the AIADMK boycotted the proceedings. A functionary of the AMMK expects “exciting political events” to happen after the wedding of Mr. Dhinakaran’s daughter in the middle of this month. However, much depends on whether Ms. Sasikala is able to tilt the scales within the party either in favour of her or Mr. Panneerselvam, considering that currently Mr. Palaniswami is deemed to have greater clout within the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-may-witness-another-round-of-churning/article36313172.ece
06 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Softening the DMK’s pro-atheist image||In a short time, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department, which used to confine its activities to temple administration, has turned into one of the most important arms of the DMK government, “waging an ideological war”. Questions are being raised on whether the department and its proactive Minister, P.K. Sekarbabu, are the DMK’s answer to criticism that it is a party dominated by atheists, who make light of the role of temples. “It is an indirect answer to the critics,” said K. Thirunavukkarasu, a historian of the Dravidian movement. “Activities of Mr. Sekarbabu have proved that the DMK government has drawn a clear line between ideological moorings of the party and the duties of a welfare State,” he said. The DMK, as a mainstream party, faces two challenges in a highly polarised enviroment in the country. Leaders of its arch-rival, AIADMK — from MGR to Jayalalithaa and O. Panneerselvam to Edappadi K. Palaniswami — never made secret of their religious faith. Of late, the BJP and some Hindu outfits have tried attracting Hindu voters critical of the DMK’s avowed atheist ideology. Ever since it returned to power in May, the DMK government has been under compulsion to strike a balance between the aspirations of the devotees, longing for improvement in the administration of temples, and a section that is particular about introducing reforms. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has headlong tread into an area, the appointment of priests from all castes, where others, including his father M. Karunanidhi, have had to think twice before entering. He brought to fruition the all-community archaka policy, introduced by his father. The dual tasks of silencing the conservatives and winning the confidence of devotees was left to Mr. Sekarbabu, whose day-to-day activities seem to have taken the wind out of the sail of Hindutva forces. However, writer V. Geetha disagrees with the view that DMK was under compulsion to pay attention to temple administration. “They might be doing it strategically. They are sending a message that one need not be wedded to Hindutva ideology to intervene in the functioning of Hindu temples. Temples have been administered by the State at different moments in history, after all. The DMK government appears to want to invoke the long history of the Dravidian movement in this context,” she said. The Justice party and the independent Ministry under Subbaroyan argued for secular control of public funds made over to temples, and supported unfettered temple entry. “We know that the DMK has abjured atheism as a political policy, and has upheld the unity of faiths. But their leading thinkers did not entirely give up their public critique of religious power and wealth, at least until the 1960s. The AIADMK’s leadership was less invested in this sort of critique, and were more resolutely ‘Hindu’. The DMK is trying to connect perhaps to an older political lineage, which viewed temples as both places of worship and as public spaces, supported by public funds and public labour,” she said. The announcements made by Mr. Sekarbabu in the Assembly on Saturday, particularly that of launching 10 arts and science colleges, a major task even for the Higher Education Department, have taken many by surprise. Immense wealth in the possession of temples, has made it possible for the Minister to come out with such projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/softening-the-dmks-pro-atheist-image/article36313174.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGP pays homage to SI who died on duty||Tamil Nadu Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu on Sunday visited the house of a sub-inspector, who died while on duty, and paid his respects. Sub-inspector Gopinath collapsed and died while on duty at the Secretariat on Saturday. Police personnel rushed him to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. Mr. Babu, accompanied by Additional Commissioner of Police (South) N. Kannan, visited the bereaved family at their home to express his condolences. Solatium announced On Saturday, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin expressed his condolences and announced a solatium of Rs. 5 lakh to the family from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-pays-homage-to-si-who-died-on-duty-at-secretariat/article36313189.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Is the govt. pulling a balancing act between two communities?||The DMK government’s proposal to construct a memorial for Ayothidoss Pandithar, a Dalit scholar and reformer, just a day after it announced the construction of a manimandapam for the 21 people killed in a police firing during a protest demanding reservation for Vanniyars, is being seen as a balancing act between the two communities that are dominant vote banks and at loggerheads in north Tamil Nadu. It is to be noted that in Tamil Nadu every leader, including freedom fighters, has been appropriated by caste organisations. Political leaders, however, countered such suggestions, saying that the government’s decision was not shaped by narrow political consideration. “The struggle for reservation is an integral part of social justice, and attaching caste colour to it is unfortunate. The memorial is a long-pending demand,” said T. Velmurugan, leader of the Tamilaga Vazhurimai Katchi (TVK), one among those who had made a strong case for the memorial. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who made the announcement in the Assembly, referred to those killed as “martyrs” and “fighters of social justice”. He said it was a promise he had made during the bypoll to Vikravandi in 2019, and reiterated that it was the duty of a government to secure the rights of an oppressed community. Dravida Iyakka Tamilar Peravai general secretary Suba. Veerapandian said attributing motives to the government was inevitable in a society riddled with castes. “The divide is so deep that people make frantic searches to find out the caste of sportspersons when they win medals in international events,” he said. Mr. Velmurugan said the memorial should not be viewed as a reward for a particular community, since their struggle paved the way for the inclusion of a lot of other communities in the list of Most Backward Classes and one cannot say that they died just for the cause of Vanniyars. “It is my request to the government that it should use Rs. 2 crore to construct the memorial and the rest for building houses for the families of those who were killed. It will be a fitting tribute,” he said. He also rejected the contention that participants of a struggle marred by violence should not be recognised by the government. He said struggles for social justice and liberation across the world had inevitably witnessed violence. Viduthalai Chiruthaikal Katchi (VCK) MP D. Ravikumar said the legacy of Ayothidoss, a social reformer and pioneer of the Dravidian ideology, could not be confined to a particular community. “The Chief Minister also made an announcement to honour freedom fighter V.O. Chidambaram. Will you say that he belongs to a particular community and the announcement is to please the group in which he was born into?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/is-the-govt-pulling-off-a-balancing-act-between-two-communities/article36313180.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna Nagar Western Extension residents want canal cleaned up ahead of monsoon||Some residents of Anna Nagar Western Extension want the floodwater canal in their locality to be cleaned up ahead of the northeast monsoon. They complained that the canal had been reduced to a sewage carrier over the years. Residents of Jeevan Bima Nagar, which is located in the neighbourhood, alleged that sewage lines from neighbouring localities were connected to the canal running along their area. The sewage stagnation posed a health hazard to residents of apartment complexes abutting the canal. Many complained that they kept windows and doors closed to avoid the stench and mosquitoes. Though some maintenance work was done earlier this year, sewage continued to flow in the canal. The Jeevan Bima Nagar Residents’ Association has made representations to the authorities concerned to clean the canal and cover it to avoid further misuse. J.M.S. Nagarjunan, vice-president, Anna Nagar Western Extension Residents’ Welfare Association, said the nullah carried floodwater from Ambattur Industrial Estate and travelled through areas, including Padi and Jeevan Bima Nagar, before it joined Cooum river near Rail Nagar. Poor maintenance of the canal, which has shrunk in size due to encroachments, was one of the reasons for the waterlogging of Ambattur Industrial Estate during the monsoon. He recalled that the canal was originally 40 ft wide. The association has filed a case at the Madras High Court to remove encroachments and stop the dumping of garbage. Sources in the Metrowater said work was being taken up to improve the capacity of sewer lines in the area and repair maintenance holes. Measures would be taken to prevent sewage flow in the canal, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-nagar-western-extension-residents-want-canal-cleaned-up-ahead-of-monsoon/article36313183.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu to hold 10,000 vaccination camps in a day||Tamil Nadu is planning to hold nearly 10,000 vaccination camps, with a target of inoculating 20 lakh people on a single day, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. Noting that the Chief Minister had asked for 10,000 special camps to be held for vaccinate 20 lakh people, the Minister said: “We are making arrangements to organise these camps on September 12. A meeting to discuss the required arrangements will be held with Collectors, joint directors and deputy directors of health services in a day or two.” On September 12, the Minister will visit five to six border districts, starting with Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Virudhunagar, to check on the arrangements for the camps. Stating that there were three achievements for the Health Department, he said, “With last night, the total number of vaccinated people in the State has reached 3,50,20,070. This is a milestone. Yesterday, we achieved the highest single-day coverage, since January 16, when vaccination was rolled out, as 6,20,255 people got the jabs,” he said. Largest vaccine supply The State also received the largest supply of vaccines from the Union government on Sunday. Two consignments of Covishield — one with 9 lakh doses and another with 10,22,080 — were received. “We had represented the need for additional vaccines to cover the population of nine districts that share borders with Kerala during our meeting with the Union Health Minister,” Mr. Subramanian said. Inoculating residents of border districts will help tackle the rise in COVID-19 cases in Kerala, he said, adding that this supply came after this demand was accepted by the Union government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-to-hold-10000-vaccination-camps-in-a-day/article36313168.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Coal shortage leads to jump in power prices on energy exchanges||The coal shortage among thermal power plants across the country has led to a surge in spot market prices in power exchanges. Tangedco buys about 2,500 MW power from the exchanges to meet its peak demand needs. The trading in power exchanges happen in 15 minute blocks and prices keep changing based on the demand. According to data available the on Indian Energy Exchange website, from September 1 to 5, the spot power prices in the region, comprising Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, were over Rs. 8-Rs. 9 per unit during evening hours in some of blocks. For this period, the daily average price for the evening hours was nearly Rs. 5 per unit. In the comparable period in September 2020, the daily average price for evening hours was only Rs. 3.98 per unit.  Tangedco’s own thermal power plant capacity is 4320 MW. According to official data from the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), as on September 3, the North Chennai thermal plant, which has a capacity of 1,830 MW, has coal stock for 23 days. The Mettur Power Stations I and II, which have a total capacity of 1,440 MW, have coal stock for two and 13 days respectively. The Tuticorin thermal plant, which has a capacity of 1,050 MW, has coal stock for seven days. Coal stock As per CEA norms, the coal stock is at critical levels if it is less than seven days and supercritical if it is less than four days. The Indian Energy Exchange has said growth in economic and industrial activities had led to the increase in demand for power on the one hand; on the other, the supply side constraints, such as high cost of imported coal and LNG as well as lower wind power generation, led to the increase in the electricity prices discovered on the exchange. Tamil Nadu has aggregate installed power generation capacity of 32,646 MW, including wind and solar capacity of 13,128 MW. The maximum availability of power during peak requirement is only 1,4351 MW as against the peak demand of 16,846 MW, according to data provided by the State government. The Centre has told the States to look at import of coal to meet the requirements for thermal plants and explore the possibility of operating more gas-based plants during the peak hour to tide over the crisis.  The Centre has told the States to look at import of coal to meet the requirements for thermal plants and explore the possibility of operating more gas-based plants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coal-shortage-leads-to-jump-in-power-prices-on-energy-exchanges/article36313203.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGO will train students to make nest boxes||Koodugal, a voluntary organisation working towards sparrow conservation, has launched a programme to train students on nest boxes. It would host various online competitions for students and teachers to spread awareness on nature conservation from Sunday till October 2. D. Ganeshan, convenor of the Koodugal trust, said the online programme was organised along with Lennox International to conduct workshops on making 1,000 nest boxes. The organisation had distributed about 2,250 nest boxes in many parts of north Chennai. “We plan to conduct workshops in schools and in five villages of Krishnagiri district. This will be a vocational skill training for students and awareness on sparrow conservation. The nest boxes will be distributed in other districts such as Kancheepuram and Thanjavur,” he said. As an effort to encourage schoolchildren to be part of environment conservation, contests, including an art competition and e-talk on nature and sustainable ideas, would be held online. Teachers could take part in a contest on National Education Policy. Contestants can win prizes worth Rs. 20,000, Mr. Ganeshan said. For registrations, log on towww.tweet.koodugal.orgor contact 9600499699.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngo-will-train-students-to-make-nest-boxes/article36313197.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Post office sovereign gold bond scheme gains patronage||The Department of Posts is gaining more investors for its sovereign gold bond scheme, which was introduced as an alternative to physical gold. The scheme is offered in tie-up with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Post offices across the State received investment for nearly 33.46 kg of gold across the State in the recent series. Officials of the Postal Department said post offices open the sale for five days whenever RBI announces the tranche. In the five series announced so far this fiscal, the post offices brought in investment to the tune of Rs. 35.49 crore and nearly 73,930g. The department too got revenue of nearly Rs. 35 lakh for more subscription to the scheme. “Many customers moved to investment in the scheme as most of them found this to be a safe option during the pandemic,” said an official. The department has gained investment for nearly 485 kg of gold since the scheme was launched in 2015. The bonds shared by RBI would be provided on payment either in cash, demand draft or cheque. Customers may invest minimum of one g to maximum of four kg in a year. While the maturity period of the bond would be eight years, customers have an option to close after fifth year of investment. Interest of 2.5% per year would be provided for the initial value of gold when the investment is made. The value of gold is calculated based on the rates a few days before the subscription, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-office-gold-bond-scheme-gains-patronage/article36313185.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for smuggling rice near Ponneri||Officers of the Civil Supplies CID seized a goods carrier carrying 100 bags of rice meant for the public distribution system (PDS) on Saturday night in Aladu village, near Ponneri, Tiruvallur. Two people, including a re-employed ration staffer, were arrested for attempting to smuggle the rice to Andhra Pradesh. Acting on a tip-off, a special team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police S. John Sundar conducted a search at a house in the village. The team intercepted a goods carrier which was about to go to Andhra Pradesh. They found that the vehicle was loaded with 100 bags of PDS rice, weighing 50 kg each. The police seized five tonnes of rice from the duo — M. Dhamodharan, 61, of Tadaperumbakkam, and M. Selvaraj, 23, of Medhur, from Ponneri Taluk. Dhamodharan had been re-employed at a ration shop in Pallavan Nagar after his retirement, and Selvaraj was the driver-cum-owner of the goods carrier. They were remanded in judicial custody. Police said the suspects diverted the rice meant for public distribution and stocked it at a house. The investigation revealed that they were also collecting PDS rice from surrounding areas and selling it in Andhra Pradesh, where the rice would be polished and sent back to the market, said sources. Smuggling by boat Last week, the Civil Supplies CID arrested a father-son duo, who attempted to smuggle nine tonnes of PDS rice on boats headed to Andhra Pradesh. The accused were identified as R. Murthy, 53, and Rajkumar, 23, from Tada, Nellore. They were found carrying the rice on two boats from Santhankuppam, near Pulicat. Police have launched a search for Prasanth, who is suspected to be the main suspect in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-smuggling-ration-rice-near-ponneri/article36313192.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five youths killed as car rams stationary lorry in Perungalathur||Five youngsters were killed when the car they were travelling in rammed a stationary lorry at Perungalathur, near Chennai, in the early hours of Sunday. Police sources said the victims included mechanical engineering graduates and the driver of the car. The graduates had come to Chennai to attend job interviews on Monday. The deceased were identified as Raja Harris, 23, and his driver Naveen, 23, of Mettur, Ajay, 23, of Tiruchi, Rahul, 22, of Pudukottai, and Arvind Shankar, 23, of K.K. Nagar. Completely mangled A senior police officer said CCTV footage showed the car was driven in a rash manner. At 1.55 a.m, the car rammed a lorry from the rear on GST Road, near Perungalathur. In the impact, the roof of the car broke open. As the driver lost control of the vehicle, it veered to the left and ploughed into a parked trailer lorry carrying iron rods. The car was completely mangled and caught under the lorry. Passersby alerted the police and the Fire and Rescue Services. Police personnel from the Traffic Investigation division, Chromepet, reached the spot. Fire station personnel from Tambaram also joined the rescue effort. After a two-hour struggle, they managed to retrieve the bodies and sent them to the Government General Hospital, Chromepet, for post-mortem. Traffic was affected on the arterial road. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Traffic, South, N. Kumar and other senior officers visited the spot. The Traffic Investigation personnel registered a case against the car driver for driving rashly on a public road and causing death due to negligence. Police sources said Raja Harris, the son of a businessman, had brought the car from Mettur along with his driver. The bodies were handed over to the families of the victims after completion of post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-youth-killed-as-car-rams-parked-lorry/article36313187.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TVS Colony residents want stable power supply||A section of residents in Anna Nagar Western Extension want the new ring main unit (RMU) installed in place of a transformer to be commissioned without delay to prevent power disruptions in their locality. The residents have been demanding an RMU for several years, and Tangedco, as part of power infrastructure work, had proposed to install an RMU last year. However, the announcement of the Assembly election and the lockdown delayed the work. K. Rajagopal, a resident, said they were facing frequent power disruption because of technical snags in the old transformer. Tangedco officials had installed the RMU to replace the old transformer on TVS Avenue Main Road but the delay in commissioning of the RMU resulted in power cuts. He wanted the electricity officials to speed up the process. A senior official of the south circle of Tangedco said the RMU installed in TVS Colony had not been energised as the Assembly was in session. The restrictions for taking up maintenance shutdown, particularly during the Assembly session, had resulted in delay of several RMUs and other development work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tvs-colony-residents-want-stable-power-supply/article36313194.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cooum’s restoration likely to be completed soon||Work on the restoration of the Cooum river, including wall construction and plugging of sewage outfalls, is expected to be completed ahead of the monsoon. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi will inspect the Cooum wall construction work in Chetpet on Monday. Work is under way in areas such as Chetpet, where a few encroachments have been reported. Most of the sewage outfalls along the Cooum river are expected to be plugged shortly. A few patches of greenery will be developed along the river this year. More waterfront development is likely to be taken up later. Pollution in the Cooum river is expected to reduce after the development of sewage treatment plants along the river. Dumping of construction debris continues in areas such as College Road. Civic officials said a fine of Rs. 5,000 would be levied for dumping waste in waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cooums-restoration-likely-to-be-completed-soon/article36313199.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK’s black flag protest||The DMK and its allies have announced a black-flag protest on September 20 to highlight the BJP-led Union government’s refusal to cancel the farm laws, hike in fuel prices, privatisation, unemployment and the current economic crisis. It will be held in front of the members’ houses. A statement by the Chief Minister, the TNCC president and other leaders said at a meeting chaired by Congress leader Sonia Gandhi it was decided that protests would be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmks-black-flag-protest/article36313175.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 held for snatching chains, phones||The police on Sunday arrested three persons, including a juvenile, in connection with a series of chain/mobile phone snatching incidents in Triplicane, Chintadripet and Egmore. A team traced and arrested Kirubanandan, 19; Paul Siva alias Sivakumar, 20; and a 17-year-old. They recovered gold chains and four bikes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-held-for-snatching-chains-phones/article36313190.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||LAX/Briefly||An Aadhaar enrolment and updation centre was recently inaugurated at the Railway Mail Services office in the Chengalpattu railway station. The centre will operate from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. so that passengers can avail themselves of its services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/laxbriefly/article36313181.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation identifies 35,000 shops in D&O licence net expansion exercise||Coimbatore Corporation has so far identified around 35,000 commercial establishments in an exercise to widen and strengthen the Dangerous and Offensive (D&O) Trade Licence net. Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara said a few days ago that the Corporation had entrusted to field survey volunteers, whom it had engaged for door-to-door survey as a part of COVID-19 management strategy, the responsibility of identifying all commercial establishments in the city and collecting their Licence data. The volunteers who had so far visited each of the 35,000 shops and establishments in the city continued to go to every place even though the Corporation’s deadline for the task was August 31. During the course of the data collection exercise it had come to light that many establishments did not have a valid licence or had let the licence lapse and in a few cases the shopkeepers had not paid licence fee for at least a decade. After completing the data collection exercise, the Corporation would verify the data with the information it had to update it by removing data of shops or commercial establishments that no longer existed. Likewise, the Corporation would start asking those commercial establishments without valid D&O Trade Licence to get one and those with expired licence to renew. This was a part of the Corporation’s exercise to not only boost revenue but also migrate the data from it servers to the facility used the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration, Urban Tree Information System. The Corporation had recently migrated property tax, water charges details to the system. Likewise, the Corporation had also started the exercise to collect property tax dues, Mr. Sunkara said. The civic body had divided the property tax assessments into various groups depending on the tax value and arrears amount. It had assigned bill collectors, assistant revenue officers and assistant commissioners of the five zones and the deputy commissioner with the task of going after each of the assessee to collect the arrears. The bill collectors would go after those assessments with low property tax the assistant revenue officers with the next level of tax and arrears and finally the deputy commissioner with the high-value assessments. As a part of this exercise, the Corporation had started also looking at collecting arrears from those assessments where it had to issue proceedings or complete minor formalities following court orders. For, there had been instances where even after favourable verdicts, the Corporation’s failure to complete formalities had resulted in the assessee not able to pay tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-identifies-35000-shops-in-do-licence-net-expansion-exercise/article36313245.ece
06 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Snares to trap birds found at Achankulam||Nature enthusiasts who went to Achankulam near Coimbatore on Saturday found snares meant to trap birds. The snares made of nylon threads were removed from the shore of the tank and destroyed based on the advice from the Forest Department. V. Chithran, a nature enthusiast from Singanallur, found the snares on the shore of the tank when he went to the place for bird watching along with his friend on Saturday. “The snares were found when I was photographing a common sandpiper, a shore bird, from distance using telephoto lens. While trying to focus on the bird, I found multiple nooses dangling from a rope which was tied tightly between two stumps. Later we went to the location and confirmed that it was placed by miscreants to trap birds,” he said. Mr. Chithran, who often hands over snakes he rescued from his locality to the Forest Department, immediately alerted Coimbatore range office about the snares. The snares were removed from the shore and destroyed on the advice of the department staff, he said. “The owner of a farm from the locality told us that unknown persons come to the shore in the evening with headlights and lay traps for birds and hare,” he added. An independent researcher who visits some of the tanks, including Achankulam for the study of water birds, said that the traps could be meant for large birds like pelicans and painted storks. “The poachers could have laid the snares for large birds for meat and not for small shore birds,” said the researcher who did not want to be named. A senior official from the Forest Department said that the laying of traps at the tank will be checked. Snares meant to trap birds and lesser known species like mongoose were earlier found on the bunds of other tanks in Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snares-to-trap-birds-found-at-achankulam/article36313237.ece
06 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Expert team inspects railway lines that link T.N. and Kerala to study elephant deaths||A team of experts from the Project Elephant Division of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) on Saturday inspected railway lines that link Tamil Nadu and Kerala through forest areas of Coimbatore and Palakkad districts to study factors that led to the deaths of many elephants. G. Harikumar, former Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala; K.M. Selvan, Scientist 'D' (Project Elephant); Prajna P. Panda from Project Elephant Division; and Bilal Habib from Wildlife Institute of India inspected railway lines between Palakkad and Madukarai. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had, in July, tasked the Central Monitoring Committee constituted by the MoEFCC dealing with the Project Elephant to look into the deaths of wild elephants on the railway lines connecting the two States. The NGT had taken suo motu cognizance of the deaths of elephants based on the report ‘Night, early morning trains cause most elephant deaths’ carried by The Hindu on May 29, 2021. The report highlighted that trains that plied between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. had caused the deaths of seven out of eight elephants on the two railway lines, A and B, between Kottekad and Madukkarai railway stations in the last five years. K. Vijayananthan, Chief Conservator of Forests, Eastern Circle, Palakkad; D. Venkatesh, Field Director of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve; T.K. Ashok Kumar, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division; two Assistant Conservators of Forests from Coimbatore and Palakkad and the Senior Divisional Electrical Engineer, (Operation), and the Divisional Engineer of Railways, Palakkad, from the Railways side accompanied the MoEFCC team. The team analysed the reasons for train-hit, mitigation measures taken by Forest Departments in Kerala and Tamil Nadu and the Railways so far, and further course of action to be taken to avoid such incidents in future. Mr. Kumar said that the Railways arranged an inspection car for the exercise which lasted several hours. Mr. Vijayananthan said that a discussion was held following the inspection. “The expert team will submit a report to the MoEFCC, which in turn will submit it to the NGT,” he said. R. Pandiyaraja of Tenkasi district, who accessed the details of elephant deaths on the particular section through the Right to Information Act, welcomed the inspection by the expert team. “The team could have conducted the inspection at night to understand the real problem and practical difficulties faced by the loco pilots. I hope the team would suggest the best solutions to avoid deaths of elephants on railway tracks in future,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expert-team-inspects-railway-lines-to-study-elephant-deaths/article36313230.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. continues to provide evasive reply to RTI queries||A change in Coimbatore Corporation administration, it appears, is not having a bearing on the way the officials reply to queries filed under the Right to Information Act. In response to a query filed by civic activist S.P. Thiyagarajan seeking details of roads built and repaired between 2016 January and 2021 January, an officer had asked the petitioner to download the details from the Corporation website. “You are hereby informed that you may download the details of the roads built and repaired between 2016 January and 2021 January in Central Zone fromwww.ccmc.gov.in,” Assistant Commissioner, Central Zone, V. Parvathi replied. Mr. Thiyagarajan, who had on June 17 sent the RTI petition to the City Engineer, got the reply from the AC, Central Zone, on August 23. The City Engineer had forwarded the RTI petition to the assistant commissioners of the five zones on June 22 asking them to directly reply to the petitioner. Mr. Thiyagarajan. The petitioner said he had sought details of the roads built and repaired – number of roads, location, extent of road built or repaired, estimate, the contractor who executed the work and copy of the work order the Corporation had issued for the work. To date, none of the five assistant commissioners had furnished the information. This only went onto show that very little seemed to have changed in the officers even though there had been a change in administration in the State and Corporation. The officials continued to be evasive in their replies, he said and wondered who they were trying to shield. The petitioner had preferred an appeal before the first appellate officer, the deputy commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-continues-to-provide-evasive-reply-to-rti-queries/article36313264.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||A life convict hones his art skill||A surprise was in store for Coimbatore District Collector G.S. Sameeran when he visited the Coimbatore Central Prison to take part in the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of freedom fighter V.O. Chidambaram Pillai on Sunday. After the function was over, G. Shanmuga Sundaram, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Prisons (Coimbatore range), presented Mr. Sameeran a special gift – a portrait of him drawn by a convict. Mr. Sameeran, who was surprised by the unique gift, took to Twitter to share his excitement. “Visited Coimbatore Central Prison today and it was a pleasant surprise to receive my profile sketch done by one of the ex-inmate of the prison, Mr. BILLA. Such a talented artist he is..I wish to meet him and thank him one day,” the Collector tweeted along with the photo of him receiving the portrait from prison authorities. C. Billa (31), who had been serving life term in the prison, drew the portrait before he was shifted to the Salem Central Prison on August 20. The convict wanted to gift the portrait to the Collector on a previous occasion. However, it did not materialise, said G.B. Senthamaraikannan, Superintendent of the Central Prison. “Billa and a few other convicts showed keen interest in painting. They proved their talent by beautifying several walls on the campus,” said Mr. Senthamaraikannan. A prison department official said that Billa, a native of Namagiripettai near Rasipuram in Namakkal district, learnt the basics of drawing from a co-prisoner. He was lodged in Coimbatore Central Prison for about three years before he was shifted to Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-life-convict-hones-his-art-skill/article36313254.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Municipal Commissioner, police inspector booked||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (V&AC) has booked former Commissioner of Valparai Municipality K. Paunraj and former inspector of Sulur police station R. Thangaraju in separate cases. Paunraj was booked on August 25 for alleged misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs. 15.62 crore that belonged to the municipality. The District Crime Branch (DCB), Coimbatore, had registered a case against him in April this year in connection with the alleged financial misappropriation and the case was transferred to the V&AC recently. Paunraj, who worked as Municipal Commissioner from December, 2019, to March 22, 2021, was placed under suspension from the post after he was booked by the DCB. The action was taken based on a complaint lodged by Saravanakumar, Regional Director of Municipal Administration and Regional Vigilance officer. Paunraj and three others are accused in another case registered by the DCB in July for alleged misappropriation of Rs. 35.78 lakh of the municipality. The V&AC registered a case against former Sulur inspector Thangaraju on September 2 for allegedly acquiring pecuniary resources and properties disproportionate to his known sources of income. The case was registered based on an order from the Tamil Nadu Lokayukta. As per the First Information Report, Thangaraju was in possession and acquired pecuniary resources and properties worth Rs. 73.69 lakh which is disproportionate to his known sources of income during the period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-municipal-commissioner-police-inspector-booked/article36313261.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Steam loco for NMR arrives at Mettupalayam||A coal-fired steam locomotive, which was manufactured by the Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi for the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) services, arrived at the Mettupalayam Junction in Coimbatore district on Sunday. Salem Division of the Southern Railway said in a release that the steam engine will undergo “extensive trial runs in the NMR stretch,” following which it will be inducted into service. Named ‘X-37400’, this is the first ‘X’ Class coal-fired steam locomotive manufactured in India and was flagged off by John Thomas, General Manager of Southern Railway, at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop on August 25. The steam locomotive was dispatched by road from Tiruchi and reached Mettupalayam after nearly 10 days. With a length of 10.38 metres and weighing 50 tonnes, it can hold 3.8 tonnes of coal and its water tank has a capacity of 4,500 litres. The engine has also been fitted with rack and pinion arrangements for its operation in the hilly terrain of the NMR stretch, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steam-loco-for-nmr-arrives/article36313235.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Sale of Volkswagen cars picks up’||Four-wheeler passenger vehicles are seeing revival of demand as the market has picked up after the lockdown last year, according to Ashish Gupta, brand director of Volkswagen Passenger Cars India. The market went through a crisis last year till July. From August, the enquiries and sales have picked up. The consumer buying pattern has shifted to personal mobility rather than public transport and the propensity to spend has increased. With low interest rates, finance availability has improved, he said. Mr. Gupta said the company organised preview for Volkswagen Taigun in Bengaluru and Chennai recently and in Coimbatore on Friday. It will organise similar events in Mumbai, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Chandigarh before the launch in New Delhi on September 23. Over 800 people visited the programme in Bengaluru and Chennai. and Volkswagen Taigun had nearly 200 bookings at the previews held in Bengaluru and Chennai. In Coimbatore, there were walk-ins from Salem and Erode, too. The five southern States constitute nearly 50 % of the market for the company in India for passenger vehicles, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-volkswagen-cars-picks-up/article36313233.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Reduce odour from Vellalore dump yard’||Citizens’ Voice Coimbatore has written to the State government, district administration and the Coimbatore Corporation to initiate steps to control odour from the Vellalore dump yard and forming a committee of experts to ensure proper functioning of sewage treatment plants. In a petition, the organisation said as the odour from the yard was strong, there was a need to control it. The Corporation could do so by planning medicinal plants like vettiver and nannari that produce more oxygen than other plants, it suggested and demanded segregation of waste. Likewise, it called for the constitution of an expert body proper installation of sewage treatment plants to ensure proper functioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reduce-odour-from-vellalore-dump-yard/article36313243.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Major temples to be shut today||Perur Arulmigu Patteeswarar Temple, Marudhamalai Arulmigu Subramanyaswamy Temple, Thekkampatti Arulmigu Vana Bhadrakaliamman Temple and Anamalai Arulmigu Masaniamman Thirukovil would be closed for devotees on September 6 (Monday), said a release from Collector G.S. Sameeran. The restriction was on account of new moon day when devotees thronged the temples, the release said. This was in continuation of the restriction placed on devotees to visit temples on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays and additional restriction placed since September 1. The Collector said the usual rituals in the four temples would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-temples-to-be-shut-today/article36313246.ece
06 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Powerloom job workers considering stopping work||Over two lakh job working powerloom weavers in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts will have no option but to strike work if the stalemate in wage talks continues, according to the weavers. The weavers in the two districts met at Palladam on Sunday and appealed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to take steps to expedite the talks. According to a press release, the textile manufacturers who give orders to the job workers are paying the wages less than what was agreed to seven years ago. In an effort to the revise the wages, six rounds of talks were held by the officials of the Labour Department in the recent weeks. However, the textile manufacturers did not participate in the talks. The Chief Minister should instruct District Collectors of Coimbatore and Tiruppur to hold talks with the stakeholders. If the stalemate in talks continue, the job workers will continue to receive low wages and it is unviable to continue operations. Hence, they will have no option but to consider stopping production, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/powerloom-job-workers-considering-stopping-work/article36313248.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 229 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 229 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, registering a drop from Saturday’s 244 cases. The district had 2,211 active cases of the disease on Sunday and 207 persons recovered. According to the Health Department, Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 2.1 % on Saturday. A total of 81 persons tested positive in Tiruppur district on Sunday. The Department said that 82 persons recovered from COVID-19 in the district on Sunday and it had 754 active cases. The district’s TPR stood at 1.7 % on Saturday when it reported 87 new cases of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-229-new-cases/article36313256.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Small tea growers want higher minimum price||The small and tiny tea growers in the Nilgiris have appealed to the State government to take up modernisation of the Indco tea factories in a “transparent manner”. J.B. Subramanian, president of the Small and Tiny Tea Growers’ Association, the Nilgiris, said in a press release that the State government recently allocated Rs. 68.57 crore to 16 Indco tea factories to be upgraded with modern machinery and infrastructure. There are 30,000 Indco sector small tea growers in the Nilgiris. He claimed that in the first two auctions for the modernisation work, only one bidder turned up at both the auctions and two bidders were in the third auction which was cancelled. It is said that the entire work will be entrusted with one company. The government should instead look at have different persons to take up works in the 16 factories so that the growers and board members can monitor and ensure quality work. “Such a huge work should not be allotted to a single individual / company,” he said. Further, the main demand of the small and tiny tea growers is minimum fair price of Rs. 35 a kg of green tea leaves. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin should give time for the association representatives to meet him and should listen to their grievances so that this issue is resolved, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-tea-growers-seek-higher-minimum-price/article36313247.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||VOC remembered on his 150th birth anniversary||Requests received from ‘Chidambaranar Peravai’ to name Dr. Nanjappa Road and a bridge in Coimbatore after freedom fighter V.O. Chidambaram Pillai will be taken to the attention of the Chief Minister, said Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani here on Sunday. The organisation wanted V.O.C.’s name to be accorded to any of the flyovers already constructed, or a flyover which is to be constructed in future. Repeating the announcement made by the Chief Minister in the Assembly on Friday, Mr. Sakkarapani said that a full-size statue of the freedom fighter will be installed in VOC Park in Coimbatore. “VOC’s birth anniversary is celebrated as a government function as the government wanted the present generation to know about his life and history,” said the Minister after paying respects to the freedom fighter at his memorial on the Coimbatore Central Prison campus on the occasion of his 150th birth anniversary. The Minister, Coimbatore south MLA Vanathi Srinivasan, Coimbatore District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara and jail authorities paid floral tribute to the portrait and the oil press which the freedom fighter was forced to pull while lodged in Coimbatore Central Prison during the freedom struggle. The Minister flagged off a bus with a photo exhibition portraying the life and history of VOC The bus will be taken to schools and colleges for exhibition. G. Shanmuga Sundaram, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Prisons, (Coimbatore range); G.B. Senthamaraikannan, Superintendent of Central Prison; A. Arumugam, Managing Director of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (Coimbatore Division); former Minister Pongalur N. Palanisamy and former Singanallur MLA N. Karthik were present. Leaders and members of different political parties and members of the public also paid respects to VOC on the prison campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voc-remembered-on-his-150th-birth-anniversary/article36313252.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||13 teachers get Radhakrishnan award in Coimbatore||Collector G.S. Sameeran on Sunday presented Dr. Radhakrishnan awards to 13 teachers on the occasion of Teachers’ Day. A release from the district administration said that the Collector presented the awards to N. Balamurugan of Pethanaickenur High School, R. Vijayaraghavan of Kurumbapalayam High School, T. Franklin of Okkiliar Colony Corporation Higher Secondary School, A. Amanullah, Ondipudur Boys Higher Secondary School, K. Indira of Mettupalayam Girls’ Higher Secondary School, M. Lidwin of Othakalmandapam Higher Secondary School, S. Ranjitham of Kamanaickenpalayam P.U.E. School, R. Sathyaprabhadevi of Arumugha Goundanur P.U.M. School, P. Sugunadevi of Onnipalayam P.U.M. School, P. Mahalakshmi of Kalveerampalayam P.U.E. School, V. Geetha of Eripatti P.U.M. School, Maragadham of Chenjeri P.U.M. School and A. Maria Joseph of St. Joseph Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Ondipudur. Honour The release said the district administration honoured the teachers for their contribution towards the betterment of students, school and society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-teachers-get-radhakrishnan-award-in-coimbatore/article36313258.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IndiGo starts booking for direct flight to Goa||IndiGo has started booking for a direct flight from Coimbatore to popular tourist destination Goa. As per the online booking website of the operator, the new non-stop service is scheduled to start from October 31. The onward flight leaves Coimbatore at 22:40 hours and reaches at 00:05 hours in Goa. The return flight departs Goa at 00:35 hours and lands in Coimbatore at 01:55 hours. The non-stop journey between the two cities takes 1.20 to 1.25 hours as per the schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indigo-starts-booking-for-direct-flight-to-goa/article36313263.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly - recreeded||J. Selvan, Managing Director of Kabilan Spinners, has been elected president of The South India Spinners’ Association (SISPA) for 2021-2023. According to a press release, the other office bearers are: vice - presidents: G. Venkatesan of Soundar Textiles, N. Pradeep of Veni Lakshmi Spinners, and R. Arun Karthik of Shanmugha Priya Textiles, secretary: S. Jegadeesh Chandran of High Tech Spinning Mills. Another press release said K. Muthukumar will be the president of The Coimbatore Productivity Council for 2021-2022. The other office bearers are K. Arul and S. Sudhakar (vice-presidents), K. Chitra (secretary), and R. Ravikumar (treasurer).     The Regional Office of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation will conduct “PF Near You” and pension adalat on September 13 through virtual platform. The meeting will be held for subscribers and trade unions from 11 a.m. to noon, for employers from noon to 1 p.m. and for pensioners from 2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. Those who want to attend the meeting should give the details in advance with the PF account number, UAN number, PPO number, name of the establishment, mobile number and e-mail ID. The details should be mailed to ro.coimbatore@epfindia. gov.in or or before September 7.   The Coir Board conducted a webinar on “Coconut to Coir Technologies” on September 2 to commemorate World Coconut Day. A press release from the Board said that speaking at the programme, Alka Nangia Arora, Joint Secretary (ARI), Ministry of MSMEs, emphasised the need for importance to the publicity and supply chain management of the coir products. The board shared information through the webinar, which was attended by nearly 347 people, on products and technologies related to coir and coconut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly-recreeded/article36313249.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly - must||The merit list of candidates who are provisionally selected and candidates who are placed in the waiting list for admission to classes VI and IX at Sainik School Amaravathinagar, for the academic year 2021-2022, have been published. Details are available onwww.sainikschoolamaravathi nagar.edu.in, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly-must/article36313250.ece
06 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for elderly man’s murder in Erode||Erode district police on Saturday arrested a 22-year-old man on charges of murdering an elderly man. According to the police, Gopalan (66), a farmer from Nagamanaikenpalayam, was found dead in a sugar cane field here on September 2. Inappropriate behaviour Kodumudi police recovered the body and arrested Sathish Kumar from Dindigul in connection with the case. According to the police, Gopalan had invited Sathish Kumar to his farm on September 1, and allegedly behaved in an inappropriate manner. Sathish Kumar attacked Gopalan with a liquor bottle and escaped from the place. Superintendent of Police V.Sasimohan appreciated the police for the speedy action in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-elderly-mans-murder-in-erode/article36313339.ece
06 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Control room set up at Erode Collectorate||A 24-hour control room has been set up at the Erode Collectorate for the public to raise grievances, a release said. The public can contact the control room at phone numbers 1077, 0424 – 2260211 and WhatsApp numbers 9791788852, 8870812220.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-room-set-up-at-erode-collectorate/article36313346.ece
06 September 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Row over directive on uniform Mass system||The controversy over the way the Mass is celebrated in the Catholic Syrian Church took a new turn on Sunday with groups of parishioners at several parishes, including at Holy Family Parish Church at Prasannapuram, near Aluva, preventing the reading of a pastoral letter from Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese and head of the Syro-Malabar Church, and burning copies of the letter. The pastoral letter contained a directive from the synod of the Syro-Malabar Church advising priests and parishioners on celebrating the Mass in a uniform way. The uniform way involves celebrating the Mass with the celebrant (priest) facing the congregation during one half and facing the tabernacle (holy of holies and away from the congregation) during the other half. Priests, parishioners, and the faithful from the Ernakulam-Angamaly, Irinjalakuda, and Thrissur dioceses are among those who have opposed this instruction stridently. Submit petition These dioceses are among the ones that have been following a system of celebrating the Mass in which the priest faces the people for the entire duration of rituals. A delegation of more than 500 priests from the three dioceses had submitted a petition to the Syrian Church authorities not to impose the uniform system of celebrating the Mass. Riju Kanjookkaran of Almaya Munnettam, a combine of lay people, the religious, and priests calling for more transparency in the church administration, said 16 parishes had appealed to keep the synod decision on uniform Mass celebration in abeyance. “We have been celebrating the Mass for more than half-a-century facing the people and it will be against the will of the parishioners to impose another system,” said a senior priest of the Syro-Malabar Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly. He said those who opposed the new directive from the synod had gone in appeal before Pope Francis. Until a decision was taken by Rome, the system would remain suspended and the Mass celebrated as earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/row-over-directive-on-uniform-mass-system/article36313207.ece
06 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Teachers donate award money to COVID-19 relief fund||Nine out of the 13 teachers from the district who received the State government’s Dr. Radhakrishnan Award on Teacher’s Day, donated the Rs. 10,000 purse given to them to the Chief Minister’s COVID-19 relief fund. The annual award that recognises excellence among teachers, is presented by the State’s School Education Department. Thirteen teachers from the district who were selected for the award this year were presented with the award - Rs. 10,000, a medal and a citation - at the Collectoate in the presence of Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar and Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. M. Murugeshwari, Headmistress of Government Kallar Primary School in Munduvelampatti, who was among the first few awardees on stage to announce their contribution to the CM’s relief fund, said, “I am happy and proud to have received this prestigious award. Since I have been seeing so many people in my village suffering financially due to the COVID-19 pandemic, I thought I should give away the money to the CM’s COVID-19 relief fund. This is a small contribution from the teaching community to help people return to leading their normal lives.” While congratulating the awardees, Mr. Venkatesan said that teachers played a huge role in shaping children’s lives and hence it was the collective responsibility of all to celebrate them. “It is said that one retains memories of childhood than any other stage in life. Teachers are the people who can shape childhood. Their guidance alone can inspire students toward bigger things. Teacher’s Day is a very emotional day for all of us. Since morning, I have been thinking about teachers who made a difference in my life, particularly about popular scholar Ilankumaranar, who was my school teacher,” he said. Collector’s path Dr. Aneesh Sekhar recalled his childhood days and said his school teachers were the reason he was in this position now. “I was not a topper in primary school. My rank used to be around 35 in a class of 50. My teachers motivated me and explained why studies were important. I started getting better and they are the reason I stand here in front of you now,” he said. He urged the teachers not to give up on students who did not perform well and provide extra attention to those who needed help.  I have been seeing so many people in my village suffering financially due to the COVID-19 pandemic M. Murugeshwari One of the awardees||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-donate-award-money-to-covid-19-relief-fund/article36313478.ece
06 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Headmaster gives away for Keeladi cause||While nine out of the 13 teachers who received Dr. Radhakrishnan Award donated their cash award to the Chief Minister’s COVID-19 relief fund on Sunday, one awardee made it a point to make his contribution to the Archaeological Department that was carrying out the excavation works in Keeladi. Big role S. Arulraj, Headmaster of Poigaikaraipatti Government Higher Secondary School, requested the officials to hand over his Rs. 10,000 cash award for the cause of excavation works undertaken in Keeladi, as he believes that the site plays a significant role in bringing out the history of Tamil society. He said, “The Keeladi excavations have brought to light the possibility that an ancient Tamil civilisation might have existed during the Sangam era. I feel happy that I got an opportunity to make some contribution to support the excavation work.” Love for Tamil Mr. Arulraj said that his love for Tamil inspired him to become a better teacher over “Most people who learn Tamil will fall in love with it and I am not an exception. In the first 10 years of my teaching career, I was a Tamil teacher for Classes VI, VII and VIII. It moulded my vision of promoting Tamil among the young children. When I became a Headmaster in 2016, I started involving the students in various LSRW skill classes in Tamil. And I started an initiative, ‘Solluga Tamizh,’ in the present school I work in, where students learn the Tamil equivalent of the words in English,” Mr. Arulra said. “I have also arranged a few trips for students from my school to explore the Keeladi excavation site, the teacher added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gesture-towards-keeladi-cause/article36313322.ece
06 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Promoting healthy, sustainable living practices and products in Madurai||A group of like-minded sellers, promoting healthy and sustainable living practices and products in and around Madurai, came together on Sunday morning under the banner, ‘Yaadhum Market,’ to showcase their signature products and interact with one another on the premises of M. S. Chellamuthu Trust in Shenoy Nagar. R. M. J. Ramajeyam, who leads the ‘Yaadhum Market’ initiative, said that the platform was created in February by people who believed in leading a healthy life by opting for healthy food and a sustainable lifestyle. “It is a non-commercial space for people with similar interests to get to know each other. A number of experienced makers of organic and sustainable products are available for interaction with the younger lot. One can understand the market for such products and also the recent innovations in the field,” he said. The market displayed an array of products from millet-based baked items to hand-pressed organic soaps, skincare products to reusable cloth sanitary napkins and farm-grown rice varieties. Some farmers and first-level producers showcased their chemical-free farm produce. They have a firm belief that the market for organic products is growing at a faster pace than before. M. Dinesh, founder of Dhanyaas that sold organic food mixes and skincare products, said, “Demand for natural products is going up all the time. More people are making conscious efforts to change their lifestyle and food habits. Through such events, we get to meet like-minded people and identify what we lack and improve our products.” Treasure hunt In the afternoon, a treasure hunt for children and a narrative session about Madurai’s history were conducted. S. Krishnan from The Yellow Bag, one of the initiators of the market, said, “The idea is to interact, have fun, learn and also make sales leads. We are hoping to conduct the market in consecutive weeks, in different locations. We always prefer conducting them in open spaces, closer to the trees.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/makers-of-organic-and-healthy-products-showcase-their-ware/article36313480.ece
06 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Pistol with four rounds seized||The Madurai City police have seized lethal weapons, including a pistol with four live rounds, in two separate incidents since Friday. Two swords In the first incident, a team of the police from Avaniapuram raided a shed on Semboorani Road and found two youths - M. Manicka Vijay, 19, and M. Arusami, 18, - in possession of two swords and two knives. In the other incident, the police who were checking vehicles on Thathaneri Main Road on Saturday intercepted a two-wheeler and found a country-made pistol with four live rounds in possession of the rider, S. Mathan, 46. The police said Mathan was an accused in murder and ganja peddling cases registered under Subramaniapuram police station limits. Cases registered The police have registered cases under Arms Act and were investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lethal-weapons-seized-in-madurai/article36313242.ece
06 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two passengers, including a 14-year-old girl, Diyasri of Kalluthu, were killed and six others injured when a cargo van rammed a tree near Uthapanaickanur on Saturday. The other deceased was S. Thangammal, 50. They were proceeding from Kalluthu to a marriage hall to attend a function in the cargo van. The driver, S. Jeyaprakash, 27, lost control of the speeding vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident/article36313332.ece
06 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pistol with four rounds seized in Madurai||Madurai city police have seized lethal weapons, including a pistol with four live rounds, in two separate incidents since Friday. In the first incident, a team of police from Avaniapuram raided a shed on Semboorani Road and found two youths, M. Manicka Vijay, 19, and M. Arusami, 18, in possession of two swords and two knives. In the other incident, police who were checking vehicles on Thathaneri Main Road on Saturday intercepted a two-wheeler and found a country-made pistol with four live rounds in possession of the rider, S. Mathan, 46. Police said Mathan was an accused in murder and ganja peddling cases registered under Subramaniapuram police station limits. The city police have registered cases under the Arms Act and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pistol-with-four-rounds-seized-in-madurai/article36313333.ece
06 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Features of NEP discussed||As part of Teacher’s Day celebrations, Tamil Nadu Science Forum conduced a discussion on salient features of National Education Policy here on Sunday. Several teachers and professors took part in it. Redpond Educational and Psychological Research Centre gave away awards to three college teachers in a virtual felicitation ceremony, presided over by D. Srinivasan, a psychiatrist from Coimbatore, and Professor Raja Ganesan from Chennai. The Madura College celebrated Teacher’s Day with its staff, in the presence of Principal J. Suresh, Board president N.S. Krishnan, vice-president S. Seetharaman and secretary S. Natanagopal. Former Physics department head Professor N. Raaman contributed Rs. 50 lakh to the college’s development fund on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/features-of-nep-discussed/article36313317.ece
06 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Child worker rescued||A 14-year-old boy hailing from Bihar was rescued from a paper mill near Kizhsadhampur here on Saturday. According to the officials, based on information received by District Collector Shreya P.Singh, an inspection was conducted at the mill and the boy was rescued. He was later produced before the Child Welfare Committee and shifted to a children’s home. Officials said that action has been initiated against the firm for employing a minor. Public could alert officials on child labour in their area by dialling 04286- 280056, 98421 96122 or to Childline at 1098, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-worker-rescued/article36313338.ece
06 September 2021||PARAMAKUDI,TAMIL NADU||State government should close down Tasmac outlets, says Madurai Adheenam||The State government should consider closing Tasmac outlets in the State in the larger public interest, said Madurai Adheenam Sri La Sri Hari Hara Gnanasambanda Desika Paramacharya Swamigal here on Sunday. Speaking at the 150th anniversary of V.O. Chidambaram Pillai at a function organised by Vellalar Mahasabai, the pontiff said that considering the future of youth, the government should close Tasmac shops and find alternatives to make up for lost revenue earnings. Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his good governance, he said certain bold measures by the Centre had restored the glory of important shrines in the country. As a sequel, some of the neighbours were baffled, he added. The borders, especially, Ladakh, among others in the country had got a fresh identity. The State government should allow the celebration of Vinayaka Chaturthi with restrictions, if required, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the pontiff said He refused to comment on the 100-day performance of the DMK government, when asked about his views. The new pontiff felt that it might not be correct to appoint priests from all castes in temples. Certain traditions, which were in vogue from time immemorial, should not be changed or disturbed by the governments, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-government-should-close-down-tasmac-outlets-says-madurai-adheenam/article36313260.ece
06 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Limited parking space compounds traffic chaos||Amid an exponential rise in Puducherry’s vehicle population, limited parking space, narrow roads and poor traffic management have made motoring a nightmarish experience in the coastal town. The chaotic situation when it comes to parking on thoroughfares has been worsening every day, and the authorities are yet to give serious thought to improving existing spaces and creating additional facilities, residents allege. The Boulevard, the nerve-centre of Puducherry, along with important thoroughfares like the Jawaharlal Nehru Street, the Mahatma Gandhi Road and the Bussy Street, are considered a shopper’s delight due to the availability of numerous showrooms catering to the needs of different income groups. In spite of the increase in the number of vehicles, these lanes and bylanes remain as they were 20 years ago. Puducherry has more than two lakh private vehicles and a substantial fleet of commercial vehicles. The town has been registering a substantial increase in vehicular traffic every year. But since the parking lots remained limited, people are forced to park their vehicles on the roadside. “With Puducherry having a grid structure, it is easy to make alternate streets one-way and allow residents to park their vehicles on one side of the street. It is high time that paid parking is introduced and special arrangements are made for people who cannot walk,” said Sunaina Mandeen of PondyCAN, a non-profit organisation. Rather than one big parking area, smaller designated areas could be assigned. Enough workshops and meetings on transport planning have been conducted with foreign experts and members of civil society. The suggestions should be put into practice and not just end up in a report, she said. Though the Department of Town and Country Planning’s rules mandate parking facilities in commercial complexes, it has not been implemented by many multi-storey buildings. “As per Puducherry Planning Authority (PPA) norms, commercial buildings have to provide 30 sq.m of parking area for every 70 sq.m of floor area. The PPA has been insisting that building owners provide off-street parking facilities,” an official said. Though there has been much talk of readying a multi-layer parking facility, particularly in the old prison complex on Jawaharlal Nehru Street, it is yet to see the light of day. In an effort to decongest the ever-increasing vehicular traffic, a proposal was mooted in 2007 to demolish the 35,000 sq.ft complex on Nehru Street and convert it into a multi-level parking facility for cars and two-wheelers. The prison complex was demolished, and the municipality converted it into a paid parking facility for cars and two-wheelers. However, the proposal on multi-level parking is yet to attain fruition.  It’s high time that paid parking is introduced and special arrangements made for people who can’t walkSunaina MandeenPondyCAN||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/limited-parking-space-compounds-traffic-chaos/article36313577.ece
06 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy leads tributes to V.O.C.||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy led the tributes to freedom fighter V.O. Chidambaram Pillai on his 150th birth anniversary on Sunday. Mr. Rangasamy, Ministers and MLAs garlanded the statue of the late leader in Bharathi Park. Among those present were Home Minister A. Namassivayam, Public Works Minister K. Lakshminarayanan, Agriculture Minister C. Djeacoumar and Civil Supplies Minister A.K. Sai Saravanan Kumar. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan gave a special address at a commemoration event. Mr. Rangasamy, along with Ministers and MLAs, also paid homage to Mother Teresa on her death anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-leads-tributes-to-voc/article36313574.ece
06 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||JIPMER suspends tele-consultation following ransomware attack||Following a suspected ransomware attack on its computer systems, JIPMER has suspended tele-consultation services and reverted to manual mode to continue its day-to-day operations. According to sources, the attack came to light late on Friday when technical staff detected glitches while trying to access the servers. As a precautionary measure, the digital grid on which the hospital functions was shut down and the Ministries concerned alerted, given the serious implications of the incident, they added. “Cyber experts from across the country are investigating the incident remotely. The police and a couple of cyber experts inspected the site. We are also following guidance from experts every step of the way,” a JIPMER spokesperson said. “Barring our tele-consultation services, most other operations are continuing in manual mode. The tele-consultations, which were introduced to help patients access our expertise without visiting the premises due to the pandemic, are entirely driven by computer system, from retrieving patient records to prescribing treatment plans,” the spokesperson added. Due to the disruption to the computer-based hospital information system, tele-consultation services were being suspended till further notice. The landline numbers offered for tele-consultation services will not be active till these services are reinstated. Efforts were on to restart the services in a staggered manner at the earliest to minimise hardship to the patients, JIPMER said. The JIPMER website was also down on Sunday. A search with the keywords “JIPMER ransomware” threw up as the top result a dead link titled “Prevention of WannaCry Ransomware Threat-session...JIPMER”. This type of malware attack was first reported on a global scale in 2017. The attack involved unleashing a WannaCry ransomware cryptoworm on computers running the Microsoft Windows operating system, encrypting the data and demanding payment in Bitcoin as ransom. As the attack is being investigated, JIPMER has been receiving guidance from a handful of other hospitals with comparable levels of digitisation. “In our assessment, our operations have not been very badly affected. Even procedures otherwise guided by technology tools are now being performed manually,” the spokesperson said. “Since Friday, all computer systems have been taken offline. Images, investigations and data on the Hospital Information System are inaccessible,” a doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jipmer-suspends-tele-consultation/article36313314.ece
06 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy seeks curbs on processions for Vinayaka Chaturthi||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has urged Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to reconsider allowing the display of Ganesha idols in public places during the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations, given the pandemic situation. He was responding to Ms. Soundararajan’s remark that no additional restrictions were necessary apart from the existing COVID-19 safety protocols during the celebrations. Mr. Narayanasamy called upon the government to follow Tamil Nadu in prohibiting the installation and worship of Ganesha idols in public places in view of the COVID-19 situation. He feared there could be a spike in cases if no restrictions were put in place for the festival. Pointing out that the Tamil Nadu government had banned the installation of idols in public places and processions during the festival, he said people could celebrate the occasion at home and immerse the idols in waterbodies nearby. Public processions of idols should be done away with in view of the pandemic, he said. He sought the intervention of Chief Minister N. Rangasamy in the larger interest of COVID-19 containment, especially since cases had been rising in recent days.  People could celebrate the occasion at home and immerse the idols in waterbodies nearby||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-seeks-curbs-on-processions-for-vinayaka-chaturthi/article36313572.ece
06 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Over 8,000 get COVID-19 jabs in U.T.||Over 8,000 people in the Union Territory took the COVID-19 vaccines in the last 24 hours, marking the highest single-day vaccination figure in several weeks. Puducherry reported one death and 103 new cases on Sunday. With 8,080 people getting the jabs, the vaccinated population rose to 8,36,259. The toll went up to 1,817 with the death of a patient in Karaikal. The toll by region was Puducherry (1,432), Karaikal (238), Yanam (105) and Mahe (42). Puducherry accounted for 54 new cases, followed by Karaikal (21), Yanam (13) and Mahe (15). The test positivity rate was 2.09%, the case fatality rate 1.46% and the recovery rate 97.76%. With 78 patients recovering from the infection, the active cases stood at 961, including 166 patients in hospitals and 795 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded 1,24,152 cases and 1,21,374 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 16.68 lakh tests conducted so far, over 14.16 lakh returned negative. 45 cases in Cuddalore Cuddalore district reported one death and 45 new cases on Sunday, taking the case tally to 62,520 and the toll to 840. An 80-year-old man died of the disease. The district saw 61,218 recoveries. The number of active cases was 408.  In Villupuram district, 22 people tested positive for the infection, taking the total to 44,937. Kallakurichi district reported 21 fresh cases, taking the total to 30,212.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-8000-get-covid-19-jabs-in-ut/article36313570.ece
06 September 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Teachers have great responsibility in shaping up society’||Teachers have the greatest responsibility in shaping up society, said Additional Collector K.J. Praveen Kumar here on Sunday. Presenting the ‘Best Teacher - 2021’ awards to nine teachers from government and government-aided schools in the district, he said that instead of terming teaching a profession, it would be apt to call it social work. By disseminating knowledge, teachers not only equipped children, but also showed them the right path. Their role was so important that teaching should be rightly be coined a noble service than a profession, he stressed and congratulated the winners. About 97 % of teachers in the district had been inoculated with COVID-19 vaccine. The pandemic had opened up new challenges and teachers should be vigilant in the coming months as classes had resumed after almost a year. Chief Educational Officer Sami Satyamurthi, DMK MLAs Kadar Basha Muthuramalingam and S. Murugesan and others participated. The teachers thanked the State government for the recognition and took a pledge to help their students achieve big in their lives. They said Ramanathapuram had the distinction of being the home town of late President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, who had encouraged the youth to acquire knowledge, which, according to him, was the biggest asset than anything else.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-have-great-responsibility-in-shaping-up-society/article36313327.ece
06 September 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Movement of train resumes on Pamban bridge||Train movement on Pamban bridge, which remained suspended for nearly two months, resumed on Saturday. Madurai Railway Division took up maintenance of the century-old bridge after sensors of the ‘Continuous Health Monitoring System’ installed by IIT-Madras raised an alarm over the stability of the bridge in July. The bridge work that began in mid-July was scheduled for two months. Light engine trial After taking up the repair works on various membranes of the steel bridge, the officials conducted a light engine trial on the bridge and followed it up with an empty rake trial. “After all the works were completed, Chennai Egmore-bound Sethu Express was run on the bridge on Saturday. Now, all the trains would originate and terminate at Rameswaram railway station,” a railway official said. Till now, the trains were terminated at Ramanathapuram and Mandapam railway stations. Seven express trains are being run from Rameswaram railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/movement-of-trains-resumes-on-pamban-bridge/article36313241.ece
06 September 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Resident-centric beat policing initiative launched in Arcot||In an initiative to bring residents closer to police personnel, a dedicated beat policing system was launched by the Superintendent of Police, Deepa Satyan, in Arcot on Saturday. The initiative is aimed at having more interaction with the residents not only to prevent crime but also help them highlight their civic issues such as defunct street lights, pot-holed streets and leaky water pipelines to the district administration. Termed the Reach and Raise Beat System (R&RBS), the initiative makes it mandatory for the beat police personnel to have interaction with residents on a daily basis. Every day, on an average, the beat policeman should have connected themselves with 10 residents. The team, which consists of two constables, should get basic details including name, phone number, address and family details of residents. In return, the team should give their mobile numbers and helpline numbers to residents. The data about residents will be compiled at the SP office on a daily basis ensuring the district police to have basic details of residents in three months.  Pulse of residents “This is also a step to bring residents and police personnel closer, not just for policing alone, but also to bring basic facilities in the neighbourhood. The objective is to know the pulse of the residents,” Ms. Satyan said. Unlike the existing beat policing where policemen mainly interact with traders, petty shopkeepers and autorickshaw drivers to get alerts, the new initiative insists that the team visit only residential areas. The residents get an opportunity to meet the police daily. They can inform them about various crimes including robbery, illegal sale of ganja, gutka, lottery, arrack and sand smuggling. They can also report public nuisance, traffic congestion, rowdyism and physical abuse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resident-centric-beat-policing-initiative-launched-in-arcot/article36313599.ece
06 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Teachers honoured with Radhakrishnan Award||Best teachers in the districts were honoured with Dr. Radhakrishnan Award here on Sunday as part of Teachers’ Day celebrations. In Namakkal, Minister for Tourism M. Mathivethan presented the Award to 10 teachers in the presence of District Collector Shreya P.Singh and other senior officials. The Award carries an appreciation certificate, a silver medal and a cash purse of Rs. 10,000. Addressing at the event, Dr. Mathiventhan remembered the contributions of his teachers in shaping his life. The Minister said that former CM M. Karunanidhi and incumbent Chief Minister M.K. Stalin have made several announcements for the welfare of teachers and government staff. Dr. Mathiventhan told reporters that during the discussion on demands for grants, 30 announcements were made including developing Kolli Hills on a par with Kodaikanal and other tourist destinations. Six hectares of land has been identified for developing eco-camping sites at Kolli Hills. He said that TTDC’s Hotel Tamil Nadu would be developed. About 300 tourism sites have been identified and a master plan was being prepared for their development, he added. The Minister said that he had requested the CM to create a separate head for the development of tourist destinations.  In Salem, District Collector S.Karmegham presented the Award to 13 teachers in the presence of Chief Education Officer R.Murugan, Member of Parliament from Salem S.R. Parthibhan and Salem South legislator E.Balasubramanian and other senior officials. At the event, Mr.Karmegham reminisced his days as Chief Education Officer in the district. He remembered his teachers and appreciated the efforts taken by the teachers in the district during COVID-19 pandemic. He said that under former CEO T.Ganesh Moorthy, teachers in the district had contributed Rs. 1.7 crore to COVID-19 relief fund. In Erode, District Collector H.Krishnanunni presented the Award to 13 teachers in the presence of CEO M.Ramakrishnan and other senior officials. In Krishnagiri, District Collector V.Jayachandra Banu Reddy presented the Award to 10 teachers and he recollected his school days and remembered his teachers. He said education was essential for the development of society. He advised the teachers working in the schools in hilly terrains to prevent dropouts and provide them education on a par with students in urban areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-honoured-with-radhakrishnan-award/article36313345.ece
06 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. Commissioner inspects canal works||Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj on Saturday inspected the works under way to construct an outlet canal from Selathampatti lake. According to officials, during rain, the surplus water from the lake inundates residential areas in Shivadhapuram and nearby. The outlet canal will take the surplus water from the lake to channels in Senjikottai, which would drain into Thirumanimutharu river. Similarly, to prevent stagnation of rainwater on Pachapatti main road, Anna street, Kalidasar Street, Chairman Ramalingam Street, the Commissioner ordered the construction of storm water drains for 100 metres. The construction works began on Saturday and Commissioner inspected the progress of works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corpn-commissioner-inspects-canal-works/article36313342.ece
06 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 104 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Sunday reported 104 new COVID-19 cases. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Salem district reported 58 fresh cases. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 18 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. While Namakkal reported 62 cases, Dharmapuri saw 20 cases and Krishnagiri 18. As per bulletin, two COVID-19 deaths were reported in Dharmapuri and one in Namakkal. Coimbatore district reported 229 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday. According to the Health Department, Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 2.1 % on Saturday.  A total of 81 persons tested positive in Tiruppur district on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-104-fresh-covid-19-cases/article36313341.ece
06 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Memorial inaugurated||Opposition leader Edappadi K.Palaniswami inaugurated the memorial built for former Congress leader Kuttapatti Narayanan at Kuttapatti near Tharamangalam. Kuttapatti Narayanan was close to former Chief Minister Kamaraj. He died at the age of 97 in the year 2019. Mr.Palaniswami inaugurated the memorial constructed by the party cadre and family members. Addressing at the event, Mr. Palaniswami said that Narayanan had donated his own land for the construction of a school in the region and played a vital role in the development of Kuttapatti village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/memorial-inaugurated/article36313336.ece
06 September 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||BJP accuses Stalin of double speak||BJP State president K. Annamalai on Sunday accused Chief Minister M.K. Stalin of double speak in connection with the Centre’s directive on not allowing installation of Vinayaka idols and processions for immersion. Talking to reporters here, he said the Centre allowed the State governments to take a call on Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations based on local COVID-19 conditions. However, the State government banned the celebration, citing the Centre’s order. As the Leader of Opposition, Mr. Stalin had claimed that the Centre had no right to issue blanket orders on lockdown, and that the State government should take a decision on it. However, after becoming Chief Minister, he took refuge under the Centre’s directive, Mr. Annamalai said. Case of Maharashtra The government in Maharashtra, which had more COVID-19 cases than Tamil Nadu, had allowed Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations with restrictions. “We hope the Tamil Nadu government also follows suit,” he said. In front of houses BJP leaders and cadre would install over one lakh idols of Lord Vinayaka in front of their houses and celebrate the festival on September 10, 11 and 12, Mr. Annamalai added. On the Kodanad murder case, he said the court had allowed further investigation into the heist. However, efforts were being made to “trap” AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami in the case, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annamalai-accuses-stalin-of-doublespeak/article36313227.ece
06 September 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Two held with fake notes||The Theni police on Sunday arrested two persons and seized a large number of counterfeit currency notes in the denomination of Rs. 2,000, Rs. 500, Rs. 100 and Rs. 50 in Uthamapalayam. The police intercepted a two-wheeler in Anaimalayanpatti and conducted inquiries with the rider, Kannan. They found a few counterfeit currency notes in his possession. Based on his confession, they detained Alexander, who had several counterfeit notes. “They planned to circulate them in markets here,” a police officer said. The face value of the notes was close to Rs. 20 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-with-fake-notes/article36313231.ece
06 September 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Theni Collector pays tribute to teachers||Showering encomiums on award-winning teachers for touching the pinnacle of their service, Theni Collector K.V. Muralidharan on Sunday said they acted as a beacon for their students. Sharing knowledge was a great service rendered by teachers and, for students acquiring them, it was like coming out of darkness, he said after presenting ‘Best Teacher Awards - 2021’ on the occasion of Teacher’s Day at the Collector’s office . The Collector said the State government presented the awards on September 5 to mark former President S. Radhakrishnan’s birth anniversary. A teacher, he worked so hard that he rose up to the level of the President of the nation. The teachers were next to Matha and Pitha (mother and father) and, only after Guru (teacher), it was Deivam (God). Their role was so big and important that it was a great honour accorded to them by the government on the day. Giving knowledge was important as it shaped every individual as they grew in life, Mr Muralidharan said. Quoting Tamil poet Thiruvalluvar, the Collector said knowledge shaped not only a person, but also reflected upon society. For generations, eaducated people could pass on the good deeds they learnt from their teachers and they would remain as long as mankind survived. The ‘Best Teacher Award’ carried a citation and Rs. 10,000 prize money. A teacher, P. Johnson, presented Rs. 10,000 cheque to the Collector as his contribution towards the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (Covid-19 pandemic). Chief Educational Officer S. Senthivel Murugan was among those who participated in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-collector-pays-tribute-to-teachers/article36313329.ece
06 September 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Two held with counterfeit currencies||Theni police arrested two persons and seized a large number of counterfeit currencies in the denomination of 2,000, 500, 100 and 50 in Uthamapalayam on Sunday. Following specific input, a special team had been keeping a watch in Uthamapalayam and surrounding areas for two days after alerting check-posts. Police intercepted a two-wheeler at Anaimalayanpatti near Rayapanpatti and conducted inquiries with the rider, Kannan, 35, of T.T.V. Dhinakaran Colony. They found a few counterfeit currencies in his possession. Based on his confession, they detained another person, Alexander, 42, of Anaimalayanpatti, who reportedly had several counterfeit currencies. “They planned to circulate the fake notes in markets here,” a police officer said. The face value of the notes in different denominations was close to Rs. 20 lakh. Police said the duo could be members of a bigger network. Rayapanpatti police registered a case. The two were remanded in judicial custody. About two months ago, Kerala police arrested a gang close to Cumbum Mettu near Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. Whether the two held in Uthamapalayam had any links with the gang would be ascertained, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-with-counterfeit-currencies/article36313318.ece
06 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Produce movies depicting sacrifices of freedom fighters’||Appealing to cinema directors to examine the possibility of producing movies on the sacrifices of freedom fighters, Puducherry Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said that it would help many youngsters to know about patriotism in a better way. Speaking at the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of V.O. Chidambaram Pillai, organised by VOC Kalvi Kazhagam here on Sunday, she said cinema was a powerful medium to convey the message. Using the latest technology, directors should explore means to portray the sufferings of the tyagis for the next generation, she said. Ms. Soundararajan suggested that the youth float “fan clubs” in the names of freedom fighters as they could remember them while celebrating their birth anniversaries. The Central government, she said, planned to conduct numerous events marking the 75th Independence year (2021). Likewise, the State government should also focus on the celebrations, as many freedom fighters who fought for Indian Independence hailed from Tamil Nadu, she added. On caste names The Tamil Nadu government should rename the library in Ottapidaram after Chidambaram Pillai, Dr. Tamilisai said, and opined that there was nothing wrong in freedom fighters having the names of castes after their names. “I personally feel that it will help the youngsters to understand the tradition and culture through such names/castes,” she noted. Six awards were presented to achievers on the occasion. VOC Kalvi Kazhagam secretary A.P.C.V. Chokkalingam presided. S. Shanmugasundaram welcomed the gathering and A. Senthil Arumugam proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/produce-movies-depicting-sacrifices-of-freedom-fighters/article36313225.ece
06 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Road named after VOC||Unveiling the name board of “VOC Road” here on Sunday, Thoothukudi Lok Sabha MP K. Kanimozhi said that the State government had dedicated the arterial road as a fitting tribute to the late freedom fighter on his 150th birth anniversary celebrations. Participating in a number of events organised by the district administration and a few other organisations to mark the freedom fighter’s birth anniversary, she said that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had announced 14 projects in memory of the freedom fighter. As part of it, the arterial stretch “Mela Periya Cotton Salai” in Thoothukudi city, had been renamed as VOC Road, she said and recalled the yeomen services of Chidambaranar who was called as the “Kappalotiya Tamizhan”. ‘Taught self-discipline’ Fighting against the Britishers then, the freedom fighters led by stalwarts like VOC had not only taught us the need for patience, but also about the importance of self-discipline and self-respect. The sacrifices and sufferings of Chidambaranar would go a long way as he bought a ship in the port town here to show his protest against the Britishers then. The MP opened up a public park built at Rs. 4.50 crore which had a plenty of activities for the tinytots. She also dedicated a playground (basketball/volleyball grounds) among others in the city and opened newly constructed shelters at bus stops under the smart city projects. Awards distributed Later in the evening, Ms. Kanimozhi gave away the “Best Teacher” awards to 11 teachers from Thoothukudi district in the presence of Ministers Geetha Jeevan, Anita Radhakrishnan, Collector K Senthil Raj, Corporation Commissioner Charu Shree among others. She also gave away appointment orders to 12 persons (legal heirs who had died in service) on compassionate grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-opens-voc-road-in-thoothukudi/article36313269.ece
06 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps today||COVID-19 vaccination camps will be held at the following places in the city on Monday: Covishield would be administered at - V.S. Mahal, Srirangam; Ramanuja Koodam, Damodara Krishnan Temple Street, Srirangam; Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College; Anganwadi Center, Geethapuram; Chidambaram Mahal, Melachinthamani; A.P. Mahal, Bharathiar Street; Renganathan Park, Melakasipalayam; Dr.Maduram Corporation Higher Secondary School E.B Road; Anganwadi Center, Periyar Nagar, Varaganeri; Sri Yadukula Sangam Middle School; Corporation School, Valluvar Nagar, Varaganeri; Sacred Heart Higher Secondary School Ponmalaipatti; St. Mary's School, Ponmalaipatti; Periyar College Of Pharmaceutical Sciences, KK Nagar Main Road; Corporation School, Subramaniyapuram; RS Puram Park; Orchard School, Sathanur Road, KK Nagar; Anganwadi Center, Ramji Nagar; Corporation School, Khajapettai; St. Anne's School, Melapudur; Corporation Water tank Complex, Karumandapam; Anganwadi Center, Periyamilaguparai; Corporation School, Tennur; Madrasa-E-Mugamadiar Middle School, Palakkarai; Bishop Heber College, Vayalur Road; Corporation School, Kora Street; Cauvery College, Annamalai Nagar; Anganwadi Center, Panchavarnaswamy Temple Street, Woraiyur; S.M. High School, Woraiyur; Selva Mahal, Keezha Ambikapuram; Urumu Dhanalakshmi College, Kattur; Nala Sangam, Balaji Nagar, Thiruverumbur and Corporation School, Bhagavathipuram, Thiruverumbur. Three hundred doses of the vaccine would be available at each of the camps. Also, 360 doses of Covaxin would be available at Devar Hall and Anganwadi Center, Mela Panchapur. The camps would begin at 9.30 a.m., a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-today/article36313298.ece
06 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Plastic carry bags slowly make a comeback in Tiruchi||Re-emergence of single use and non-woven plastic bags has raised concern among environmentalists. No trader is authorised to sell plastic carry bags after a ban was imposed under the provisions of the Environment (protection) Act 1986. It disallows the store, manufacture, use and market of the plastic bags except for packing materials such as milk, oil, curd and medicine and others. It attracts severe fines for those packing grocery items, vegetables, cooked food and meat. The Act came into being in January 2019 in the State. In the initial stages the provisions of the Act were implemented in letter and spirit. It worked out well among people, traders, vendors, restaurant owners, flower merchants, grocery owners and other stakeholders. It brought behavioural and attitudinal changes among the people to an immense extent. According to a rough estimate, nearly one third of grocery stores, restaurants, pharmacies, vegetable stores, shopping malls and departmental stores have stopped using banned plastic bags to pack materials to the customers. Nearly two-third of organised restaurants have begun to adopt alternative methods to pack hot food, thereby reducing the dependence on plastics. A section of people go to the grocery shops taking along cloth bags to buy vegetables and groceries. But the slackness or lack of enforcement mechanism appears to have encouraged the traders to reuse the plastic bags to pack groceries and vegetables in the recent past. Except for a few, most flower, meat, fish and tea vendors invariably pack the materials in carry bags. The usage is rampant among them. They feel plastic bags are convenient to pack the materials. “We do not have an option as customers insist on plastic bags. Moreover, the banned bags are available aplenty in the markets. We are inclined to buy the bags from them owing to the availability so as to satisfy the customers,” said a meat trader in Bheema Nagar. He said that no one was supposed to manufacture single use plastic bags as per the Government Order. But, the availability of the bags in plenty in the market showed that the plastic companies continue to manufacture the bags by violating the rules and regulations. Ramesh Babu, Designated Food Safety Officer, told The Hindu that surprise raids had been undertaken against those selling, storing and using banned plastic bags. Steps would be strengthened to check the availability of plastic bags. The traders would be sensitised on avoiding the banned items for packing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plastic-carry-bags-slowly-make-a-comeback-in-tiruchi/article36313303.ece
06 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||100 dogs neutered in a month||Within a month after it started functioning, the Animal Birth Control (ABC) Centre at Konakkarai has neutered around 100 dogs in the city. The centre, which became operational in the first week of August was lying in disuse before the civic body engaged a private veterinarian and an NGO. While the ABC Centre was locked up after its construction in 2019, complaints of street dog menace continued to pile up. With the COVID-19 lockdown and other protocols in place, authorities were unable to focus on the ABC. Despite the delay in opening, the centre has conducted 100 sterilizations from August 1 to 31. The ABC Centre in Konakkarai, set up at a cost of Rs. 90 lakh has the facility to neuter up to 30 canines a day. “However, we have begun at a slow pace, and are moving ahead”, the veterinarian in charge at the centre said. Whenever the civic body receives an alert or distress call, a team rushes to the location with the special vehicle to transport the dogs. “The dog catchers bring them here and put them in specially-constructed enclosures,” the doctor said. The enclosures are fitted with name boards to identify the location from where the dog was caught. Each dog is kept at the ABC for five days. “On the day that it is caught, we leave it so that it gets acclimatised to the enclosure. Dogs from the same locality are usually grouped together, so there is no quarrel. On the second or third day, the dog is sedated and neutered. It takes two to three days to recover, following which it is dropped back at the location from where it was picked up,” he added. Dogs who are neutered are usually not aggressive and will not attack, the doctor said. The dogs were fed regular meals, and well taken care of, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/100-dogs-neutered-in-a-month/article36313309.ece
06 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers wear black badges||Frustrated over being denied salary for four months, more than 600 guest lecturers in 10 government arts and science colleges in the central districts that were earlier constituent units of Bharathidasan University, registered their protest by wearing black badges to classes on Friday and Saturday. “It is unfortunate that the Higher Education Department and the Bharathidasan University were taking turns to frustrate the guest lecturers,” Zonal Secretary of Association of University Teachers K. Raja said. The Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudy had, in response to representations made by the guest lecturers, directed State universities to settle the dues of the guest lecturers with effect from April 2021. The State universities had stopped paying salary to the guest lecturers from April based on an official communication that the Government will bear the salary expenses from 2021-22. No action by government However, there had not been any follow-up action by the government. According to sources, the teaching-learning process in the newly-converted government arts and science colleges could be severely impacted in the absence of effective action by the government. The teachers are thoroughly frustrated and the students have also started empathising with the teachers who are now literally spending borrowed money for their travel expenses. Meanwhile, the Directorate of Collegiate Education has vested the responsibility of securing the salaries for the guest lecturers from the universities. The principals of the 41 new government arts and science colleges that were earlier constituent units of the various State universities have been advised to approach the Registrars of the State universities for settlement of the salary dues. The guest lecturers are annoyed as most of the principals of these colleges are reluctant to approach the Registrars with a sense of authority. The stalemate, say representatives of teachers' associations, does not augur well for Tamil Nadu that has been priding itself of having made strides in the gross enrolment ratio in higher education. The ground reality in these government colleges where rural students study in large numbers is in stark contrast to the ‘rosy picture of higher education projected by the government’, these lecturers say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/frustrated-guest-lecturers-wear-black-badges/article36313299.ece
06 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Whole day ‘annadhanam’||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department will soon introduce whole day ‘annadhanam’ at the famous Arulmigu Mariamman Temple in Samayapuram near Tiruchi. The Samayapuram Sri Mariamman temple will become the second major shrine in Tiruchi district to provide annadhanam for the whole day to devotees after Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam. The move to provide ‘annadhanam’ for the whole day comes in the wake of the announcement made by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P. K. Sekar Babu in the Legislative Assembly. Besides Samayapuram temple, the scheme is to be implemented at the Sri Subramanya Swamy temples at Tiruthani and Tiruchendur. ‘Annadhanam’ was started at the Samayapuram Sri Mariamman temple on March 23, 2002 with 400 devotees being given ‘annadhanam’ every day. With the new scheme all set to take off, the number of devotees to be covered would be more. Infrastructure would be augmented accordingly for implementing the whole day annadhanam scheme at the Samayapuram temple, its Joint Commissioner / Executive Officer Kalyani told The Hindu . The plan was to introduce the scheme at the Samayapuram Sri Mariamman temple from September 17, she added. Until the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, free food was being served to devotees at the ‘Amavasai’ Mandapam near the temple. However, due to the pandemic, food packets were being distributed to 400 devotees every day. In addition to the Samayapuram temple, food packets were being provided at the two sub temples: Arulmigu Aadhi Mariamman Temple at Inam Samayapuram and Arulmigu Ujjaini Om Kaliamman Temple, Maakalikudi both near Samayapuram. Meanwhile, banners have been kept at Srirangam informing the public that no payment would be charged from devotees for tonsuring their heads at the Cauvery river bathing ghat in Amma Mandapam and near the Coleroon river bank. This follows an announcement from the State government. The banners have been kept at Kollidam Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whole-day-annadhanam/article36313267.ece
06 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report over 300 fresh cases||The central region reported 310 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. This is a slight increase, as on Saturday the region registered 290 cases. Six deaths were reported in the region. Two deaths each were recorded in Thanjavur and Pudukottai, while one each was reported in Ariyalur and Tiruchi district. On Sunday, Thanjavur reported 70 fresh cases for the viral infection, and in Tiruchi, 56 cases surfaced. Both districts witnessed a steady increase in cases. Nagapattinam district reported a sudden spike with 46 patients reporting COVID-19 positive on a single day. Tiruvarur reported 39 fresh cases and Mayiladuthurai, 34. Pudukottai district witnessed a slight dip with 23 fresh cases. Meanwhile, 19 fresh cases were reported in Karur and 15 in Ariyalur. In Perambalur district, eight patients tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-over-300-fresh-cases/article36313310.ece
06 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Student infects classmate and parent||A parent and a classmate of one of the two students who had tested COVID-19 positive here on Friday have reportedly been infected with the virus. According to health officials, a total of 39 people were tested as primary contacts for the Class IX student, and 26 for the Class XII student. On processing the tests, it was found that one classmate of the Class XII student and her mother reported COVID-19 positive. A total of four primary contacts and 35 secondary contacts, including classmates and five teachers were tested as part of the contact tracing for that specific student. The mother of the student works as a housemaid in Keezhapalur and may have contracted the infection while travelling to and from work, official sources here said. Contact tracing for both the patients are on, while they have been admitted to the Ariyalur Government Hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-positive-student-passes-on-infection-to-classmate-parent/article36313307.ece
06 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 71.66 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 22,884 cusecs and the discharge was 5,001 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article36313313.ece
06 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||TVL_water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Sunday stood at 87.60 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 759.14 cusecs and a discharge of 1,204.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 63.35 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 10 cusecs and a discharge of 100 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tvlwater-level/article36313597.ece
06 September 2021||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Bus services from Jolarpet resume after reopening of schools, colleges||Bus services from Jolarpet, which were earlier suspended due to COVID-19, resumed on Sunday. As a first step, bus services between Jolarpet and Bargur, covering a distance of around 30 km, were operated by the Villupuram division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation. This would largely benefit farmers from villages like Puthu Koil, Natrampalli and Vellakalnatham. Bus services from Jolarpet, a key railway hub in Tirupattur district connecting tourists from Bengaluru and Chennai to Yelagiri Hills, was resumed mainly to benefit students, as schools and colleges were reopened after a steady decline in COVID-19 cases in the State. Jolarpet comprises villages like Vakkampatti, Ediyampatti Ossinattam Vattam and Kudiyana Kuppam. In the coming weeks, bus services would be resumed to these villages and neighbouring towns like Vaniyambadi, Ambur, Krishnagiri, Hosur, Walajahpet and Vellore, officials said.  As a first step, bus services between Jolarpet and Bargur, covering a distance of around 30 km, were operated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-services-from-jolarpet-resume-after-reopening-of-schools-colleges/article36313567.ece
06 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Four Bangladeshi nationals arrested in Tiruppur||The Tiruppur south police on Sunday arrested four Bangladeshi nationals for illegal stay in the country. The arrested have been identified as Maqbool Sithar (35), Shohil Algar (33), Mohammed Munna Khan (32) and Al Ameen (23). They had been working in the textile units in Tiruppur. According to the police, the four men were picked up from a place near Tiruppur old bus stand based on specific information on Sunday. The Tiruppur south police verified the whereabouts of the men and found that they were from Bangladesh. “They did not have proper documents to stay in the country. They had been staying illegally in the city for job,” an officer said. Judicial custody The four men were produced before the Second Judicial Magistrate, Tiruppur, who remanded them in judicial custody. Police sources said that they will be lodged in Puzhal prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-bangladeshi-nationals-held-in-tiruppur/article36313238.ece
06 September 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Private land owner fined for damaging hospital in Coonoor||A private land owner, whose construction of a building in Coonoor led to damage of the compound wall surrounding Lawley Hospital, has been fined Rs. 5 lakh by the district administration. The administration said permission was granted to V. Yogesh Kannan to use earth movers to construct a walking path and retaining wall along Mount Road. The walking path was used by residents, but construction work damaged it. Around a week ago, two workers were injured at the construction site in a cave-in, and police registered a case. Following this, more damage was sustained by the retaining wall of the Lawley Hospital and there were fears that continuing rain could cause a landslip and lead to damage to surrounding buildings. The Coonoor Sub-Collector, Deepana Visweswari, along with other officials inspected the construction site recently. In a press release, it was stated by the district administration that a fine of Rs. 5 lakh was imposed on Yogesh Kannan, who has also been booked under the Disaster Management Act of 2005 for causing damage to government property. Officials said that seven families, who were living close to the construction site, have also been temporarily moved to relief shelters to ensure their safety. They will be allowed to move back once the area surrounding the site has been made safe. The district administration said that local body officials were keeping track of the situation to ensure that there is no further damage to the hospital or surrounding buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-land-owner-fined-for-damaging-hospital-in-coonoor/article36313266.ece
06 September 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 14 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,928 with 14 fresh infections reported on Sunday. While a total of 47,584 patients have been discharged after treatment, the number of active cases in the district stands at 233. The death toll is 1111. In Ranipet district, 16 fresh cases took the total to 42,632.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-14-fresh-cases/article36313568.ece
06 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Doctor from Bengaluru held for duping man on pretext of securing medical seat for his son||The district Crime Branch has arrested a doctor of a private hospital in Bengaluru for duping an MBBS aspirant of Rs. 43 lakh on the pretext of securing him a seat in a medical college. The accused, identified as P. Sri Nivas, 27, was arrested by a special police team and remanded in judicial custody. According to the police, the complainant, Tukaram of Acharapakkam in Chengalpattu district, got to know the accused’s father Panneerselvam, 63, of Marakkanam in Villupuram district, through mutual acquaintances in 2017. Panneerselvam claimed he was the Director of the Medical Council of India (MCI), and promised to get an MBBS seat for Mr. Tukaram’s son. Mr. Tukaram transferred Rs. 85 lakh to Panneerselvam and Sri Nivas, in multiple instalments, from June to August 2017. False promises Panneerselvam gave a forged admission letter to Mr. Tukaram’s son. The duo failed to deliver on their promise. When Mr. Tukaram realised that the promises were fake, he demanded that his money be returned. The duo returned only Rs. 42 lakh. Mr. Tukaram then lodged a complaint with the DCB. The police said Sri Nivas was nabbed from his apartment. He was produced before a court in Villupuram and remanded in custody. The police have booked Sri Nivas and Panneerselvam under Sections 420, 465, 468, 471 and 506 (i) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bengaluru-doctor-held-for-duping-man/article36313228.ece
06 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Failed contractors should be blacklisted, says MP||Contractors who failed to implement development works under the Central schemes should be blacklisted, Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore said here on Sunday. Talking to reporters after taking part in the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting, the Congress MP said contractors who were favoured by the previous AIADMK government did not execute certain works. “We were told that the works were progressing. But some have not.” Officials had been asked to take action against such contractors. “In fact, we have asked for blacklisting of such contractors who have not taken up the development works,” he said. Revenue Minister, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu, MLAs A.R.R. Seenivasan and A.R.R. Raghuraman and Collector J. Meghanath Reddy also took part in the meeting. “This is the first time that ruling party MLAs are taking part in DISHA meeting to review the progress of various works. Even the two Ministers and the MLAs participated in the meeting after attending the Assembly session,” Mr. Tagore said. He said it was a visible change in governance after the DMK government assumed charge. Works under 23 Central programmes implemented through District Rural Development Agency were reviewed at the meeting for the second quarter of 2021-22. The MP said he had used his MP Local Area Development Funds for providing drinking water in schools and other infrastructure such as ration shop buildings. The Ministers also distributed Dr. S. Radhakrishnan awards. Project Director (DRDA) P. Thilagavathi, Sub-Collector, Sivakasi, M. Birathiviraj, Project Director (Tamil Nadu Rural Livelihood Mission), Deivendran were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/failed-contractors-should-be-blacklisted-says-mp/article36313321.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Physical classes for primary students being considered||Mr. Poyyamozhi said the schools were supposed to function for eight hours, and they could well utilise a convenient duration beyond 3.30 p.m. for conducting Spoken English classes. Spoken English The conduct of Spoken English classes, pursued by the State government’s policy to adopt acceptable portions of the National Education Policy 2020, has generated wide appreciation among the people, Mr. Poyyamozhi added. The initiative will be pursued in right earnest, particularly in rural parts of the State. The Minister maintained that the sanction of Rs. 32,599 crore in the 2021-22 Budget for School Education was indeed high in a situation of financial crunch, when asked why it was lesser by Rs. 1,584 crore over the allocation made last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-mulls-physical-classes-for-primary-students-too/article36313176.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Picture perfect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/picture-perfect/article36313566.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Honouring legacy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honouring-legacy/article36313178.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||A stretch of road extending from the West of Perumal Malai Adivaram to Puliyampatti is in poor condition. Farmers, devotees and the general public in Puthanampatti, Omandur, Naduvalur, Kottathur, Sathanur, Kunnupatti and Puliyampatti use the road every day, with risk. Pits and gravel cause a nightmarish drive particularly after darkness sets in. The Thuraiyur Panchayat Union has not addressed the long-time demand of the local residents. The public looks up to the district administration for intervention. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti   The damaged road connecting Uttamarkoil Bridge with Bikshandarkoil Agraharam has not been set right for the last two years. Motorists struggle to use the road. The petitions submitted by the aggrieved public to the elected representatives have not yielded results as yet. An effective action by the authorities concerned will be appreciated. S. Rengarajan Bikshandarkoil   Opening of cinema theatres with 50 percent capacity is not a wise idea. Though there are signs of decrease in COVID-19 infection rate, it would be proper for the government to wait for one more month, in consideration of the value of human lives. Sitting in the closed hall of non-ventilated theatres and use of toilets will cause rapid spread of the virus. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram   The State Bank of India branch at Thirukattupalli is always crowded due to the absence of ATM / cash recycler and passbook printing kiosk. The only SBI-ATM located along the highway in Budalur Town runs out of cash frequently, causing discomfort to customers. Installation of an SBI-ATM at Budalur by the authorities concerned will address the difficulties of the customers to an immense extent. M. Sheik Abdullah Budalur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article36313301.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pistol with four rounds seized in Madurai||Two passengers, including a 14-year-old girl, Diyasri of Kalluthu, were killed and six others injured when a cargo van carrying a group of people dashed against a roadside tree near Uthapanaickanur on Saturday. The other deceased was S. Thangammal, 50. Police said that they were proceeding from Kalluthu to a marriage hall to attend a function in the cargo van. The driver, S. Jeyaprakash, 27, lost control of the speeding vehicle which hit a tamarind tree. Six persons, including Diyasri’s sister Sabitha and her mother Vasanthapriya, sustained injuries and were admitted to the Government Hospital in Usilampatti.      In a drunken brawl, a 23-year-old youth, K. Maheswaran of Kadaladi, was killed and another seriously injured, in a house at Mela Anuppanadi on Saturday. Police said that the friends were drinking at the house of Maheswaran when he along with M. Mareeswaran of Kadaladi teased T. Ajith Pandi of Tiruchuli. After a quarrel, Ajith Pandi crushed the heads of both the victims with a boulder. The condition of Mareeswaran continues to be serious. Ajith Pandi was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pistol-with-four-rounds-seized-in-madurai/article36313483.ece
06 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Central teams visit flood-affected areas||A team of officers from the Union government toured North Karnataka districts on Sunday, to assess the loss caused by floods in the Krishna basin in July this year. In Dharwad, the team met farmers in Alnavar and Navalgund who had lost their crops to floods. The farmers complained that heavy rain had destroyed their crops and made it impossible for them to repay their loans. Maize, coconut, arecanut, green gram, black gram and banana were destroyed, they said and urged the team to compensate their loss. Some farmers showed the team members the damaged crops that they had kept in their houses. Meanwhile, the officers visited Jai Bharath Colony at Kumbarganavi and Indrammana Kere that breached twice in three years in Alnavar. The team included Superintending Engineer of the Ministry of Jalashakti Guru Prasad J. and Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Mahesh Kumar. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil received them at the Hubballi Airport and briefed them about the floods and the condition of farmers who lost crops, houses and cattle. Mr. Patil told the team that agriculture crops on 23,238 hectares and horticulture crops on 276 hectares in Dharwad district were destroyed. A total of 1,316 houses were partially damaged and seven were completely damaged. The team also inspected roads and bridges, anganwadi centres and primary health centres that were damaged. Officers told them that 51 km of State Highways, 63.4 km Major Roads and 31 bridges in the district were damaged. Officers said that 148 government school buildings, 134 anganwadi centres and 32 primary health centrrs too have partially collapsed. Mr. Patil told journalists that a joint survey had revealed a loss of Rs. 502 crore due to the floods in July. He said that the team was taken to damaged houses, public property, schools and also tanks belonging to the Minor Irrigation Department. The State government has approved development of Indrammana Kere at a cost of Rs. 9.40 crore, he said. A team of engineers from Indian Institute of Science visited the tank site and prepared an estimation. NIT-K Suratkal engineers have submitted a design to the government. Works will start soon, he said. In Belagavi, the team visited farms and public property in Khanapur, Hukkeri and Gokak taluks on the first day of its visit. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath received the team in the morning and briefed them before the visit. He accompanied them to various sites later. He took them to an exhibition of photographs at Holemma temple in Badakundri village. The team comprised Chief Controller of Accounts in the Union Home Ministry Sushil Paul, Director of Union Agriculture Ministry K Manoharan, Shubham Garga from the Power Ministry and Manoj Ranjan of the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority. Mr. Paul said that multiple teams are visiting the State and they will submit a report to the Union government after holding meetings with senior officers in Bengaluru, after the field visits. A farmer at Jinarala Cross near Hukkeri told the team that he had expected 12 tonnes of cabbage and tomato from half an acre, but got less than two tonnes. “I spent over Rs. 30,000 on inputs. All that is lost now,’’ he said. The team also visited villages on the banks of the Hiranyakesi. Mr. Manoj Ranjan told journalists that the State has sought Rs. 765 crore from the Centre as flood relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/central-teams-visit-flood-affected-areas/article36313355.ece
06 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Mandals can celebrate Ganesh festival for 11 days, says MLA||BJP leader and MLA Anil Benake has urged Ganesh Mandals in the city to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi for 11 days, as per the Hindu cultural practices. This announcement came within hours of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai declaring in Bengaluru that the Ganesh festival will be restricted to five days only. The MLA released a video on his social media handles asking Ganesh Mandals and other Ganesh devotees in the city to celebrate the festival with the true Indian and Hindu spirit. “The Chief Minister has announced some restrictions for the festivals and said that it can be celebrated only for five days. But the practice in Belagavi is that we celebrate it for 11 days. We will continue the tradition this year too. The only thing is that we need to follow all COVID-19 protocols properly. I want to tell the Ganesh Mandal members and other devotees that they can celebrate the 11-day festival without any problems,’’ he said. However, the State government stuck to its stand. The government restricted all public celebrations to five days, as per Rule 5, Index 1, of the revised order issued by Principal Secretary, Revenue, Tushar Girinath on Sunday. The order mandated that all idols installed at public places need not be taller than four feet and all idols installed at homes would be two feet or smaller. Only 20 persons are allowed in each Ganesh Mandal pandal at a time. There shall be only one public idol installed per ward. They will be immersed in the nearest tank, mobile tank or other facility created for the purpose. All processions, cultural programmes and other events at such installation sites are banned.  State govt. issues revised order saying public celebrations have been restricted to five days||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mandals-can-celebrate-ganesh-festival-for-11-days-says-mla/article36313357.ece
06 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Writer-poet passes away||Writer Ramachandra Patil died in Dharwad on Sunday. He was 82. The award-winning poet wrote scores of books for children, biographies of personalities such as Deputy Channabasappa and radio plays for AIR Dharwad. Mr. Ramachandra Patil, who was also a journalist, teacher and playwright, edited Jeevana Shikshana, a monthly magazine dedicated to Kannada literature. He won awards from the Karnataka Bala Vikas Academy and Basava Samiti. Hailing from Kagalagomba in Bagalkot district, he settled down in Dharwad after retiring from the District Institute of Education and Training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/writer-poet-passes-away/article36313358.ece
06 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Trains cancelled||South Western Railway will cancel some trains for four hours as a consequence of the ongoing work of Line Block for TTR project in Bidadi Yard. These are Train No. 06560 Mysuru-KSR Bengaluru MEMU commencing journey from Mysuru on Tuesday and Train No. 06559 KSR Bengaluru-Mysuru MEMU commencing journey from KSR Bengaluru on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trains-cancelled/article36313138.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Low rate of infection alone is no reason to celebrate: Experts||Although North Karnataka districts are consistently showing a low rate of infection over the last few days, the low vaccination rate and low seroprevalence in these districts indicate that it is premature to celebrate, say experts. Districts like Bidar, Haveri, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Yadgir, Bagalkot and Vijayapura in North Karnataka have either been reporting new cases in single digits or zero cases for the last week. These districts have also recorded among the lowest second dose coverage in the State as well as the lowest seroprevalence. Way below average According to the second seroprevalence survey that was carried out in 290 healthcare facilities spread across Karnataka from January 25 to February 18 this year, the State’s average seroprevalence was 15.6%. The lowest prevalence was found in five districts in North Karnataka - Haveri (3.7%), Bidar (4.5%), Yadgir (5.5%), Dharwad (5.8%) and Kalaburagi (6.3%). As on August 30, the lowest second dose coverage was recorded in Haveri (11.5%), Kalaburagi (12.4%), Raichur (12.6%), Vijayapura (13.5%) and Belagavi (14.3%). Public health experts say it is important to take into account vaccination coverage and seroprevalence in the area, besides deaths due to COVID-19 and hospital bed occupancy. On the other hand, more cases being reported in a particular district should not result in panic as cases being detected in the particular district shows that the surveillance is working. TAC member Giridhar R. Babu, who also heads Lifecourse Epidemiology at Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru, said the battle against multiple waves has to be fought by using data from seroprevalence and vaccination coverage. Most vulnerable “Areas with lower vaccination coverage and lower seroprevalence are the most vulnerable, not only for rise in cases but also increased hospitalisation and deaths. This is because a higher proportion of people are susceptible to getting infected there. Whereas, areas with high vaccination coverage will have the advantage of relatively low mortality and hospitalisation,” he said. “The authorities should use information from the seroprevalence and vaccination coverage and prioritize the areas which have greater proportion of people with higher susceptibility. Such areas require targeted increase in vaccination coverage and strengthening of hospital response for treatment,” Dr. Babu asserted. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, concurred. “We are at the fag end of the second wave now but we have to watch out for the third wave and cannot afford to be caught unawares. It is important to sustain a test positivity rate of less then 1%, which is the nationwide trend except in Kerala now,” he said. Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said the State is focussing on enhanced vaccination in all districts, irrespective of the seroprevalence and the extent of new cases being reported. “Each district behaves in a different pattern during every surge. Our goal is to vaccinate the entire adult population by the end of this year. A record 1.17 crore doses were administered in August and we will keep up the tempo this month too,” he said. He attributed the low number of cases being reported from North Karnataka districts to regular and enhanced testing. “Apart from intensifying vaccinations, we are augmenting staff and infrastructure in the districts for a possible third wave,” the Commissioner added.  Each district behaves in a different pattern during every surge. Our goal is to vaccinate the entire adult population by the end of this year. A record 1.17 crore doses were administered in August and we will keep up the tempo this month too. K.V. Trilok Chandra Health Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/low-rate-of-infection-alone-is-no-reason-to-celebrate-experts/article36313137.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Connectivity key to train terminal opening||The new Sir M. Visvesvaraya Terminal at Byappanahalli will be opened to the public as soon as connectivity issues are addressed, said Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw during his first inspection of the terminal on Sunday. “There are small glitches in connectivity, for which the BBMP has come out with solutions. As soon as connectivity is done, train services will be started from this point,” he said. However, no date was given for when it would become operational. The Railways had initially planned to start commercial operations in March 2021, but the launch was delayed due to the pandemic. During the inspection, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta briefed the Minister of the civic agency’s plans to build an elevated rotary flyover at Maruthi Sevanagar–IOC junction to provide access to the terminal and areas such as Kammanahalli and Banaswadi. An additional RoB has been planned at Byappanahalli level-crossing, next to the underconstruction RoB. The civic body will be spending Rs. 260 crore to build the infrastructure. Mr. Gupta told The Hindu that the BBMP had already taken up construction of roads near the terminal. “The terminal facility is ready but road infrastructure connecting the terminal was not prepared for two to three years. Now, we are on the job to provide road access to the terminal and other points,” he said. The civic body plans to build an elevated rotary flyover to decongest the area. “It is the first-of-its-kind project in the city,” Mr. Gupta said, adding that pending works on the Byappanahalli RoB would be completed as early as possible. Defence land The BBMP needs 5,000 sq. m of defence land for additional RoB and widening of the road. It has approached the Defence authorities seeking additional land. Completion of the Byappanahalli RoB, which has been pending for years, will help passengers coming from S.V. Road metro station side. However, BBMP officials maintain that it would take 18 months to complete the project. “Connectivity to the terminal is an issue. Prior to the opening, we will provide road access to Old Madras Road and other points. Already, we have built roads opposite the terminal. Other projects such as elevated rotary flyover will be taken up in a phased manner later,” said a civic official. The SWR has spent Rs. 314 crore on the station. The terminal has capacity to deal with 30 pairs of trains and one lakh passengers per day. While inspecting the terminal, the Minister asked SWR to come out plans to generate revenue by running parcel special trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/connectivity-key-to-train-terminal-opening/article36313132.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||42 teachers honoured with State awards||The pandemic has seen teachers go above and beyond the call of duty, working tirelessly to update their skills and bridge the digital divide among their students. On the occasion of Teachers’ Day on Sunday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh presented State awards to 42 teachers. One of the teachers who was awarded wasNagaraj C.M. who works at the Government High School at Doddabanahalli. He has converted the school’s classrooms into ‘smart classrooms’ by installing projectors, smart boards, and laptops. Another teacher, Hema P. Angadi from the Government Higher Primary School in Belagavi was recognised with the Best Teacher Award at the State level for her effort in bringing dropouts back to school. She also was instrumental in establishing a language lab to teach Kannada in the Marathi-medium school. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai announced the recruitment of around 5,000 teachers during the current academic year to address staff shortage. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has mooted this proposal as there is an increase in government school enrolments.  The Department of Primary and Secondary Education launched the app ‘Namma Shaale Nanna Koduge’ to help people contribute to the development of government schools. Those interested can use the app to find a school, understand its requirements and then make a donation. To maintain transparency, the school will update the donor on the progress of the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/42-teachers-honoured-with-state-awards/article36313125.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farm scientists told to innovate in the field, not just on campus||For doubling farmers’ income by 2024, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has asked scientists of agricultural universities of the State to come out of campus and conduct crop experiments in the fields to ensure agricultural growth. Mr. Bommai on Sunday launched the ‘Chief Minister Raitha Vidya Nidhi’, a scholarship scheme for children of farmers studying various courses from the 2021-22 academic year. He said farm scientists should not confine their experiments to the campus and farmers would be encouraged to experiment with a new variety of crop only if they are convinced of the benefits of innovations in their fields. The government has set aside Rs. 1,000 crore for providing scholarships, ranging from Rs. 3,000 to 11,000 per year per student. About 17 lakh students are expected to receive scholarships. According to a Government Order, the yearly scholarship amount will be directly credited into the bank accounts through direct benefit transfer (DBT) for the students who have completed their Class X and are pursuing courses in educational institutions or universities. Noting that agriculture has registered growth but not farmers’ income, the Chief Minister said the time has come to provide good prices for farm produce. “One per cent growth in agriculture is equal to 4% growth in the manufacturing sector and 10% growth in the service sector,” he said. He said the country had faced food problems in the 1960s and the Green Revolution ensured self-sufficiency in food production. He said the State has 10 agro-climatic regions and scientists have to undertake farm innovations as per the conditions of climate and nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-scientists-told-to-innovate-in-the-field-not-just-on-campus/article36313157.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Student-activists, lawyers, friends hold memorial meeting for Gauri||Family members, student-activists, lawyers, and friends of Gauri Lankesh held a memorial meeting on Sunday to remember the activist-journalist who was assassinated four years ago on September 5. “The very act of remembering Gauri Lankesh is an act of resistance as the incumbent regime wants us to forget those who stood up to power and dissent, as if they never happened,” said Natasha Narwal, a student-activist who was incarcerated for 13 months in a Delhi riots case and recently released on bail. She was speaking at ‘Bullets cannot kill Gauri Lankesh’s legacy’, a memorial event organised by the Gauri Memorial Trust. The event saw three student-activists — Ms. Narwal, Devangana Kalita, and Asif Iqbal Tanha, jailed and out on bail in the Delhi riots cases — speak on Gauri’s legacy. “In her last days, Gauri had adopted Umar Khalid, Kanhaiya Kumar, and Jignesh Mewani as her sons. I am sure, if she were to be around, she would have adopted you as well. It is in student-activists like you, she saw hope for this country. Now, I do too,” said Kavita Lankesh. Ms. Kalita said Gauri transgressed all the ‘Lakshman Rekhas’ that the Hindutva imposed on women. “We see such ‘Lakshman Rekhas’ only intensifying these days, in the way women who speak the language of rights, who take to the streets, are attacked. The violent attack on the anti-CAA movement, almost entirely led by women in Delhi, is a testament to this. Gauri Lankesh is a symbol of such transgressions,” she said. Loss of control Ms. Narwal said the incumbent regime was not only criminalising dissent, but was also seeking more control over our everyday lives and the choices we make. “The regime wants to control what we eat, who we can marry. Through incendiary messages via the media and WhatsApp, citizens are being pushed to assume vigilante roles in micro settings, making people suspicious of each other. We need to fight against this as well,” she said. Mr. Tanha, recounting his experience in the prison, said the State was criminalising everyone who spoke of their rights, identity issues, etc. “I have seen many innocent people languishing in jail. If this continues, jails will be filled with students, activists, and intellectuals rather than criminals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-activists-lawyers-friends-hold-memorial-meeting-for-gauri/article36313142.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Foundation stone laid for I-T Department building||Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday laid the foundation stone for the office building of the Income Tax Department on Bhagwan Mahaveer Road (Infantry Road) in Bengaluru. The Minister also unveiled the foundation stone plaque at the site. The upcoming office building has ground plus 18 floors and one basement parking. The estimated cost of the building is Rs. 281 crore. The building aims to harness maximum natural lighting and is Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment IV-compliant. The building has the provision for solar panels for power generation and is designed with a rainwater harvesting system, an official release said. Recycled water would be used for gardening and dual plumbing systems. The central air cleaning system would be equipped with a magnetic filter and UV-Ray sterilisation. The building would be constructed by Bangalore Project Circle, Central Public Works Department. The state-of-the-art building consists of an exclusive public relations office to address public grievances on priority and a waiting lounge for taxpayers. It would also house the Aaykar Seva Kendra for providing hassle-free taxpayer services. Design and space allocation of the building would provide congenial working environment for officers and staff of the Income Tax Department, said the release. P.C. Mohan, MP, Bengaluru Central constituency, also was present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foundation-stone-laid-for-i-t-department-building/article36313158.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cash prize for teachers, students||A total of 134 meritorious students from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) institutions were awarded for their performance in Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC), Pre-University Course (PUC) examinations. For the first time, the civic body also presented four teachers with the ‘Best Teacher’ award. Among the students, 60 SSLC and 62 PUC students received a cash prize of Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 35,000 each, respectively, while the four teachers chosen for the award received Rs. 50,000 cash prize each. B.C. Nagesh, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, who gave away the awards, said, “India has a rich tradition of celebrating teachers. The BBMP-run institutions are facing a challenge from private institutions. Government-run institutions in Delhi have risen above the challenge, and I am sure that the BBMP, which is striving to improve the quality of education, will work in that direction,” he said. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the civic body was doing a lot to support students from humble backgrounds. “We have renovated schools and improved facilities. We have tied up with renowned non-governmental organisations, such as Azim Premji Foundation, for teachers’ training and improving the quality of education,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cash-prize-for-teachers-students/article36313127.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Abandoned suitcase sparks off panic||A suitcase abandoned at Baiyappanahalli metro station caused panic on Sunday afternoon, triggering fears that it was a bomb. However, it was found to be a false alarm as the suitcase only had clothes and the woman who had left it at the spot returned to claim it. The suitcase, found at the exit of the station, beeped when it was checked with a hand-held metal detector. Analysis of the CCTV camera footage showed a woman deliberately leaving the suitcase at the spot, and exiting the station, which caused alarm. Soon the dog and bomb disposal squads (BDS) were pressed into action. The BDS carefully opened the suitcase to only find clothes in it. As the operation was under way, the woman who had abandoned the suitcase returned. “The woman had gone to her home nearby to get some other luggage, leaving the suitcase at the station,” D. Sharanappa, DCP (East), said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abandoned-suitcase-creates-panic/article36313126.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Narcotics ring unearthed, drugs seized||The police have unearthed a narcotics ring in the city and recovered Rs. 1 crore worth of drugs from a Nigerian national, who was allegedly part of the racket. Acting on a tip-off about a drug peddler, a team from the Anti-Narcotics Wing of the Central Crime Branch raided a rented accommodation at Kammanahalli on Saturday and recovered 500 gm of MDMA crystals and 400 MDMA tablets worth about Rs. 1 crore from the house. The police arrested the Nigerian national in whose possession the drugs were found. Investigations have revealed that the accused had come to India on a tourist visa and was staying with another Nigerian national in Mumbai. Both of them were reportedly peddling drugs. The Santa Cruz police in Mumbai had booked the duo in a narcotics case earlier. However, when he came out on bail, the accused shifted to Bengaluru, rented a house at Kammanahalli, and resumed peddling drugs in a new place under a different name, the probe has revealed. “He continued to source narcotics from Mumbai, available at a cheaper cost, and smuggled them to Bengaluru in toothpaste and cosmetic boxes via road,” a source said. This comes close on the heels of another big bust where sleuths recovered narcotics worth Rs. 2 crore after they arrested two drug peddlers from Jharkhand in Whitefield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/narcotics-ring-unearthed-drugs-seized/article36313155.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,117 new cases||Karnataka on Sunday reported 1,117 new cases of COVID-19, with Bengaluru Urban once again recording the maximum number of cases at 358. The district had reported 289 cases and seven deaths on Saturday. Across the State, eight people succumbed to the virus. The death toll currently stands at 37,409. As many as 1,354 people were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,00,228. Currently, there are 17,501 active patients across the State. The positivity rate and Case Fatality Rate (CFR) for the day were both at 0.71%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1117-new-cases/article36313139.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Monday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in areas serviced from sub-divisions of Jayanagar Division to take up planned works. According to a press release from Bescom, the areas to be affected are Lalbagh Road 1st and 2nd Cross, Wellington Street, Vasantha Vallabha Nagar, Saradanagar, Maruthi Layout, Kumaraswamy Layout, Teachers Colony, Banagiri Nagar Park Road, Banashankari 3rd Stage, Uttarahalli Main Road, Banashankari 2nd and 5th Stages, A.K. Colony, Jaraganahalli, M.S. Layout, GKM College Road, Chikkaswamy Layout,Govinda Reddy Layout, part of Rajiv Gandhi Road. J.P. Nagar 3rd to 5th Phases, J.P. Nagar, Dollars Layout, Channammanakere Achchukattu, and Kathriguppe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article36313122.ece
06 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drone training school||Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi pilot training institute and the private firm, Drone Destination, launched Karnataka’s first drone training school at Doddaballapur near Bengaluru on Sunday. The school offers courses approved by the DGCA. Pradeep Singh Kharola, Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, who inaugurated the school, said India had the intellectual resources to become a global drone hub.The Centre’s revised drone regulations are expected to give this sector a boost. “India shall require over 1 lakh drone pilots in the next three years across rural and urban areas,” said Chirag Sharma, founder and CEO, Drone Destination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drone-training-school/article36313135.ece
06 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Airport work will be completed soon: Minister||Minister for Public Works C.C. Patil has said the construction of the airport at Sogane near Shivamogga will be completed soon, as per the schedule. He spoke to presspersons at the construction site on Sunday. The State government had taken up construction of the airport at a cost of Rs. 386 crore at Sogane. The airport construction was slowed down for the last two months due to rains. However, the speed would pick up soon and the work would be completed as per the plan, he said.  Earlier, the Minister laid the foundation stone for the road and railway overbridge works worth over Rs. 600 crore. The works launched inaugurated the upgradation of the Chitradurga-Shivamogga stretch of NH 13, at a cost of Rs. 516.96 crore, a railway overbridge at Vidya Nagar in Shivamogga at a cost of Rs. 43.9 crore, and the construction of a bypass in Shivamogga at a cost of Rs. 20.12 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/airport-work-will-be-completed-soon-minister/article36313517.ece
06 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||16-year-old drowns in pond in Shivamogga||A 16-year-old boy drowned in a pond at Vinoba Nagar Police station limits on Sunday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Sandesh, of Alkola in Shivamogga city. According to the police, he had gone for a swim in the pond along with his friends. The police retrieved the body with the help of local people. The Vinoba Nagar Police have registered an unnatural death report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-drowns/article36313154.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||Koo a secondary platform for many political leaders||A large number of Indian politicians are using Koo, the India-founded microblogging app, as a secondary platform, and over three-quarters of the handles analysed not only mirror content posted on Twitter, but also most of this content is generated there, a team of researchers has concluded. The analysis was embarked upon by Ponnurangam Kumaraguru from the International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT-H) and Joyojeet Pal from the University of Michigan, along with students from Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology Delhi, and IIIT-H. The team explored information taken from a 2019 General Elections dataset, analysed over 1,400 handles, and compared trends with their corresponding Twitter handles, given that they use this microblogging platform to reach out to their online constituents or the media. They then mapped content on each social media platform separately. While they found that a small number of politicians generate content on Koo first, conversely, it was also noticed that politicians post on Twitter first and then on Koo, with an average time difference of 42.22 minutes. From the analysed timelines of politicians, only two major leaders, Piyush Goyal and Giriraj Singh used Koo before Twitter in over 10% of instances, the team noted. The team also found that an overwhelming number of politicians on Koo were from the Bharatiya Janata Party. Congress and Aam Aadmi Party leaders came a distant second and third, respectively. “We took the handles of anybody who is a politician from the Lok Sabha election dataset which we had previously worked on. The analysis says that of the 1,408 handles of politicians, 74.1% are from the BJP, and them accounting for 93.41% of posts across politicians basically means that they are very active of Koo. Roughly 7% of the content is generated by somebody else,” says Prof Kumaraguru, adding that team wanted to study how Koo, which recently reached 1-crore users mark, is doing as compared with Twitter. Around 78% of the content generated by politicians is very close to their content of their tweets. Prof Kumaraguru opines that the trends of using microblogging platforms are contingent on the network effect and reach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/koo-a-secondary-platform-for-many-political-leaders/article36313364.ece
06 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Teachers should understand nuances of NEP: Minister||Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar said on Sunday that teachers should understand the nuances of the National Education Policy 2020 introduced by the Union government, as the policy is meant for creating a good society. Speaking at a Teachers Day function at St. Cecily’s High School in Udupi, the Minister said that the teachers should study the policy in depth to understand its concepts. Teachers have a pivotal role to play in reaching the benefits of the policy to students. Mr. Kumar, who is also Udupi in-charge Minister, said that teaching is a noble profession and the dedication of teachers in these trying times is appreciated all over. Teachers are the ones who shoulder the responsibility of creating a great nation by moulding tender minds, he added. Paying tributes to Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan with flower petals, the Minister said that teachers have a greater role to play for creating a New India. He said that even as the country is marching forward celebrating Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav commemorating 75 years of Independence, the nation has faced many challenges in the recent times. Apart from issues that existed in the pre-Independence era, some new problems too have emerged. So the framework to rebuild the nation has to start from schools. So, teachers have a more greater responsibility now than before. The Minister felicitated 17 teachers who received the district level teachers award and 43 retired teachers on the occasion. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat said that teachers are the pride of Udupi district. By striving hard and moulding students, they have brought a name for Udupi in the State as an educationally forward district. Deputy Commissioner of Udupi Kurma Rao M. recalled the services of teachers during COVID-19 and also, lockdown. They walked the extra mile during the fight against COVID-19, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-should-understand-nuances-of-nep-minister/article36313494.ece
06 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Time ripe for harvesting rainwater, says expert||With the south-west monsoon still being active over the region and the State, the time, as the north-east monsoon too is expected to bring a good amount of rain, is ripe for undertaking rainwater harvesting in the region, said an expert. Chairman of Marine Geology Department with Mangalore University Hejmady Gangadhar Bhat said that not much water can be harvested or saved for future when the south-west monsoon is in full swing. The groundwater table will be high during the period. As the south-west monsoon loses its vigour, the groundwater table too begins to reduce and it will be the right time to recharge when it continues to rain till December, Prof. Bhat said. The coastal area receives up to 4,000 mm rainfall in a year and saving little portions of it comes in handy during the summer, he noted. Giving the example of Narayana Rao, a farmer in Pilar village, off Padubidri in Udupi district, Prof. Bhat said that rainwater that is collected on his three-acre plot is not allowed to escape. Mr. Rao has dug trenches in his farm to harvest rainwater and recharge his open well and borewells. Consequently, he gets water from his wells at a depth of just 7 ft, he noted. Another farmer, V.J. Cutinho, a retired police sub-inspector, who is undertaking farming activities at Konnepadavu village near Moodbidri, has successfully installed rainwater harvesting mechanism for a bore-well in his farmland and is getting a good yield, Prof. Bhat said. As per his suggestion, Mr. Cutinho dug up a trench of 10 ft by 10 ft by 10 ft around the borewell, filled it with river pebbles, sand and mesh to harvest rainwater, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/time-ripe-for-harvesting-rainwater-says-expert/article36313492.ece
06 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Portion of wall brought down at Bhujanga Park||A portion of a wall of about 10 ft in height and 120 ft in length that was built inside the children’s play area of Bhujanga Park in Ajjarkad, Udupi, was brought down recently much to the relief of regular visitors. Municipal Commissioner Uday Shetty told The Hindu that the wall was part of a beautification project being taken up by the Tourism Department at the park. After regular visitors and residents raised concerns about the wall, Member of Legislative Assembly K. Raghupati Bhat visited the park and instructed the authorities concerned to restore the wall to its original position. Accordingly, the portion of the wall was brought down, he said. Residents relieved Gopalakrishna Prabhu, resident of nearby Kinnimiulky, who was one among those to highlight the nuisance being caused by the wall, said that people were much relieved after the portion of the wall was brought down. There is no hindrance to viewing nor is there any obstruction to airflow now, he said. The wall, Mr. Prabhu said, had blocked the sunlight when children played there in the evenings. The huge structure was built without the support of pillars or leaving intermittent gaps. And, there was every possibility of the wall collapsing, he said. Safety concerns Social activist Raghavendra Prabhu Karwal had also raised the issue of the possibility of the wall offering shelter to anti-social elements. The area was already swamped with hundreds of empty liquor bottles and the wall would have offered shelter to anti-social elements, he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/portion-of-wall-brought-down-at-bhujanga-park/article36313500.ece
06 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Teachers help shape personality of students, says Angara||Lauding teachers, Minister for Ports, Fisheries and Inland Water Transport S. Angara said here on Sunday that they contributed to the overall personality development of students. Speaking at a Teachers Day function organised by the Department of Public Instruction at Prestige School in Jeppinamogaru, the Minister, who is in-charge of Dakshina Kannada, said that teachers influenced students in their educational and professional careers. If teachers took their profession seriously, they can make a difference among their students. The Minister said that teachers have worked hard during the COVID-19 times by taking online classes and preparing students for examinations. They have helped students by rendering assistance online. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath, who presided over the function, said that teachers have ensured that students were not deprived of learning during the pandemic. The former President of India Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan was a great philosopher and writer. All can imbibe the principles practised by him, the MLA said. Chief Executive Officer of Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Kumara said that healthy education and healthy teachers are required for building a healthy society. Teaching is a noble profession. Teachers can bring out the hidden talents among children, he said. In all, 21 teachers who bagged the district-level best teacher award were felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-help-shape-personality-of-students-says-angara/article36313498.ece
06 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Set up Solar Park in coastal districts, Khuba urged||Udupi Pejawar Mutt seer Sri Vishwaprasanna Tirtha Swamiji on Sunday urged Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers, New and Renewable Energy Bhagwanth Khuba to consider establishing a Solar Park in any one of the three coastal districts. The swamiji presented a written representation to the Minister in this regard when the latter paid a visit to him seeking blessings during the swamiji’s Chaturmasa Vrata at Sri Poornaprajna Vidya Peetha in Bengaluru, said a statement from the mutt. Vishwaprasanna Tirtha told the Minister that it was heartening to learn about the establishment of Solar Parks in Bidar, Koppal and Bagalkot districts by the government. Similarly, the coastal districts too were endowed with abundant solar energy and the government could consider any one of the three districts, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi or Uttara Kannada, for a similar venture, he suggested. Mr. Khuba responded saying that he would take it up with the Chief Minister, the State government and the Union government. The swamiji also discussed at length the possibilities of deriving non-conventional energy from different renewable sources. One of the sources could be cow dung that was available aplenty in different Go Shalas across the country, he suggested. Vishwaprasanna Tirtha later felicitated the Minister. Mr. Khuba was extended a Poorna Kumbha welcome at the Vidya Peetha where he had the darshan of Lord Krishna. He also had breakfast at the Vidya Peetha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/set-up-solar-park-in-coastal-districts-khuba-urged/article36313360.ece
06 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hearing put off||Karnataka State Coastal Zone Management Authority has postponed public hearing on the draft of Karnataka State Coastal Zone Management Plan scheduled in Udupi on Wednesday. Hearing has been rescheduled for September 22, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hearing-put-off/article36313489.ece
06 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Nearly 30,000 students to get degrees at UoM convocation||Nearly 30,000 students will be conferred with various degrees at the 101st annual convocation of the University of Mysore (UoM) on Tuesday. Women have done better with 20,118 (67.39%), out of the 29,852 total candidates, will get degrees. A total of 9,734 men will also get their degrees. As many as 7,143 candidates, including 4,876 women (68.26%) and 2,267 men (31.73%) will get their master’s degree. Likewise, 22,465 will get their bachelor’s degrees: 15,144 women (67.41%) and 7,321 men (32.59%). This year, the number of PhDs has declined by nearly half compared to last year. As many as 500 candidates got the doctoral degrees last year, while 244 will get it this year. Among them, 146 (59.83%) are men and 98 are women (40.16%). Giving details of the convocation here on Sunday, Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar said Governor and Chancellor Thaawarchand Gehlot will preside over the convocation, while Minister for Higher Education and Pro-Chancellor C.N. Ashwath Narayan will be present. Shekhar C. Mande, secretary, DSIR, and Director-General, Council of Scientific and Industrial Relations, New Delhi, will deliver the convocation address. The honorary doctorate will be conferred on Govindarajan Padmanabhan, honorary professor, Department of Biochemistry, IISc., Bengaluru, and Prashanth Prakash, founder-partner, Accel India and chairman, Vision Group of Startups, Government of Karnataka. The convocation will start at 11 a.m. and end by 12.30 p.m. and it will followed by another programme where degrees, including PhDs, will be presented, the V-C said. Owing to COVID-19, the number of participants has been restricted to 200 and only invitees are allowed to enter Crawford Hall, the venue, Prof. Kumar added. This year, 387 medals and 178 cash prizes will be shared by 216 candidates in all five faculties. To a question, the V-C said the medals are silver medals with a gold plating. The university cannot afford to give real gold medals because of the soaring gold rates besides plunging interest rates in banks on the endowments instituted so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-30000-students-to-get-degrees-at-uom-convocation/article36313510.ece
06 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||New facilities inaugurated at RIE||The building to house the Inter University Centre for Teacher Education (IUCTE) and National Resource Centre (NRC) of the Regional Institute of Education Mysuru, was inaugurated here on Sunday. The IUCTE aims at infusing quality and excellence through coordinated and holistic approach to address the various shortcomings related to teachers and teaching across the educational spectrum – ranging from school education to higher education including technical education. The centre adopts the best international practices for achieving excellence besides bringing about convergence among the activities carried out by the different centres of the various schools of education in the varsities in the southern region. Kannada litterateur and Saraswathi Samman awardee S.L. Bhyrappa inaugurated the new facilities. A release said since its establishment in 2017, IUCTE has undertaken activities to achieve its stated objectives in the professional development of teachers and teacher education. Development of resource materials relevant for teacher education, encouraging research in teacher education, networking of professionals working in teacher education institution across south India were also part of the activities. So far four certificate programmes have been developed and two of them have been launched and a source book on ‘Reading and Reflecting on Texts’ has been published while five more are in the final stages of publication, the release added. As part of Teachers’ Day celebrations, the retired faculty members of RIEM were also felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-facilities-inaugurated-at-rie/article36313516.ece
06 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Congress slams Pratap Simha for shirking from debate||The proposed debate between Congress leaders and BJP MP Pratap Simha, who has been accused of ‘appropriating credit’ for the Bengaluru-Mysuru expressway project, turned out to be a flop show here on Sunday. The district unit of the Congress had fixed Sunday as the date to debate the role of various political parties in the expressway work that is taking shape and also to question Mr. Simha’s role in it. Congress spokesperson M. Lakshman and others reached the Mysuru District Journalists’ Association. However, Mr. Simha made it clear on Saturday that they cannot unilaterally fix a day without ascertaining if it was mutually convenient and expect him to participate in what he termed as a “futile exercise” by “people out of work”. The MP reiterated his challenge that he would enter a debate provided they provide evidence for having released funds for the project which is fully being financed by the Centre. Mr. Simha had also posed two questions about the project to the Congress. With the MP not turning up, the Congress held a media conference and also ensured a vacant chair on the podium. Continuing its criticism of the MP, the Congress accused him of trying to corner all credit for the project by creating an impression that it was his brainchild, when such mega projects are an outcome of years of administrative processes involving the government. Mr. Lakshman also took a dig at Mr. Simha for shirking from an open debate on the issue. He claimed that the Congress had all the evidence, including correspondence pertaining to the project when Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister and H.C. Mahadevappa was the Public Works Minister. Mr. Lakshman said the party will not take things lying down or allow Mr. Simha to “run away” from the debate and will hold a dharna in front of the MP’s office. The Mysuru MP has been conducing spot visits to apprise himself of the work in progress and holding media conferences giving updates. He also released a video recently and described it as a game changer for Mysuru as its fortunes would change with improved connectivity. The project is being funded by the NHAI and the Centre is bearing the cost pegged at around Rs. 8,000 crore. But Mr. Simha has been faulted by his political opponents of taking undue credit for the project though, they aver, he had no meaningful role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-slams-pratap-simha-for-shirking-from-debate/article36313514.ece
06 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Land-grab charges against Mahesh: Minister questions need for ordering re-survey of land||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar has questioned the need for Commissioner of Survey, Settlement and Land Records Munish Moudgil to order a re-survey of certain parcels of land in and around Mysuru that had already been surveyed by Divisional Commissioner of Mysuru following allegations of land grabbing levelled by former Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Rohini Sindhuri against JD (S) MLA S.R. Mahesh. “It has been surveyed and a report has already been submitted in the regard. Who gave Munish Moudgil the authority to survey it again?”, questioned Mr. Somashekar while fielding queries from reporters here on Sunday. The Commissioner, Survey, Settlement and Land Records, Bengaluru, has ordered survey of certain parcels of land at Kergalli, Yadahalli, Dattagalli, and Lingambudhi villages by a three-member team of officials citing a complaint by a resident of Kuvempunagar in Mysuru about encroachment of government land. The order to survey the land issued by the Commissioner on September 31, has asked the team to submit a report in 10 days. Mr. Somashekar on Sunday sought to refer to the survey of land already carried out by a team constituted by Divisional Commissioner of Mysuru G.C. Prakash, which submitted a report giving a clean chit to Mr. Mahesh. Questioning Mr. Moudgil’s authority to conduct a re-survey of the land, Mr. Somashekar cautioned IAS officers against assuming that any person, who was accused by a fellow IAS officer, was dishonest. However, he said he would not have any objection to survey of land if there was any irregularity that needed to be rectified. “But, vengeance politics is not done”, he said. Mr. Somashekar said Mr. Moudgil had been entrusted with the work on setting right the land records of farmers following the agricultural loan waiver scheme of the State government about two years ago. Even after two years, Mr. Moudgil had kept examination of 53,000 land records pending, the Minister said while raising questions over the officer’s intentions in ordering the re-survey of land records that had already been surveyed by the Divisional Commissioner in Mysuru. Meanwhile, Mr. Mahesh, alleged that Ms. Sindhuri was behind the complaint submitted to Mr. Moudgil by a resident of Kuvempunagar in Mysuru that was used as the basis to order a fresh survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-grab-charges-against-mahesh-minister-questions-need-for-ordering-re-survey-of-land/article36313148.ece
06 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Women, children found begging sent home||Women and children rounded up by the city police in a recent drive were sent home recently after counselling them at the State Home for Women in Mysuru. Five women and 10 children were picked up at various places in the city where they were reportedly found begging about a fortnight ago. Women and Child Development Department officials learnt that they were residents of slums in Ekalavya and Yellamma colony. After the men left every morning for their work, a few women would also go out to sell pens or beg at traffic signals along with their children. E. Dhananjaya Yeliyur, member of Mysuru District Child Welfare Committee (CWC), said the CWC decided to send the women and the children home after obtaining an undertaking from them and their families that they would not beg in the future. As the children were minors, they stayed with their mothers at the State Home for Women, he added. Officials have also informed the heads of the respective colonies to ensure that women and children do not beg again. An official of the department pointed out that women were detained for about 15 days at the State Home for Women and counselled that beggingwas an offence. “It has become a habit for some women from these nomadic communities. Such counselling sessions and warnings are necessary to prevent them from repeating the offence,” the official said. While most of the women belonged to the Yellamma colony and Ekalavya Nagar, one used to work in a hospital as a sweeper and another had lost her husband. Mr. Dhananjaya hoped for a lasting solution such as establishing schools with hostel facilities for such streetchildren and children from the slums.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-children-found-begging-sent-home/article36313513.ece
06 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Meeting on Dasara in Mysuru on September 8||The Dasara High-Power Committee meeting in connection with the celebrations of Mysuru Dasara festivities will be held here on September 8. Speaking to reporters here, Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar said the recent meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had decided for simple celebrations of the festivities in view of an impending third wave. “We had sought Rs. 5 crore for Mysuru Dasara and the Chief Minister has announced Rs. 6 crore which also includes the outlay for Srirangapatna and Chamarajnagar Dasara celebrations,” he said. To a question, the Minister said Mr. Bommai would decide on who would be invited for inaugurating the festivities this year. “We have not recommended any names, and therefore the decision on the chief guest for the inauguration will be taken by the Chief Minister,” he replied. The decision would be taken soon on the number of people who should be invited for the festivities based on the experts’ opinion in view of an advisory on the third wave, the Minister said. Mr. Somashekar said the inauguration of Dasara would take place as usual atop the Chamundi Hills and the Jamboo Savari would be confined to the palace premises like last year. The nine-day cultural events would also be confined to the palace premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-on-dasara-in-mysuru-on-september-8/article36313146.ece
06 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Colleges get 20% more seats to clear student rush’||Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar said here on Sunday that 20% seats in degree colleges affiliated to it had been increased for accommodating students in view of 100% results in the II PU. In view of the rush of students, the intake of seats has been increased, he added. Speaking to reporters here, the V-C said admissions for undergraduate courses will continue till the end of September as the university has instructions to start offline classes from October 1. “We have information that an additional 2 lakh students have passed out in the II PU examination this year. The university is ready to increase the number of sections,” he added Prof. Kumar said there was no confusion over the UG semester examinations that were put off to September 13 from September 3 on the appeals from students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colleges-get-20-more-seats-to-clear-student-rush/article36313511.ece
06 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||25 girls to get gold medals||As many as 25 girls of the University of Mysore will receive gold medals at the 101st annual convocation here on September 7. The university has shortlisted the medal winners among five faculties – science and technology, arts, commerce, law and education. Out of 30 shortlisted medal winners for participation at the convocation, 25 are girls. Chaitra Narayan Hegde is the highest medal winner with 20 medals and four cash prizes in MSc Chemistry. In arts, Sindhu Nagaraj and Madalambike T.S. have bagged 10 and seven medals respectively. Poojashree B.R., a student of Teresian College, has secured four medals and three cash prizes in MA (English). She was a gold medallist in BA English from Kuvempu University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/25-girls-to-get-gold-medals/article36313512.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Public celebration allowed for 5 days with restrictions||The Deputy Commissioners of border districts had been empowered to take decisions ongranting permission to public celebrations of the festival depending on the COVID-19 cases. Permission would not be given in places which have more than 2% of COVID-19 positive cases, according to Revenue Minister R. Ashok. The revised guidelines said organisers had been instructed to hold COVID-19 vaccination camps at places of public celebrations. Placing idols should not cause inconvenience to the public and movement of the people and not give rise to law and order problems. Idols of Ganesha should be placed on the permitted locations and pandals to be erected on 50x50 sq ft area in city corporation limits, Mr. Ashok said. The guidelines said all types of cultural and entertainment programmes were strictly prohibited during the festival. Processions had been banned during taking of idols to houses or public places for worship and during immersion. Idols had to be immersed at the designated tanks/ponds/mobile tanks identified by the local authorities. Public places where idols would be kept for worship should be sanitised and arrangements made for thermal scanning and sanitisation for devotees visiting temples. Wearing face masks and maintaining social distance of 6 ft was mandatory for devotees visiting temples/public places, the guidelines said. The Minister said that the government had strictly barred placing of idols on the premises of schools and colleges during the festival. No celebrations would be allowed after 9 p.m. Night curfew has been imposed in the State from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. It may be noted that several BJP leaders and legislators and a few organisations had urged the government to allow public celebrations of the festival. ‘Celebrate for 11 days’ Though the government has announced various restrictions, a doubt has arisen on their strict enforcement as BJP MLA for Belagavi North Anil Benake has released a video on his social media handles telling people in Belagavi to celebrate the festival for 11 days, as per the Hindu cultural practices. “The Chief Minister has announced some restrictions for the festivals and said that it can be celebrated onlyfor five days in the State. But the practice in Belagavi is that we celebrate Ganesha festival for 11 days. We will continue the tradition this year too. The only thing is that we need to follow all COVID-19 protocols properly. I want to assure the Ganesh Mandal members and other devotees that they can celebrate the 11 day festival without any problems. You can be bindaas about it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-celebration-allowed-for-five-days/article36313150.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Felicitations||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/felicitations/article36313520.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah was missing in action for about 10 days last month when he put himself in the hands of physicians and dieticians at Jindal Naturecure Institute on the outskirts of Bengaluru. In his first interaction with mediapersons in Mysuru after going through the regimen, Mr. Siddaramaiah, who appeared refreshed and rejuvenated, said he had opted for naturopathy to shed some weight and had managed to reduce 3 kg in 10 days. Was the weight loss really good enough and was he more fit? That may be a matter of perception, but Mr. Siddaramaiah had certainly not lost his sense of humour. When questioned about the nature of diet at the centre, he said with a glint in his eye that he was provided with more food than others undergoing the same regimen in view of his “VIP status”.   No one can beat politicians in talking about COVID-19 protocols while holding an event, and no one can beat them in breaking the rules either, with officials obligingly looking the other way. And one can only imagine how obliging the entire official machinery would be if the event in question was a Union Minister’s daughter’s wedding, attended by a bunch of Central Ministers led by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Officials suffered from temporary amnesia towards all the rules and turned a blind eye towards the violations when the daughter of Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi(in picture)got married in Hubballi last week. The marriage reception was a grand affair with a few thousands blessing the newly-weds. Political bigwigs such as Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai were witness to it. The entire police force was in attendance to escort the VVIPs, but no one saw any violations. When the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad, Nitesh Patil, was asked about it, he had no answer. Mr. Joshi also had nothing to say on the matter. He just thanked everyone for the “cooperation”.   Chikkamagaluru Superintendent of Police Akshay M. Hakay has stopped mentioning the names of accused arrested in different cases, citing a recent High Court ruling, and has refused to share photos of the criminals arrested. So, journalists were in for a surprise when they got a video clip showing the accused arrested in connection with an assault on environmentalist D.V. Girish. The video clip, with split-screen, showed how the accused assaulted Girish on the left, while on the right it was shown how they were in custody. It showed them sitting in a row in police custody and being taken to judicial custody in handcuffs. How could the video go viral when the SP was not ready to release even their photos. That question has gone unanswered. R. Krishna Kumar Girish Pattanashetti Sathish G.T.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors/article36313160.ece
06 September 2021||Coimbatore,KERALA||Two from Kerala killed in accident||Two persons hailing from Kerala were killed after the two-wheeler they travelled was knocked down by a mini goods carrier at Chettipalayam near Coimbatore on Saturday. The police said S. Akshaykumar (23) from Kasaragod and R. Amal (26) from Palakkad district worked in a transport company at Chettipalayam. The accident took place on Chettipalayam – Palladam road around 5.30 p.m. when they were returning home after work. Driver of the goods carrier, Senthil Kumar (35) of Chettipalayam, hit the two-wheeler after he reportedly lost control over the vehicle. Akshaykumar and Amal died on the spot, the police said. The police registered a case against Senthil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-from-kerala-killed-in-accident/article36313262.ece
06 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Five herbal parks coming up in Idukki||Five herbal parks will come up in the district as part of a nationwide project to impart knowledge on Ayurvedic medicinal plants and create awareness on it among the public. The project is being implemented by the Ayush Mission in association with the district Ayurveda and Homeo Departments and Haritha Kerala Mission. As part of it, 16 medicinal plants will be grown in the five centres selected in the district with 16 ayurveda medicinal plants. Custodian According to an official in-charge of implementing it, the custodian of the park is district medical officers of Ayurveda and Homeo Departments. The herbal parks will be set up in the five grama panchayats of Purappuzha, Rajakkad, Kudayathur and Arakkulam in addition to the municipality of Thodupuzha. The 16 medicinal plants to be grown in the parks included Amalaki (Phyllanthus emblica) Ashvagandha (Withania somnifera) Bala (Sida cordifolia), Bhumyamalaki (Phyllanthus niruri), Brahmi (Bacopa monnieri), Guduchi (Tinospora cordifolia), Haridra (Curcuma longa), Kumari, (Aloe vera), Mandukaparni (Centella asiatica), Nimba (Azadirachta indica), Shatavari (Asparagus racemosus), Shunthi (Zingiber officinale), Tulsi (Ocimum sanctum), Eranda (Ricinus communis), Nirgundi (Vitex negundo) and Vasa (Adhatoda vasica). As per the list of medicinal plants, the State governments can make modifications to include endemic ayurveda plants, said Haritha Kerala Mission district coordinator G.S. Madhu. He said that the services of Haritha Karma Sena in the respective local bodies will be utilised for planting the medicinal plants and their protection. Beena Zacharia, District Medical Officer (Homeo) said that two of the five herbal parks will come up under the homeo dispensaries at Kolani and Arakkulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-herbal-parks-coming-up-in-idukki/article36313462.ece
06 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Six held for stoning wild gaur||The Forest Department has arrested six youths who allegedly stoned a wild gaur and attacked forest watchers inside the Pampadum Shola National Park. The arrested were Kottarakkara residents Shameer 31, Renjith,29, Jibin Babu,28, Jinil,26, Jijo Baby,29 and his brother Sibin,24. According to the forest officials, the incident took place two days back. The six-member team had reached the Pampadum Shola National Park and were advised by the forest officials not to enter the wildlife area. They entered the grassland of the protected area and allegedly pelted stones at a wild gaur and shot the visuals in a mobile camera. The watchers on duty tried to block them but the youths escaped after attacking them. They were arrested later by forest officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-held-for-stoning-wild-gaur/article36313463.ece
06 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||M.T. Satish is new IRPC chief||The CPI(M)-led Initiative for Rehabilitation and Palliative Care (IRPC) has named party local secretary M.T. Satish as its new chairman. The decision to remove N. Dheeraj Kumar from the post of chairman was taken at the general body meeting held in the presence of T.I. Madhusoodanan, MLA, on Saturday. Mr. Kumar, who was earlier a DYFI activist and a Sangh Parivar worker for a brief period, along with a few others was brought back to the CPI(M) fold and made IRPC chairman during P. Jayarajan’s tenure as chairman of the advisory committee. However, Mr. Kumar’s open criticism of the party for denial of ticket to Mr. Jayarajan in the Assembly elections ignited discontent within the party against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mt-satish-is-new-irpc-chief/article36313423.ece
06 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Feeding points for community dogs identified in Thrikkakara||‘This is the location for the proposed feeding centre for community dogs. Littering is prohibited here,’ read a display board put up prominently near the NGO Quarters Junction near Kakkanad. This was one of the seven boards erected by the Thrikkakara Municipality in its territorial jurisdiction after identifying feeding points for community dogs. The initiative came following an order from the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court. The case number of the writ petition in which the court issued the order has also been included in the board, which was signed by the Secretary of the civic body. It was while initiating suo motu proceedings in the gruesome killing of a canine, Bruno, by three persons at Adimalathura beach in Thiruvananthapuram, last month, that the court took up the cause of community dogs in Thrikkakara. The Bench consisting of Justice Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice P. Gopinath had also renamed the suo motu case as “In Re: Bruno,” as a tribute to the dog that was killed. The court had directed the civic body to set up the facility at Vanachira, near Vanitha Vyavasaya Park at Thengode, near IMG Junction, Kakkanad, Motor Vehicle Driving Test Ground near the Thrikkakara police station or behind the Collectorate near North Gate, at Thanapadam-Palachuvadu, near Morarji Ground, Vazhakkala, and near NGO Quarters. The court had also asked the civic body to provide details of these locations to the Station House Officers of the respective police stations to ensure that those who were feeding the dogs were not harassed. The civic body has carried out all the directives issued by the High Court, including the setting up of boards to indicate feeding points, said Rasheed Ullampilly, Health Standing Committee chairman of the municipality. The municipality will make use of its 50-cent holding at Karingachira for a facility to keep community dogs. The Animal Birth Control programme for dogs will be launched shortly. A non-governmental organisation has been engaged for the purpose. The expense incurred for the programme will be reimbursed to the organisation. The civic body has earmarked Rs. 50 lakh for the purpose, said Mr. Ullampilly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/feeding-points-for-community-dogs-identified-in-thrikkakara/article36313435.ece
06 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Youths fall prey to online job scams||A young B.Tech graduate in Kochi recently received a lucrative part-time job offer through SMS promising quick bucks with little effort in the name of a global e-commerce giant. The fraudster claimed to represent a company engaged in enhancing the sales and popularity of certain products listed on the e-commerce portal. The youngster was asked to transfer half the price of the chosen products to a mobile wallet, while the company claimed to donate the other half with a promise to reimburse him the full amount plus commission later. On payment, he was given the link of the products to place the order. Though he was told that it helped increase the sale of the products, in reality, no products were bought, and even the links themselves were fake. “Initially, I was given small returns, and that convinced me further. But then I was asked to order costlier products, and my payments became bigger,” said the youngster on condition of anonymity. After six such tasks, he had spent close to Rs. 1 lakh, while the mobile wallet showed a balance of Rs. 3 lakh, including his commission. It dawned on him that he was cheated only when his attempt to withdraw the amount failed. It was after much persuasion that he agreed to register a police complaint. “In a majority of cases, victims prefer not to complain for fear of being ridiculed. That emboldens fraudsters, and scams keep recurring claiming even more victims,” said a cyber cell official. Similar scams seem to be thriving considering the number of people receiving such text messages, which also point to the illegal sale of data considering how fraudsters get easy access to so many mobile numbers. “It is easy to mimic the web pages of popular websites, hoodwinking unsuspecting victims, while instant money transfer via UPI using third party applications seems to have opened the floodgate for such scams. Unlike the transfer of funds between accounts through the banking infrastructure, UPI transactions are not easy to trace back. Besides, a software script is all that it takes to dupe people with eye-popping mobile wallet balance,” said Avinash K.V., a software engineer. Rahul Sasi, a cyber security expert, said many variants of the scam were in circulation taking advantage of the trying pandemic times. Scams by creating fake bitcoin platforms and bank websites showing balances running into lakhs are also in vogue. “The fraudsters then create fake user ids and passwords for these fake platforms and share them to lure victims. Those falling for it try to log in using those credentials and are then asked to pay a sizeable fee running into thousands, which obviously go to the fraudsters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youths-fall-prey-to-online-job-scams/article36313428.ece
06 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New minority scholarship allotment plan ready||Christian students of all denominations together will get minority educational scholarships worth Rs. 9.60 crore and Muslims Rs. 13.88 crore from the current academic year. The Directorate of Minorities Welfare, which drew up a population-based scholarship distribution scheme after a Kerala High Court order, has submitted the proposals for the State government's approval. With the new scheme, the earlier scholarship share of all the communities will be retained. The total outlay of the scholarship was increased to Rs. 23.51 crore for retaining the community share, said A. B. Moideen Kutty, Director, Directorate of Minority Welfare. The break-up Christians, who account for 18.38% of the population will get 40.87% of the total funds, whereas Muslims who constitute 26.56% of the population will be eligible for 59% of the money. Till now, students of Latin Catholic and Converted Christian communities only were eligible for the C.H. Muhammad Koya Scholarships. The High Court had scrapped the scheme and ordered a population-based distribution scheme. In all other scholarships, all Christian denominations were eligible for the 20% share as per the earlier 80:20 ratio of sharing the money between Muslims and Christians. While Muslims will continue to get Rs. 6.4 crore from the C.H. Muhammad Koya scholarship for students of undergraduate, postgraduate and professional courses and hosteliers, the allocation for Christians will be Rs. 4.43 crore. A significant amount remains unspent with the Department as there were not enough eligible applicants for the CA/ICWA/CS and APJ Abdul Kalam Scholarships. Last year, only 88 students belonging to Muslim and 83 Christian were eligible for the CA/ICWA/CS scholarship with an annual amount of Rs. 15,000 each. As many as 777 Muslims and 212 Christians were awarded the APJ Abdul Kalam scholarship for students of polytechnics. In all other categories, the funds are almost fully disbursed, he said. The court order had created a furore in the State with Muslim community organisations peeved at the sharing of funds from the schemes meant exclusively for them. The State government should have devised new schemes for other communities, they argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-minority-scholarship-allotment-plan-ready/article36313439.ece
06 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||More farmers take up pokkali farming||After farmers in South Parganas district of West Bengal experimented with flood-resilient and salt water-resistant pokkali rice variety from Kerala in August last year in the Sundarban area, they have taken up cultivation of the same rice variety, using the Vyttila-6, 7 and 8 seeds from the Kerala Agricultural University’s Rice Research Station in Vyttila, in another village. The experiment is being carried out under the initiative of Breakthrough Science Society, a group engaged in spreading the spirit of scientific enquiry and scientific temper. Ten kilograms of pokkali rice seeds have been sourced from Chellanam via Pokkali Samrakshana Samiti, said Samiti member Francis Kalathungal, who is also part of Breakthrough Science Society activities in the State. The experiment with pokkali rice is now being carried out in the village of Bhuvaneswari, Kultali Assembly segment of South 24 Parganas. The farmers involved in the unique experiment include Pravahakar Maity, Kartick Sasmal, and Basudev Pattakari. They have technical support from Soumitro Banarjee, an eminent scientist, and Deepa Thomas, agronomist, at Vyttila Rice Research Station, said Mr. Kalathungal. Mr. Francis said that the pokkali yield is relatively low at about 800 kg per acre, and the rice has a brown kernel and a milling ratio of 0.65. “That means we get 650 grams of rice for every 1,000 grams of paddy. The crop has a maturity period of 110 days and requires no chemical fertilisers. Pesticides aren’t applied in the coastal areas of Alappuzha, Ernakulam, and Thrissur, where Pokkali rice is predominantly cultivated. The rice variety is immune to attacks from most pests. It is sensitive to salinity during the seedling stage and the flowering phase,” he said. Farmers in the West Bengal district decided to experiment with the salt-resistant rice variety after cyclone Amphan hit the coast in May 2020 resulting in salt water incursion in vast swathes of the Sundarbans. The uniqueness of the rice variety has won it Geographical Indication (GI) tag and is the subject of continuing research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-farmers-take-up-pokkali-farming/article36313429.ece
06 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Webinar on folklore from today||The department of Malayalam at Maharaja’s College will organise a three-day webinar on folklore theatre and literature from September 6 under the aegis of the Kerala Folklore Academy. Academy chairman C.J. Kuttappan will inaugurate the webinar. B. Ananthakrishnan, Professor, Central University of Hyderabad; Sajitha K.R., Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, and Aju Narayanan, Associate Professor, M.G. University Schools of Letters, will speak on September 6,7, and 8 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-folklore-from-today/article36313433.ece
06 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Two held for threatening hotel owner||The Central police have taken into custody two persons after they allegedly threatened a hotel owner and demanded money from him. The accused have been identified as Shanavas from Mattancherry and Riju Antony from Ezhupunna. They reportedly demanded money in the name of an organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-threatening-hotel-owner/article36313436.ece
06 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||It is unwise to open schools in haste: experts||It is unwise to reopen schools at this point in time in Kerala, as several key factors have to be ensured before resuming classes in the physical mode, according to health experts. An online meeting of public health experts convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday had discussed the possibilities of school reopening. “Full reopening of schools when there is a regional surge is unthinkable,” said Rajeev Jayadevan, vice chairman, Research Cell, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kerala. S. Sachidananda Kamath, former national president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and member of its task force on drafting guidelines for school reopening, warned against reopening schools at a time when the test positivity rate (TPR) was high. M. Narayanan, former president of IAP, Kerala, stressed the need to weigh the psychological and physical health issues among children, who had remained at home over the last one-and-a-half years. On the roadmap for reopening, Dr. Narayanan said classes could resume only with 50% attendance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-is-unwise-to-open-schools-in-haste-experts/article36313561.ece
06 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||2,368 test positive in Kollam||The district reported 2,368 new cases of COVID-19 and 2,400 recoveries on Sunday. While 2,359 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include one NRI and eight health workers. At present the district has 32,595 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 22,76,053. Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 1,662 people testing positive for the disease on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 1,635 people including five health workers contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day stood at 16.19%. With 144 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kanjirappilly panchayat, which recorded 84 cases . Alappuzha The district logged 1,655 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 14.04%. Of the fresh cases, 1,620 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 34 others remains unknown. One health staff member also tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, 1,694 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 15737. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 947 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 945 people contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of four cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 16.9%. With 1,383 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 12,013. ( With contributions from bureaus in Kottayam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2368-test-positive-in-kollam/article36313465.ece
06 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam to complete first dose of jab in 10 days||The district will complete first dose vaccination in 10 days and the second dose too will be administered based on availability, said Collector B.Abdul Nasar. Chairing a meeting of the District Development Committee (DDC), he added that the vaccine shortage in the eastern parts of the district will be addressed and drive-in vaccination facility will be a priority. A range of issues including coastal security, infrastructure development and vaccine availability were reviewed at the meeting attended by people’s representatives and officials from various departments. MLAs Sujith Vijayan Pillai and C.R Mahesh, representing Chavara and Karunagappally constituencies respectively, pointed out the need to improve basic amenities at the health centres functioning in coastal areas. “The administration should get in touch with the quarry owners since the shortage of rock has been affecting the progress of breakwater construction. ,” they said. Waterlogging at Karungappally KSRTC bus stand and constriction of overbridges, fire station and court complex were also discussed at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-to-complete-first-dose-of-jab-in-10-days/article36313467.ece
06 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Nipah block set up at Kozhikode MCH||The pay ward building at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, has been converted into a Nipah isolation block against the backdrop of the death of a 12-year-old boy from Chathamangalam due to Nipah infection on Sunday. “Those who test positive for the virus will be shifted to the ground floor. Symptomatic patients and others will be accommodated on the first and second floors. An intensive care unit too has been set aside for the treatment,” said Health Minister Veena George at a high-level meeting here. A point-of-care testing facility under the National Institute of Virology (NIV) is being set up at the MCH by Monday morning. If any positive cases are reported, the samples will be sent to the NIV, Pune, and results will be made available in 12 hours. Nine intensive care units have been set up at the MCH. One of them is already functioning. The Minister said that adequate medicines and other equipment were available for treatment in the district. An expert team from the Alappuzha unit of the NIV would reach the MCH. A high-level bio-safety lab would soon be set up there. A control room has been set up at the Government Guest House. People may contact it at 0495-2382500 and 0495-2382800. Restrictions have been imposed within a three-km radius of the boy’s house at Pazhoor. Contact tracing will be intensified for another week, until the incubation period of the infection gets over. Encephalitis symptoms Meanwhile, private hospitals in Kozhikode district have been told to keep a watch on patients with encephalitis symptoms and those with pulmonary infections, along with unnatural deaths. This was conveyed to representatives of the hospitals at a meeting convened by Ms. George. The Minister said that since the incubation period, the time between the virus entering a body and the manifestation of symptoms of the infection, was one week, health personnel should be on high alert. None of the symptoms of Nipah infection should be ignored. Ms. George directed the hospitals to train their staff, including housekeeping workers, in using personal protection equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-pay-ward-converted-into-nipah-block/article36313420.ece
06 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||INL factions agree to truce||The warring factions of the Indian National League (INL) on Sunday decided to bury the hatchet following talks of rapprochement initiated by Sunni leader Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar in Kozhikode city. The leaders of the factions, led by State general secretary Kasim Irikkur and ousted State president A.P. Abdul Wahab, told the media that both sides had agreed to maintain the status quo prior to the scuffle that broke out at a party meeting in Kochi on July 25. This means that all disciplinary actions taken against the leaders have been nullified. However, workers involved in scuffles would remain ousted from the party since the police have registered cases against them. Sources said that Mr. Wahab would retain his presidency of the State unit and seven ousted leaders would be brought back to the State secretariat. However, their reappointment would have to be ratified by the party’s national president Mohammed Suleman who had earlier endorsed the disciplinary action. Two rounds of talks Party leaders said that the Musliyar had held two rounds of talks with each faction over the past few days. He had also met the two factions separately on Sunday ahead of a joint meeting. Previous mediation efforts initiated by A.P. Abdul Hakeem Azhari, general secretary of the Sunni Yuvajana Sangham, and son of the Musliyar had failed to provide any breakthrough. Apart from Mr. Irikkur and Mr. Wahab, Minister of Ports Ahammed Devarkovil, B. Hamza Haji, who temporarily headed the State unit, and C.P. Nazar Koya Thangal, a party leader, took part in Sunday’s talks. Representatives of the two groups, who have been battling for supremacy in the party, decided to launch a Statewide membership campaign. The factionalism in the INL, a constituent of the Left Democratic Front, was a blot on the government as its lone legislator was a member of the Cabinet. The intervention of the CPI(M) leadership had forced the functionaries of the two factions to broker peace and work together.  Abdul Wahab set to retain presidency of State unit, subject to national leadership’s consent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inl-factions-agree-to-truce/article36313438.ece
06 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gold Palace case: suspects’ bank accounts frozen||The bank accounts of some of the suspects in the Gold Palace jewellery investment case have been frozen following the directive of the Kozhikode Rural police team. Two major partners having direct involvement in the case were arrested, and search is on for two more persons. Over 300 investors were reportedly duped by the investment scheme operators. The branches of the jewellery in various rural areas of Kozhikode have been sealed. The complainants are mostly from Payyoli, Nadapuram, and Kuttiyadi, where the scheme operators had opened jewellery shops. According to the police, some of those who mobilised huge investment from the scheme had escaped to Dubai and they would be brought back for proceeding with the investigation. The trickery came to light after investors found that the jewellery shops remained closed without any business activity for many days. According to the complainants who are now being supported by a joint action council, the scheme operators pocketed about Rs. 60 crore from Kozhikode district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-palace-case-suspects-bank-accounts-frozen/article36313424.ece
06 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||More water testing labs to be opened in Kozhikode||P.T.A. Rahim, MLA, will open two water testing laboratories in Kozhikode district on Monday and Tuesday, adding to the tally of 12 such laboratories run by the Haritha Keralam Mission. The laboratory at the Kunnamangalam Higher Secondary School will be opened at 3 p.m. on Monday, while another at Government Higher Secondary School, Iringallur, will be opened at 4 p.m. on Tuesday. The laboratories are part of a State-wide programme of the Haritha Keralam Mission and the Department of Education to make water testing facilities available in every local body. The labs are attached to the chemistry laboratories at government higher secondary schools and are funded through the local development funds of MLAs. Water safety The project to open water testing labs in all local bodies was planned against the backdrop of the rise in water contamination and water-borne diseases in the State. “As contamination is the root cause of water-borne diseases, purity and safety of water should be ensured to prevent them. Hence, these public laboratories have been set up where basic water testing could be done at a very low rate,” said P. Prakashan, District Coordinator, Haritha Keralam Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-water-testing-labs-to-be-opened-in-kozhikode/article36313415.ece
06 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Marine Enforcement to crack down on use of banned nets||Noticing suspicious attempts on the part of some fishing boat operators to use banned pelagic nets, the Marine Enforcement squads have resumed surprise inspections in fishing boats off the Kozhikode coast. Though the illegal practice was not reported for several months, the depletion of fisheries resources and the fall in active fishing days were reportedly prompting many workers to resort to it. Officials with the Marine Enforcement squad said they had seized such stocks from a fishing boat in Beypore. The owner of the boat has been charged under the Kerala Marine Fishing Regulation Act. There would be flash inspections covering various harbours to discourage the practice and to make fishermen aware of the danger it poses to fisheries resources, they added.  Juvenile fish The use of pelagic net is banned as it catches juvenile fish and affects its breeding. Such nets used in trawling boats are often difficult to be detected as it is stored with the regular nets. The fish waste collected is usually sold to fertiliser manufacturing companies for additional revenue. According to local fishers, it is the larger trawler boat owners who purchase and use the banned types of nets. They alleged that there were boats that engaged in paired trawling using pelagic nets, resulting in the destruction of juvenile fish. As the presence of enforcement squads was minimal in the deep sea region, many non-Kerala boats were flourishing in the business, they said. Besides the use of banned nets, the practice of using coconut flower stalks and high beam lights to attract fish the artificial way is also reportedly staging a comeback off the Kozhikode coast. There have been incidents in which fishing boats that used high-beam lights were impounded and hefty fines imposed on their owners. Owners of smaller fishing boats from Puthiyappa and Beypore said regular inspection around harbours could help net the illegal players in the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marine-enforcement-to-crack-down-on-use-of-banned-nets/article36313422.ece
06 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Remembering Mahatma on Teachers’ Day||For over a couple of months, students of Government Higher Secondary School, Meppayur, have been on the path of Mahatma Gandhi, reading his autobiography chapter by chapter in groups. On Teachers’ Day, they decided to explore the Father of the Nation in the capacity of a teacher. The online event, Gandhi the Teacher, was launched by P.P. Prakashan, writer and former Joint Director of Higher Secondary Education, who cited the use of one’s body as a weapon of protest as one of the greatest teachings of Gandhi. “The Gandhian policy of honest living is the most simple yet creative and practical. Gandhi taught us that youth is more of a mental state than a physical state,” he said. Deputy Director of Education V.P. Mini gave the Teachers’ Day message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remembering-mahatma-on-teachers-day/article36313417.ece
06 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Boy taken to five hospitals||The 12-year-boy who died of Nipah infection in Kozhikode district on Sunday had visited at least five healthcare institutions between August 29 and September 1. According to the route map published by the Health Department, he had played with other children in the neighbourhood at Pazhoor near Chathamangalam on August 27 evening. He was at home the next day. On August 29, he was taken to Dr. Mohammed’s Central Clinic at Eranjimavu between 8.30 a.m. and 8.45 a.m. He went back home by an autorickshaw by 9 a.m. and was at home till next day. He was taken to EMS Hospital, Mukkom, on August 31. He was there between 9.58 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. before being taken to Santhi Hospital, Omassery. He spent one-and-a-half hours there. By 1 p.m., he was taken to the Government Medical College Hospital. He was shifted to the ICU at MIMS Hospital at 11 a.m. on September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boy-was-taken-to-five-healthcare-institutions/article36313421.ece
06 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Competitions||World Malayali Council North Kerala Province in association withvellcast.comand Adapt Learning App is organising competitions for children as well as adults to nurture their passion for social service. There will be competitions in short film, photography, essay writing, and painting. Entries on topics related to social service and charity should be sent by September 25. They can be uploaded onvellcast.com. For details, contact 7306335123, says a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/competitions/article36313416.ece
06 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||3,366 new COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode||Kozhikode recorded 3,366 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday when 15,341 people were tested. The test positivity rate is 22.28%. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said 3,304 patients were infected through local transmission while the source is unknown in 53 cases. Meanwhile, 3,674 persons have recovered from the infection. The active caseload is 35,889.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3366-new-covid-19-cases-in-kozhikode/article36313418.ece
06 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Body of man who fell into waterfall recovered||The body of a man who slipped off the Kambippalam waterfall, near Nelliyampathy in the district, on Saturday afternoon was recovered from a depth of 500 m after a strenuous effort by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel. Jaimon, alias Jayaraj, 36, from Puthankurissu had come to Nelliyampathy along with his friends. He slipped off a rock while trying to climb over it and plummeted to the depth. A search team comprising the police and the Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Kollangode, Nenmara and Nelliyampathy could find the body after a difficult search that lasted for hours. The search team descended to the depth by using large ropes and found the body about 500 m below the accident spot. A video footage of the waterfall shot by Jaimon’s friends has shown him slipping off the rock. Fire and Rescue Services officers warned the tourists against entering the waterfalls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-of-man-who-fell-into-waterfall-recovered/article36313450.ece
06 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Emergency wing at Konni MCH to open on Sept. 11||Ending a long wait, the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) in Konni is finally set to begin full scale operations with the opening of an emergency wing on September 11. Minister to inaugurate According to the hospital authority, Health Minister Veena George will inaugurate the wing at a function to be held here on the day. Alongside the emergency wing, an Intensive Care unit and Operation theatre too will start to function at the hospital on the same day. While the outpatient and in-patient units of the hospital have already become operational here, no patients in critical condition could be brought here in the absence of an Emergency Department. Presently, patients arriving at the OP are admitted only if they need inpatient treatment. The upcoming Emergency Department will have four divisions: Triage, Red, Yellow and Green. The patients brought to the wing will be subjected to a preliminary examination at triage. The critically ill will be transferred to Red while the sick, including those with injuries, to Yellow, and those with mild illness will be taken to Green. “The recruitment of medical doctors and other staff required to operate these units have been almost complete. The equipment required for the operation theatre, including the anaesthesia workstation, operating table, shadowless light and diathermy etc too have been arranged,” said an official. The ICU will have four ventilators, 12 ICU beds, 50 oxygen concentrators, three cardiac monitors, a bed side locker and a bed over table. An additional set of 120 beds with oxygen facilities have been arranged for the IP while the installation of an ultrasound scanning machine too has been completed. Meanwhile, an executive meeting of the hospital development society, chaired by the District Collector, has decided to open a bank account. The move will enable the hospital to charge the fees that are legally required for the services. Students admission Plans are also afoot to commence the steps to admit students from the next academic year onward. According to officials, efforts are on to obtain the national medical Council's nod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/emergency-wing-at-konni-mch-to-open-on-sept-11/article36313464.ece
06 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||COVID centre staff held on charge of abusing minor||The Pathanamthitta police have arrested a temporary employee at a COVID-19 first-line treatment centre for allegedly abusing a 16-year-old girl. The arrested was identified as Binu M.R., 30, of Chenneerkara. He was booked under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and remanded in judicial custody. Officials said the incident took place on August 27 when the girl was undergoing treatment at the centre. Though discharged on September 3, she did not return home. On a complaint lodged by her family, the police traced her to a friend’s house near Ranni. “The abuse came to light when she was counselled,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-centre-staff-held-on-charge-of-abusing-minor/article36313440.ece
06 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||VSSC cargo blocked at Thumba||Thumba witnessed tense moments on Sunday after a hydraulic axle trailer transporting a massive settling chamber to the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) for the trisonic wind tunnel project was blocked by a section of the local residents. Ignoring the Sunday lockdown curbs, a crowd had gathered in the vicinity of the VSSC gates, preventing the trailer from entering the ISRO facility. Reportedly, the demonstrators demanded a huge sum for allowing the cargo to be unloaded, but this has not been confirmed by the police. The vehicle was blocked around 11 a.m., and the police were deployed in strength in the area. The district labour officials who visited the spot on the instructions of Minister for Labour V. Sivankutty said that the demonstrators were not accredited trade union workers but residents of the locality. The police have registered a case against 50 identifiable people for the obstruction of public way and violation of the COVID-19 regulations. By 1 p.m., the trailer entered the VSSC campus through the South Thumba gate. Here too, tree branches had to be trimmed and the cargo reached its destination, the Thumba Equatorial Rocket Launching Station (TERLS) where the wind tunnel is coming up, by 6 p.m. The settling chamber, a key component of the trisonic wind tunnel, VSSC, was transported in two sections weighing 128 tonnes and 57 tonnes. Manufactured in Pune, the equipment was shipped from Mumbai to the Kollam port in mid-August. From there, it was transported to Thumba by road. Given the massive size of the cargo and its height of 7.1 metres, the journey had taken several days due to the presence of overhead power cables and overhanging tree branches. On Sunday, the trailer had taken a different route, via south Thumba, from the one normally used for moving cargo to VSSC given the size of its cargo. According to the consultant of the Mumbai-based logistics firm Express Global Logistics Pvt Ltd, transportation via the usual route would have been difficult. A small bridge near the Canal Gate of VSSC posed a hurdle for the heavy trailer. The gate also lacked the adequate width. The width of the road also does not allow for parking overnight. The trisonic wind tunnel will enable the VSSC to carry out tests in subsonic, transonic and supersonic speed regimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vssc-cargo-blocked-at-thumba/article36313594.ece
06 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Trade unions object to VSSC cargo siege||The CITU and the INTUC on Sunday strongly objected to the siege laid to the trailer transporting a settling chamber to the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC). The CITU district unit denied that its members were involved in the blockade of the vehicle. Stern action would be taken against trade union members if they had they blocked the vehicle for ‘nokkukooli’, the INTUC said. The vehicle was blocked at south Thumba by a group of unaffiliated trade union workers claiming to be residents of the locality, according to CITU district president R. Ramu and secretary C. Jayan Babu. CITU does not have a union in the area. The CITU had also adopted an uncompromising stand against overcharging and the practice of ‘nokkukooli’, they said. INTUC district president V.R. Prathapan said steps would be taken against workers if they had blocked the trailer for ‘nokkukooli’. At the same time, attempts by VSSC contractors to deny local trade union workers eligible work would be resisted, Mr. Prathapan said. According to the logistics consultant for the cargo and the VSSC, though the cargo weighs over a 180 tonnes, the unloading is carried out using a mechanically assisted process that does not require much manpower.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trade-unions-object-to-vssc-cargo-siege/article36313591.ece
06 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A gradual change in Malayali’s viewing habits||The jury for the State Television Awards which rejected all entries for television serial awards last week, and made scathing remarks on the abysmal quality of the content, had an important recommendation to make. It called for a widening of the scope of the awards to include web series and other online content, in what became an acknowledgement of an explosion of online content in Malayalam and a shift in viewing habits of the population over the past few years. What began as short amateurish videos online some years ago has gradually given way to more professional content, drawing in millions of viewers. Karikku , launched in YouTube in 2018, with the short humorous series Thera Para , is ahead of the rest of the pack as far as Malayalam content creation is concerned. It has a YouTube subscriber base of 7.4 million, which is more than that commanded by the official pages of some of the top entertainment and news channels in Malayalam. Some of its most popular videos have reached 30 million hits. Not just comedy “Though we began with comic content, we have now branched out to tackle drama and thriller genres. Our core audience is in the 16-25 age group, but in the past year, audience in the 25-50 age category has grown. We have now released mini series like Average Ambili , which is targetted at a television serial viewing audience, but at the same time appeals to the youth through its realistic treatment. The growth in popularity will bring in production companies from television to online platforms, a move already being witnessed in Tamil Nadu. The big OTT platforms, including Netflix, are studying the content growth here, and we might see them investing in bigger series in the next one year, like they do in Hindi,” says Nikhil Prasad, founder of Karikku . Mainstream actors too Early this year, Instagramam , a web series directed by filmmaker Mridul Nair and set in a fictional village, was released in the streaming platform Neestream . The 10-episode series, starring actors from mainstream films and television serials, is a pointer to the future, of a shift of artistes from television to web. “Till now, most of the web series have been produced by hobbyists without expecting any income. Many see it as a stepping stone towards filmmaking. But the scenario will change if more producers and mainstream writers too enter the space. Mainstream Malayalam cinema’s popularity outside the State in recent years can be attributed to the shift to OTT platforms too. We might witness a similar demand for Malayalam web content too,” says S. Jayakrishnan, co-founder of Mainstream TV, an OTT platform which also produces short series. Series like Karikku generate revenue mostly from advertisements weaved into the script, and from YouTube hits. This model has enabled it to provide remuneration for all its artistes and technicians too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-gradual-change-in-malayalis-viewing-habits/article36313449.ece
06 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||26,701 more test positive in State||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph dipped again on Sunday and the State reported 26,701 new cases, when 1,55,543 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate on the day was 17.17%. Current ICU occupancy of COVID-19 patients in both public and private hospitals in the State went up again to 2,411 (2,387 on Saturday), while the number of patients requiring ventilator support dipped from 1,009 to 997 on Sunday. The State’s active case pool rose to 2,47,791 patients on Sunday, with 28,900 patients reported to have recovered on the day. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 21,496 with the State adding 74 recent deaths to the official list on Sunday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,604 on Sunday. Total hospitalisations of people with moderate or severe COVID in the State’s hospitals are on a steady increase and now stands at 33,240. The cumulative case burden stands at 42,07,838 cases. Highest in Kozhikode Among districts, Kozhikode reported the highest number of new cases with 3,366 cases, Thrissur 3,214, Ernakulam 2,915, Malappuram 2,568, Palakkad 2,373, Kollam 2,368, Thiruvananthapuram 2,103, Kottayam 1,662, Alappuzha 1,655, Kannur 1,356, Idukki 1,001, Pathanamthitta 947, Wayanad 793, and Kasaragod 380 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/26701-more-test-positive-in-state/article36313442.ece
06 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM lauds teachers’ commitment||Acknowledging the yeoman service rendered by the teaching community, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday said academic activities could continue amid COVID-19 only due to teachers’ commitment and unstinting dedication even as educational institutions remained closed all over. Mr. Vijayan, who congratulated teachers for their efforts in his Teachers’ Day message, said they continued to plough on during the period despite the significant increase in their workload as education transitioned to the digital world. In the process, the teachers became students as they accustomed themselves to the new pedagogical techniques. Notwithstanding such challenges, the teachers strived to impart knowledge among children. Expressing optimism that the State would be able to reopen educational institutions without much delay, he exhorted educationists to carry forward their efforts with renewed vigour. New direction The experience gained through the crisis must instil strength and new direction for their efforts, he said. Educational institutions must be able to fuel the State’s aspiration to create a knowledge society. Pledging the government’s support for the teaching community, Mr. Vijayan reminded them of their role to cultivate a generation that upheld human and progressive values while imparting knowledge among youngsters. Mindset Efforts must be made to nurture a mindset that opposed communalism, superstition, and bad customs, and strived to uphold democracy and scientific thought. The Chief Minister also stressed on the need to persevere to realise the advice of former President and academic S. Radhakrishnan that “the end product of education should be a free creative man, who can battle against historical circumstances and adversities of nature”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-lauds-teachers-commitment/article36313557.ece
06 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,013 more test positive, 1,876 recover in capital||The active COVID-19 caseload in Thiruvananthapuram district rose to 17,322 on Sunday when 2,013 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and 1,876 others recovered from the illness. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 14.4%. Among the fresh cases, 1,988 have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. Three health care workers also have been infected. As many as 42,669 people have currently been placed in quarantine. Containment zones District Collector Navjot Khosa has declared new containment zones in LMS ward in Attingal municipality; Chembakathinmoodu and Manthara wards in Edava grama panchayat; Sathamnada and Thinavila wards in Kadakkavoor grama panchayat; Kuzhivila and Kodithookkikunnu wards in Manamboor grama panchayat; Mancha, Valiyamala and Tharatta wards in Nedumangad municipality. The existing ones in Paluvalli in Nanniyode grama panchayat and Vlangamuri ward in Neyyattinkara Municipality have been withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2013-more-test-positive-1876-recover-in-capital/article36313586.ece
06 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||VSSC cargo blocked at Thumba||Thumba witnessed tense moments on Sunday after a hydraulic axle trailer transporting a massive settling chamber to the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) was blocked by a section of the local residents. Ignoring the Sunday lockdown curbs, a crowd had gathered in the vicinity of the VSSC gates, preventing the trailer from entering the ISRO facility. An argument broke out with the logistics personnel and the police around 11 a.m. Reportedly, the demonstrators had demanded a huge sum for allowing the trailer to pass, but this has not been confirmed by the police. Given its size, the trailer had taken a different route, via south Thumba, from the one normally used for moving cargo to VSSC. This reportedly angered a section of the local people. The District Labour Officials who visited the spot on the instructions of Minister for Labour V. Sivankutty said that the demonstrators were not accredited trade union workers. According to the consultant of the Mumbai-based logistics firm Express Global Logistics Pvt Ltd, moving the cargo via the usual route would have been difficult. A small bridge near the Canal Gate of VSSC posed a hurdle for the heavy trailer. Following police intervention, the trailer was allowed inside the South Thumba gate of the VSSC by 12 noon. Manufactured in Pune, the settling chamber was shipped from Mumbai to the Kollam port in mid-August. From there, it was transported to Thumba by road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vssc-cargo-blocked-at-thumba/article36313470.ece
06 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Demand for restarting work on coastal road||The Theeradesa Nethrvedi has demanded the restarting of maintenance work on the coastal road adjacent to the Shanghumughom beach, which is remaining closed for the past two years. In a press release, vedi president Veli Varghese said that the coastal area of Thiruvananthapuram had been divided into two with the closure of this important connecting road. Cut short The Pozhiyoor-Perumathura bus service had also been cut short and rerouted. The public who were travelling to the domestic airport and Vettukad were facing difficulties, being forced to take roundabout routes. With the sea receding further and a part of the beach becoming visible now, this was the best time to restart the maintenance works, which had remained stuck for the past several months, said Vedi office-bearer Tony Oliver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-restarting-work-on-coastal-road/article36313589.ece
06 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Firm steps taken to tackle Nipah: CM||Coordinated and strong public health measures have been launched at Kozhikode where the Nipah virus (NiV) outbreak has been reported for the second time, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. In a statement here, Mr. Vijayand said that the Health Department had formulated a clear action plan for containing the outbreak and that 16 technical committees had been set up to coordinate each aspect of the action plan, including contact tracing, community surveillance and data analysis. All activities are being supervised by Health Minister Veena George and three other members of the Cabinet. Mr. Vijayan said that facilities had been made for the diagnosis of NiV in Kozhikode Government Medical College itself. Point-of-care testing facilities were being arranged at Kozhikode MCH with the help of National Institute of Virology, Pune. The samples thus confirmed would be sent for re-confirmation to NIV Pune. The results could be obtained within 12 hours, he said. The pay ward block at Kozhikode MCH had been prepared for Nipah isolation and treatment. Negative pressure ICU had been readied for Nipah patients. A contact list of 188 persons had been prepared, of whom 20 were identified as high risk contacts. The high risk contacts had been moved to the isolation ward. Route map of the Nipah index case—the 12-year-old who died—had been published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/firm-steps-taken-to-tackle-nipah-cm/article36313443.ece
06 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Congress plans a ban||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran said Congress-ruled panchayats would drop the colonial era honorific titles “sir and madam” from official communication. Citizens and service-seekers could address local self-government members and staff by their name or official post, he said. Congress would follow the model highlighted by Mathur grama panchayat in Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-plans-a-ban/article36313444.ece
06 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two killed in accidents||Two youths were killed in separate accidents in the district on Sunday. Sooraj alias Sudhi, 23, of Pothencode was killed after his motorcycle hit a car on the NH-66 bypass road at Muttathara. The incident occurred around 9.30 a.m. when Sooraj was proceeding from Enchakkal towards Thiruvallam. Another youth, Balagopal, 35, of Vattayam, was killed after his scooter collided with a pick-up van near Koliyakode Junction in the early hours of the day. He was delcared brought dead at hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-in-accidents/article36313587.ece
06 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman assaulted at Muttathara||A woman in Muttathara was allegedly assaulted by two men when she questioned them for taking her photo on a mobile phone. The Poonthura police have registered a case against the men who were identified as Naushad and Sudheer of the same locality. The woman was standing outside her house talking to a neighbour when she noticed her photo being taken. When she objected, they had allegedly assaulted her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-assaulted-at-muttathara/article36313592.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Satheesan on a peace mission||In Kottayam, Mr. Chandy strongly repudiated the KPCC’s current “no group, only party” mantra. “Congress first and group second,” he told journalists after meeting Mr. Satheesan. Last week, Mr. Chandy hinted that Mr.Sudhakaran had acted in bad faith by revealing their private consultations on reorganisation. Secondly, Mr. Chandy reportedly felt strongly that the official leadership had attempted to create disarray among ‘A’ group loyalists by insinuating that he had endorsed the DCC presidents’ list. Chennithala’s stance In Haripad, Mr. Chennithala was circumspect in the public statement about his meeting with Mr. Satheesan. “I welcome the Opposition Leader’s initiative,” he said. A party insider said Mr. Satheesan’s “peace tour” was a growing reflection of the thinking in the Congress that the current conflict would create no winners. Moreover, it would lend credence to the theory that the party was disintegrating and more leaders would defect to the Left Democratic Front. Hence, the AICC has reportedly initiated below-the-radar attempts at peacemaking to ensure a rancour-free power-sharing agreement between senior leaders in reorganisation matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/satheesan-on-a-peace-mission/article36313446.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Freak accident||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/freak-accident/article36313431.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fight against COVID||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fight-against-covid/article36313559.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Reservoir of food||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reservoir-of-food/article36313473.ece
06 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Books from library at the doorstep||Residents of Kerala’s Alappuzha Municipality no longer have to go to a library to borrow their favourite books. The books would soon reach them at the click of a button. Come November 1, the municipality will begin delivering books at the doorstep. As part of the project titled ‘Vignjana Nagaram-Vayanasala Vadhilpadiyil’, the civic body will soon launch a mobile application for people to order books online from the Alappuzha Municipal library and 17 other libraries within its limits. The libraries have a combined stock of 2.07 lakh books. “The project is to encourage people to read books. Like online food delivery, we will deliver books of readers’ choice at their homes. We hope the initiative will also help create a bunch of new readers,” says Soumya Raj, chairperson, Alappuzha Municipality, adding the technological framework to implement the project will be provided free of cost by Techgentsia Software Technologies Private Limited, an IT company based at Infopark, Cherthala. Touted as the first-of-its-kind initiative among local bodies in Kerala, the project will be materialised with the help of Kudumbashree units, whose members will act as delivery girls. The municipality will charge a nominal fee for book delivery and return. “Libraries in the municipal area have over two lakh books. At present, less than 5% of the registered members are visiting the libraries. Our aim is to make these libraries more accessible to the readers, especially to the younger generation by making the most of modern technology. We hope the initiative will reinvigorate the habit of reading,” says an Alappuzha municipal official. In the initial phase, 39,161 books at the Municipal Library will be made available for home delivery. As part of the project, the entire 2.07 lakh book stock in 18 libraries will be brought under a common database. “The technological framework consists of a web application for libraries and two apps — one for delivery girls and the other for the public. We are developing the model aimed at delivering books within 24 hours of placing orders,” says Joy Sebastian, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Techgentsia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/books-from-library-at-the-doorstep/article36313056.ece
06 September 2021||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC resumes hired bus services||The Anantapur and Kurnool regions of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation(APSRTC) have resumed hired bus services, with Kurnool running 113 out of the 175 hired buses it used to operate in the past and Anantapur 63 out of the 194 buses, till Saturday night. Anantapur RTC Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni said that those who operated hired bus services in the past and wish to resume them had been asked to make the buses fit for operation. An inspection was being done by the RTC officials, he said. Reservation charges The RTC has, meanwhile, reduced the reservation charges on Anantapur-Kadapa and Anantapur-Kurnool routes from Rs. 20 to Rs. 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-resumes-hired-bus-services/article36313528.ece
06 September 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||In peace bid, Bommai meets Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai met his predecessor B.S. Yediyurappa and discussed the “political situation” for nearly a hour on Sunday. Mr. Bommai had the arduous task of pacifying the veteran leader, who is said to be upset over Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s recent statement that the BJP would go into the 2023 Assembly elections under the leadership of the Chief Minister, sources said. Mr. Shah’s statement is believed to have caught many seniors in the party, including Mr. Yediyurappa, off guard. Open dissent K.S. Eshwarappa and Jagadish Shettar have made public statements trying to downplay Mr. Shah’s announcement and stressed on “collective leadership”. The two leaders, who have not been on the same page as Mr. Yediyurappa, seem to have been building bridges with the veteran leader recently, coalescing around him after they were sidelined. Mr. Shettar also met Mr. Yediyurappa in the city on Saturday. During the Sunday morning meeting, Mr. Bommai reiterated his allegiance to Mr. Yediyurappa and his leadership, while also pledging all support to the veteran leader’s proposed Statewide tour after the Ganesha festival. The Chief Minister also discussed the demands by certain Ministers to change their portfolios and reshuffle nominations to boards and corporations, in light of his New Delhi trip on September 7. “It was a clever strategy by the Chief Minister to demonstrate to Mr. Yediyurappa that he was consulting him on all political matters,” a party strategist said. Many seniors in the party thought that Mr. Bommai being anointed as Chief Minister was a necessary stop-gap arrangement to pacify both Mr. Yediyurappa and the Veerashaiva-Lingayat vote base, and that the leadership race in a post-Yediyurappa phase was still open. However, Mr. Shah’s statement has upset many calculations and shown the first signs of Mr. Bommai emerging from the shadows of his mentor and becoming a leader in his own right, making many other senior leaders anxious. However, senior office-bearers of the party also downplayed the significance of Mr. Shah’s statement. “What else could he have said? Anything else would have undermined the Chief Minister. It was a message to the party to set aside differences and work, and also one to the Veerashaiva-Lingayats anxious about the talk of Mr. Bommai being a stop-gap arrangement,” a senior leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-peace-bid-bommai-meets-yediyurappa/article36313049.ece
06 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Training of teachers vital to achieve goals of NEP’||The School of Education & HRD of Dravidian University organised a webinar in collaboration with the Council for Teacher Education Foundation, Karnataka Chapter (CTEF-KC), Bengaluru on the theme of ‘Implementation of NEP-2020 in Teacher Education’ on Sunday, marking the Teachers’ Day celebrations. Dravidian University Vice-Chancellor Tummala Ramakrishna, in his inaugural address, stressed the need of teacher’s education, saying that it would play a crucial role in the education system. ICT tools He cited the examples from writer Gurajada Appa Rao’s magnum opus ‘Kanyasulkam’ about the status of education in the country during the pre-independence era. He said the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 had made several important recommendations for sustainable development of the country through education and utilising different Information and Communication Technology (ICT) resources. “Teacher’s education prepares the future teachers, teacher-educators, and researchers for the country and the teacher trainers need to play a very important role in this regard,” the Vice-Chancellor said.role of pedagogy Role of pedagogy Participating in the programme, university Rector Ch. A. Rajendra Prasad said the teacher’s education held the key to make the NEP-2020 successful and the role of pedagogy was significant in realising the goals. Registrar A.K. Venugopal Reddy explained different initiatives taken by Centre and the State governments for implementation of the NEP-2020. A. Ramakrishna, Head, Department of Education, Osmania University, Hyderabad, the resource person for the webinar, explained at length about the NEP-2020 and its components relating to the teacher’s education. Such steps will enhance the quality of teachers, their recruitment and service conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/training-of-teachers-vital-to-achieve-goals-of-nep/article36313529.ece
06 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders logs worth Rs. 2 cr. seized, 13 arrested||The Chittoor police on Sunday seized 3.5 tonnes of red sanders logs at Ponthalacheruvu Cross in Piler mandal, 70 km from here, and arrested 13 persons, including seven from Tamil Nadu and six from Chittoor and Kadapa districts. The police also seized a container lorry and three cars. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar and Joint Director (Special Enforcement Bureau) V. Vidyasagar Naidu, who presented the seized material and accused before the media at the police parade grounds here, said the logs were worth over Rs. 2 crore in the international market. They said a special party led by circle inspector (Piler) A. Sadiq Ali was checking vehicles at Ponthalacheruvu Cross, when the movement of a container lorry and two cars trailing it was found to be suspicious. On checking the vehicles, the police found 115 logs inside. The occupants of the vehicles tried to give the police the slip, but all the 11 were nabbed. Based on the information given by them, a special police party rushed to the outskirts of Vellore (T.N.), where two more persons were awaiting the arrival of the consignment, and arrested them. The arrested included two from Kadapa district, four from Chittoor district, and seven from Vellore district, all in the age group of 25-55. A case was registered and the accused were sent in remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-logs-worth-rs-2-cr-seized/article36313208.ece
06 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Javelin thrower gets timely help||A.V.G. Krishnam Naidu, a 25-year-old javelin thrower from Guntur, can throw the spear long, and holds a record for throwing it 68 metres at an inter- university meet in Mysuru in January 2020. Tall and well built, he is already billed as the next Neeraj Chopra, who speared into fame at the Tokyo Olympics. Krishnam Naidu, who was trained at BR Stadium, lacks basic support. He cannot afford an aerodynamic javelin, which costs Rs. 1.77 lakh. The inability to use an aerodynamic javelin hampered his winning streak and, as a result, during the State meet held in 2021, Naidu could manage only 66.57 metres. But help came in from unexpected quarters. During a meeting held by the Athletics Association of Guntur to felicitate medal winners on Sunday, Rakesh Chukkapalli, secretary of Delhi Public School, announced that the school would sponsor the aerodynamic javelin. The announcement was followed by Mr. Rakesh assuring that he would support any deserving athlete. Founder of the association Gera Seshaiah said ever since he had founded the association in 1973, they had conducted a number of national and State meets. Asian Games medallist P.T. Usha rediscovered her form during a meet held in BR Stadium just before the Asian Games in 1985, and many athletes were trained in the stadium. The speakers at the meeting demanded that the government come up with a sports policy. Former athletes, Gajula Ramakrishna, a neurologist, Customs and Excise Superintendent K. Siva Prasad, fitness trainer Kandimalla Swapna, District Sports Development Officer G. Venkateswara Rao, secretary of the association Gera Siva Prasad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/javelin-thrower-gets-timely-help/article36313606.ece
06 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homage paid to Keshav Desiraju, grandson of Radhakrishnan||Forum for Better Bapatla secretary P.C. Saibabu paid tributes to Keshav Desiraju (66), the grandson of former President Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, who died in Chennai on Sunday. Incidentally, Dr. Radhakrishnan’s birth anniversary was celebrated on Sunday as Teachers’ Day. Hailing from Bapatla, Keshav Desiraju had settled down in Chennai. His ancestors had lived on the Desiraju Vari Street in Bapatla. Keshav Desiraju was a retired IAS officer (1978 batch). A very honest officer with impeccable integrity, he was also on the governing board of the Centre for Policy Research. He had significantly contributed to the Mental Health Care Bill, 2016, as one of its drafting members, which was later passed in Parliament without much opposition. He had retired as Union Secretary in the Department of Consumer Affairs. Book on singer Keshav Desiraju had also authored the book, ‘Of Gifted Voice’, which spoke of the life and times of legendary Carnatic musician M.S. Subbulakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/homage-paid-to-keshav-desiraju-grandson-of-radhakrishnan/article36313094.ece
06 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Biometric attendance compulsory’||District Collector Vivek Yadav on Sunday instructed all government employees to use biometric system to punch in their attendance from Monday. Those unable to use the system should visit the nearest secretariat to sign in, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/biometric-attendance-compulsory/article36313604.ece
06 September 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paralympian’s family on cloud nine||“I am thrilled. The entire country is appreciating my son. What else could a mother want,” said Jayashree, the mother of Uttar Pradesh-cadre IAS officer Suhas L.Y. who won the silver medal in the Paralympics in Tokyo. Ms. Jayashree spoke to The Hindu over phone from Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) in Uttar Pradesh. She has been flooded with phone calls since Sunday morning from friends and relatives. Flooded with calls “There have been many calls since he won the medal. Everybody is appreciating him. Just now I watched Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaking to my son on TV,” she said. According to Ms. Jayashree, her son had worked hard for the Paralympics for the last two months. Besides the sport of badminton, Mr. Suhas has earned a good name as an officer in Uttar Pradesh. “He worked in different places in Uttar Pradesh and won appreciation from Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. He was posted in Gautam Buddha Nagar to help bring the COVID-19 situation under control,” she said. No formal training Mr. Suhas’s relatives are happy about his achievement. “He has done it. We are all happy for him,” said Mr. Suhas’s cousin Vishnu Priyan, who is a cricketer. Mr. Suhas used to play badminton in his childhood but never had any formal training. “Only after becoming an IAS officer he got trained and devoted time to practising, despite his busy schedule,” said Mr. Priyan. Mr. Suhas was born in Karnataka’s Hassan district, his mother’s native place, in 1983. His father Yathiraj, an assistant executive engineer with the Water Resources Department, passed away in 2005. His brother, Sharath Y.L., is a software engineer in Shivamogga. Mr. Suhas did his schooling in Shivamogga and completed B.E. at Surathkal. His family stayed put at Vinoba Nagar in Shivamogga. Residents of Vinoba Nagar celebrated the occasion by distributing sweets. Mr. Suhas is the second paralympian from Hassan to win a silver medal. H.N. Girish, a native of Arkalgud taluk, won silver in the Paralympics in London in 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paralympians-family-on-cloud-nine/article36313051.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delays due to rain claim life of 11-year-old||A swollen stream which cut off contacts with the outside world for a small hamlet in Tandur mandal of Vikarabad cost the life of a 11-year-old girl suffering from fever as her treatment was delayed by several hours. With no other road communication left for the habitation, the girl’s father Harijan Balappa and his wife Amrutamma carried Harika on their shoulders by turns walking three kilometers over a railway track to reach a motorable road where they hired an auto up to the government hospital at Tandur on Friday evening. Balappa then rushed the girl to Niloufer Children's Hospital in Hyderabad. He told The Hindu that Amrutamma with the help of her brothers at Tandur pooled money to hire an ambulance but to their shock the Tandur-Hyderabad highway was breached at two places en route. The driver took the vehicle on a different route via Parigi which took 15 km more to reach Hyderabad late in the night. It was too late by the time the doctors at Niloufer commenced treatment on Harika, a student of Class six at a government upper primary school, as she developed complications and breathed her last around 2 a.m. on Saturday. Amrutamma and her brothers headed for the village with the body without even collecting the medical reports. Their return journey was on a tractor that slowly waded through knee high water and slush on a different route for a few kilometres up to the village. The journey was risky as the tractor was vulnerable to getting stuck in the slush, according to Balappa. Village sarpanch Devari Narender Reddy said the stream near the habitation was overflowing cutting off the habitation for nearly 10 days in the latest rains. He said the gram panchayat had requested the government to sanction a bridge across the stream but it did not materialise so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delays-due-to-rain-claim-life-of-11-year-old/article36313052.ece
06 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yogi Vemana varsity to hold APPGCET-2021||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has entrusted the responsibility of conducting the Andhra Pradesh Postgraduate Common Entrance Test (APPGCET)- 2021 to Yogi Vemana University, Kadapa. Keeping in view the interest of students, the council has for the first time taken the decision to hold an integrated entrance test for admission into all the universities in the State, which is being implemented from this academic year. YVU Vice-Chancellor M. Surya Kalavathi has been named as the CET committee chairperson and a varsity academic Y. Nazir Ahmed as its convenor. Prof. Kalavathi described it as a rare recognition to the varsity’s administrative capabilities. The committee has started working out the modalities to hold the test in a hassle-free manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yogi-vemana-varsity-to-hold-appgcet-2021/article36313552.ece
06 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No harm in eating fortified rice, says JC||East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha (Revenue) on Sunday appealed to the public not to be afraid of consuming the fortified rice being supplied through the Anganwadi centres for children and pregnant women. He told reporters in an online press conference that a section of people had been falsely campaigning that the fortified rice was ‘plastic rice’. “The fortification process helps add micronutrients to normal rice. The fortified rice being provided by the Anganwadi centres is certified by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). There will be no health complications for the consumers,” he said. On YSR Jagananna Saswatha Bhoo Hakku and Bhoo Raksha programme, Mr. Lakshmisha said in the first phase resurvey of land was in progress in 16 villages in the district. “We are preparing to conduct the resurvey in 1,685 villages in the coming weeks,” he added. Rover and drone technologies were being used in the resurvey, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-harm-in-eating-fortified-rice-says-jc/article36313532.ece
06 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘hacks’ husband to death||A 30-year-old woman allegedly hacked her husband to death with an axe, reportedly for forcing her to earn a livelihood for the family at Lakshmipathipuram in Tallarevu mandal of East Godavari district on Sunday morning. The deceased has been identified as Viswanathapalli Appa Rao (37). The couple had been married for a decade and have a son and a daughter. Kakinada Rural CI A. Muralikrishna said Mr. Appa Rao had been pestering his wife Devi to go for daily-wage work to support the family. They had a heated argument over the matter on Saturday night following which she attacked him with an axe while he was asleep in the morning. Until recently, the couple worked together in an aqua unit but Mr. Appa Rao of late had not been going for work. The body has been sent to Government General Hospital (GGH-Kakinada) for post-mortem. The woman is absconding. The police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-hacks-husband-to-death/article36313578.ece
06 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||In Kerala, row over directive on uniform system for Mass||The controversy over the way the Mass is celebrated in the Catholic Syrian Church took a new turn on Sunday with members of several parishes, including at Holy Family Parish Church at Prasannapuram, near Aluva, preventing the reading of a pastoral letter from Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese and head of the Syro-Malabar Church, and burning copies of the letter. The pastoral letter contained a directive from the synod of the Syro-Malabar Church advising priests and parishioners on celebrating the Mass in a uniform way. It involves celebrating the Mass with the celebrant (priest) facing the congregation during one half and facing the tabernacle (away from the congregation) during the other half. Priests and parishioners from the Ernakulam-Angamaly, Irinjalakuda, and Thrissur dioceses are among those who have opposed this instruction stridently. These dioceses have been following a system of celebrating the Mass in which the priest faces the people for the entire duration of rituals. A delegation of more than 500 priests from the three dioceses had submitted a petition to the Syrian Church authorities not to impose the uniform system. ‘More than 50 years’ Riju Kanjookkaran of Almaya Munnettam, a combine of lay people, the religious, and priests calling for more transparency in the church administration, said 16 parishes had appealed to keep the synod decision on uniform Mass in abeyance. “We have been celebrating the Mass for more than half-a-century facing the people and it will be against the will of the parishioners to impose another system,” said a senior priest of the Syro-Malabar Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly. Appeal to Pope He said those who opposed the new directive from the synod had gone in appeal before Pope Francis. Until a decision was taken by Rome, the system would remain suspended and the Mass celebrated as earlier. A priests’ delegation from the Ernakulam-Angamaly and Thrissur archdioceses and the Irinjalakuda diocese had appealed to maintain status quo on the celebration of the Mass. The group also claimed that archdiocesan administrator Archbishop Antony Kariyil had assured them that, in consultation with the bishops, the decision to implement a uniform code for the Mass would be re-examined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-kerala-row-over-directive-on-uniform-system-for-mass/article36313053.ece
06 September 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central team visits house of Nipah victim in Kozhikode||Efforts are on to trace the source of the latest Nipah virus infection in Kozhikode district of Kerala after a 12-year-old boy died of the infection at a private hospital on Sunday morning. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the zoonotic illness is “transmitted to people from animals, and can also be transmitted through contaminated food or directly from person-to-person.” In infected people, it causes a range of illnesses from asymptomatic infection to acute respiratory illness and fatal encephalitis, WHO says. A team from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) visited the neighbourhood of the boy’s house in Pazhoor near Chathamangalam in the district. The members were P. Ravindran, former Deputy Director General, disaster management cell, Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare, K. Reghu, Additional Director, NCDC, and Ruchi Jain, public health specialist. They were accompanied by officials from the State Health Department. They also interacted with the boy’s parents and relatives. Members of the team inspected samples of a rambutan fruit from the premises after the boy’s relatives informed them that he had eaten the fruit. More samples would be examined to see if they had been bitten by fruit bats, considered to be the natural reservoirs of the Nipah virus. All of them have been asked to be on high alert and inform the Health Department if there were anyone with symptoms that the boy had. The team also spoke to them about the protocol to be followed at home. Meanwhile, Health Minister Veena George said after a meeting that all the deaths in the immediate family and surroundings of the deceased would be checked. A team of the Animal Husbandry Department would inspect the area. Restrictions have been imposed within a three-km radius of his house. Contact tracing would be intensified for another week, until the incubation period of the infection gets over, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ncdc-team-visits-house-of-nipah-victim-in-kozhikode/article36313047.ece
06 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP plans to emerge as only alternative to YSRCP in State||The BJP on Sunday chalked out plans to emerge as “the only alternative to the YSRCP in the State” in the next two years in the wake of the decline in the TDP’s popularity. At a regional meeting of the seven Rayalaseema parliamentary constituency in-charges and MPs, the party discussed the modalities for implementing the ‘Vistarak Yojana’ at the mandal level from September 17 to October 2. The meeting was held under the chairmanship of joint organisational general secretary Shiv Prakash. BJP national secretaries Sunil Deodhar and Y. Satya Kumar, and State president Somu Veerraju were present. People’s problems would be identified at the mandal level on September 25 and 26, and the government would be questioned on the issues later. The developmental and welfare programmes being implemented by the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre would be publicised from September 17 (Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday) to October 2 (Gandhi Jayanthi). “The TDP has failed to take up people’s problems and that space has to be filled by the BJP at the grass roots level,” the leaders said, and expressed concern over lack of maintenance of the existing roads and the disinterest being shown by the contractors to bid for road works. “The State government is criticising the Centre on rising fuel prices. But it is getting additional funds from the Centre in the form of devolution of funds to that extent. But it has failed to utilise the funds for infrastructure development,” said Mr. Deodhar. “The financial position of the State is precarious,” pointed out Mr. Satya Kumar. The meeting saw the need to strengthen the party and, as a step in sthat direction, decided to welcome “valuable persons” into the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-plans-to-emerge-as-only-alternative-to-ysrcp-in-state/article36313551.ece
06 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veerraju, other leaders arrested||BJP State president Somu Veerraju and general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy were arrested at the District Collector’s bungalow when the party leaders and cadre tried to picket it opposing the restrictions imposed on the celebration of Vinayaka Chavithi at public places. The arrested leaders were made to sit in the police station till the situation subsided. After the regional conference, the BJP leaders, including national secretary Y. Satya Kumar, Mr. Veerraju and Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, staged a dharna at the Raj Vihar Centre holding idols of Lord Ganesh. They vowed to continue the agitation till the government withdrew the directive banning Ganesh puja in public places. Addressing the protesters, Mr. Veerraju asked the people to celebrate the festival in the open by following all the COVID-19 protocols, and questioned the government’s rationale behind banning “only Hindu festivals,” while allowing prayers in churches, rituals during Ramzan and Peerla Pandaga in Rayalaseema. “It is unfortunate on the part of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to show the August 28 guidelines issued by the Central Government as an alibi for the ban,” he said. “If prayers can be held in temples and namaz in masjids, what is wrong in performing Ganesh puja in public places in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocols?” he asked. During a dharna at the Raj Vihar Centre, the BJP leaders asked people to be non-violent and dared the police to arrest them. Later, the BJP leaders went to the Collector’s bungalow to picket it, where Mr. Vishnuvardhan and Mr. Veerraju were arrested. In Anantapur too, the police cordoned off the area near Tower Clock and did not allow BJP cadre to gather anywhere near it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-opposes-restrictions-on-vinayaka-chavithi-celebrations/article36313085.ece
06 September 2021||NANDIGAMA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Baby dies as TV falls on her||An 11-month-old baby, Chalamala Keerthi, died after a television set reportedly fell on her when she was playing at home in Old Kanchala village in Krishna district. Her parents, Nageswara Rao and Soundarya, were preparing to celebrate Keerthi’s first birthday in a week. Keerthi suffered critical injuries in the incident that occurred when her mother was away in the front yard of their house, on Saturday. The child was rushed to a hospital at Nandigama where she was declared brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/baby-dies-as-tv-falls-on-her/article36313092.ece
06 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers to step up stir against three farm laws||Upset with the ‘lukewarm’ response to their protracted struggle, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee has decided to step up their stir during September to press their demand for repeal of the three farm laws. Farmers, who have been agitating under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha since the enactment of the three farm laws in September last year, decided to hold virtual meets during the month to highlight their demands that include statutory backing to the Minimum support Price(MSP) regime, said AIKSCC Pakasam district convenor Ch. Ranga Rao. “The online route is the best one to take the agitation forward,” he said. Giving the details about the month-long stirs planned by the AIKSCC, the farmers leader said a ‘Bharat Bandh’ would be held on September 27 and a State-level protest meet would be organised on September 12. This would be followed by district-level meetings on September 15 and mandal level meetings between September 20 and 22. Motorcycle rallies in different places would be taken out on September 23 and 24 to broadbase the movement by roping in like-minded people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-to-step-up-stir-against-three-farm-laws/article36313540.ece
06 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims two lives in South Coastal A.P.||The single-day coronavirus infection tally outnumbered the recoveries in south coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours, ending 9 a.m. on Sunday. Two more patients, one each in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts succumbed to the infection during the period, taking the toll in the region to 2,064. Prakasam district has reported 1,054 deaths while the same for SPSR Nellore district has been put at 1,010 so far, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Pressure on health staff Even as the number of fresh cases came down by over 100 when compared to the previous day, there was no improvement on the recoveries front. The count was fewer by 116 when compared to new cases in the last 24 hours, exerting pressure on the health professionals. As many as 194 persons in SPSR Nellore district and another 114 in Prakasam district got infected in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to more than 2.75 lakh. As a result, the number of active cases rose to 4,352 in the region including 2,217 in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-two-lives-in-south-coastal-ap/article36313533.ece
06 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Idols unearthed in farm||Idols of Lord Krishna and goddess Lakshmi have been unearthed in a farm at Gannavaram, a remote village near Veligandla, in Prakasam district. A large number of people on Sunday came to the farm belonging to one Ambaiah, who found the idols while ploughing his field recently. Revenue and police officials rushed to the village to preserve the idols after assessing its antiquity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/idols-unearthed-in-farm/article36313096.ece
06 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers honoured, their contribution hailed||Floral tributes were paid to former President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan on the occasion of Teachers Day here on Sunday. Adhering to COVID safety protocols, members of the Lions Club of Ongole Citizens led by its president K. Srinivasa Rao celebrated the birth anniversary of late Dr. Radhakrishnan, a noted scholar and the first Vice-President of India. Ongole Mayor honoured some of the teachers in the city for their contributions to the society on the occasion. Students in the city flooded their teachers with messages of gratitude and appreciation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-honoured-their-contribution-hailed/article36313097.ece
06 September 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Most teachers in Kerala want ‘Sir’ and ‘Madam’ to continue||The recent demand raised by a college teacher to rid campuses of the British relics like ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ has triggered an animated discussion in the teacher community about the usage that is in practice for ages. Pradeesh K., Assistant Professor at Commerce Department, Government College, Chittur, had raised the demand soon after the Mathur grama panchayat in the district took a historic decision to ban such salutations. Mr. Pradeesh’s demand has invited sharp criticism in teacher groups. Some even went on to describe the demand as a means for cheap publicity. Rajani Ramachandran, an English teacher from Bharat Mata College here, said that there was nothing wrong in addressing a teacher as ‘sir’ or ‘madam’. “Every job has its dignity. A ‘guru’ is respected in our culture. We cannot afford to stoop to such a level as to call a teacher ‘chechi’ or ‘chetta’,” said Ms. Rajani. No to ‘bro’ and ‘aliya’ “You cannot go up to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and address him rudely. The position he holds has to be respected,” she said. When students start calling their teachers as ‘bro’ or ‘aliya’, that will be the beginning of our culture’s decadence, said another teacher. Although there were both thumbs up and thumbs down for the arguments, teachers in general do not favour the scrapping of ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ from college campuses. “What is respected is not the person, but the post. Nothing can replace terms such as ‘guru’, ‘teacher’, ‘sir’, or ‘madam’,” said Muraleedhar V., former principal of Government Victoria College, Palakkad. Mr. Muraleedhar said that diluting respect to create a feeling of endearment would be wrong. According to Richard, a geography teacher from Government College, Chittur, a Principal has to be addressed as ‘sir’. Teachers should be given the respect due to them on campus. ‘Flawed priority’ Ms. Rajani said that the demand for scrapping of ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ was a flawed priority. “We have many other things of more serious concern. This is a matter of little significance,” she said. C||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/most-teachers-in-kerala-want-sir-and-madam-to-continue/article36313054.ece
06 September 2021||RAMACHANDRAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for govt. polytechnic||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Sunday laid the foundation stone for a government polytechnic at Narasaraopeta village in Ramachandrapuram Assembly constituency in the district. Addressing the villagers after performing the bhumi puja, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said that the State government was committed to building the polytechnic at a cost of Rs. 8 crore to help students in rural areas get better access to technical education. The nearest government polytechnic was in Kakinada, which was more than 30 km away from Ramachandrapuram, he said. “The construction of the college buildings will continue despite a few technical and other hurdles. The college will attract students from across the Konaseema region and the Ramachandrapuram Assembly segment,” he said. The Minister promised to develop a beautiful campus and enquired about the building design with the officials concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stone-laid-for-govt-polytechnic/article36313531.ece
06 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Study Disha Act, new recruits told||Palakonda Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Sravani on Sunday told the newly recruited women constables to understand the importance of the Disha Act, which was enacted to check crimes against women in the State.She conducted an awareness programme at Rajam in the district on the Disha provisions for the women constables who completed their probationary period. The women police could extend a helping hand to victims of atrocitie, she said. Rajam circle inspector M. Srinivasa Rao said all college students have been advised to download the Disha App which would be of help to them in distress. The details of the downloads were being sent to SP Amit Bardar on a daily basis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/study-disha-act-new-recruits-told/article36313534.ece
06 September 2021||TIRUCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Physical classes for primary students under consideration||The Tamil Nadu government is contemplating starting offline classes for primary and upper-primary levels, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said in Tiruchi on Sunday. Based on the observation of attendance and incidence of the COVID-19 infection among students of Classes IX to XII and teachers for eight days (classes began at the start of this month), a call will be taken by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin for start of offline classes for other standards, Mr. Poyyamozhi said after honouring 13 teachers in the district with the State government’s Dr. Radhakrishnan Award for Best Teachers. Bridge course Students of Class IX were being oriented on the vital components of Class VIII portions in the form of a bridge course for 45 days. Primary-level education being of prime importance, the approach will be extended. Students who had been infected with COVID-19 have been provided with medical assistance. The classrooms to which they belonged have been disinfected and closed, so that other classes could continue unhindered, the Minister said. The requirement of sanitary workers for proper maintenance of toilets in schools would be addressed, he added. Budgetary allocation The Minister maintained that the sanction of Rs. 32,599 crore in the 2021-22 Budget for School Education was indeed high in a situation of financial crunch, when asked why it was lesser by Rs. 1,584 crore over the allocation made last year. The Tamil Nadu government is contemplating starting offline classes for primary and upper-primary levels, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said in Tiruchi on Sunday. Based on the observation of attendance, and incidences of COVID-19 infection of students of classes IX to XII and teachers for eight days (for which classes began at the start of this month), a call will be taken by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin for start of offline classes for other standards, Mr. Mahesh said after honouring 13 teachers in the district with the State government’s Dr. Radhakrishnan Award for Best Teachers. Bridge course Students of class IX were being oriented on the vital components of class VIII portions in the form of a bridge course for 45 days. Primary-level education being of prime importance, the approach will be extended. Students who had been infected with COVID-19 have been provided with medical assistance. The classrooms to which they belonged have been disinfected and closed, so that other classes can continue unhindered, the Minister said. The requirement for sanitary workers for proper maintenance of toilets in schools will be addressed. Budgetary allocation The Minister maintained that the sanction of Rs. 32,599 crore in the 2021-22 Budget for School Education was indeed high in a situation of financial crunch, when asked why it was lesser by Rs. 1,584 crore over the allocation made last year. Mr. Mahesh said the schools were supposed to function for eight hours and that they could well utilise a convenient duration beyond 3.30 p.m. for conduct of Spoken English classes. The conduct of Spoken English classes pursued by the State government’s policy to adopt acceptable portions of the National Education Policy 2020 has generated wide appreciation, the Minister claimed. The initiative will be pursued in right earnest, particularly in rural parts of the State. The Minister maintained that the sanction of Rs. 32,599 crore in the 2021-22 Budget for School Education was indeed high in a situation of financial crunch, when asked why it was lesser by Rs. 1,584 crore over the allocation made last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/physical-classes-for-primary-students-in-tamil-nadu-under-consideration/article36313145.ece
06 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati filmmaker bags glory awards||Filmmaker and IT professional C. Siddheswar Manoj, hailing from Tirupati, has received an award from noted actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood at the International Glory Awards-2021 held at Goa recently. Mr. Manoj, a director and content writer, is known for his role in 170 plus ad films and web series. In the mainstream cinema, he has directed the Telugu movie ‘Priya Premalo Prem’ which hit the screens in 2013. As the head of India Operations for a multinational software company, Mr. Manoj works from both Hyderabad and Tirupati. He has received two national awards and nine international awards so far. The award received from Mr. Sood was in recognition of his multifaceted role in deftly handling pan-India digital marketing, content writing and directing films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-filmmaker-bags-glory-awards/article36313099.ece
06 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shortage of DAP fertilizer worries paddy farmers in State||The acute shortage of diammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilizer in the State appears to affect paddy cultivation. The crop is being cultivated in more than 12 lakh hectares in the State this kharif . Even as the Agriculture Department maintains that there is no shortage of the DAP, the farmers are claiming that it is in short supply. According to information, the DAP used to be sold at Rs. 50 to Rs. 70 more than the MRP of Rs. 1,200 till a few days ago and the supplies not matching the demand were cited as the reason. Even as a farmer wants to buy the fertilizer at higher prices, the DAP is not available in the open market or at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) , sources say adding that the shortage is likely to affect the paddy cultivation. Centre’s directive The officials attribute the shortage to the Central government’s directives. The fertilizer companies have been asked not to increase the maximum retail price (MRP) of non-urea fertilizers such as DAP. Instead, they have been suggested to look for alternatives such as single superphosphate and bio-fertilizer rather than importing expensive ingredients, considering the spike in their prices in the global market. “The Centre gives fixed subsidies to the fertilizer companies which feel that it is not sufficient. So, they have scaled down the DAP production that hit the supplies,” explains a senior functionary on the condition of anonymity. Sources in the Agriculture Department say that the farmers use about 40 kg of DAP per acre. If need be, in the second application 20 kg is used. The transplantation of paddy is nearly completed in most parts of the Krishna Eastern Delta and the Godavari Delta, while the operations are under way in the Krishna Western delta, KC Canal, NSP, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. The farmers under these ayacuts and districts need DAP for the first application, and for second application in some cases. The government has set a target of 15.99 lakh hectares for paddy cultivation this kharif season. Of this, the crop was sown in 12.19 lakh hectares as on September 1, sources say. Agriculture Commissioner H. Arun Kumar says that the State government has been monitoring the supplies regularly. “The issue has been brought to the notice of the Union government. A consignment of the fertilizer has been received at Krishnapatnam port. Efforts are being made to ensure adequate stocks at the RBKs,” he says. ‘Buffer stock available’ However, Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu says that sufficient buffer stocks are available. “There is a pressure on the supplies of DAP as the cost of complex fertilizers is high when compared to the DAP. Two rakes of DAP were received at Kakinada two days ago. It is being supplied through the RBKs. The farmers need not panic,” says the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shortage-of-dap-fertilizer-worries-paddy-farmers-in-state/article36313544.ece
06 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curbs on Ganesh fete to check pandemic: MLA||Criticising the BJP leaders for politicising the government’s decision to curb the Vinayaka Chavithi celebrations in public places, Brahmin Corporation chairman and Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu said the restrictions were imposed as per the directions of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Addressing the media on Sunday, Mr. Vishnu said that the curbs were intended to prevent a possible spread of the COPVID-19 infection, but the BJP was politicising the issue. He claimed that the government had also suspended events such as the YSR Achievement Awards and Teachers’ Day celebrations owing to the pandemic situation and that Independence Day was celebrated without participation of the public. The MLA clarified that the restrictions were intended to ensure people’s safety and expressed regret that the BJP was not appreciative of the vaccination drive and other efforts being made by the government to check the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curbs-on-ganesh-fete-to-check-pandemic-mla/article36313093.ece
06 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Single-day tally rising gradually||The State reported eight COVID-19 deaths and 1,623 infections, the highest single-day tally in the last 23 days, in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. With this, the cumulative tally increased to 20,21,325, while the toll reached 13,911. The daily tally has been gradually increasing over the last one week. The daily positivity rate of the 65,596 samples tested was 2.47%. It was 2.13% on Monday last. The overall positivity rate of the 2.69 crore samples tested so far was 7.50%. With the recovery of 1,340 patients in the last 24 hours, the total number of recoveries reached 19,92,256. While the recovery rate stood at 98.56%, the mortality rate was put at 0.69%. The number of active cases crossed 15,000 and reached 15,158 after a week. Of the eight fatalities in the last one day, Chittoor and Krishna reported two each, and Guntur, Nellore, Prakasam and West Godavari one each. There were no deaths in seven districts. East Godavari reported 342 new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (276), Nellore (194), Guntur (151), Krishna (148), West Godavari (148), Prakasam (114), Kadapa (83), Visakhapatnam (60), Vizianagaram (42), Srikakulam (32), Anantapur (17) and Kurnool (16). Five districts shared more than 72% of the total active cases – East Godavari (2,466), Prakasam (2,217), Nellore (2,135), Krishna (2,101) and Chittoor (2,084). They were followed by West Godavari (1,314) and Guntur (1,062). The remaining six districts together have 1,779 active cases. Kurnool has only 85 active cases. The overall district-wises tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,86,877), Chittoor (2,39,229), West Godavari (1,75,079), Guntur (1,73,171), Anantapur (1,57,250), Visakhapatnam (1,55,293), Nellore (1,41,112), Prakasam (1,34,294), Kurnool (1,23,854), Srikakulam (1,22,217), Krishna (1,14,473), Kadapa (1,13,061) and Vizianagaram (82,520).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/single-day-tally-rising-gradually/article36313547.ece
06 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central aid sought for energy efficiency measures in MSMEs||The State government has requested the Ministry of Power (MoP) to extend financial assistance as a grant to enable it to take up Energy Efficiency (EE) measures on a larger scale in the energy-intensive Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) across the State. In a letter to the MoP, Chief Secretary Adityanath Das highlighted the steps being taken by the government to reach the Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) goals that help in achieving higher economic growth with lower per capita emissions by taking EE measures. He stated that the government was committed to striking the required balance between economic development and environment protection by promoting cost-effective EE measures in the industrial sector, where electricity consumption as well as the carbon emissions were high. Keeping this in view, the government had already been successfully implementing the Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) scheme, wherein it saved 3,430 million units of energy worth Rs. 2,350 crore. “Now, the government’s focus is on MSMEs, as a majority of which have neither implemented EE measures nor upgraded their technologies,” he said. “The State Energy Conservation Mission, which is the State Designated Agency for EE schemes, has prepared the ground for adoption of EE measures in the MSMEs by conducting a detailed audit thereof,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-aid-sought-for-energy-efficiency-measures-in-msmes/article36313143.ece
06 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘IIITs will be made Centres of Excellence’||Education Minister A. Suresh on Sunday said the government was keen on developing the IIITs in the State into Centres of Excellence. Speaking at a meeting after laying the stone for construction of a computer centre and inaugurating a solar power plant on the Nuzvid IIIT campus, Mr. Suresh said the idea to set up IIITs in Andhra Pradesh had been broached in April 2007 by former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, who had wanted to provide access to the rural youth to quality technical education by establishing at least three IIITs in the three regions of the State and ensure better opportunities to them. The objective of establishing the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) was to provide high quality educational opportunities to bright students coming from rural background, he said. The Minister accused the TDP government of neglecting the four IIIT campuses at Nuzvid, Kadapa, Ongole and Srikakulam in the State, and said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was keen on augmenting the facilities and groom them into iconic institutes. He said the State was aiming to see at least five of its universities in the list of the top 10 universities in the country, and efforts were on to include the IIITs in that list. Establishment of facilities like incubator centres and skill development centres here were part of the efforts. A special entrance test for admission into these institutes was being contemplated, he added. Quality education Mr. Suresh said the reforms ushered in the education sector were aimed at imparting quality education to students keeping their future in mind. Referring to the Mana Badi - Nadu-Nedu programme, he said the government schools recorded 6 lakh more admissions this academic year.  Later, addressing a meeting organised in the virtual mode on the occasion of Teachers’ Day, Mr. Suresh said the government had been designing innovating programmes to ensure equal education opportunities to all sections of society. Congratulating the ‘Best Teachers’ of the year, he said this year the awards function could not be held due to COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iiits-will-be-made-centres-of-excellence/article36313554.ece
06 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||638 candidates take recruitment test by UPSC in city||The examination conducted on Sunday by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for recruitment to the posts of Enforcement Officers and Account Officers in the Employees Provident Fund Organisation(EPFO), passed off peacefully at the local test centres in Vijayawada, said Sub-Collector G.S.S. Pravin Chand. Of the total 1,608 registered candidates, only 638 candidates (39.67 %) took the test in the four examination centres set up in Vijayawada. Official supervises arrangements The Sub-Collector visited the exam centres at Krishnaveni School and Maris Stella College and supervised the arrangements. Earlier, the examination material was despatched from the strong room to the four exam centres under the Sub-Collector’s supervision, along with other officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/638-candidates-take-upsc-exam-in-vijayawada/article36313100.ece
06 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 street-dwellers get access to welfare schemes||As part of a survey to identify homeless persons, district officials issued Aadhaar, ration and Aarogyasri cards to 12 persons on Sunday. According to a release, following the orders of Vijayawada Sub-Collector G.S.S. Praveen Chand, village revenue officer (VRO) K. Kiran Kumar along with volunteer S. Harish and VRO V. Madhuri of Vijayawada East mandal identified 12 street-dwellers, including destitutes and migrant workers with no access to government welfare schemes. All of them were issued Aadhaar, ration and health cards by the authorities. Mr. Praveen Chand appreciated Mr. Kiran and Ms. Madhuri for ensuring the needy get access to the government schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12-street-dwellers-get-access-to-welfare-schemes/article36313602.ece
06 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 held for smuggling ganja||Sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) on Sunday checked vehicles at the Pottipadu toll gate and took into custody four persons, including a woman and a minor girl, for allegedly smuggling ganja. The team led by SEB Additional Superintendent of Police M. Sathi Babu checked vehicles and intercepted a car. They seized 75 kg of the contraband and took a woman, a girl and another person into custody. They were allegedly smuggling ganja from Vizianagaram to Delhi. In another raid, the SEB police seized two kg of ganja from a person in an APSRTC bus. Cases have been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-held-for-smuggling-ganja/article36313603.ece
06 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Teachers are torchbearers of society’||Teachers are the torchbearers of the society, said Assistant Director (Strategy) Andhra Pradesh Tourism, A. Lajwanti Naidu, on Sunday. Speaking at a meeting organised in connection with the Teachers’ Day celebrations at the KCP Siddhartha Adarsh Residential Public School at Kanuru, Ms. Naidu urged the teaching fraternity to focus on their ‘attitude, behaviour and communication’ (ABC) and said drifting away from the rote model and imparting application-based education would do a world of good to the students. School convenor V. Sasikala said it was important for teachers to update their knowledge and be a constant source of inspiration for students. Earlier, rich tributes were paid to Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and a few students spoke about the significance of the day. Three senior teachers were felicitated on the occasion. Secretary Tarun Kakani, Principal K. Sreehari and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-are-torchbearers-of-society/article36313601.ece
06 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan Kalyan condemns ‘attacks’ on JSP cadre||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan has condemned the attacks on party leaders who are questioning the government on the bad condition of roads as a part of their digital campaign and for staging protests across the State. Mr. Kalyan said one such incident of intimidation had taken place at Amadalavalasa in Srikakulam district, where JSP leader P. Ramamohan Rao was allegedly assaulted by YSRCP activists in the presence of the police as he highlighted the pathetic condition of roads . The JSP chief said about 25 workers of the ruling party had attacked Mr. Ramamohan Rao and others, causing injuries to seven. But, the police hauled up the JSP cadres, who were exposing the government’s failures. He said the police filed a case against West Godavari district JSP chief Chinababu in Bhimavaram for protesting against the government’s callousness, and prevented Anakapalli constituency in-charge P. Bhaskara Rao from staging a demonstration. Similarly, JSP workers were attacked at Anasagaram in Nandigama Municipality , he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-kalyan-flays-attacks-on-activists/article36313363.ece
06 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shortage of blood, platelets a cause for concern, say doctors||The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in shortage of blood and platelets at blood banks in the city. The shutdown of educational institutions, particularly colleges, as also the Work From Home (WFH) situation in many companies, till recently, has made conduct of blood donation camps a difficult prospect. Dengue cases A number of youths, who used to volunteer to donate blood in the past, are now reluctant as they fear coming into contact with a COVID patient at the blood bank. They seem oblivious of the fact that donors are screened before entry and a sterile environment is maintained at blood banks, says a doctor. The reported rise in dengue cases in the district has led to an acute shortage of platelets, which are required to treat dengue patients. Notwithstanding the decline in COVID-19 cases and the willingness of various institutions to organise donation camps, the mandatory guidelines like the waiting period of 15 days, after taking the jab, to be eligible for donation, are coming in the way. “Though dengue starts in July, September and October are the peak months for the proliferation of cases. In August 2020, a total of 597 smear samples were collected and 112 dengue cases detected. This August (2021), 2,197 blood smear samples were drawn of which 417 were found positive for dengue. The positivity rate is more or less the same during both the years,” District Malaria Officer Y. Mani told The Hindu . She calls for greater awareness and cooperation of the public in checking the breeding of Aedes aegypti mosquito, which breeds in stagnant fresh water, and causes dengue. The government, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), other municipalities and local bodies are taking control measures and awareness programmes through ANMs, ASHA workers and secretariat staff. “The restrictions on donation of blood for 14 days after receiving the COVID-19 vaccine have to be removed. They are giving rise to apprehensions among many prospective donors on the safety of donating blood after taking the jab. One can understand the restrictions on donation in the initial phase of the pandemic, when the safety of the COVID-19 vaccine was yet to be established,” says A. Sugandhi, Medical Director of A.S. Raja Voluntary Blood Bank, expressing concern at the shortage of platelets. The Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) Blood Bank, near Zilla Parishad, has registered a drop in the collection of blood from 5,058 units in 2019-20 to 3,301 units in 2020-21 and platelets from 364 to 86 during the corresponding period, says Medical Officer Lakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shortage-of-blood-platelets-a-cause-for-concern-say-doctors/article36313616.ece
06 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youngster walks over 4,000 km to create awareness on blood donation||The 24-year-old youth G. Siva from Addanki mandal of Prakasam district has walked over 4,016 km across six States in the country to create awareness on blood donation, for the past five months and reached Visakhapatnam. During the course of this journey, he met people, associations, college going students and explains them about the importance of donating blood. So far, the youth with the help of the Red Cross, has organised 33 blood donation camps and distributed over one lakh pamphlets. Siva, a graduate, had started the campaign on April 9 in the year from Kanyakumari. He started the walkathon after one of his relatives died due to unavailability of blood in his village during the first wave of the COVID-19. Due to a lot of misapprehension, people are not coming forward to donate blood during the COVID-19. Compared to urban areas, many people are unaware about blood donation in the rural areas, he said. So far, Siva has covered Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Pondicherry. Siva has also met actor Sonu Sood at his residence in Mumbai during his walkathon, who appreciated his gesture to promote blood donation. All he carries is a bag that contains a tent, which becomes his home in the night. He is financially helped by two professors from his college. “I visit villages, interact with village heads or leaders and create awareness by organising meets. After reopening of educational institutions, I have started to visit colleges,” he said. “My final aim is to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and give him a representation and explain the cause of my walkathon. Blood donation campaigns should be organised on a massive scale to meet the need,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youngster-walks-over-4000-km-to-create-awareness-on-blood-donation/article36313618.ece
06 September 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Best things happen only when body and mind are in sync, says Mithali Raj||The importance of mental health has been realised by people after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The best things can happen only when the body and mind are in sync and this can be achieved through training, Mithali Raj, Test and ODI Captain of India’s national women’s cricket team, has said. Speaking at a webinar on “Defend Mind’s Googly with Mithali Raj”, organised by 1 Life 24X7 Suicide Prevention and Crisis Support Helpline 78930 78930, on Sunday, Ms. Mithali Raj underlined the need to keep constantly reassuring oneself that he/she can achieve the goal. “The mind is just as fickle as the people around us, you should train your mind and this has been part of my routine for long. When you have affirmative thoughts, it registers in your mind. Emotions are normal but the way one deals with them decides the success of a person. Negative emotions should not be allowed to stay for long as they can affect a person’s performance in any field,” she says. “We make conscious efforts at the nets but at the tournament, anxiety and peer pressure can hamper our performance. If an athlete knows how to balance between these two, he/she can give the best result,” she said. Replying to a question from one of the participants, on the vulnerabilities of cricketers, Ms. Mithali Raj says, “Everybody is vulnerable. Even after playing 22 years of international cricket, I feel as though I have butterflies in my stomach before going out into the field every time before a game. Criticism is a part of everyone’s life and is not confined to sportspersons and celebrities.” “We are not perfect in everything. One should channelise his/her thoughts on their strengths instead of concentrating only on their weaknesses all the time,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/best-things-happen-only-when-body-and-mind-are-in-sync-says-mithali-raj/article36313608.ece
06 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||FDNA urges CM to speed up work of tribal varsity||The Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) has appealed to the State government to bring pressure on the Centre to ensure speedy construction of the Tribal University and appointment of full-fledged staff. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma said the establishment of a tribal university in the State was among the assurances given in the A.P. State Reorganisation Act, 2014. The previous government had identified 526.66 acres for the project at Relli village of Kothavalasa mandal in Vizianagaram district. Apart from government land, some stretches were acquired from farmers. A committee of experts from the Centre had agreed to the proposal submitted by the State government. A boundary wall was constructed at the site. “However, the construction could not be taken up in the absence the statutory clearances and funds from the Centre,” said Mr. Sarma. The YSRCP government, after assuming office in 2019, had decided to select a new site for the project. But, the site selected at Pachipenta in Vizianagaram district was not approved by the Centre. Mr. Sarma said that further delay in the construction of the buildings would affect the future of the students from the north Andhra region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fdna-urges-cm-to-speed-up-work-of-tribal-university/article36313541.ece
06 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Work on Bhogapuram airport project will begin soon’||YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has said that work on construction of the Bhogapuram international airport and the six-lane road between Visakhapatnam and Bhogapuram will begin soon. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy was speaking after the stone-laying ceremony for a butterfly theme park in Ward No.14 here on Sunday. The six-lane road to Bhimili would be taken up by the R&B Department and the Centre, while the road from Bhimili to Bhogapuram would be laid by the Department of Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) and the Centre. Stating that survey for both the roads had been completed, he said the road from the city outskirts to Bhimili would have cycling and walking tracks. Cases pertaining to the Bhogapuram airport lands would be resolved soon, he added. Keeping in view the growing population and drinking water needs, pipelines would be laid from Purushothapatnam to Visakhapatnam, he added. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said issues pertaining to all the colonies would be resolved. He said 296 water bodies in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) limits would be developed to attract tourists. He said that more theme parks would be set up in the city. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that the park would be constructed with a budget of Rs. 2.5 crore. It would hev seating arrangements, greenery, children’s play arena, water body, meditation spaces, butterfly generation station, Miyawaki space (a technique pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, which helps build dense, native forests), washrooms, shops, food courts and others facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-on-bhogapuram-airport-project-will-begin-soon/article36313556.ece
06 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-Amritsar special to run with LHB coaches||Train no. 08503 Visakhapatnam-Amritsar special will be run with Linke-Hofmann-Busch (LHB) coaches via Bhubaneswar, Sambalpur, Bilaspur, Katni Murwara, Jhansi, Agra Cant, New Delhi and Jalandhar with effect from September 11, the authorities have said. The train will leave Visakhapatnam station on Tuesdays, Fridays and Saturdays at 00.25 hours (post midnight) and it will reach Amritsar at 10.50 p.m. on the second day of its journey. In the return direction, train no. 08504 Amritsar- Visakhapatnam special will leave Amritsar on Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays at 11. 55 p.m. with effect from September 15 and arrive in Visakhapatnam at 9.40 p.m. on the third day of its journey, a statement issued by the Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi said. These special trains will have 17 LHB coaches comprising two AC-1, three AC-3, six sleeper class, four second class, one AC pantry car and two generator motor cars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-amritsar-special-to-run-with-lhb-coaches/article36313615.ece
06 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 60 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 60 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,55,803. The toll stands at 1,075 as no death was recorded in the last 24 hours. The last death was reported on September 1. Meanwhile, 93 persons recovered from the coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-60-new-covid-cases/article36313622.ece
06 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Victory Flame reaches Bheemili||The Victory Flame, as part of ongoing Swarnim Vijay Varsh Celebrations, arrived at the Naval Station at Bheemunipatnam, on Sunday. The Victory Flame was brought to ‘Pratigya Sthal’, where it was received by Cmde Neeraj Uday, Station Commander, Naval Station Bheemunipatnam and Commanding Officer INS Kalinga, and Capt Chetan R Upadhyay, Commanding Officer, INS Karna, in the presence of 1971 war veteran Cdr M. Sudhakar Rao (Retd). The ceremony was witnessed by Ch. Srinivas Rao, ACP (North Zone), Visakhapatnam, other veterans, naval personnel and their families with great zeal and enthusiasm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/victory-flame-reaches-bheemili/article36313621.ece
06 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social justice ignored during TDP rule: Jupudi||The TDP, which had failed to give adequate representation to the SC, ST, and minority communities and to women during its rule, is unable to bear the growing popularity of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who has been according top priority to these sections, government adviser Jupudi Prabhakar has said. Addressing the media on Sunday, he said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had not only given adequate representation to the candidates from these sections before the elections but also allotted 52% of the nominated posts to women . He said social justice had gone for a toss during the TDP rule with hardly any representation to weaker sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-justice-ignored-during-tdp-rule-jupudi/article36313555.ece
06 September 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo holds campaign for students of NGO||A special campaign for students of Generation Yuvaa (an NGO), was organised by the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) on the occasion of International Day of Charity - 2021, on the zoo premises here on Sunday. Around 50 students of the NGO participated in this programme. IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria and a team of the IGZP explained them about the wildlife and animal behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-holds-campaign-for-students-of-ngo/article36313609.ece
06 September 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call for judicious use of water||The two-day national webinar on ‘Water Management Laws: Life, Livelihood and Environment,’ organised by Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University , concluded here on Sunday. Iswar Bhat from Karnataka State Law University, participated as the chief guest at the valedictory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-for-judicious-use-of-water/article36313611.ece
06 September 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Counselling conducted for rowdy-sheeters||A counselling programme was organised for rowdy-sheeters, on the directions of Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha at all the police station in the city on Sunday . Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors of all the police stations told rowdy-sheeters to lead peaceful lives, without indulging in any anti-social activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/counselling-conducted-for-rowdy-sheeters/article36313610.ece
06 September 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||BMT facility launched in city hospital||HCG Cancer Centre, Visakhapatnam, has launched a dedicated state-of-art bone marrow transplant unit. The unit was inaugurated by Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari in the presence of Rana Uppalapati, skater, and Anmish Varma Bhupathiraju, World Martial Arts Champion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bmt-facility-launched-in-city-hospital/article36313612.ece
06 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YHAI women’s wing organises trekking at Kambalakonda||A trekking programme organised by the women’s wing of the Youth Hostel’s Association of India (YHAI), on the occasion of Teachers’ Day, was flagged off by Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari at Kambalakonda here on Sunday. YHAI women’s wing president P. Padmalatha and vice-president Lakshmi Swaroopa and others were felicitated on the occasion of Teachers’ Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yhai-womens-wing-organises-trekking-at-kambalakonda/article36313620.ece
06 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Upgrade skills to meet challenges, teachers told||Teachers’ Day celebrations turned into a low-key affair in the district due to the cancellation of the official awards function by the State government. However, private engineering colleges, schools and other institutions celebrated the event and offered floral tributes to Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. Centurion University of Technology and Management, Vizianagaram vice-chancellor G.S.N. Raju and registrar C.V. Gopinath felicitated the national professor at the Indian Medical Association College of General Practitioners, Chennai Kutikuppala Suryarao for his studies on communicable diseases, including COVID-19. Dr. Raju said that Dr. Suryarao had been requested to associate with the university as an honorary professor to guide the students of the school of paramedics and health sciences. Dr. Suryarao advised the teaching faculty to upgrade their skills in technology to meet the new challenges in the education system.  In a press release, private educational institutions’ representatives V.S.N. Kumar, P. Srikanth and others urged the government to save the managements and private teachers since the government’s policies with regard to the fee structure were detrimental to the existence of the institutions. They urged the government to review its decision and fix the fee by considering teachers’ salaries and maintenance expenditure of the institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/upgrade-skills-to-meet-future-challenges-teachers-told/article36313535.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD chief takes part in rituals in Mysuru||The five-day ‘Chaturveda Havanam’ concluded on a grand note at ‘Datta Peetham’ in Mysuru on Sunday. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, along with his wife, attended the ‘Purnahuthi’ event. Mr. Reddy recalled that the TTD had taken up various religious programmes in the last one and a half years, seeking divine intervention to rid the world of coronavirus. “This apart, we have taken up programmes such as Gudiko Gomatha across five States as part of which native cows were donated to more than 100 temples. As part of the ‘Govinduniki Go Adharita Naivedyam’, we are preparing food made of Panchagavya products and cereals grown by natural farming methods to serve to devotees,” he said. Sri Ganapathi Sachidananda, pontiff of Datta Peetham which organised the event, complimented the efforts of the TTD in spreading the Hindu Sanatana Dharma. He felicitated the TTD Chairman. Sri Venkateswara Institute of Higher Vedic Studies project officer A. Vibhishana Sharma took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-chief-takes-part-in-rituals-in-mysuru/article36313537.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP opposes curbs on Vinayaka Chavithi festival||“If prayers can be held in temples and namaz in masjids, what is wrong in performing Ganesh puja in public places in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocols?” he asked. During a dharna at Raj Vihar Centre, the BJP leaders dared the police to arrest them. Later, the BJP leaders went to the Collector’s bungalow to picket it, where Mr. Vishnuvardhan and Mr. Veerraju were arrested. In Anantapur too, the police cordoned off the area near Tower Clock and did not allow the BJP cadre to gather there. The material brought for erecting a pandal and performing puja at Saptagiri Circle was unloaded and kept ready, and the police were guarding that area too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-opposes-curbs-on-vinayaka-chavithi-festival/article36313542.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||One for the album||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-for-the-album/article36313539.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time to vacate||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/time-to-vacate/article36313614.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A pleasant outing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-pleasant-outing/article36313102.ece
06 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Call for health emergency||As the cases of viral fevers and other seasonal diseases, including dengue, are on the rise in several Agency mandals, the demand for declaration of health emergency to bolster health infra and fill up the critical gaps in public healthcare delivery system have surfaced from various quarters. M P Banjara, Jaggaram and a couple of other villages in Pinapaka constituency are reeling under viral fevers. According to sources, a contract worker of Bhadradri Thermal Power Station construction site near Manuguru succumbed to high fever with dengue-like symptoms at a hospital in Bhadrachalam on Saturday. A 15-year-old girl from a village near Manuguru died of suspected dengue fever at a private hospital in Khammam on Saturday evening. The sudden spurt in cases of vector-borne and other seasonal diseases has spurred demands from the CPI (M) and various mass organisations for declaration of health emergency. Though the COVID-19 positivity rate in the district is well below 1%, the sporadic cases of coronavirus in some parts have emerged as a cause of concern in the midst of peak rainy season. As many as eight teachers were diagnosed with COVID in the district since the reopening of schools. DMHO Dr. Sirisha told The Hindu that more than 400 medical camps were conducted in areas identified as hotspots of viral fevers and other vector-borne diseases. Vigorous efforts are on to prevent and control viral fevers and other seasonal diseases, she said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-for-health-emergency/article36313406.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Better prospects of Singur, Nizamsagar dams getting surplus||Heavy rains in the local catchment areas as well as upstream areas in Karnataka and Maharashtra for the last couple of days have improved the prospects of Singur and Nizamsagar projects, which are yet to surplus this season, both based on Manjira river getting surplus over the next couple of days. As on Sunday evening (6 p.m.), Singur was getting a flood of 23,650 cusecs and Nizamsagar 17,990 cusecs bringing down their flood cushion to about 4 tmc ft and 5 tmc ft, respectively. Storage of Singur was 25.82 tmc ft against its capacity of 29.91 tmc ft and that of Nizamsagar was 12.93 tmc ft against its capacity of 17.8 tmc ft. According to superintending engineer of Sriramsagar project G. Srinivas, the spillway discharge of flood from the project was increased to about 1 lakh cusecs from 24 crest gates around 8.10 p.m. with the forecast of heavy flood reaching the reservoir from the upstream Maharashtra. Discharge of 37,440 cusecs from the spillway was on continuously from 9.10 p.m. on Saturday till it was increased to 1 lakh cusecs at 8.10 p.m. on Sunday. “The inflow started receding from noon today (Sunday) but the discharge was kept intact to increase the flood cushion as there was forecast of getting huge flood of over 1 lakh cusecs from night. The inflow was 24,510 cusecs till 7 p.m. but increased to 44,510 cusecs from 8 p.m.,” a project engineer monitoring the flood explained. Mid Manair (10,670 cusecs), Lower Manair (58,470) and Yellampally (86,455) were also getting heavy flood as on Sunday evening, although there was some respite in rain during the half met day, calculated from 8.30 a.m. to 8.30 a.m., till 8.30 p.m. According to officials, a maximum of 68 mm rain was recorded at Chintakunta in Karimnagar district followed by 65 mm at Karimnagar and 59 mm at Mamillagudem (Suryapet). No other place recorded 50 mm rain till 8 p.m. On Saturday (till 8.30 a.m. on Sunday), the highest rain recorded was 80.9 mm at Gollapalle in Jagityal district with a few places in Adilabad, Kumram-Bheem, Peddapalli, Mulugu, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Nagarkurnool, Rangareddy, Sangareddy, Medak and Nirmal districts getting rain in the 64.5 mm to 80.8 mm range and other areas in the lesser range. There was respite to citizens of Hyderabad as a maximum of 12 mm or lesser rain was recorded till 8 p.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/better-prospects-of-singur-nizamsagar-dams-getting-surplus/article36313395.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Huge enrolment in govt. schools||About 1.20 lakh children had migrated from private to government schools this year, Education Minister P. Sabita Indra Reddy said. The strength of children in government schools had gone up to 2.50 lakh, including those who shifted from private institutions, Ms. Indra Reddy said during the official Teachers Day celebrations at Ravindra Bharati on Sunday. She said the government was trying to put the education sector back on rails after it suffered badly like all other sectors due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She exhorted teachers to impart values and moral education to children. Mothers give birth to children but it is the teachers who teach how them to live, she added. The Minister felicitated the best teachers selected by the government as part of the celebrations. Animal Husbandry Minister T. Srinivas Yadav was also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-enrolment-in-govt-schools/article36313375.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Waqf Board issues 765 notices to encroachers||The Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB), in the past three months, has taken a tough stand against encroachments, by petitioning the Waqf Tribunal, and issued hundreds of notices to alleged encroachers of Muslim endowed land parcels. According to sources from the board, as many as 765 notices under section 54 (1) of the Waqf Act of 1995, which deals with seeking an explanation on those who have encroached waqf properties, have issued across the State. In addition to this, 21 notices under section 54 (3) of the same legislation which deals with knocking on the doors of the Waqf Tribunal seeking eviction of alleged encroachers, have been served. The sources said that the board has also filed as many as 63 cases in the Tribunal, seeking removal of these alleged encroachments. “There have been concerted efforts by the board to set wheels in motion to take back waqf properties, and encroached lands. This is why around 500 illegal registrations of waqf properties got cancelled early this year. Now, as a next step, notices have been sent, and cases have been filed in the Waqf Tribunal. The board members are hoping for favourable orders. The board has been constantly in touch with the Hyderabad district administration to get back properties from the city as well,” a board official said. Issue of rentals While encroachments remain a perennial bother for the board on the one hand, on the other hand, the Muslim endowments panel has been trying to renegotiate rentals derived from waqf properties. “There were several attempts to revise rentals which are paltry, but this has met with little success. The properties where rentals should be increased include in Waqf complexes in districts. The board has planned to convene a meeting on the issue on September 7,” the source said. Survey work As was previously reported in these columns, the Revenue Department and Greater the Hyderabad Municipal Corporation officials had surveyed a graveyard for the purpose of constructing Dignity Housing units. TSWB Chairman Mohammed Saleem and Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav had conducted a joint inspection of the site. While Mr Saleem told The Hindu that the issue would be put before the board, sources said that the matter appears to have been put on the backburner.  500 illegal registrations of Waqf properties were cancelled early this year. Member, Telangana State Waqf Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/waqf-board-issues-765-notices-to-encroachers/article36313390.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Venkaiah calls for rural service for doctors before first promotion||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that serving in rural areas should be made mandatory for doctors in the government sector before they are awarded their first promotion. Speaking at the 11th annual Medical Teachers’ Day awards function here on Sunday, the Vice-President said that three to five years of service in rural areas for young doctors was essential as 60% of the country’s population lived in villages. Asking doctors to remember the core value of compassion for humanity in all their actions, he said, “Let that be your moral compass when in dilemma, and always adhere to the highest level of ethics. If you can serve with a spirit of selfless dedication, you derive boundless and real happiness”. Mr Naidu stressed the need to increase the number of medical colleges while referring to the government’s efforts to bridge the gap in doctor-patient ratio in the country. He said doctor-patient ratio was 1:1456 as against the WHO norm of 1:1000. He paid homage to former president and statesman-philosopher Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan on his birth anniversary. Earlier, he presented the Lifetime Achievement Award to cardiologist and Public Health Foundation of India president K. Srinath Reddy and others, including Dr. Devi Shetty. Telangana Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali and president of National Board of Examinations Alexander Thomas were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/v-p-calls-for-rural-service-for-doctors-before-first-promotion/article36313380.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister visits flooded areas in Mahabubnagar town||Several low lying areas in Mahabubnagar town, including Ramaiah Bowli, B.K. Reddy Colony, Shivashakti Nagar, Christianpalli, One Town, Two Town, Laxmi Nagar Colony, Srinivasa Colony and others, were flooded following heavy rain after midnight on Saturday (early hours of Sunday). Minister for Excise V. Srinivas Goud, who was camping in Mahabubnagar, visited the flooded colonies on a bike after getting a distress call from Shivashakti Nagar Councillor’s family around 3.50 a.m., as his car driver was not available. The Minister and a couple of his personal staff went round the areas before the district officers joined them. It was initially suspected that Peddachervu in the town could have breached leading to the inundation of residential colonies. However, a visit to the tank on Sunday cleared the doubts and the officials swung into action for relief work after realising that it was heavy rain that had flooded the colonies. He was accompanied by District Collector S. Venkata Rao, Superintendent of Police R. Venkateshwarlu, Additional Collector Tejas Nandlal Pawar, and Deputy SP Sridhar. Mr. Goud instructed the officials to take steps for draining out water from the colonies. The road leading to Motinagar was also submerged following excess flow from the tank flooding the area. He told the officials to make alternative arrangements connecting Motinagar to the rest of Mahabubnagar. The District Collector was told to talk to SCR officials for laying a road parallel to the rail line passing in the Motinagar area. Mahabubnagar town recorded 87 mm rain on Saturday (till 8.30 a.m. on Sunday). Later in the day, the Minister held a video conference with mandal level officers on the rain and flood situation and told them to be alert following the forecast of heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places across the State for the next two days. He instructed the irrigation officials to keep a watch on tanks and ponds and focus on tanks with weak bunds and those breached in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-visits-flooded-areas-in-mahabubnagar-town/article36313397.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP chief blames KCR for deferring Huzurabad bypoll||State BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar, on Sunday, blamed Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for “engineering postponement of byelection to Huzurabad Assembly constituency on the pretext of COVID”. The TRS leaders had ensured the bypoll, from where former Health Minister Eatala Rajender is contesting, was not held with the other polls across the country as they feared defeat, he claimed. Addressing a public meeting as part of his ninth day of ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ in Vikarabad district on Sunday, Mr. Sanjay Kumar’s public campaign, which crossed the 100 km milestone by noon, questioned why the government had decided to open schools and colleges when the pandemic is still raging and it was dangerous to hold elections. “The ruling party leaders have been siding with corporate and private schools who in turn have been charging exorbitant fees from each student,” he said, after holding a meeting with teachers. He garlanded the portrait of former President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and also felicitated teachers on Teachers’ Day. Praising the services rendered by teachers to the country and the society, he said that his father too, has been a teacher from whom he had imbibed many good qualities. “The TRS government has not bothered to fill up vacant teacher posts and is reducing the numbers by closing the existing schools,” he said. “When the need of the hour is to have a school for every kilometre, in TS there are more liquor shops and bars,” he charged. “The BJP will stand by teachers and their unions for their just demands, so there is no need for them to fear the government here,” he said, seeking their support for his programme. The BJP leader also met representatives of unemployed youth as they sought his help in making the government take up notification of district selection committees for teachers’ recruitment. Interacting with farmers en route, he demanded the government to come to the aid of those hit by the recent heavy rains. There was also a pleasant surprise for him as his family along with close relatives paid a visit to spend some time with him and inquire about his well-being at the Velchala village. Senior leaders K. Laxman, D.K. Aruna, Manohar Reddy, Rakesh Reddy participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-bjp-chief-blames-kcr-for-deferring-huzurabad-bypoll/article36313399.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. yet to release Rs. 4,250 cr. due to woman SHGs: Uttam||Former president of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee and Nalgonda MP Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has cheated woman self-help groups (SHGs) of the State by not releasing Rs. 4,250 crore due to them. Addressing the media along with TPCC working president and MLA Jagga Reddy, All India Mahila Congress general secretary Fatima, president of TS Mahila Congress Sunita Rao, he said that the government owes about Rs. 4,250 crore to woman SHGs. “In the past two years and 10 months, the government did not pay a single rupee towards the interests of the loans being taken by SHGs of the State. The government did not release Rs. 2,200 crore of interest to 3.85 lakh SHGs of the rural areas and Rs. 750 crore to the 1.52 lakh SHGs of urban areas. On the whole, the government owes Rs. 3,000 crore to the SHGs under Vaddi Leni Runalu scheme,” he said. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that the government owes Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000 of interest each to 66 lakh members of the SHGs of the State. Each SHG needs to get Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1.50 lakh on an average from the government. On top of it, the government has retained Rs. 1,256 crore of premium being paid by the SHGs towards insurance under the Abhaya Hastam scheme. With this the total dues of the government payable to the SHGs reaches Rs. 4,256 crore. He alleged that let alone paying the interests of the SHGs, the government has been bringing pressure on the groups to pay the interest from their own pockets to the banks. He said that a Mandal Parishad Development Officer Sudhakar has been suspended for non-payment of interest by the SHGs of his mandal. Mr. Reddy reminded that the Chief Minister has promised to establish food processing units through SHGs. “But, no action has been taken so far to implement the promise. The CM has also promised to regularise the services of 4,256 employees of the SERP. Even this promise was not kept,” he added. He said that KCR released Rs. 1,200 crore towards the interest to SHGs before the elections of 2018 and that too because of the Congress meeting with SHGs with Rahul Gandhi in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-yet-to-release-rs-4250-cr-due-to-woman-shgs-uttam/article36313404.ece
06 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Collective pride marks Teachers’ Day function at Sarvail school||Emotions ran high and pride was all pervasive as teachers experienced the warmth and love of their students. The stalwart teachers and their students over the last 50 years of the prestigious Telangana State Residential School in Sarvail in Yadadri district gathered to celebrate Teachers’ Day in the remote village that has stood as an example of quality education, being the first residential school in the government sector in the country. Over 150 teachers from across the State and a fewneighbouring states were invited for the felicitation as a respect to their contribution in the lives thousands of students who completed their education at the school and made a name for themselves in society. The teachers were felicitated amid vedic hymns and students reciting the poems they learnt in school from them. Some were visiting the school after several years and meeting their dear students after decades but the bonding was instant. “Teachers were with us 24x7 and for years as it was a residential school system. So the bond is quite strong and their guidance paved the way for our bright future,” said Rajashekhar Reddy, general secretary of the TSRS Alumni Association that conducted the programme. Rich tributes were also paid on the occasion to late P.V. Narasimha Rao, the architect of the gurukul system and who established the school as the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh on the land donated by Maddi Narayan Reddy. “But for his vision, several bright but economically poor students from Telangana wouldn’t have got opportunity to get quality education,” he added. The 1984 batch students led by architect G. Sivaleelanand felicitated their teachers with specially designed silver coins marking the golden jubilee celebrations of the school this year. Secretary to Governor Surendra Mohan and retired IAS officer Dinakar Babu, who are alumnus of the school, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collective-pride-marks-teachers-day-function-at-sarvail-school/article36313378.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 1 lakh assistance for tour guides, Rs. 10 lakh for operators||Union Minister of State for Tourism G. Kishan Reddy has said that the Centre was planning to provide Rs. 1 lakh assistance to tour guides and Rs. 10 lakh to tour operators shortly. Speaking at the valedictory session of Golconda Masters Golf championship at Golconda Golf Club, Mr. Reddy said the Centre will will invite applications from tour guides and operators from September 15. He noted that the tourism sector was adversely impacted in the past two years, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Centre will take up massive publicity abroad about the country’s tourism potential from January. Within the country, the government will run Dekho Apna Pradesh to target home-grown tourists. The Centre had begun to draft a tourism policy which will be accessible to the public on the website. In that, golf tourism will be given special emphasis. “We will consult golf associations in the country and create a plan, which will be publicised through our embassies across the globe and in a big way encourage golf tourism to attract golf tourists,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-1-lakh-aid-for-tour-guides-rs-10-lakh-for-operators/article36313376.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. moots exclusive palliative care centre||The State government is planning to start an exclusive centre for palliative care services, Minister K.T. Rama Rao has said. Sources in the Health department said that a centre dedicated to the services is being mulled. Efforts to reduce the suffering in end stages of patients suffering from terminal illness such as cancer is known as palliative care. According to World Health Organisation, “Palliative care improves the quality of life of patients and that of their families who are facing challenges associated with life-threatening illness, whether physical, psychological, social or spiritual”. Currently, these services are provided free of cost at some government hospitals in the State such as the MNJ Institute of Oncology and Regional Cancer Centre in Red Hills. Since it is the only facility which is dedicated to cancer treatment, thousands of patients opt for medical services there. As patients suffering from various stages of cancer visit the hospital, at least 1,000 terminally-ill patients require palliative care services. Institute director N. Jayalatha said they have some beds in each of the wards, dedicated to palliative care. 10-bed ward “Besides, we have a 10-bed palliative ward. There are plans to expand this ward. Five mobile vehicles are used to provide these services at the homes of patients throughout the week. Caretakers are trained in this regard,” she said. The staff at the hospital helps patients who cannot perform basic tasks such as cleaning themselves or eating. Palliative care consultant at the hospital Gayatri Palat said they check 70-80 patients in need of the services every day. People from neighbouring States such as Chhattisgarh and Karnataka districts bordering Telangana visit the hospital too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-govt-moots-exclusive-centre-for-palliative-care/article36313369.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mithali shares mantra for staying mentally strong||Pieces of paper with affirmations written on them and stuck at specific spots at home is one of the ways Indian Women’s Cricket captain Mithali Raj keeps herself motivated. Among other spots, she sticks the paper posts on mirrors, something she looks at before hitting the bed or soon after waking up, with affirmations reading ‘today will be a good day’, ‘focus on these things today’, etc. At a webinar on ‘Defend mind’s googly’ organised on Sunday by 1Life, a non-profit organisation working in the field of crisis support and suicide prevention, ahead of World Suicide Prevention Day, Ms Mithali spoke candidly about how she feels butterflies in her stomach despite being in professional cricket for nearly two decades. She also spoke about her vulnerabilities, mental conditioning, importance of sleep and recovery, coping on low days, and other aspects. “With my own experience, I have come to understand that the mind is just as fickle as people around us. I have always had a routine. Even in quarantine, it was not like holiday for me. I tried to stick to my routine, which included exercise,” she said, adding that watching inspirational speeches is another mental conditioning method. She spoke about having her vulnerabilities, weaknesses. Stressing that she does not focus on weaknesses, Ms Mithali said that people might lose sight of their strength if they don’t focus on it. Currently, her team is in Australia. Consultant psychiatrist at Asha Hospitals S. Swetha, who participated in the webinar, was asked about practical tips on staying positive in the face of constant negativity. She advised people not to take a decision when they are emotionally charged – either furious, dejected or elated. Stating that contrary to the apprehensions over increase in suicides during the COVID-19 pandemic due to unexpected stress, she said that there was 6% decrease in the annual rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mithali-shares-mantra-for-staying-mentally-strong/article36313381.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State adds 230 cases to COVID tally||The State recorded 230 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total to 6,59,543. While 50,636 samples were examined, results of 788 were awaited. The new infections include 72 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 18 from Warangal Urban and 17 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. No case was recorded in five districts, including Narayanpet and Nirmal, on the day. Another COVID patient died on Sunday. With this, the death toll now stands at 3,884. The State now has 5,545 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-adds-230-cases-to-covid-tally/article36313371.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Teachers’ role in shaping young minds stressed||Teaching is a noble profession, earns great respect and teachers are the backbone of education system for they impart values to children, said chancellor of Malla Reddy University, D.N. Reddy on Sunday, adding that former president, philosopher and teacher Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan is a role model for all teachers. Addressing an online event on the occasion of Teachers’ Day after being conferred with the best teacher award by Institution of Engineers of India (IEI)-Telangana State Centre, he said technology plays an important role in education such as digital classrooms etc., and especially now due to COVID, online learning has become crucial in education. Telangana State Council of Higher Education chairman R. Limbadri said that a teacher is the best transformer of society and COVID impacted all fields, including education. The government is developing a new curriculum with different prestigious institutions to meet global needs, he added. MLC Surabhi Vani Devi said teaching profession is a noble profession but the most challenging one too. Saluting all her teachers, she called for the syllabi be prepared to meet day-to-day industry challenges. There should be more focus on practical knowledge and skills, particularly in the field of pharmacy, engineering, science and technology. NIT-Warangal director N.V. Ramana Rao said the role of a teacher is dual — to teach as well as mentor students. Manipur University Chancellor T. Tirupati Rao said Dr Radhakrishnan’s contributions to the nation and to the teaching community will never be forgotten. IEI honorary secretary T. Anjaiah, chairman Ramana Naik and honorary joint secretary G. Radhakrishna participated, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teachers-role-in-shaping-young-minds-stressed/article36313373.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Waqf Tribunal stops construction||The Telangana State Waqf Tribunal ordered that status quo be maintained, and halted construction of on a land parcel which a plaintiff described as waqf. The tribunal was hearing a petition filed by Osman bin Mohd Al Hajiri, a waqf protection activist, who sought an interim injunction to restrain respondents from digging or constructing structure on Masjid-e-Almaspet. The said land parcel is a part of a larger endowment in Chotuppal mandal. The respondents were the District Collector, Yadadri Bhuvanagiri, Revenue Divisional Officer, Chotuppal division, Chotuppal Mandal Tahsildar, and Devulamma Nagaram village sarpanch. The Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) was also made a party. The special government pleader for revenue authorities filed a memo stating that the work was stopped. ‘File counter’ Based on the submission of the petitioner’s lawyer Syed Altaf Mehdi, who said that the memo is unclear, and the halting of work, the tribunal granted a status quo, directing the respondents not to proceed with construction. The tribunal called for counters on September 7. ‘Already encroached’ The petitioner had submitted that the Muslim endowed land is spread to the extent of over 441 acres and is a registered waqf property, and that large portions of the land parcel have already been encroached upon. He also submitted that the TSWB had surveyed the land parcel and wrote to the other respondents, but to no avail. The petitioner also stated that the land parcel was dug to make way for a panchayat office.  Land parcel was dug to make way for a panchayat office. Osman bin Mohd Al Hajiri, Waqf protection activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/waqf-tribunal-stops-construction/article36313391.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IPS officer’s long innings finally ends||An IPS officer who rose from the ranks of a sub-inspector created a record of sorts by calling it a day from service at the age of 78 on August 31. P. Kishan Rao will perhaps go down as the only IPS officer in the country to have worked on extension of service without a break in the same post for 18-and-a-half years post-retirement as SP in 2003. He served his last 33 years only in the Intelligence department. Mr. Rao had joined police as an SI at Suryapet in 1966 and retired as non-cadre SP at the age of 58 in 2001. Then TDP government gave him a one year extension when he was conferred with IPS and allotted to its 1994 batch. He again retired, this time as full-fledged IPS officer in 2003. Consecutive governments thereafter gave him extensions that finally ended on Tuesday last when he opted out due to old age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ips-officers-long-innings-finally-ends/article36313402.ece
06 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed by friends after online game||A 25-year-old man was murdered by his friends after a heated argument over the paltry sum which was lost in the online Ludo game at Mangalhat here on Saturday night. The victim, Mohammed Anees from Gachibowli, was stabbed several times by his four friends, over an argument that began after they met the victim and other friends -- Rasheed, 30, from Tapachabutra, and Mohammed Mustafa, 24, from Mangalhat, after a ‘fight’ which took place 10 days ago. They had disagreements over the Ludo betting amount. The group first abused each other in filthy language and later attacked with fists. They were under the influence of alcohol. The accused persons left the place and returned after a few minutes with knives and other sharp objects and attacked Anis, Rasheed and Mustafa. While Anis suffered severe stabbing injuries and died on the spot, two others had minor injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-by-friends-after-online-game/article36313386.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FGG requests Governor’s action against ‘fraud’ teachers||Forum for Good Governance (FGG), on Sunday, requested Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to direct Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to ensure long-pending action be taken against teachers caught red-handed for submitting fake medical bills. In a communication to the Governor, FGG secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy informed that during 2009, about 364 teachers claimed Rs. 5.04 crore by submitting fake medical bills and this was noticed by the Accountant General during the audit of 2010. The Director General of Vigilance took up an inquiry and submitted a report recommending criminal prosecution of the teachers involved in the fraud. The government also directed the CSE to take further action as recommended by the DG Vigilance. Then, the CSE issued detailed instructions to the district education officers concerned to file criminal cases and also recover the amounts claimed fraudulently. Some amount was recovered and some teachers retired but no criminal prosecutions were launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fgg-requests-governors-action-against-fraud-teachers/article36313400.ece
06 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Metro rail services rescheduled||Hyderabad Metro Rail service has been rescheduled from September 6 with the first train to operate from 7 a.m. onwards and the last service at 10.15 p.m. from respective stations to reach all terminating stations by 11.15 p.m. with COVID-19 safety protocols in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/metro-rail-services-rescheduled/article36313384.ece
06 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Book on cancer launched||A book titled, I am unstoppable , was launched by IT Department principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan and Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat in Hyderabad on Sunday. The book, written by Dr Sachin Marda, oncologist and cancer surgeon at Yashoda Hospitals, offers support to patients with all forms of cancer with the mission: no one faces cancer alone. Rachana Mankani , co-author of the book, GS Rao, managing director of the hospital group, and others were present at the launch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/book-on-cancer-launched/article36313383.ece
06 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Excise constable found dead||An excise constable was found dead at his office in Shamshabad here on Sunday. The victim, Ashanna, a native of Vikarabad, ended his life by hanging from a ceiling fan. Financial issues are suspected to be the reason for his extreme step. The incident came to light around 10 a.m. when his reliever Ganesh reached the office and found him in a shocking state. RGI Airport police registered a case and a probe is on. (Phone number of Roshni suicide intervention centre : +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/excise-constable-found-dead/article36313387.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||It’s raining freebies! Political parties get ready for poll battle||Aa gattununtaava naaganna Ee gattukostaava … Aa dibbanunta a va naaganna E e dibbakosta a va. .. (literally – will you stay that side or come this side, dear) is a popular number from the 2018 Telugu flick Rangasthalam based on village-level politics. Taking a cue from this, Finance Minister Harish Rao, who has shouldered the TRS responsibility for the byelection to Huzurabad Assembly constituency, is asking voters whether they want Rs. 6,000 per acre given under PM-KISAN of the BJP-led Central government with a host of restrictions or Rs. 10,000 per acre given by the TRS government under Rythu Bandhu without restrictions on extent, landholder’s employment/income and so on. He has been listing the ‘small gifts’ reportedly given by BJP or ‘huge benefits’ given by the State government.   As the TRS and BJP are locked in an intense campaign for Huzurabad byelection, a meeting at Jammikunta in the constituency, on Sunday, witnessed an angry youth displaying his contempt for former Minister Eatala Rajender, who is likely to be fielded by the BJP. He hurled a wall clock on the stage where ministers Harish Rao and Koppula Easwar were seated and tore to shreds an umbrella that was purported to have been distributed by Mr. Rajender to please voters in SC colonies. In an obvious reference to Rs. 10 lakh promised under Dalit Bandhu programme, he asked if the gifts given by Mr. Rajender were any match to the government initiative.   The son of Wyra MLA of TRS Ramulu Naik created a flutter on Sunday when he passed a diktat to local reporters of channels and newspapers to consult him before airing the news. Mr. Naik’s son Jeevanlal also declared that he was the boss of Singareni mandal and the local unit of TRS. He even called names to the reporters. The provocation for Jeevanlal to go berserk at a function in Wyra where reporters were also invited was controversial reports about his father recently.    The SC voters of Huzurabad were pleasantly surprised on Saturday when Rs. 10 lakh under Dalit Bandhu programme landed in their bank accounts. A total of 16,800 out of an estimated 23,180 families got the money in one go. As much as Rs. 1,680 crore out of the targeted Rs. 2,000 crore was distributed. No wonder even the 6,500 left over families will also get the money though the Opposition parties have reacted that the scheme will be forgotten by KCR as soon as the election gets over. The government has appointed retired SC officers and well-thinking youngsters to facilitate grounding of the business units.  (B. Chandrashekhar   and N. Rahul)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/its-raining-freebies-parties-lock-horns-over-huzurabad-bypoll/article36313405.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Garage Sale||Sparingly used Fagor Co dishwasher, in excellent condition, is available for Rs. 14,000. Contact: Fernandes on 7093053079   Brand new Beetel landline unused phone in good working condition Rs. 1,200; two Panasonic cordless phones in good working condition Rs. 6,000. Contact: Anand on 9121383238.   Tiffin centre equipment for sale - Mixi grinder Rs. 6,000, Dosa Batti with stove Rs. 3,000, box-type ice-cream fridge in running condition Rs. 7,000, two wooden tables Rs. 200, one big standing stove Rs. 6,000. Contact: Anitha on 9573342271.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garage-sale/article36313385.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Big and beautiful||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/big-and-beautiful/article36313393.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Readers Mail||While the High Court order has stated that going to school is not compulsory, offline classes which started from September 1 has caused much confusion to children and parents. No one is assuring complete safety and experts have warned of likelihood of infection. Teachers are also burdened with additional task of identifying students having fever, cough and cold as if they were physicians. The students are thus divided into two groups by the High Court order, as school-going or staying at home for online studies. It is requested that HC pass fresh guidelines to the managements on provision of both offline and online classes. G. Murali Mohan Rao, New Bowenpalli   The main and internal roads in Nalgonda are in a horrible condition. Media news coverage and representations to officials by people, voluntary organisations and political parties have had no response even as the recent rains further damaged the roads. Occasionally, the municipal staff fills potholes but they do not last long. Till the ongoing highway works reach the town, the worst roads can be repaired with contingency or emergency funds of either municipality, District Collector or MLA constituency funds so that people can travel safely. J.P. Reddy, Nalgonda   With the Tank Bund being opened to pedestrians on Sunday, I suggest aesthetically designed foot over-bridges at regular intervals to ensure crossing from one side to another. The staircases on Upper and Lower Tank Bund should be renovated. A proper pavement in the lower tank bund from Katta Maisamma temple to All India Telaga Kapu Balija Sangham is needed. The wall of the Tank Bund can become a site for public art. The garbage dump near the Indira Park needs to relocated and the DBR Mills land can be developed into a park as also the road adjoining the cow shelter into roadside park on some stretches. Arun Krishnan, Lower Tank Bund   Readers are writing about pertinent civic issues in these grievance columns but how far the authorities concerned are responding to these issues is difficult to assess. One such issue hanging fire in Suncity of Bandlaguda Jagir is that of roads. Despite numerous representations, the area lacks proper roads and sewerage lines while real estate development has been rapid. We are regular tax payers but have to put up with these issues. Mohammed Ikramulla, P&T Colony   The hyacinth which covered the Chinarayani Cheruvu in Alwal was completely removed only after publication of my letter in Reader’s Mail column on July 26 (‘Clean up tank’). Thanks to The Hindu . N.S.R. Murthy, Secunderabad  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu. co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail/article36313372.ece
06 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Tough lessons for teachers||“It is tricky. It is troublesome,” says Geetanjali Mehta, an English teacher at Colonel’s Central Academy School in Sector 4 here, on teaching the students simultaneously in a classroom and online with a gadget on a stand close to the blackboard. Ms. Mehta says that there were “learning gaps” despite online classes when the students returned to school after more than a year, and she noticed that “many of the students had difficulty in communicating in English” but teaching them both online and offline simultaneously was difficult. “Sometimes there are internet issues. The students online get disconnected without being noticed by the teacher. Getting feedback from the online students is also another challenge,” says Ms. Mehta. Sitting next to her in the staff room, her colleague Shahid Qureshi, a Physics teacher, point outs that the most difficult part of the hybrid mode of teaching was to pay simultaneous attention to both sets of students – those sitting in the classroom and those attending the classes online from the comfort of their homes. “When it is either online or offline, you have one set of students to address to. But with both modes blended together, it is a bigger challenge for the teachers,” says Mr. Qureshi. Freedom of movement School’s vice-principal Meena Singh, adds to the discussion, saying that the new mode also “curtails the freedom of the teacher to move around”. “The teacher needs to stand in front of the stand holding the gadget and so cannot move around freely in the classroom. The teacher feels bound by the gadget,” says Ms. Singh. Though the Haryana government has gradually opened schools from Class IV more than a month ago, with the second wave of COVID-19 ebbing, parents’ consent is mandatory for students to attend physical classes and the schools have been directed to continue with both online and offline mode of teaching. Not feasible Col. K. Pratap Singh, president of Haryana Progressive Schools’ Conference in Gurugram, says that the hybrid mode of teaching was not “feasible”. “The government may have directed the schools to hold both modes of classes, but it was not implementable. In our school, we have decided to conduct only physical classes for Classes IX-XII and the response is tremendous. The attendance in the classes has gradually crossed the 90% mark. We are not forcing parents to send children for physical classes and don’t mark them absent either. We will hold extra classes for them when they decide to come to school instead of holding simultaneous online classes,” says Col. Singh, also chairperson of the CCA School. The school is also scheduled to hold its term exam from September 10, but only in offline mode. But many schools in the city, such as Heritage Xperiential Learning School, have been successfully running both modes of classes. Manifold challenges The non-payment of dues remains another challenge for private schools. Col. Singh says that around 30-40% of parents across various schools in Gurugram have still not cleared their dues for the past year, “instigated” by the NGOs and activists, and in the false hope of a waive-off. He says that the schools were now within their rights to take action against the parents. He quotes Section 24 of the Haryana Education Act that allows the schools to strike off the names of the students in case the dues are not paid within ten days. “The Haryana government, in its order on June 1 last year, had directed the schools to not strike off the names of the students in case of non-payment of dues but withdrew it a week later. The court orders, too, were to defer the fee and not waive off,” says Col. Singh. For the government schools, however, the challenges are different, in view of the large strength of the classes and lack of technology at par with their private counterparts. “We have 80-90 students in each section. A majority of the parents have given their consent for physical classes. So, we have divided the students in each section into two parts and called them on alternate days to maintain social distancing. Since we don’t have the technology to hold simultaneous online and offline classes, the teachers go back to their homes to teach the students online. So a teacher ends up repeating the chapter three times. It is quite a task,” says Suman Lata Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 4. The online classes, says Ms. Sharma, are held mostly by sharing videos on WhatsApp groups created for each subject. She says that live online classes are rare. “We have eight sections for each class from Classes IX-XII, and a separate WhatsApp group has been created for each subject. So, there are 40 WhatsApp groups for each class. I try to monitor that the teachers hold online classes for those students not attending school, but it is not humanly possible to daily supervise so many groups,” says Ms. Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tough-lessons-for-teachers/article36313296.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital takes vaccination drive closer home to residents of Loha Mandi; city sees 30 fresh cases||To ensure that a maximum number of people benefit from the vaccination drive, the Delhi government on Sunday launched a programme — vaccination on wheels — to reach out to the workers living in the city’s Loha Mandi area. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said under this drive, even the last person standing in the queue will get the vaccine. “Due to the unavailability of smartphones, people were not able to get appointments and reach their nearest vaccination centres. To get rid of this problem, the Kejriwal government has arranged this special van,” he said. The AAP MLA said since Friday, party workers have been going door-to-door in Loha Mandi, encouraging people to get vaccinated via the programme. The government said beneficiaries will be able to walk in, register themselves on the spot and wait in the van itself under the supervision of doctors while they get vaccinated. Mr. Chadha said he started the initiative in his constituency after he noticed that some labourers were hesitant about getting vaccinated and many were not able to get appointments to their nearest schools due to lack of smartphones, while others were not getting leave. “Keeping these problems in mind, the New Delhi district administration of Kejriwal government arranged this special van in our area. Vaccination has now reached people’s homes, our workers are running awareness campaigns and appealing to the people to come out of their homes and get vaccinated. This campaign is being received well and the people are also participating enthusiastically,” Mr. Chadha said. According to Sunday’s health bulletin, 1,68,351 beneficiaries were vaccinated in 24 hours, of which 1,02,835 received their first dose. A total of 1,40,79,991 beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far. The bulletin added that 30 new COVID-19 cases had been recorded with a positivity rate of 0.05%. The total number of tests conducted was 65,365. There were no deaths recorded in the city for the fifth consecutive day. There are 351 active cases in the city with 91 under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/capital-takes-vaccination-drive-closer-home-to-residents-of-loha-mandi-city-sees-30-fresh-cases/article36313291.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||DUTA holds stir against NEP 2020 at Mandi House||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Sunday protested against the National Education Policy 2020 at Mandi House. They said the policy was an attempt to dilute and dismantle public funded education in the country. The teachers said NEP 2020 is an attack on the autonomy of institutions and teachers and that governance will be handed over to private bodies, which will have the power to decide all aspects of courses, and number of teachers. The DUTA said on Teachers’ Day, it was taking to the streets, to reiterate its demands that would be the real tribute any government could pay to teachers. They sought one-time regulation for the absorption for ad-hoc and temporary teachers, UGC takeover of the 12 DU colleges that are 100% maintained by Delhi government, death gratuity under the NPS scheme and promotion scheme for instructors and notification of the UGC Anomaly Committee Report. “It is unfortunate that the government only pays lip service to the plight of teachers who work selflessly in precarious conditions while knowing that such major restructuring as envisaged in the NEP 2020 will lead to job cuts,” DUTA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/duta-holds-stir-against-nep-2020-at-mandi-house/article36313292.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Will fund teachers selected for courses from top 100 varsities’||On the occasion of Teachers’ Day, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced that the government will fully fund the teachers who get selected to pursue prestigious courses in the field of education from the top 100 universities in the world. Mr. Sisoida made the announcement at an award function in which 122 teachers were honoured with the State Teachers’ Award. “In the last five years, we have sent our teachers and principals to Cambridge, Finland, Singapore and the U.S. We believe that if our teachers apply for such courses, they can get selected on the basis of their abilities. If they are selected, then the government will bear the full cost of their programme. In the next few days, the Department of Education [DoE] will issue necessary guidelines for this,” Mr. Sisoida said. The Minister added that the changes that have come in the education system of Delhi are a result of the collective efforts of Team Education of Delhi. DoE Director Udit Prakash Rai said during the pandemic, teachers not only made sure that education doesn’t stop but also played a big role in fighting against the COVID crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-fund-teachers-selected-for-courses-from-top-100-varsities/article36313294.ece
06 September 2021||New Delhi,||22 held under Arms Act in August||Three districts of Delhi Police have registered 30 cases under the Arms Act and arrested 22 people in August, according to official data. In the outer district, seven cases were registered under the Arms Act and eight people have been arrested. The district police has recovered seven countrymade pistols, six improvised pistols and 33 cartridges, according to the data. The north district police registered eight cases under the Arms Act and arrested 14 people. Seven countrymade pistols, 10 cartridges and six knives were recovered. The south-west district police has lodged 15 cases under the Arms Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/22-held-under-arms-act-in-august/article36313289.ece
06 September 2021||Kabul,||Taliban push deep into Panjshir Valley||Taliban fighters have advanced deep into Afghanistan’s holdout Panjshir Valley, with resistance fighters saying they are keeping the Islamists at bay but analysts warned that they are struggling. Following their lightning-fast rout of Afghanistan’s Army last month, the Taliban are seeking to crush resistance forces defending the Panjshir Valley. The Taliban are yet to finalise their new regime. Top U.S. General Mark Milley questioned whether they can consolidate power as they seek to shift from a guerrilla force to government. “I think there’s at least a very good probability of a broader civil war,” said Gen. Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “That will then in turn lead to conditions that could, in fact, lead to a reconstitution of al-Qaeda or a growth of ISIS (Islamic State group),” he told Fox News. Afghanistan’s new rulers have pledged to be more accommodating than during their first stint in power, which also came after years of conflict — first the Soviet invasion of 1979, and then a bloody civil war. Few in Panjshir, a rugged valley north of Kabul that held out for nearly a decade against the Soviet Union’s occupation and also the Taliban’s first rule from 1996-2001, seem to trust their promises. Taliban spokesman Bilal Karimi said on Twitter the police headquarters and district centre of Rukhah, adjacent to the provincial capital Bazarak, had fallen. Fighting was underway in Bazarak, he said. Resistance fighters insist they have kept the Islamists at bay, but analysts warned they are struggling. Bill Roggio, managing editor of the U.S.-based Long War Journal , said on Sunday that while there was still a “fog of war” — with unconfirmed reports the Taliban had captured multiple districts — “it looks bad”. Both sides claim to have inflicted heavy losses on the other. “The Taliban army has been hardened with 20 years of war,” Mr. Roggio tweeted on Sunday, adding that “the odds were long” for the Panjshir resistance. Former Vice-President Amrullah Saleh, who is holed out in Panjshir alongside Ahmad Massoud — the head of the National Resistance Front of Afghanistan (NRF) — warned of a grim situation. Humanitarian crisis Mr. Saleh in a statement spoke of a “largescale humanitarian crisis”, with thousands “displaced by the Taliban onslaught”. Meanwhile, Mr. Massoud said on Sunday he welcomed proposals from religious scholars for a negotiated settlement to end the fighting. “To reach a lasting peace, the NRF is ready to stop fighting on condition that Taliban also stop their attacks and military movements on Panjshir and Andarab,” he said, referring to a district in the neighbouring province of Baghlan. A large gathering of all sides with the Ulema council of religious scholars could then be held, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-push-deep-into-panjshir-valley/article36312861.ece
06 September 2021||Dubai,||UAE unveils new visa, investment plans||The United Arab Emirates announced on Sunday a major plan to stimulate its economy and liberalise stringent residency rules for foreigners, as the country seeks to overhaul its finances and attract visitors and investment. The nation’s plan to lure foreign talent over the next decades reflects an emerging contrast with the other sheikhdoms of West Asia that are growing increasingly protectionist as they try to diversify their oil-bound economies. Now marking its 50th anniversary, the UAE is seeking to accelerate its economic and social reforms to rebrand for a post-pandemic future. Portraying the country as a liberal, bustling trade and finance hub, the government promised to pour $13.6 billion into the economy in the next year and $150 billion by 2030. Specific projects have yet to be announced, but $1.36 billion has been earmarked for Emirates Development Bank to support the industrial sector. “We are building the new 50 years’ economy,” Abdulla bin Touq, the Economy Minister, said. UAE’s heavyweight neighbour Saudi Arabia has taken a different strategy. In a push to prepare for a post-oil future, the Saudi government has announced billions of dollars of investments in far-flung tourist projects and tried to diminish the role of expats to get more Saudis working in the private sector. Buried within the raft of the UAE’s flashy economic development initiatives on Sunday was a far more practical — and drastic — change to the country’s visa system that governs the legions of foreign workers. Two new visa categories — one for freelancers and one for entrepreneurs and skilled workers — will be created to attract and retain foreigners with desirable skills, officials said on Sunday. Foreigners in the UAE usually have renewable visas valid for only a few years tied to employment. The new “green visa” for skilled workers will have more flexibility for sponsoring family members and will allow more time to find a new job after one employment ends, officials said. (With Reuters input)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uae-unveils-new-visa-investment-plans/article36312870.ece
06 September 2021||Kabul,||Taliban orders women at universities to wear niqab||Women attending private Afghan universities must wear an abaya robe and niqab covering most of the face, the Taliban have ordered, and classes must be segregated by sex — or at least divided by a curtain. In a lengthy document issued by the Taliban’s education authority, they also ordered that female students should only be taught by other women, but if that was not possible then “old men” of good character could fill in. The decree applies to private colleges and universities, which have mushroomed since the Taliban’s first rule ended in 2001. During that period, girls and women were mostly excluded from education because of rules regarding same-sex classrooms and the insistence they had to be accompanied by a male relative whenever they left the house. There was no order for women to wear the all-enveloping burkah in the new regulations issued late on Saturday, but the niqab effectively covers most of the face anyway, leaving just the eyes exposed.  The decree comes as private universities prepare to open on Monday. “Universities are required to recruit female teachers for female students based on their facilities,” the decree said, adding that men and women should use separate entrances and exits. If it is not possible to always hire women teachers, then colleges “should try to hire old male teachers who have a good record of behaviour”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-orders-women-at-universities-to-wear-niqab/article36312868.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||IS threatens to eliminate Pugwash staff in Kabul||One of the key back-channel dialogue facilitators in Afghanistan, the Afghan wing of Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs in Kabul has received a death threat from the Islamic State, a representative of the organisation said. Pugwash, which works at the intersection of science and peace has been active in facilitating dialogue among various sections of Afghan society, including the Taliban, even before the U.S. engaged the Taliban for the Doha accord. “The IS fighters have circulated a booklet against the Pugwash... and as a result, lives of at least six persons are in danger. IS accuses us of being supporters of the global Jewish lobby and says that we advanced foreign interests in Afghanistan,” said Khalilullah Safi, the former country director of Pugwash in Afghanistan.  “Pugwash works for science, reason and peace and outfits like the IS and the Taliban are against these attributes of modern civilisation that threaten their worldview,” said Dr. Rajiv Nayan, former interim convenor and a member of Indian Pugwash Society’s Executive Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/is-threatens-to-eliminate-pugwash-staff-in-kabul/article36312862.ece
06 September 2021||Quetta,||4 in Pakistan killed in Taliban suicide attack||A suicide bomber detonated his explosives on Sunday near a security checkpoint in restive southwestern Pakistan, killing at least three paramilitary troops and wounding 15 others, police said. Senior police officer Azhar Akram said the attacker had walked toward the checkpoint manned by the paramilitary Frontier Corps on Quetta-Mastung Road, some 25 km south of Quetta, the capital of Balochistan province. He said body parts were found at a distance from the security post after the bombing. Mr. Akram said some of the wounded were in critical condition and the death toll could rise. Banned militant group Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, also known as the Pakistani Taliban, claimed responsibility for the morning attack. It was the first time TTP claimed an attack on Pakistani security forces since the Taliban — a separate organization — took control of neighbouring Afghanistan. Balochistan has also seen a low-level insurgency by Baloch separatist groups for nearly two decades, calling for independence for the gas and mineral rich province. Most attacks on security forces in Balochistan in the recent past have been claimed by Baloch separatist groups Baloch Liberation Army and Baloch Liberation Front. Balochistan, bordering Iran and Afghanistan, is a key province in southwest Pakistan, where China has been working on projects related to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. The projects have cost billions of dollars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/4-in-pakistan-killed-in-taliban-suicide-attack/article36312867.ece
06 September 2021||Riyadh,||Saudi Arabia shoots down Houthi drones||Saudi authorities said on Saturday they intercepted three ballistic missiles fired from neighbouring Yemen that had targeted civilians in the Eastern Province as well as the southern cities of Najran and Jazan. Debris from the interception scattered across the eastern city Dammam, injuring two children and damaging 14 homes, according to a spokesperson for the Ministry of Defence. The severity of the injuries was unclear. “Saudi Air Defense has intercepted and destroyed (3) ballistic missiles and (3) bomb-laden drones launched by the Iran-backed Houthi militia,” spokesperson Brigadier General Turki Al-Malki said in a statement, calling it “brutal, irresponsible behavior” by the Houthi rebels in Yemen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-arabia-shoots-down-houthi-drones/article36312866.ece
06 September 2021||Johannesburg,||S.Africa's jailed ex-leader Zuma granted medical parole||South Africa’s former President Jacob Zuma, jailed in July for contempt of court after snubbing graft investigators, was placed on medical parole because of ill-health on Sunday, just two months into his term, prison authorities announced. He will serve the rest of the 15-month prison sentence outside jail.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/safricas-jailed-ex-leader-zuma-granted-medical-parole/article36313070.ece
06 September 2021||Kirkuk,||IS jihadist attack kills 13 Iraqi police: security, medics||Thirteen Iraqi policemen were killed in an Islamic State group attack against a checkpoint in the country’s north early on Sunday, security and medical sources said. The attack, in the region of Al-Rashad around 65 km south of Kirkuk city, took place just after midnight, a senior Iraqi police officer said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/is-jihadist-attack-kills-13-iraqi-police-security-medics/article36312863.ece
06 September 2021||London,||EU--Britain-Ex-Royal Aide||A former close aide to Prince Charles stepped down from his role as chief executive of a royal charity after media reports that Michael Fawcett coordinated support for an honour for Saudi businessman Mahfouz Marei Mubarak bin Mahfouz for a sum of more than $2.1 million to The Prince’s Foundation.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-britain-ex-royal-aide/article36312865.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Reaching out to the ‘undesirables’||Shedding its past hesitations, the Government of India has started an open, formal engagement with the Taliban who, by all accounts, will form the next government in Afghanistan. Until the recent India-Taliban meeting in Doha, India’s engagement with the Taliban was through secret channels (for several years now), open but ‘unofficial’ (i.e., when New Delhi sent two retired diplomats to a meeting in Moscow in which the Taliban were present), or quiet and unpublicised (an undeclared meeting of Ministry of External Affairs officials with the Taliban in Doha in June this year). Engagement with the Taliban is useful in both securing India’s interests in Afghanistan (to the extent possible) and to potentially moderate Taliban’s internal and external behaviour (again, to the extent possible). Beginning the process Should a Taliban government, when it gets formed, be recognised? Given that a Taliban-led government is a foregone conclusion now, the international community must only accord such recognition as part of a negotiated process, a process aimed at moderating Kabul’s new rulers. UN Security Council Resolution 2593, adopted at a meeting chaired by India, emphasising that Afghan soil should not be used for terror activity is a good beginning internationally. The international community should eventually recognise a Taliban-led government in return for guarantees that the latter will abide by norms governing terrorism, human rights, among others. However, the question about engaging, and eventually recognising, the Taliban which has a terrible human rights record, and has literally captured power in Afghanistan through sheer force, has been widely debated from a moral perspective. So it might be useful to reflect on the various moral aspects of engaging with undesirable elements (terror groups, insurgents, etc.) in general and the Taliban in particular. Geopolitics and morality Moral judgements in the conduct of international relations rest on a slippery slope for several reasons. For instance, are moral judgements/prescriptions devoid of power politics? How much does geopolitical power shape the boundaries of morally acceptable/unacceptable behaviour in international relations? Consider, for instance, phrases such as ‘axis of evil’ or ‘rogue states’ used by past United States administrations against states they disagreed with or wanted to isolate. Notwithstanding whether one agrees or disagrees with the policies of the target states, the point here is that such framing is a product of the ability of the United States to dictate a certain global moral standard. As historian E.H Carr argues in The Twenty Years’ Crisis: 1919-1939 , “It is a familiar tactic of the privileged to throw moral discredit on the under-privileged by depicting them as disturbers of the peace; and this tactic is as readily applied internationally as within the national community.” While all states use moral arguments in the pursuit of their respective national interests, it is the moral logic used by the powerful states or coalitions that tend to win over the weaker ones, thereby becoming the standards of behaviour. Put differently, morality is often a product of power even though there are other sources of morality than just power. Arguments stemming from moral universalism should, therefore, be challenged not only because they are patronising, but also because crude national interests often masquerade as moral universalism. Moral universalism may be desirable and even useful in certain contexts and for certain purposes, but it must be viewed with a critical eye. At the same time, one must also be careful not to fall victim to extreme arguments from moral relativism. Indeed, a healthy conversation between universalism and relativism could produce politically useful moral arguments. In short, moral questions governing the behaviour of states cannot be divorced from the geopolitical power and location of those states. Range of ‘undesirables’ The second question is who the rightful object of our moral opprobrium should be. Should they include only non-state actors and individuals, or also states? In general, there are degrees of behaviour that are generally considered reprehensible — ranging from freedom struggle, insurgency, state-sponsored terror to terrorist violence. While deciding to condemn, we routinely use a selective application of morality. Let us take the example of the Taliban. They have an irrefutable history of indulging in terrorist violence, human rights violations (especially those of women), and religious intolerance. But so have many countries with an equally dishonourable history of violent behaviour and proxy wars. Whether those states are held accountable or not depends on essentially two factors: their military power to dissuade potential discipliners (North Korea is a good example), and their ability to justify their actions in a ‘morally acceptable’ manner. Legitimacy and sovereignty accorded to states provide them with an added layer of protection. The point here is about how we routinely single out certain actors as fit cases of our moral opprobrium which is a function of power and geopolitics. The Taliban’s culpability is beyond doubt, as is that of many states. But why add another entity (Taliban) to the mix of powerful wrong-doers, you might ask. Here is why. The possibility of potential state socialisation is why we must engage with organisations we disagree with. There are many examples of individuals and organisations shunning violence and joining mainstream politics as a result of negotiated settlements, power sharing, or simply because of state socialisation (the process of learning the international political culture and how to live within its normative boundaries). Put differently, we engage violent outfits in the hope that the process of conflict resolution may change them; states are potentially more amenable to reason and normative arguments especially when they socialise with their peers which forces them to ‘be like a state’. Let us take the case of the Taliban again: military force could not defeat them, and given the suboptimal performance of sanctions (i.e., Iran, North Korea, Cuba, etc.), what options does the international community have when it comes to dealing with the Taliban? While engaging with the Taliban may or may not nudge them to moderate their behaviour, given the absence of other options, the international community might as well engage them to potentially socialise them into behaving like a normal state. Let me put that argument somewhat differently. We have three choices now vis-à-vis the Taliban: continue to militarily fight the Taliban, isolate and sanction the Taliban-ruled Afghanistan, or engage and socialise them. The U.S.-led forces tried the first option for two decades without success, and the second option is what we used from 1996 to 2001 which led to disastrous consequences. So, we are basically left with option three. The point of diplomacy, after all, is also to engage with the undesirables to try and change their positions. As a matter of fact, entities, individuals and states do change as a result of sustained negotiations. Whether or not legitimacy and recognition will temper an outfit with a violent past like the Taliban is indeed a challenging question. But one will have to make a call based on available alternatives and potential outcomes; not based on quixotic notions of moral universalism. There are serious moral questions being raised about New Delhi’s recent outreach to the Taliban. Critics have argued that it is morally reprehensible for India to engage with a violent outfit such as the Taliban just because they are on the verge of statehood. While I do appreciate the moral logic of such criticism, let us keep in mind that international politics is not a site of perfect moral choices. More so, moral choices are also a product of geopolitical contexts and the historical location of a country. For India, located where it is — amidst a geostrategically challenging environment — its ability to make a ‘morally perfect’ choice vis-à-vis the Taliban is rather limited. It is imperative for New Delhi, therefore, to make an already bad situation somewhat better by engaging with an entity it otherwise would not have desired to engage. A difficult art Finally, there is a larger argument for reaching out to undesirable/rogue elements — to build peace and resolve conflicts. Notwithstanding what they say, democratic governments have routinely negotiated with terrorists, secretly or openly. Consider examples from the British government’s secret talks with the Irish Republican Army (IRA) while the IRA was still carrying out attacks against the U.K., to the Spanish government’s talks with the Basque Homeland and Freedom even after the latter’s violence killing civilians, to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam-Sri Lankan government negotiations in the 2000s. Talking to the undesirables is a time-tested phenomenon. More importantly, peace-building is not always a morally black-and-white business. Often enough, the process of conflict resolution can be morally challenging, politically complicated and involves difficult choices. Happymon Jacob is Associate Professor, Centre for International Politics, Organization and Disarmament, School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reaching-out-to-the-undesirables/article36312849.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The key to revitalising India’s reservation system||Hoardings and posters lauding the Narendra Modi government for introducing reservations for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) examinations and a renewed debate on caste census have once again brought the debate on affirmative action in the limelight. The affirmative action programme that was envisaged during the founding moments of the republic is indeed one of the remarkable provisions to have been worked out by our Constitution makers. It has been historically significant in enunciating the principle of justice in a deeply unequal and oppressive social order such as ours. Still no equity While it is undeniable that these provisions have been one of the protagonists of Indian democracy’s success stories, these have also accumulated a fair share of problems and call for immediate policy attention and debate. Through reservation of seats in political and public institutions of the state, it was thought that the hitherto marginalised groups — which have suffered generations of oppression and humiliation — would, finally, be able to find place in the power sharing and decision-making processes. However, this strategy of removal of disabilities has not translated into an equalisation of life chances for many groups in our heterogeneous society. Problems with current policy There is now a strong demand from those who have not been able to accrue the benefits of reservations from within the marginalised sections, to devise some policy option which may be able to supplement the existing system of reservation. The fact that the current system suffers from the “problem of reification” is not just wishful thinking, but a hard fact. The data released by the Justice G. Rohini Commission’s report on the sub-categorisation of OBCs gives a good synoptic view to understand this. Based on the last five years’ data on appointments in central government jobs and OBC admissions to central higher education institutions, the commission concluded that 97% of central OBC quota benefits go to just under 25% of its castes. As many as 983 OBC communities — 37% of the total — have zero representation in both central government jobs and admissions to central universities. Also, the report states that just 10% of the OBC communities have accrued 24.95% of jobs and admissions (https://bit.ly/3h3L2rh). Clearly, the assumption that the disadvantages of every sub-group within each category are the same is severely misplaced. It is important to note that the Rohini Commission’s data are based just on the institutions that come under the purview of the central government. We hardly have any legible data on the socio-economic conditions of varied social groups at more local levels of State and society. Consequently, asymmetrical distribution of reservation has severely deterred political projects of unified subaltern solidarity. Parties that were once able to build large Bahujan solidarities are now finding it difficult to garner such support. This should give us hints about the extent of the problem rather than ruling them out as mere conspiracies of breaking lower caste unity. Insufficiency of data As underlined above, there is a dire need of accurate data pertaining to the socio-economic condition of different social groups. Though caste-based reservations have been pivotal in animating upward social mobility and led  to the emergence of a handful of politically mature and visible Dalit-Bahujan castes, we hardly have sufficient data about the actual reach and access of this policy measure. We do not know what liberalisation has done to castes which remained tied to more traditional sources of income and were incapable of realising the new opportunities provided by the opening of the economy. We do not know how these groups have navigated and transitioned to a more accentuated regime of capital amidst nearly no social security net on the ground. The marginal majority within still dwells in the waiting room of history, waiting to see the light of the policy grid of the state. Affirmative action What is urgently required is a mechanism that can address this lacuna and make the system more accountable and sensitive to intra-group demands. Since every further categorisation will only lead to reification and fragmentation in the long run, two things are required. One, we urgently need to develop a wide variety of context-sensitive, evidence-based policy options that can be tailored to meet specific requirements of specific groups. Two, we need an institution alike the Equal Opportunities Commission of the United States or the United Kingdom which can undertake two important but interrelated things: make a deprivation index correlating data from the socio-economic-based census of different communities including caste, gender, religion, and other group inequalities and rank them to make tailor made policies. And, undertake an audit on performance of employers and educational institutions on non-discrimination and equal opportunity and issue codes of good practice in different sectors. This will make the formulation of policy and its monitoring simpler at an institutional level. As evident, a socio-economic caste-based census becomes a necessary precondition to initiate any meaningful reform in the affirmative action regime in India. It is worth noting that similar suggestions were made a decade ago in the recommendations that the expert committee for an Equal Opportunities Commission (2008) made in its comprehensive report that it submitted to the Ministry of Minority Affairs. However, little policy progress has been made in this regard. Successive governments have been reluctant to engage with such radical policy options, almost always caving in to immediate and myopic political gains. Supriy Ranjan is a PhD Candidate, Centre for Political Studies, School of Social Sciences II, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-key-to-revitalising-indias-reservation-system/article36312851.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The judicial role in improving lawmaking||The deterioration in the quality of deliberation in Parliament over time has prompted calls for reform from different stakeholders. On Independence Day, Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana also highlighted this problem, noting that the ambiguities and gaps in laws passed without meaningful deliberation trigger avoidable litigation. While the CJI suggested that lawyers and intellectuals enter public life to improve deliberation, the judiciary can also play a crucial role in improving the lawmaking process. Many rely on the volume of Bills passed by Parliament in a session as a measure of its efficiency. However, this measure is flawed as it does not account for what is lost when efficiency is achieved by passing laws without adequate notice and deliberation. Most, if not all, of these laws create burdensome obligations on persons and often affect their fundamental rights. Legislators, as representatives of the people, are expected to exercise a duty of care before casting their vote. This entails due deliberation about the implications of the law, posing amendments and questions to the concerned Minister, and requiring expert evidence through standing committees. Moreover, it is in the legislative organ that diverse interest groups find representation. Deliberation in such a forum ensures that the views of persons who are adversely affected by a law are heard and actively engaged with. Rushed lawmaking, rendering Parliament a rubber stamp, sacrifices two core ideals of a constitutional democracy, namely, equal participation and respect for fundamental rights. Evaluating legislative process The judiciary can play an important role in improving the lawmaking process and securing these ideals. A straightforward way of doing this is by enforcing the text and spirit of the constitutional provisions governing legislative procedures. The Constitution contains certain detailed provisions laying out how laws are to be passed by Parliament and the State Legislative Assemblies. Unfortunately, these are often undermined. For example, even when the result through voice votes are unclear, the exact number of “ayes” and “nays” are not always counted, suggesting that Bills may be passed without securing the majority vote required under Article 100. This issue arose most recently when the controversial farm laws were reportedly rushed and passed by voice vote in the Rajya Sabha despite objections by Opposition members. Similarly, Bills are certified as Money Bills to bypass the Rajya Sabha even where they do not meet the specific description of Money Bills provided under Article 110. This Article identifies seven areas that can be governed through the enactment of Money Bills, including the imposition of tax, the regulation of borrowing and appropriation of money out of the Consolidated Fund of India. In the Aadhaar case, the Supreme Court, to an extent, recognised its power to check whether such procedural provisions had been complied with. However, these provisions will only be taken seriously if the judiciary addresses their violations in a timely manner. The longer a challenge is pending, the more ground the State has to argue that rights and obligations created under the law should not be disturbed for a “mere” procedural violation. Another important method is for the judiciary to make deliberation a factor in evaluating the constitutional validity of laws. In exercising judicial review, the court’s role is to call on the State to provide justifications explaining why the law is reasonable and, therefore, valid. While doing so, the court can also examine whether and to what extent the legislature deliberated the reasonableness of a measure. The legislative inquiry would usually include evaluating the factual basis justifying the law, the suitability of the law to achieve its aim, and the necessity and proportionality of the law relative to its adverse impact on fundamental rights. The Supreme Court, in fact, adopted this approach in the Indian Hotel and Restaurants Association (2013) case. The court invalidated a law prohibiting dance performances only in hotels with less than three stars as rooted in class prejudice and, therefore, violative of equality. While the State justified the classification on the ground that only such hotels were sites of trafficking, the court rejected this claim by examining the lawmaking process and found that the State did not have empirical data to support this claim. The judiciary can also make deliberation a factor in choosing whether to employ the doctrine of “presumption of constitutionality”. This doctrine requires the court to exercise restraint and defer to legislative judgments on the reasonableness of a law. It is rooted in the fiction that the legislature is a widely representative, deliberative organ, and thus “understands and correctly appreciates the needs of its own people”. When laws are passed without deliberation and without examination of the empirical basis on which they are premised, the State usually finds it more difficult to explain why such laws constitute a reasonable restriction on rights and, therefore, heavily relies on the doctrine of presumption of constitutionality to resist close judicial scrutiny. By extending this doctrine to such laws, the judiciary undermines the guarantee of judicial review provided to protect fundamental rights. Instead, if the judiciary confines the doctrine only to cases where the State shows that laws and their consequences were carefully deliberated in Parliament, the judiciary can encourage legislative bodies to ensure a deliberative lawmaking process. Remedying dysfunction The CJI’s suggestion that the legislature be reformed from within is admittedly the ideal solution to remedying legislative dysfunction without raising concerns of separation of powers. However, legislative majorities have little incentive to cooperate for such reform, and significant public mobilisation on the issue would be necessary to change this. Against this backdrop, the judiciary can and should employ the tools available to it to nudge legislative bodies to improve their lawmaking processes. In fact, striking down laws on procedural grounds also mitigates concerns of separation of powers in certain respects. Unlike review on purely substantive grounds, it does not foreclose legislative bodies from re-legislating the issue and ensuring that the procedural defects in the law are rectified and the law is properly deliberated in Parliament. The Indian judiciary has often demonstrated that it is possible to enrich democracy by addressing dysfunctions in other institutions. By adopting a swift and systematic approach to reviewing the legislative process, the judiciary can help restore faith in the ‘temples of democracy’ and push us toward the culture of justification the Constitution sought to create. Vikram A. Narayan and Jahnavi Sindhu are advocates specialising in constitutional law||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-judicial-role-in-improving-lawmaking/article36312857.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||We cannot save journalism if we fail to save journalists||The ideas of accountability and public good in journalism are more than two centuries old. The institutional frameworks have been evolving over the last century — technological disruption has brought in a new set of challenges. However, the core concerns remain the same. For instance, the 1947 Hutchins Commission report about the media, “A Free and Responsible Press”, concluded that the freedom of the press was in danger. Robert M. Hutchins, who served as the president of the University of Chicago, concluded in his report that the freedom of the press was in danger for three reasons: “First, the importance of the press to the people has greatly increased with the development of the press as an instrument of mass communication. At the same time, the development of the press as an instrument of mass communication has greatly decreased the proportion of the people who can express their opinions and ideas through the press. Second, the few who are able to use the machinery of the press as an instrument of mass communication have not provided a service adequate to the needs of society. Third, those who direct the machinery of the press have engaged from time to time in practices which the society condemns and which, if continued, it will inevitably undertake to regulate or control.” Privileged position Jeffrey Dvorkin, a former ombudsman for National Public Radio (NPR), once observed that ombudsmen were in a privileged position to connect the audience’s need for accountability with media outlets’ recognition that they need to improve their work in our current times. He summarised the role as being “a mediator between the expectations of the public and the responsibilities of journalists”. This framework gives a glimpse into factors that shape my concerns, fears and anxieties about the future of journalism. When I became a journalist in 1985, most editors used to commission special stories on December 3 to mark the Bhopal gas tragedy, which remains one of the most terrible industrial accidents faced by humanity. After many years, we are yet to ascertain the exact death toll, the long-term impact of permitting toxic material in our atmosphere and permitting it to contaminate the groundwater. While the question of unfair compensation remains valid even today, the series of journalistic interventions helped make the Indian state act, albeit partially. December 3, in a sense, used to mark the importance of follow-ups. Status of investigations It is time for editors to commission stories on the status of investigations into crimes against journalists. My concern about quality journalism is firmly tied to the well-being of journalists. Though the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution in 2013 that proclaimed November 2 as the ‘International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists’, crimes against journalists are unending and there seems to be a growing impunity for the perpetrators. The failure of law enforcement agencies across the world, including in India, is a disturbing feature. As I am writing this column, I remember that editor Gauri Lankesh was killed four years ago on the same day. She was shot down by two assailants, widely believed to be part of a larger conspiracy to take out anti-Hindutva voices, outside her home at Rajarajeshwarinagar Nagar in Bengaluru on September 5, 2017. The next year, this newspaper carried a detailed report, “Unravelling the Gauri Lankesh murder case” (June 16, 2018), which had an interesting head deck that said, “The Karnataka police think they have cracked the case. Why they think so. And how they did it.” In February 2019, the Supreme Court had noted the murders of Lankesh, Kannada writer M.M. Kalburgi, and activists Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare were part of a “very serious case”. Yet, the investigations are slow and attempts to bring those who have committed grave crimes to book remain a distant dream. Senior journalist Pamela Philipose’s tweet on September 4 captured the stark reality. “Tomorrow marks four years since the unconscionable felling down of India's dynamic editor Gauri Lankesh in her own home. So far the case involving 17 has not made it to the courts even as evidence of the direct involvement of the politically coddled Sanathan [sic] Sanstha surfaces,” she said on Twitter. Reports document how multiple pleas were deliberately made to stall the trial. It is impossible to save journalism if we fail to save journalists. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/we-cannot-save-journalism-if-we-fail-to-save-journalists/article36312859.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||National Monetisation Pipeline and the infrastructure deficit||The government’s announcement of the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), a scheme to transfer the rights to operate public infrastructure for a fixed period, has received attention in the media. Hopefully, in the skirmish over the details of the scheme, not to mention the partisan allegations flying around, the fact of the severe infrastructure deficit that India faces, and the imperative to address it, will not get overlooked. We need infrastructure not only to speed up growth in a slackened economy but also to lead a dignified life, even after we have seen off the COVID-19 pandemic. A significant criticism of the NMP is that the transfer would end up creating monopolies, leading to a rise in price. The creation of monopolies through public policy would be an embarrassment alright. However, the claim of an inevitable monopolisation is exaggerated as the outcome would differ according to the type of infrastructure. Monopolisation is inevitable in the case of highways and railway lines, while it is not in the case of warehouses as all the warehouses need not be sold to a single bidder. On the issue of the price, Rajiv Kumar, Vice-Chairman of NITI Aayog, has emphasised that the price would be regulated and any increase of it capped in line with inflation when the government signs the contract with the concessionaire. Whether private parties would be open to such an arrangement is a different question. And this really is the point. While the government may have announced its expectation of the proceeds from the monetisation, we are yet to ascertain the private sector’s interest in it. The NITI Aayog has flagged the success of the public-private partnership (PPP) governing the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, but there is also the unhappy experience of a leading infrastructure company opting out of the agreement to run the Delhi Airport Express Rail Link very early on, causing a disruption. India’s experience with PPP in infrastructure, enthusiastically pursued by both the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), has not been impressive. It may actually have contributed to the saddling of the public sector banks with non-performing assets. Most infrastructure comes in the form of a public good, even when it may not be a natural monopoly. No wonder then that it has been built and managed by the public sector the world over. But the possibility that the price may rise after a transfer of public infrastructure to the private sector is not a good reason to oppose it. India’s infrastructure has not expanded precisely because the assets generate too little revenue for even their maintenance, leave alone upgradation, due to pricing practices in the public sector. This has held back growth of the economy. Moreover, it cannot simply be assumed that monopoly would lead to a higher price. The outcome would depend upon the costs of the concessionaire, which may well be lower than that of the public entities currently managing India’s assets. A comparison of the fares of Air India with that of private airlines is enough to see this. The important consideration in an evaluation of the NMP would be the volume of funds expected to be generated. The government has announced an indicative value of Rs. 6 lakh crore accruing over four years. This is extraordinarily low in relation to two comparators. First, it is only 10% higher than the budgeted capital expenditure of the Government of India actually for 2021-22. Next, see it in relation to the figure of Rs. 100 lakh crore estimated as the infrastructural investment India needs. This was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her first Budget of 2019 and repeated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in all his subsequent Independence Day speeches. Any claim of the innovativeness of the NMP pales beside this astute estimation made by the government itself. As for the carping by the Opposition, it distracts attention from the severe infrastructural deficit we face and the need to erase it. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches at Ashoka University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/national-monetisation-pipeline-and-the-infrastructure-deficit/article36312860.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Life after death||Syed Ali Shah Geelani was more an Islamist than a Kashmiri nationalist, and his demise at the age of 92 brings down the curtain on a phase of separatist politics in the Valley. He represented a strident pro-Pakistan stream of Kashmiri separatism. Geelani inspired armed rebellion and remained a steadfast barrier for any potential political dialogue between New Delhi and Kashmir separatists. He opposed a settlement of the Kashmir question that the former dictator of Pakistan, Pervez Musharraf, had helped formulate. Geelani’s recalcitrance only hardened with age, but his death did not stir any public outpouring of Kashmir grievance even when heavy policing and communication restrictions in the Valley are accounted for. But there can be no denial of the fact that people have grown wary of the relentless cycle of conflict. Geelani’s brand of politics was losing mass support even before the Indian crackdown on separatists acquired a new aggressive edge after the Pulwama suicide attack in February 2019. The Narendra Modi government abandoned negotiations in Kashmir, not only with separatists but even with mainstream political parties, save a half-hearted initiative in June this year. After the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir was stripped of its autonomy and reorganised into two Union Territories in August 2019, the decline of separatists including Geelani was evident. The volatile situation in Afghanistan, and Pakistan’s euphoria about the return to power of the Taliban in Kabul will have an impact on the situation in Kashmir. The Taliban have said they would ‘raise voice for Kashmir Muslims’ and Pakistan has always maintained that peace in Afghanistan is connected to a resolution in Kashmir. Global Islamists are exulting over the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Afghanistan. With Pakistan emerging as a key influencer in Kabul, the U.S. will have to seek new terms of engagement with it. New Delhi has been in self-congratulatory mode over Kashmir. Far from secession, even autonomy questions have been rendered irrelevant in conversations on Kashmir, which now revolve around restoration of its full statehood. However, the relative calm and silence in the Valley should not be mistaken for acquiescence. Political parties have expressed frustration over the fact that the June dialogue between them and Mr. Modi was aimless and not followed through. The political dialogue with mainstream parties must be carried ahead in full earnest. The chaos in Afghanistan presents challenges for India, especially in Kashmir, which need wider deliberations with the international community. But Geelani’s death could be an opportunity to set the stage for new conversations with various Kashmiri outfits. The Government must use this moment to initiate a comprehensive dialogue to find a way forward for a future of the people of Kashmir as an integral part of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/life-after-death/article36312843.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||True mettle||India saw another fortnight of good tidings in sports from Tokyo. Close on the heels of the recent Olympics there, in which India claimed an overall tally of seven medals inclusive of a lone gold, the country’s differently-abled athletes extended this tale of excellence into the Paralympic Games. The quadrennial event, which concluded at the Japanese capital on Sunday, witnessed an exemplary show by these athletes representing 2.2% of India’s population, who are differently-abled. India finished 24th in the table with 19 medals that featured five golds, eight silvers and six bronzes. This was India’s finest outing at the Paralympics and eclipsed the previous best of four medals at the Rio de Janeiro edition in 2016. In a nation where sporting culture is sacrificed at the altar of academic excellence, any news about success on the turf has to be treated as a system-altering result. The challenges for the differently-abled are tougher, considering the body’s limitations that these athletes first cope with through sheer willpower, and then there is the secondary task of overcoming society’s innate scepticism. A simple access-audit of India’s urban buildings would reveal how even a ramp essential for the differently-abled is either missing or added as an after-thought. In 2016, an audit initiated by government agencies did not find a single building that was completely accessible to the differently-abled. Seen in that context, what India’s paralympic contingent achieved is mind-boggling. This was a leap of faith mounted on endless hours at grounds and inside gymnasiums while sharpening muscle-memory. The Indian contingent reflected life’s vicissitudes with athletes having personal stories steeped in tragedy: accidents, polio-afflictions or genetic issues. Yet, they strove towards excellence with an effervescent smile in place. Be it athletics, where javelin throwers are the toast of the month, or badminton or shooting, India had its moments of splendour. The five gold medallists — Sumit Antil, Pramod Bhagat, Krishna Nagar, Manish Narwal and Avani Lekhara — led from the front, and the last named 19-year-old shooter also won a bronze. India drew a blank in shooting at the preceding Olympics, but the differently-abled added five medals. The coaches, the Paralympic Committee of India and Sports Ministry played their parts while India excelled in a championship held in the shadow of a pandemic. Since its first medal at the 1972 Paralympics, India was a marginal presence until now. A reflexive-rewards exercise is on from various governments, and the corporate sector. If a percentage of those riches are allocated to improve sports infrastructure for the differently-abled, India will have more reasons for cheer in the coming years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/true-mettle/article36312844.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Anniversary celebration||The birthday anniversary of the late Dadabhoy Naoroji was celebrated by various associations in Bombay last week end. At a meeting of the citizens held under the auspices of the Parsi Rajakiya Sabha, many political leaders spoke. Mrs. Sarojini Naidu said that this time they were going to prove their reverence to the greatest of Indian builders, Dadabhoy by contributing their mite to relieve the sufferers of Khulna and Punjab famine. Mr. Shaukat Ali said that unless Government settled the Khilafat and Punjab grievances, they would unfurl the banner of independence at the next session of the Indian National Congress at Ahmedabad . Let Government understand that all Indians, whether Hindus, Mahomedans, Parsis or Christians were ready to give up their lives for Swaraj. He sincerely regretted the Malabar incidents and assured the audience that he and his co-workers had not been able to approach the Moplahs as their language was different and they were backward in education. He declared that the Moplahs had acted contrary to Mr. Gandhi’s Khilafat programme but in the manner they had faced gunfire they have shown that they were not the people who would ever consent to be slaves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/anniversary-celebration/article36312852.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Refugees’ return: Nepal backs India||A joint communique issued at the end of the three-day visit of the External Affairs Minister, Mr. Swaran Singh to Nepal said the Nepalese Prime Minister, Mr. Kirtinidhi Bista had noted the social and economic implications to India as a result of facing the problem of millions of refugees from East Bengal. The communique was released at a press conference addressed by Mr. Swaran Singh prior to his departure for New Delhi. The communique was signed by Mr. Swaran Singh and Mr. Bista, who is also in charge of Foreign Affairs. It said the two leaders had discussed in depth relations between the two countries in various fields. They reiterated their mutual respect for and interest in each other’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity and principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries. The communique emphasised the age-old close links between the two countries in various fields and stressed the need for further strengthening them “to their mutual benefit”. Mr. Swaran Singh appreciated the all-round progress made by Nepal under the wise guidance of King Mahendra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/refugees-return-nepal-backs-india/article36312853.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Where to invest your first pay||One of the most common queries we receive is from young folks starting out on their careers, asking which investment products we’d recommend. To select the investment products that best fit you, you need to be clear about your investment objectives, time horizon and risk appetite first. Here’s how first-timers should go about investing. Savings target You need money to make money, so the secret to wealth creation lies in maxing out your savings that can be funnelled into investments. Running a monthly SIP of Rs. 5,000 for 10 years in a mutual fund (MF) that delivers a 15% compound annual return will help you accumulate Rs. 13.93 lakh, but double that SIP to Rs. 10,000 and it can get you to Rs. 20.65 lakh with a 10% return. This is why it helps to set a savings target that you’ll stick to, come what may. Warren Buffett’s tenet — “Don’t save what’s left after spending, but spend what’s left after saving” — is a good way to ensure a high level of savings. Set a savings target that is at 10% or 15% your take-home pay to start with and raise that amount to 20-25% as your income takes off. Set up automatic debits in your salary account that compulsorily deduct, say 15% of your pay, before the 5th of each month to go into investments like recurring deposits, SIPs in MFs or contributions to your NPS/EPF account. Definite goals Long lock-in products can deprive you of quick cash to meet emergencies or fulfil short-term goals. Mapping out your financial goals with their timelines before you choose products, helps you avoid this pitfall. Start your investment plans by putting some thought into why you’re investing in the first place. List out the financial goals you’d like to achieve within a year, 1-3 years, 3-5 years, by 7 years and beyond. The goals need not be lofty like buying a 3-BHK or acquiring bitcoins. If you have debt to pay off (say, an education loan), get to that first by adding it to your less than 5-year goals. Once you have a list of goals mapped to their time horizons, asset and product choices are simpler. For goals that fall within 3 years, safer avenues such as recurring deposits, post office deposits or SIPs in short-term debt funds are good options. For goals that have a 5-to-7-year horizon, SIPs in hybrid MFs, deposits with top-tier NBFCs, post office schemes like the NSC or Kisan Vikas Patra and Government of India’s 7-year floating rate savings bonds are good options. For long-run goals like retirement, SIPs in equity funds, stocks and NPS are a good bet. Stock market or equity funds should figure in your portfolio only if you are willing to give the investment a minimum 7-year horizon to deliver. Investing in equities with a shorter horizon can lead to a sub-par experience if you’re forced to pull out money in a bear market. Use insurance only for protection against risks, not to create wealth. Prepare for emergencies Our best-made plans can go awry when Acts of God or emergencies strike. During COVID-19, many folks saw their savings depleted because multiple family members had to be hospitalised. Some families lost their bread-winners. Those who escaped such serious adversities saw their employers hand out pink slips or cut their pay. Unforeseen emergencies of this kind can force you to dip into savings, stop regular investments or even withdraw money from your retirement kitty. Insurance plans are the most cost-effective way to shield against such risks because the insurer pays you or your dependents a big lump sum against a nominal annual premium. Pure term-life plans compensate your dependents for the loss of your income on your untimely passing. Health insurance plans cover medical expenses in the event of hospitalisation. Critical illness covers pay out a lump sum if you’re diagnosed with serious illness that interrupts your career or income. Household insurance protects your home and your other assets against natural calamities. These are the four types of insurance you should seriously think of getting in the early stages of your career. Insurance plans, however, tend to have many exclusions that may leave you unprotected in some unforeseeable emergencies. To be able to tide over such events, it helps to have an emergency fund parked in liquid and absolutely safe avenues. Simple products When you select products, make sure you understand where your money is going and how returns are delivered. In insurance plans, it is enough to start with a pure term cover and a basic mediclaim policy. For your emergency fund, a fixed deposit with a leading bank can suffice. For medium-term needs, post office instruments like NSC or GoI savings bonds can fit the bill. For retirement, EPF, Public Provident Fund and NPS are excellent instruments. For your equity allocations, index MFs mirroring the Nifty50, Nifty Next 50 or Nifty500 can simplify your choices and reduce the need for tracking and juggling.  Set a savings target that is at 10% or 15% your take-home pay to start with and raise that amount to 20-25% as your income takes off||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/where-to-invest-your-first-pay/article36312842.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Weak dollar helps precious metals get back some shine||Precious metals remained in a broad range, devoid of any significant trend in August. After dropping to a low of $1,677, there was a sharp recovery in Comex gold price in the latter half of August. The weakness in the U.S. dollar played a key role in the recovery of precious metals’ prices. The drop in the U.S. bond yields, too, helped in the recovery of precious metals. Comex gold closed almost unchanged at $1,818.1 an ounce at the end of August. Comex silver however closed on a weak note. It fell 6% to $24.1 an ounce at the end of August. In the domestic market, MCX gold futures dropped 1.8% to close at Rs. 47,120 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures witnessed a steeper cut of 7.7% to settle at Rs. 63,366 per kg at the end of August. The short-term outlook for Comex gold is positive. The price is likely to rise to the immediate target of $1,915-1,920 range. A move past $1,840 would confirm the positive outlook for gold. The short-term positive outlook for Comex gold would be under threat if the price falls below the $1,720-1,740 zone. As long as this support zone is not breached, there would be a case for a move to $1,915 and higher. Below $1,720, Comex gold could drop to the $1,640-1,650 zone. The Comex silver price bounced off the key support at $21.75-22 zone, which is a sign of strength. A move past $24.5 would confirm the positive undertone and could push the price to the near-term target of $25.50-26. On the other hand, a fall below $21.5 would be a major sign of weakness and Comex silver could then slip to the next downside target of $20-20.5. MCX gold is still confined within the broad range of Rs. 43,500-49,100. From a short-term perspective, MCX gold will gain upward momentum on a move above Rs. 48,500. Above Rs. 48,500, the price could head to the short-term target of Rs. 50,500-51,000. On the other hand, a close below Rs. 45,600 would be a sign of weakness and could push the price to the Rs. 43,500-44,000 range.   (The author is a Chennai-based analyst/trader. This is not meant to be trading or investment advice)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/weak-dollar-helps-precious-metals-get-back-some-shine/article36312840.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Ask us||Q.I have Rs. 5 lakh with me. Will it be wise to invest in gold for 20 years such that this will grow to Rs. 3-Rs. 4 crore? Amit Kumar Yadav A.There are two aspects here. The first is the return you’re expecting is unfortunately far too high. You are unlikely to reach your goal with your planned investment amount. For Rs. 5 lakh to grow into Rs. 3-Rs. 4 crore in 20 years, you will need an annual return of 23-24%. To put it in perspective, consider all 10-year periods over the past 30 years. In only about 2% of these has gold given more than even 20%. Yes, there are bursts when gold may rise very sharply by 50-80%. But these periods are almost always followed by periods of low returns. These ups and downs even out return over the long term. Gold returns have tended towards 10% or lower over the long term. If you consider stocks, the same trend holds as well. Assuming a reasonable 12% return, Rs. 5 lakh would grow into about Rs. 48 lakh in 20 years. To reach Rs. 3 crore, you must invest about Rs. 4 lakh a year. For now, invest the Rs. 5 lakh in a mixture of large-cap, flexi-cap and mid-cap/small-cap mutual funds. Let the maximum exposure to the mid- and small-cap funds be 30%. This is assuming you have a high risk appetite and are willing to hold through market falls, and that you already have low-risk debt investments. Else, reduce mid- and small-cap exposure. Use SIPs or STPs over the next 6-8 months to reduce timing risks. Q.I am aged 19 and earn Rs. 6,000 a month. I cannot keep an eye on market fluctuations as I am busy with exams. Where can I invest? Ashmita Sharma A.It depends on what you wish to do with your investments. If it is for a goal that is not a very long way away — say, a post-graduate degree 4 to 5 years from now — then invest 35-45% of the amount in the Nifty 50 index funds. This will give you exactly what the Nifty 50 will return. Note that you will still see return fluctuations in line with the markets. Investing in the index simply removes the need to track markets. Invest the balance in 1-2 debt funds from the short-duration debt fund and/or corporate bond fund categories. This will balance the risk you’re taking with the equity funds. If your investment time frame is longer than 5 years, raise equity allocation to 60-65%. You can allocate about 10-15% for the higher-returning Nifty Next 50 index. Q.I am a government employee with Rs. 10,000 a month to invest. I want to invest in mutual funds with a time frame of 5 years. If I have to invest in stocks, where do I start? R. Yadav A.For a 5-year time frame, split the amount equally between equity funds and debt funds. This allows equity participation, while the debt will both shield your investments from stock market volatility and deliver FD-plus return. For the equity allocation, invest Rs. 3,000 in large-cap or flexi-cap/value funds that predominantly invest in large-cap stocks. You can also consider index funds based on the Nifty 50 or the Nifty 100. Invest the remaining Rs. 2,000 in flexi-cap or focused funds that take some amount of mid-cap allocations, or go with the Nifty Next 50 index. On debt, invest equally in two funds from the short duration or banking and PSU debt or corporate-bond fund categories. This will get you started on investing in stock markets, and over time, you can develop the understanding and knowledge needed to invest directly in stocks. Q.I am 28 and will leave my job to pursue civil services. I have savings of Rs. 1 lakh. Is this enough to start share market trade or should I keep it as FD with SBI? Saurabh A.Invest the amount as an FD with SBI or in Post Office Time Deposit. Stock market trading needs understanding, needs you to spend time tracking markets and news. It is high risk. Given that you are taking a break from work and your savings are not large, it is best to stick to safe options. Q.I have parked my earnings and accruals in SB and term deposits. Over time, these have not fetched a perceptible increase. What is a safe and assured way to secure higher returns without incurring any loss or risk, say in equities or buying shares via SIP? R. Indra A.For higher returns, you should be willing to take higher risk. Stock markets offer better returns than bank FDs. But know that stock markets will fall, and it is hard to predict when such declines may take place. Every fall, though, is followed by rallies.If you absolutely wish to avoid any risk or loss, equity markets are not for you. SIPs do not remove the possibility of loss but are just a way to invest steadily and at different market levels. For safe options that can deliver more than bank FDs, consider instruments such as the RBI Taxable Floating Rate Bond (where interest rates are 0.35% above the prevailing NSC rate), the Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana, Senior Citizen Savings Scheme and post office deposits. You can also opt for FDs from banks that pay higher interest rates. But keep such deposits below Rs. 5 lakh in each bank in order to be adequately covered by deposit insurance. Another option is debt mutual funds, which are more tax-efficient than deposits, but still low-risk. Debt funds, however, need care in selection and understanding. Go for these if you have access to good advice and recommendations.  (The adviser is co-founder, PrimeInvestor.in)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article36312838.ece
06 September 2021||Washington,||France salvages a draw against Ukraine||Reigning champion France missed the injured Kylian Mbappe in a 1-1 draw at Ukraine in World Cup qualifying but still stayed atop Europe Group D. Mykola Shaparenko scored his first international goal for Ukraine just before halftime. Anthony Martial levelled after the break following a setup from Kingsley Coman and Adrien Rabiot. It was Martial’s second international goal and it came five years and three days after the Manchester United forward’s previous strike in a friendly against Italy. France has nine points from five matches and Finland is next with five points from three matches after a header from Joel Pohjanpalo earned a 1-0 win over Kazakhstan. Ukraine also has five points from five matches, while Bosnia and Kazakhstan have two points each. Only the group winners directly qualify for the World Cup. Second-place finishers face a playoff. Brace by Mitrovic Aleksandar Mitrovic scored twice as Serbia beat Luxembourg 4-1 to move level with Portugal atop group A with 10 points. Mitrovic has scored 43 goals for Serbia in 65 appearances. Ireland and Azerbaijan earned their first points with a 1-1 draw in which Shane Duffy headed in a late equalizer for Ireland. European Championship semifinalist Denmark extended its perfect start to qualifying with a 1-0 win at the Faroe Islands following a goal from Jonas Wind in Group F. Israel beat visiting Austria 5-2 and Scotland edged Moldova 1-0. Denmark has 15 points, Israel 10, Scotland eight and Austria seven, while the Faroe Islands and Moldova trail with one point each. In Group G, Memphis Depay scored a brace and the Netherlands outclassed Montenegro 4-0 to stay second in the group behind Turkey, which beat Gibraltar 3-0. It was the first home game for Louis van Gaal in his third spell as the Netherlands’ coach. Erling Haaland converted an early penalty in Norway’s 2-0 win at Latvia to raise his total to nine goals in 14 games for his national team — exactly a year after his first goal for Norway. Turkey has 11 points, the Netherlands and Norway 10 each, Montenegro seven, Latvia four, and Gibraltar zero. Late goal Marcelo Brozovic scored late for Croatia to beat Slovakia 1-0 and remain level on points with Russia atop group H. Russia is ahead on goal difference after beating Cyprus 2-0 with goals from Aleksandr Yerokhin and Rifat Zhemaletdinov. Also, Slovenia edged Malta with a first-half penalty from Sandi Lovric. Russia and Croatia each have 10 points, Slovenia has seven, and Slovakia six. Malta and Cyprus have four each.  The results: Group A: Serbia 4 (Mitrovic 22, 35, Chanot 82-og, Milenkovic 90+6) bt Luxembourg 1 (Thill 77); Ireland 1 (Duffy 87) drew with Azerbaijan 1 (Makhmudov 45+1).   Group D: Finland 1 (Pohjanpalo 60) bt Kazakhstan 0; Ukraine 1 (Shaparenko 44) drew with France 1 (Martial 50).   Group F: Faroe Islands 0 lost to Denmark 1 (Wind 85); Israel 5 (Solomon 5, Dabbur 20, Zahavi 33, 90, Weissman 59) bt Austria 2 (Baumgartner 42, Arnautovic 55); Scotland 1 (Dykes 14) bt Moldova 0.   Group G: Latvia 0 lost to Norway 2 (Haaland 20-pen, Elyounoussi 66); the Netherlands 4 (Depay 38-pen, 62, Wijnaldum 70, Gakpo 76) bt Montenegro 0; Gibraltar 0 lost to Turkey 3 (Dervisoglu 54, Calhanoglu 65, Karaman 83).   Group H: Cyprus 0 lost to Russia 2 (Erokhin 6, Zhemaletdinov 55); Slovenia 1 (Lovric 44-pen) bt Malta 0; Slovakia 0 lost to Croatia 1 (Brozovic 86) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/france-salvages-a-draw-against-ukraine/article36313113.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Gandas claims maiden title||Gurugram’s Manu Gandas came up with a brilliant performance to clinch his maiden professional trophy — the Vooty & Haldi-sponsored Golconda Masters Telangana Open golf championship at the Hyderabad Golf Association course here on Sunday. Gandas (64-58-64-64), the overnight leader by five shots, turned in a two-under 64 featuring four birdies and two bogeys to end with a tally of 22-under 250 and thus prevail by an impressive three strokes at the Rs. 40 lakh event which marked the resumption of the 2020-21 PGTI season after a six-month forced break due to COVID. The 25-year-old Gandas collected a cheque worth Rs. 6,46,600 to move up from eighth to fourth in the PGTI Order of Merit. His total earnings for the season is now Rs. 24,12,350. Chandigarh’s Karandeep Singh Kochhar (67-64-63-59) shot the day’s best score of seven-under 59 to jump three spots and finish runner-up at 19-under 253. The 22-year-old Kochhar has now further extended his lead in the PGTI Order of Merit with a season’s earnings of Rs. 42,95,130. Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa (67-63-61-63), the 2019 winner, ended third at 18-under 254 following a final round score of three-under 63. “I feel relieved and happy to have finally won a title after coming close on a few occasions before. I’ve waited a long time for this. The way I was playing this season, I knew that a win was just around the corner,” Gandas said later. Kochhar’s flawless round, the lowest of the day, saw him make all greens in regulation. The two-time winner this season sank a 30-feet birdie on the 15th and landed his tee shot within two feet of the pin for a tap-in birdie on the 18th. Bengaluru’s Khalin Joshi (61) and Noida’s Amardeep Malik (65) claimed tied fourth place at 16-under 256.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gandas-claims-maiden-title/article36313107.ece
06 September 2021||TOKYO,||Krishna Nagar realises a golden dream||Krishna Nagar secured a second gold medal in badminton, after Suhas Yathiraj claimed a silver, on a super final day for the Indian contingent at the Tokyo Paralympics here. Shooter Avani Lekhara, who won two medals, carried the Indian flag during the closing ceremony as the country finished with an unparalleled 19 medals, including five gold and six silver, to sign off 24th in the overall tally — the highest ever. In all, 54 athletes came to Tokyo and 17 of them left with medals around their necks. Dream run The 22-year-old Krishna, seeded second, defeated Hong Kong’s Chu Man Kai 21-17, 16-21, 21-17 in the men’s singles SH6 class final to retain his unbeaten run at the Games and join compatriot Pramod Bhagat in the gold medal-winning list. “This is a dream come true. I want to thank my father, mother, uncle, aunt, God, my coaches,” said Krishna after winning India’s fifth gold at the Games. Suhas ended his campaign after going down fighting against top seed Lucas Mazur of France in the singles SL4 class final. The 38-year-old produced an entertaining performance before going down 21-15, 17-21, 15-21 to the two-time World champion. Missing out on bronze In the bronze medal playoff, second seed Tarun Dhillon went down 17-21, 11-21 to Indonesia’s Fredy Setiawan in 32 minutes. Pramod Bhagat and Palak Kohli, lost 21-23, 19-21 in mixed doubles SL3-SU5 class bronze medal playoff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/krishna-nagar-realises-a-golden-dream/article36313063.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Mariyappan gets a rousing reception||T. Mariyappan, the men’s high jump silver medallist in the T63 category at the Tokyo Paralympics, was given a rousing reception at the Chennai Airport here on Sunday. Mariyappan was welcomed by fans waving the National flag and cheering the athlete with Bharat Mata Ki Jai, even as he was whisked away by security personnel the moment he finished his press conference to television channels. Speaking to select media, the 26-year-old said he was happy to see the reception accorded to him. “I am very happy. I won silver, but in 2016 I won gold. This time, rain disturbed my plans. Next time I will bring gold,” assured Mariyappan. The Rajiv Khel Ratna awardee said gold medallist Sam Grewe of USA, who used a prosthetic blade, had an advantage. “If not for the rain, I would have given him a tougher fight,” said Mariyappan. Sports academy He added that he was planning to start a sports academy in the future at either Coimbatore or Salem. “I will decide the future course of action.” Mariyappan said he has requested for a Class-I job [with Central Government] and is confident of getting it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mariyappan-gets-a-rousing-reception/article36313164.ece
06 September 2021||TOKYO,||Tokyo bids a colourful farewell||Tokyo bid a colourful farewell to the Paralympics on Sunday after 12 days of stereotype-defying, record-shattering performances despite a year-long pandemic delay. The International Paralympic Committee chief Andrew Parsons declared the Games closed on a cool night in the Olympic Stadium, saying they had “not just been historic, they’ve been fantastic”. It was a Games like no other, postponed a year because of the pandemic and dogged by difficulties and low public support in the build-up. But the action did not disappoint when it got underway, with a record 86 teams winning medals and 62 claiming at least one gold. China finished on top with 207 medals including 96 gold. Breaking down barriers Parsons said the Games had “opened the door”, and it was “time for us all to play our part to break down the barriers”. “During our carnival of sport, we have celebrated difference, exhibited the best of humanity and shown unity in diversity,” he said. The closing ceremony, with fans locked out over virus fears but with roughly 2,000 athletes and officials in attendance, took “harmonious cacophony” as its theme. It featured a riot of neon-clad breakdancers, unicycling butterflies and strutting stilt-walkers, using materials recycled from the Olympic opening ceremony for its vivid props. Among the athletes carrying their nations’ flags were Afghanistan’s Hossain Rasouli and Zakia Khudadadi, who arrived in Tokyo with the Games already in progress after being evacuated from Taliban-controlled Kabul.  Over to Paris Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike handed the Paralympic flag over to Parsons, who passed it on to Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo, representing the 2024 host. Parsons then announced the end of the Games, bringing the curtain down after 539 gold medals across 22 sports, contested almost entirely behind closed doors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-bids-a-colourful-farewell/article36313062.ece
06 September 2021||NEW YORK,||Plucky Rogers cuts short Barty’s stay||Ukraine’s fifth-seeded Elina Svitolina defeated two-time Major winner and 12th seed Simona Halep 6-3, 6-3 at the U.S. Open on Sunday to advance to her eighth Grand Slam quarterfinal. Meanwhile on Saturday, women’s top seed Ashleigh Barty was ousted after a stunning fightback from American Shelby Rogers, while Novak Djokovic moved within four matches of completing the first men’s singles calendar-year Grand Slam in 52 years. Reigning Wimbledon champion Barty won 11 of 14 games after dropping the first set, only for Rogers to capture five of the last six games for a shocking 6-2, 1-6, 7-6(5) triumph. Saving match points Rogers had dropped all five prior meetings with Barty but would not be denied this time, breaking the Aussie as she served for the match in the eighth and 10th games as the crowd went wild. “I was just trying to stay in the point longer than Ash,” Rogers said. “I was happy with myself for sort of problem solving. I’m just so excited to be moving on to the next round.” World No. 1 Djokovic defeated Kei Nishikori 6-7(4), 6-3, 6-3, 6-2, taking his 17th consecutive victory over the Japanese star and improving to 18-2 in their overall rivalry. “I was very pleased with the focus,” Djokovic said. “Maybe at some points I wasn’t my best, but I was determined and focused and that made the difference.” Nishikori said: “I couldn’t break the wall. Very unfortunate I lost.” Djokovic, who had 52 unforced errors and 45 winners, dropped the last three points of the first-set tie-breaker, the last on a Nishikori service winner. But Djokovic broke early in each set from there to seize command. In the fourth he grabbed a 3-2 lead and never dropped another game. With a fourth career U.S. Open trophy, Djokovic would complete the first men’s singles sweep of Major titles in the same year since Rod Laver in 1969. Tokyo Olympics champion Alexander Zverev defeated 184th-ranked Jack Sock 3-6, 6-2, 6-3, 2-1 when the latter retired with a right thigh injury. Czech fourth seed Karolina Pliskova, Wimbledon runner-up and a 2016 U.S. Open finalist, beat Australian Ajla Tomljanovic 6-3, 6-2. Bopanna-Dodig in last 16 In men’s doubles, 14th seeds Rohan Bopanna and his Croatian partner Ivan Dodig advanced to the pre-quarterfinals with a 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 win over Hugo Nys of Monaco and Arthur Rinderknech of France.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/plucky-rogers-cuts-short-bartys-stay/article36313068.ece
06 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sindhu takes a break||World champion and double Olympics medallist, P.V. Sindhu, is the notable absentee in the Indian squads named by the Badminton Association of India for the Thomas and the Uber Cup finals in Denmark from October 9 to 17 and also for the Sudirman Cup to be held in Finland from September 26. Saina Nehwal and B. Sai Praneeth will spearhead the women’s and men’s teams. A senior official informed The Hindu that Sindhu had written to the BAI last week informing it that she will be taking a break from the competitive circuit as part of her recovery programme after the Olympics.  The teams: For Thomas & Uber Cup: Men: B. Sai Praneeth, K. Srikanth, Kiran George, Sameer Verma, R. Satwiksairaj, Chirag Shetty, Dhruv Kapila, M.R. Arjun, G. Krishna Prasad and Vishnu Vardhan.   Women: Saina Nehwal, Malvika Bansod, Aditi Bhat, Tasnim Mir, Tanisha Crasto, Rutuparna Panda, Ashwini Ponnappa, N. Sikki Reddy, P. Gayatri and Treesa Jolly.   Sudirman Cup: Men: B. Sai Praneeth, K. Srikanth, R. Satwiksairaj, Chirag Shetty, Dhruv Kapila and M.R. Arjun.   Women: Malvika Bansod, Aditi Bhatt, Tanisha Crasto, Rutuparna Panda, Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-takes-a-break/article36313060.ece
06 September 2021||Kochi,||Pranav, Abdulla impress||Abdulla Aboobacker surprised Federation Cup champion Karthik Unnikrishnan, his Air Force teammate, and won the triple jump gold with a personal best 16.79m in the 70th Services athletics championships at the Kalinga Stadium, Bhubaneswar, on Sunday. Abdulla’s jump was the best by an Indian triple jumper this year and bettered his previous best (16.67, 2019) by 12 centimetres. Meanwhile Navy’s K.S. Pranav emerged as the fastest man in an impressive 10.28s, the second best time by an Indian this year.  The gold medallists:   Men: 100m: K.S. Pranav (Navy) 10.28s. Long jump: S.M. Naik (Air Force) 7.74m. Triple jump: Abdulla Aboobacker (Air Force) 16.79m.   3000M steeple chase: L. Sankar (Army) 8:47.58s. 35km walk: K. Ganapathi 3:04.24s. Javelin: Abhishek Singh (Navy) 79.63m.   4x400m relay: Army (T. Santhosh Kumar, Lakshyadeep, Arokia Rajiv, Angrej Singh) 3:07.81s.   Overall championship: 1. Army Red (102 points), 2. Navy (69), 3. Air Force (56).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranav-abdulla-impress/article36313407.ece
06 September 2021||Alappuzha:,||Vinoop stars in BK 55’s win||Vinoop Manoharan blasted an unbeaten century (100 not out) as BK 55 CC crushed Jolly Rovers by nine wickets in the Byju’s KCA club championship at the SD College on Sunday. Vinoop’s knock enabled BK 55 to chase a target of 155 with more than five overs to spare. In another match, Masters CC defeated Tripunithura CC by six wickets.  The scores: Jolly Rovers 154/3 in 20 overs (Anand Krishnan 74 n.o., T.Nikhil 51, Athif Bin Ashraf 3/32) lost to BK 55 157/1 in 14.2 overs (Vinoop Manoharan 100 n.o., M.P. Sreeroop 38 n.o.).   Tripunithura CC 107/7 in 20 overs lost to Masters CC 113/4 in 17.4 overs (Krishna Prasad 41).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinoop-stars-in-bk-55s-win/article36313408.ece
06 September 2021||Hyderabad:,||Able Love should make amends in the Hyperion Plate||The 3-y-o filly Able Love, who ran second in her last start, should make amends in the Hyperion Plate, the chief event of Monday’s (Sept. 6) races.  SILVER PHANTOM PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.30 p.m.: 1. Bandit King (3) A.A. Vikrant 56, 2. Jean Lafette (7) Ajinkya 56, 3. One More Time (10) Nakhat Singh 56, 4. Salisbury (9) C. Umesh 56, 5. Star Cruise (5) B. Nikhil 56, 6. Burano (8) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 7. Galwan (1) Mukesh Kumar 54.5, 8. Miss Little Angel (4) Trevor 54.5, 9. Morior Invictus (2) Akshay Kumar 54.5 and 10. Neffereti (6) Md. Ismail 54.5.  1. GALWAN, 2. MORIOR INVICTUS, 3. BURANO   HELEN OF TROY PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.10: 1. Ashwa Raudee (11) Trevor 60, 2. Trump Star (6) Ajeeth Kumar 58.5, 3. Hard To Toss (4) Deepak Singh 58, 4. Proud (10) Kiran Naidu 58, 5. Blissful (7) Nakhat Singh 57, 6. Watch My Stride (9) Akshay Kumar 57, 7. Blue Valentine (8) R. Laxmikanth 56.5, 8. City Of Passion (3) Mukesh Kumar 56, 9. Hashtag (2) Gaurav Singh 51, 10. Sea Wolf (5) B. Nikhil 51 and 11. Sun Dancer (1) Afroz Khan 51.  1. ASHWA RAUDEE, 2. WATCH MY STRIDE, 3. CITY OF PASSION   HYPERION PLATE (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 2.45: 1. My Master (4) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Royal Support (1) R. Ajinkya 56, 3. Special Effort (3) P. Gaddam 56, 4. Wallop And Gallop (8) Deepak Singh 56, 5. Zamazenta (7) C. Umesh 56, 6. Zeus (11) Trevor 56, 7. Able Love (2) B. Nikhil 54.5, 8. Ashwa Pushkin (6) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 9. Bold Bidding (10) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 10. Inception (9) S.S. Tanwar 54.5 and 11. Moonlight Ruby (5) Neeraj 54.5.  1. ABLE LOVE, 2. BOLD BIDDING, 3. SPECIAL EFFORT   HILL FORT PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 3.20: 1. Air Salute (12) Abhay Singh 62, 2. Crackershow (14) A.A. Vikrant 62, 3. Red River (11) R.S. Jodha 62, 4. Silver Set (3) Md. Ismail 62, 5. Star Babe (8) Rohit Kumar 62, 6. Royal Girl (7) Gaurav Singh 61, 7. N R I Gift (13) Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 8. Minnelli (2) Surya Prakash 58, 9. Sheldon (9) Trevor 58, 10. Big Day (6) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 11. Proud Legacy (10) B. Nikhil 57.5, 12. Cephalonia (4) C. Umesh 54.5, 13. Hopscotch (5) Ajeeth Kumar 51 and 14. Moment Of Silence (1) Afroz Khan 50.  1. N R I GIFT, 2. STAR BABE, 3. SHELDON   HIDDEN BLOOM PLATE (1,600m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.55: 1. Flying Jet (13) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Queen Danerys (6) Nakhat Singh 57, 3. Grand Finale (8) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 4. Fashion Universe (2) Abhay Singh 55, 5. Moringa (10) Trevor 55, 6. Berkeley (4) C. Umesh 54.5, 7. N R I Touch (3) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 8. Balma (9) Koushik 54, 9. Southern Lady (7) S.S. Tanwar 53.5, 10. Paree (5) Rafique Sk. 51.5, 11. Forever Bond (1) R. Laxmikanth 51, 12. Mt. Davidson (12) B. Nikhil 51 and 13. Lightning Fairy (11) Surya Prakash 50.5.  1. N R I TOUCH, 2. MORINGA, 3. FASHION UNIVERSE   HILL FORT PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 4.30: 1. California Beauty (11) G. Naresh 62, 2. Flamingo Fame (5) Trevor 62, 3. Team Player (9) R.S. Jodha 62, 4. Top In Class (13) Akshay Kumar 62, 5. Astronaut (10) P. Gaddam 61.5, 6. Golden Forza (12) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 7. Elmira (8) N.B. Kuldeep 58.5, 8. Jo Malone (3) Deepak Singh 58.5, 9. Charcoal (4) Gaurav Singh 57.5, 10. That’s My Speed (7) B. Nikhil 57.5, 11. India Gate (2) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 12. Ice Berry (1) C.P. Bopanna 52.5 and 13. Royal Avenger (6) Afroz Khan 50.  1. TOP IN CLASS, 2. FLAMINGO FAME, 3. ASTRONAUT  Day’s Best: ASHWA RAUDEE  Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. Mini Jackpot: 3, 4, 5 & 6. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3; (ii) 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/able-love-should-make-amends-in-the-hyperion-plate/article36313104.ece
06 September 2021||Hyderabad:,||Deccan Colts Championship Stakes for Kensington||Trainer Arjun Manglorkar’s Kensington (Antony Raj S up) won the Deccan Colts Championship Stakes (Gr. 3), the stellar attraction of Sunday’s (Sept. 5) races. The winner is owned by Diamond Band Racing Syndicate Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Haider Soomar, Mr. Kersi H. Vachha and Mr. Sumit Mazumder. Kensington (Win Legend–Angelique), who was running sixth till the bend, shifted out near 400m, travelled very wide on the outside and came with rapid strides to pip Fire Power and Zuccarelli at the post.  1. BLUE PETER PLATE (Div. I) (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): ANGELITA (Kuldeep Singh) 1, Hot Seat (Akshay Kumar) 2, Aarya (C. Umesh) 3 and Blue Label (Nakaht Singh) 4. 1-1/4, Hd and 4-3/4. 1m, 10.36s. Rs. 96 (w), 20, 16 and 26 (p). SHP: 31, THP: 80, FP: 418, Q: 134, Tanala: 1,911. Favourite: Despang. Owner: Mr. Syed Abdul Subhan. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  Note: Sharp Mind stumbled and fell down dislodging the rider P. Gaddam, who was taken to the hospital for further treatment. It was observed by the Stewards at an enquiry that near the 900m, Dizizdtymtowin (Ajeeth Kumar astride) came in very sharply tightening the horses in the front bunch, due to which Sharp Mind, who was running in middle stumbled and fell down. The Stewards disqualified Dizizdtymtowin.  2. BLUE PETER PLATE (Div. II) (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): RISING QUEEN (Abhay Singh) 1, Cosmico (Rafique Sk.) 2, Sally (A.A. Vikrant) 3 and Good Tidings (Md. Ismail) 4. 3/4, 2-1/2 and 1/2. 1m, 10.42s. Rs. 150 (w), 40, 82 and 15 (p). SHP: 251, THP: 55, FP: 8,384, Q: 4,472, Tanala: 27, 698. Favourite: N R I Sugar. Owners: Mr. M. Rafeeq Iqbal, Mr. G.B.R. Prasad & Mr. K S N Murthy. Trainer: Robin Reddy Kondakalla.  3. GOLDEN BABY PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): COMMITTED WARRIOR (Koushik) 1, Muaser (Nakhat Singh) 2, Cosmic Run (Kiran Naidu) 3 and Colachel Battle (Trevor) 4. 4-1/2, Nk and 1/2. 1m, 28.34s. Rs. 56 (w), 11, 21 and 13 (p). SHP: 59, THP: 49, FP: 585, Q: 317, Tanala: 2,532. Favourite: Colachel Battle. Owners: Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni, Mr. Katikaneni Jivv Vikram Rao & Mr. Peddi Reddy Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  4. SHAPHIR PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): LOCKHART (Ajeeth Kumar) 1, Dandy Man (Ashad Asbar) 2, City Of Wisdom (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Incredulous (Md. Ismail) 4. Sh, 3/4, and 1-1/4. 1m, 29.16s. Rs. 131 (w), 27, 26 and 16 (p). SHP: 65, THP: 58, FP: 1,117, Q: 608, Tanala: 6,109. Favourite: Private Empire. Owner: Mr. T. Rakesh Reddy. Trainer: Anant Vatsalya.  5. GOLDEN BABY PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SIYAVASH (Ashad Asbar) & Brisbane (Surya Prakash) 1, Star Dancer (Kiran Naidu) 3 and Blickfang (Md. Ismail) 4. Dead Heat, 1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 29.26s. Rs. 13 and 21 (w), 15, 17 and 13 (p). THP: 52, FP: 80 and 70, Q: 84, Tanala: 314 and 242. Favourite: Siyavash. Owners: Siyavash: Mr. S. Daljeet Singh & Mr. Mohammed Abdul Wajid Khan; Brisbane: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders Farm Private Limited. Trainers: Siyavash: M. Srinivas Reddy; Brisbane: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  6. DECCAN COLTS CHAMPIONSHIP STAKES (Gr. III) (1,600m), (Terms) 3-y-o only: KENSINGTON (Win Legend–Angelique) (Antony Raj S) 1, Fire Power (Speaking Of Which–Roses In Bloom) (Zervan) 2, Zuccarelli (Western Aristocrat–Circle Of Bliss) (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Angelico (Win Legend–For An Angel) (Sandesh) 4. Nose, Nk and 1/2. 1m, 40.74s. Rs. 235 (w), 36, 29 and 22 (p). SHP: 57, THP: 69, FP: 5,343, Q: 2,093, Tanala: C/O. Favourite: Falcon Edge. Owners: Diamond Band Racing Syndicate Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Haider Soomar, Mr. Kersi H. Vachha and Mr. Sumit Mazumder. Trainer: Arjun Manglorkar.  7. SHAPHIR PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): BALIUS (Gaurav Singh) 1, Max (Zervan) 2, Full Volume (Ajit Singh) 3 and The Special One (Akshay Kumar) 4. 3, 1 and 3/4. 1m, 28.75s. Rs. 26 (w), 12, 16 and 21 (p). SHP: 51, THP: 62, FP: 110, Q: 81, Tanala: 786. Favourite: Balius. Owner: Mr. P. Venkateshwarlu. Trainer: G. Shashikanth. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 1,90,167 & 30%: 32,600. Treble: (i) 48,444, (ii) 4,747. Mini Jackpot: (i) 51,965 (c/o), (ii) 1,12,309 (c/o).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deccan-colts-championship-stakes-for-kensington/article36313109.ece
06 September 2021||GREATER NOIDA,||Semifinalists spotted||Anjali Semwal fought her way past Tiana Parasrampuria 11-9, 4-11, 11-5, 6-11, 11-7 in the women’s quarterfinals of the HCL PSA Challenger squash tournament at the Shiv Nadar University on Sunday. A student of the university, Anjali will take on the champion of the last tournament and the second seed Tanvi Khanna in the semifinals. The other semifinal will feature top seed Sunayna Kuruvilla against Urwashi Joshi. Abhisheka Shannon put up a tough fight against Urwashi before going down in four games. Rahul advances In the men’s section, Rahul Baitha beat second seed Aadit Zaveri 10-12, 12-10, 4-11, 11-3, 11-6 to set up a semifinal against third seed and Chennai event champion Velavan Senthilkumar.  The results:   Men (quarterfinals): Abhishek Agarwal bt Sandeep Ramchandran 11-2, 13-11, 11-2; Abhshek Pradhan bt Jaideep Sethi 11-4, 11-7, 11-6; Velavan Senthilkumar bt Navaneeth Prabhu 11-1, 11-8, 11-0; Rahul Baitha bt Aadit Zaveri 10-12, 12-10, 4-11, 11-3, 11-6.   Pre-quarterfinals: Velavan Senthilkumar bt Vaibhav Chauhan 11-2, 11-2, 11-6; Rahul Baitha bt Jamal Sakib 11-9, 11-9, 9-11, 14-12; Aadil Zaveri bt Arin Khot 11-2, 11-8, 11-4.   Women (quarterfinals): Sunayna Kuruvilla bt Anahat Singh 11-6, 11-8, 11-3; Urwashi Joshi bt Abhisheka Shannon 12-10, 6-11, 12-10, 11-7.   Anjali Semwal bt Tiana Parasrampuria 11-9, 4-11, 11-5, 6-11, 11-7; Tanvi Khanna bt Akshaya Sri 11-2, 11-5, 11-8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/semifinalists-spotted/article36313110.ece
06 September 2021||ATLANTA,||Koepka pulls out of Tour Championship||Three weeks before the Ryder Cup, four-time Major champion Brooks Koepka withdrew from the Tour Championship after injuring his wrist from hitting a tree root. “It’s the same wrist I had issues with in 2017 and ’18,” Koepka told a PGA Tour official before leaving. “So I'm just making sure it’s ok.” Koepka was among six players who earned automatic spots on the U.S. team, taking part in a dinner with Ryder Cup captain Steve Stricker on Wednesday to discuss pairings and potential captain's picks to fill out the 12-man team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/koepka-pulls-out-of-tour-championship/article36313162.ece
06 September 2021||Dhaka,||NZ beats Bangladesh||New Zealand beat Bangladesh by 52 runs in the third T20I to stay alive in the five-match series here on Sunday. Bangladesh leads 2-1. Man-of-the-match Ajaz Patel (4/16) and Cole McConchie (3/15) shone as New Zealand shot out Bangladesh for 76 in 19.4 overs after posting a modest 128/5.  The scores:   New Zealand 128/5 in 20 overs (Henry Nicholls 36 n.o., Tom Blundell 30 n.o., Mohd. Saifuddin 2/28) bt Bangladesh 76 in 19.4 overs (Ajaz Patel 4/16, Cole McConchie 3/15).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nz-beats-bangladesh/article36313061.ece
06 September 2021||Kathmandu,||India beats Nepal 2-1||Farukh Choudhary and skipper Sunil Chhetri struck in the second half to guide India to a 2-1 win over Nepal in their second International friendly here on Sunday. It was Choudhary who put India ahead in the 62nd minute while Chhetri (80th) doubled the lead of the visitors. Tej Tamang (87th minute) found the net for the hosts in the dying minutes of the match at the Dasharath Stadium here. The first match ended in a 1-1 draw.  The result: Nepal 1 (Tej Tamang 87) lost to India 2 (Farukh Choudhary 62, Sunil Chhetri 80) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-beats-nepal-2-1/article36313112.ece
06 September 2021||Kolkata,||Strong start by Sporting||Local favourite and I-League side Mohammedan Sporting proved too strong for Indian Air Force (IAF) as it registered a 4-1 win to start its campaign in the 130th Durand Cup in style, at the Salt Lake Stadium on Sunday. Milan Singh started the scoring process for Sporting in the 19th minute before defender Arijeet Singh doubled the lead around the half-hour mark. Azharuddin Mallick added a third just before half-time to help Mohammedan Sporting reach a comfortable position. Pulling one back The Airmen got a goal back through Saurav Sadhukhan after the change of ends in the 47th minute but failed to keep up the momentum. Mohammedan Sporting, which is the first Indian club team to win the title in 1940, completed its authoritative showing when Marcus Joseph found the fourth goal in the 77th minute. The Chief Minister of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee was present as the chief guest and greeted the two sides prior to kick off.  The result: Indian Air Force 1 (Saurav Sadhukhan 47) lost to Mohammedan Sporting 4 (Milan Singh 19, Arijeet Singh 31, Azharuddin Mallick 45, Marcus Joseph 77) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/strong-start-by-sporting/article36313114.ece
06 September 2021||London,||Shastri tests positive for COVID-19||India head coach Ravi Shastri has tested positive for coronavirus and has been isolated along with three of his close contacts, including bowling coach B. Arun, as a precautionary measure, the BCCI revealed on Sunday. Fielding coach R. Sridhar and head physiotherapist Nitin Patel have also been isolated. “The BCCI Medical Team has isolated head coach Ravi Shastri, bowling coach B. Arun, fielding coach R. Sridhar and physio Nitin Patel as a precautionary measure after Shastri’s lateral flow test returned positive last evening,” BCCI secretary Jay Shah stated in a release.  Rahul fined India opener K.L. Rahul was on Sunday fined 15% of his match fee for showing dissent at the umpire’s decision when he was adjudged caught behind following a DRS review on the third day of the Oval Test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shastri-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article36313066.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Bali the real winner||Janamejaya credits Vyasa for his sharp perception of dharma that is the basis of the innumerable purana stories he has authored most diligently. These are not just stories but are strong pointers to the common man struggling to face the ubiquitous fight between vice and virtue that characterises samsara, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. The world of samsara is vicious and is able to hold the jivas in its various manifestations as joy and sorrow. He is sure that none but Vyasa can give answers to the many perplexing issues that keep disturbing him. For instance, he wants to know who is truly victorious during the Lord’s incarnation as Vamana. Vishnu, the Lord of the Universe, had assumed the diminutive form of Vamana with the explicit aim to cheat Bali. Bali was a virtuous and truthful ruler of the daityas, who abided by the sastras and had performed a hundred sacrifices. What is the reason for the Lord’s act of cheating such a virtuous Bali? Vyasa replies that the victory is certainly Bali’s for he fulfilled his promise and gave over the kingdom to Vishnu. He added that the Lord who is extolled in the Vedas as one who treads with giant strides, the great Trivikrama who could measure the three worlds, had to assume the very small form as Vamana. His aim was to prevent Bali from completing the sacrifice. For, then it would unseat Indra from his post. So He transgressed truth and then sent Bali to Patala Loka. It is difficult for all of us in all situations in all respects to protect truth and dharma. But still there is nothing greater than truth in all existence. To enact this deceit, the Lord had to reduce His stature to become a dwarf and faced the consequences by taking the role of a gatekeeper in Bali’s palace in Patala Loka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/bali-the-real-winner/article36312906.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 09:09 IST,||Sudoku — September 6, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-6-2021/article36314129.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Prospective choices||I am a B.Com student. I want to do an MBA but also want to get into a creative field like fashion or interior designing. I thought about going into marketing and choosing a company related to my interest, or learning new skills like graphic design or video editing. I don’t know whether this is right. — Ipsita Dear Ipsita, Go through a professional career profiling to identify your real interests, aptitude, personality type, motivation and skillsets. You need a clear, focused plan to identify your passion from your interests and hobbies. Only then will you be able to do justice to it. I have completed my B.SC. Hospitality and Hotel Administration this year, and am keen to pursue a career in bakery. Where can I enhance my skills? Vincent Sindhwani Dear Vincent, There are B.Voc. (Bakery and Cookery) and B.Sc. (Culinary Arts with specialisation in Bakery and Pastry Art Management) courses in addition to various diploma and certification courses across the country. If you have the finances to go abroad, consider France, Switzerland, Germany, the U.K., Italy, the U.S. I am going to graduate soon with a Bachelor’s in Geography. I would like to go for Master’s. Apart from teaching or research which I don’t want to do, what my career prospects? Komal Mirdha Dear Komal, You could always become an environmental consultant, a cartographer (one who draws or produces maps), a survey researcher, a conservation officer, a geographical information systems officer, a town planner or join a non-profit organisation. I am a Chartered Accountant (age 24) working in the audit department of a Big 4 company. I would like to leave this field and get into running a business. Should I do additional qualifications like MBA / CFA or shift to other industries? Aadith Sunil Dear Aadith, Have you considered a specialisation in entrepreneurial management? Ensure that you have a sound business plan, advisors, partners you can trust, funding and so on. You are only 24 so you can afford to take risks. Be aware that this will also come with its own risks and take time to stabilise. The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus. thehindu@ gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.  Disclaimer: This column provides advice, guidance and suggestions on education and careers. It is merely a guiding voice from a practising career counsellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/prospective-choices/article36313037.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Prospective choices||I am a B.Com student who didn’t get good grades in Class 10. I want to do an MBA but also want to get into a creative field like fashion or interior designing. I thought about going into marketing and choosing a company related to my interest, or learning new skills like graphic design or video editing. I don’t know whether this is right. — Ipsita Dear Ipsita, Your interests seem all over the place. Go through a professional career profiling to identify your real interests, aptitude, personality type, motivation and skillsets. You need a clear, focused, determined plan to identify your passion from your interests and hobbies. Only then will you be able to do justice to it. I have completed my B.SC. Hospitality and Hotel Administration this year, and am keen to pursue a career in bakery. Where can I enhance my skills? Vincent Sindhwani Dear Vincent, There are B.Voc. (Bakery and Cookery) and B.Sc. (Culinary Arts with specialisation in Bakery and Pastry Art Management) courses in addition to various diploma and certification courses across the country. If you have the finances to go abroad, consider France, Switzerland, Germany, the U.K., Italy, the U.S. I am going to graduate soon with a Bachelor’s in Geography. I would like to go for Master’s. Apart from teaching or research which I don’t want to do, what my career prospects? Komal Mirdha Dear Komal, You could always become an environmental consultant, a cartographer (one who draws or produces maps), a survey researcher, a conservation officer, a geographical information systems officer, a town planner or join a non-profit organisation. I am a Chartered Accountant (age 24) working in the audit department of a Big 4 company. I would like to leave this field and get into running a business and hopefully acquire entrepreneurship skills. Should I do additional qualifications like MBA / CFA or shift to other industries? Aadith Sunil Dear Aadith, An MBA will take you two years and a CFA can be done alongside your job. However, you want to be an entrepreneur and run your own business. Have you considered a specialisation in entrepreneurial management? Ensure that you have a sound business plan, advisors, partners you can trust, funding and so on. You are only 24 so you can afford to take risks. Be aware that this will also come with its own risks and takes a few years to stabilise. You might not even draw a salary initially but use the time to build, learn and enhance business acumen with technical knowledge. The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus.thehindu@ gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.  Disclaimer: This column provides advice, guidance and suggestions on education and career advise. It is merely a guiding voice from a practising career counsellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/prospective-choices/article36313035.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||For better or for worse?||Twenty years ago, online teaching would have been impossible. Had a pandemic occurred, it would have crippled the educational system. Today, we have extensive broadband access, IT-enabled tools such as Zoom, Google Meet, Slido, Moodle, and the ubiquitous smartphone and that has made a difference. In 2020, when the government announced the replacement of brick-and-mortar classes with virtual lookalikes, we hastily assumed that the future probably lay in online education that promised inclusivity. But reviewing the scene in the U.S., Michael Horn, author of Choosing College (2019, Jossey-Bass), says he doubts whether the students and their parents who have experienced hastily constructed online courses “will look back fondly on those on-line experiences”. Like in every country, in India too, teachers are exhausted, as most had to fall back on limited, often personal, resources and no uniform plan for curriculum delivery. Unrealistic demands What is also apparent is the lack of recognition of the burden on faculty and students in what was a personally stressful time, with COVID-19 having entered many households. Often unrealistic demands were made on the faculty to attend lengthy meetings, spilling over to holidays and after office. Teachers were asked to complete NAAC forms at the cost of classes, which were considered their responsibility to complete whenever they could. Dr. Deb Pathak, a professor of sociology from Delhi, describes the experience as “stagnating” because of the rigidity of the authorities, who insisted that a final examination carrying 60% weightage had to be held. If the teacher wanted to evaluate her/his students through continuous, creative assignments, the scope did not exist. The same inflexibility was seen in the insistence on passing medical students based on theory courses. Dr. Smitha (name changed), a senior medical surgeon who teaches at a hospital in Hyderabad, is distressed that students had no exposure to clinical practice of examining live patients or learning how to talk to them. Full courses have not been taught in colleges. There was no time and no one to take the call on extending the term. Dr. Shanti Bhattacharya, professor of electrical engineering at IIT-Madras, felt it was stressful to set exams to prevent cheating. She used sequential flow in Moodle so that questions came at different times for each student. Other teachers used MCQs, quizzes, gave students creative assignments that could not be copy-pasted, and held debates. Yet there were complaints of cheating. Online teaching has stressed teachers also because they couldn’t see their students or get non-verbal feedback, say Dr. Anjali Roy, professor of English at IIT-Kharagpur and Dr. Yogesh Snehi, professor of history at Amity University, Delhi. Only Dr. Ashwin Mahalingam, who teaches civil engineering at IIT-Madras, felt it was teaching as usual, though he drop a lab course the previous semester. While faculty in colleges with good resources and used IT-enabled tools regularly could focus on teaching, the number of students increased as their courses were opened up. The rest juggled between technology and the syllabus, and the latter suffered. Online classes have left faculty dispirited. Dr. Martha (name changed), a professor of financial management in Mumbai, says, “Preparation time for every class has increased manifold.” Students have cut corners to pass, and administrations have neither appreciated faculty nor devised plans to ensure quality teaching/learning in the coming year. Viney Kirpal is former Professor of English at IIT Bombay. ceogiit@gmail.com  What is also apparent is the lack of recognition of the burden on faculty and students in what was a personally stressful time...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/for-better-or-for-worse/article36313040.ece
06 September 2021||New Delhi,||Dying transport corporation||The pulse of the Capital’s proverbial ‘lifeline’, the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), is growing fainter by the day. Not just its survival, but even the legacy of the DTC seems to be at stake. The public transporter’s fleet has contracted to its lowest in over a decade with financial losses mounting each year as new, privately owned cluster buses, being engaged by the government, are gradually edging out thousands of ailing buses on Delhi’s streets. Last week, visuals of low-floor DTC buses being inundated while wading through waterlogged city streets and commuters being forced to rely on umbrellas to avoid leaking roofs exemplify the state of its existing fleet. As the Delhi government pursues its ambition of commandeering the largest fleet of electric buses in the country under the cluster scheme, it stands to lose the distinction of having held sway over the biggest fleet of CNG-propelled public buses in the world since 2008. In response to an RTI query from The Hindu , the Transport Department stated the number of cluster buses has shot up from zero in 2010 to 3,240 till July 31, 2021, while the DTC’s strength dipped from 6,342 to 3,760. Though it may appear to be in the lead at the moment in terms of numbers, the ailing DTC is actually set to lose that race to cluster buses sooner rather than later, perhaps for good. ‘Overaged’ DTC DTC Operational Statistics for August 2019 accessed by The Hindu states 3,764 or 99.16% ofthe DTC’s fleet on August 31, 2019, was “overaged” since it was “more than eight years old”. They also noted that the average age of the different makes of buses on the fleet ranged from 8.9 to 10 years. The department, during the monsoon session of the Delhi Assembly, submitted that the DTC’s fleet stood at 3,760 of which only 32 buses were aged between 8 to 12 years while the rest, 3,728, were aged above 10 years, subtly admitting that an overwhelming majority of it was redundant. In June this year, 1,000 low-floor buses being procured for the DTC for the first time since 2008 were supposed to start rolling out. But the process has been stalled due to allegations of corruption and will now be investigated by the CBI. The new buses were being procured for Rs. 875 crore with an additional amount of around Rs. 3,412 crore pledged towards a 12-year-long annual maintenance contract (AMC). While the Opposition BJP alleged irregularities in the amount for maintenance, the government retorted it had, in fact, saved Rs. 225 crore on annual maintenance in the process. According to the RTI response, the DTC provisionally spent a little less than it had committed for the procurement of 1,000 new low-floor buses on the maintenance of its fleet of 3,762 buses in 2019-20: Rs. 817.27 crore was spent on maintenance, including the cost of CNG, in 2019-20. City routes The operational statistics also noted that the number of city routes being operated by the DTC fell from 556 in 2009-10 to 437 in 2018-19; NCR routes plummeted from 44 to just 8. There had, according to the statistics, also been 11,768 breakdowns of buses of various makes and running on different routes in August 2019. The Economic Survey of Delhi 2020-21 noted 780 breakdowns per 10,000 buses during 2017-18, 781 in 2018-19 and 880 in 2019-20. “The DTC’s position is similar to a patient in ICU. We don’t know precisely what medicines to prescribe; all we know is that the patient needs to be revived as soon as possible,” said Professor P.K. Sarkar, road safety expert and member of Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS-ISO). “We need to create a unified transport authority which consists of experts monitoring the city’s transport sector round the clock. Route rationalisation and increasing existing bus fare need to be considered urgently,” Professor Sarkar added. History on wheels With its roots in one of the earliest decisions of the first government of independent India in 1948, the Delhi Transport Service had several transformations over 74 years before being forged into the iconic DTC. Transporting about 33 lakh passengers over 6.41 lakh km per day on about 448 city and seven NCR routes, the DTC operates 30,562 average trips daily and is considered the largest transport service provider in the National Capital Region (NCR). It has ventured well beyond the NCR, too. It was aboard a DTC bus belonging to the Sada-e-Sarhad or Delhi-Lahore service that then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee travelled to Lahore for an eponymous summit in 1999. Ten years later, in 2010, DTC buses ferried foreign athletes to and from stadia on exclusive lanes during the Commonwealth Games. A decade later, DTC buses were transporting migrant workers to safety during the national COVID lockdown in addition to oxygen supplies and medical professionals during successive waves of the COVID-19 infection in 2020. The transport department is in the process of engaging 300 electric buses and is scheduled to float another tender for the engagement of 465 more electric buses soon. This will push the fleet of privately owned buses being operated on a PPP model by the government to 4,005 against the DTC’s fleet of 3,760. The cluster scheme is based on the gross-cost model (OPEX) where fleet owners are remunerated on the basis of operational parameters irrespective of the fare box inflow. By 2019-20, according to the Economic Survey of Delhi 2020-21, 2,910 cluster buses were ferrying 17.71 lakh passengers on 14 clusters. As many as 556 of these were registered in 2019; 750, the highest number of cluster buses to be registered in any year since 2010, were added to the fleet in 2020. Unions of employees — both permanent and contractual — part of the public transporter’s workforce as well as the political opposition allege that the goings on are part of the “subtle privatisation of the DTC”. “The government wants to kill the DTC so that all its depots and official property located on prime land can be handed over to private players for a profit,” alleged Kailash Chand Malik of the Delhi Parivahan Mazdoor Sangh. “The daily bus pass, the most popular pass among commuters, can’t be used on cluster buses. Most cluster buses are also non-air conditioned. The DTC, which has been synonymous with Delhi since the beginning, is dying a quiet but painful death,” he added. Manoj Sharma of the DTC Karamchari Ekta Union alleged the DTC was “getting a bad name” due to the rash driving of overworked cluster bus drivers.  Rash driving and salary “Their drivers are private employees who need to toil for 18 to 20 hours a day to cover 150 km so they can earn around Rs. 25,000 as monthly salary. In the process, they end up driving rashly,” he alleged. Transport Department sources said cluster buses were found to be involved in around 20 accidents per year over the last two years. “DTC buses transported migrant workers, doctors and even oxygen during the COVID pandemic. How many private operators will step forward to provide the service the DTC has and does on a daily basis despite the condition of the fleet?” he said. However, those associated with the AAP-led Delhi government’s purported bid to revive the sector in the Capital feel otherwise. “The engagement of buses is the only way forward. Not just the DTC, but most other government departments suffer issues because of the tendering process. Why should the commuters of Delhi suffer because buses cannot be bought for one reason or another,” asked Pravesh Biyani, Associate Professor, Centre for Sustainable Mobility, IIIT-D. Professor Biyani is working with the Delhi government on streamlining the Capital’s transportation sector. “We need reforms in the tendering process. The DTC may be in the condition that it is at the moment, but has good operational capacity otherwise,” he added.  Legacy vs utility The DTC’s possible demise in the74th year since its inception, former Delhi Transport Minister Ajay Maken of the Congress pointed out, would snatch the distinction of having the biggest fleet of CNG-propelled public buses in the world since 2008 from Delhi. Former Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly and Rohini BJP MLA Vijender Gupta, who filed the complaint alleging graft in the AMC component of the 1,000 DTC low-floor buses, questioned the intentions of the government. “It was during my tenure that the entire fleet of the DTC was made to switch over to CNG; that legacy seems to be at risk,” Mr. Maken said. “Without adequate bus infrastructure, what can wean commuters to public transport from their preference for personal vehicles,” he asked. “The fact that the government spent Rs. 800 crore towards the maintenance of close to 4,000 DTC buses in 2019-20 and was willing to commit almost three times this amount for the AMC of just 1,000 new buses says it all,” Mr. Gupta alleged. Revival bid “The committee constituted by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal after my complaint too has directed that the AMC bidfor Rs. 3,412 crore be cancelled and floated afresh. The government failed to revive the DTC, so is now trying to subtly privatise it and use it for corrupt practices till it can,” he added. Professor Sarkar said though there was no other option than letting private buses operate for the time being, this needed to be allowed under intense scrutiny. For the DTC, there was a need to act decisively and soon. “Privately owned buses can operate till the DTC gets its own buses but under intense scrutiny. If there is will, expertise and muscle, the DTC can not only be revived but converted into the best public transport service not only in India but the world,” Professor Sarkar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dying-transport-corporation/article36313287.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Details of counterterrorism course should be made public, says JNUSU||Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union on Sunday demanded to roll back a course titled ‘counterterrorism, asymmetric conflicts and strategies for cooperation among major powers’ to be taught to engineering students at the university pursuing a dual degree programme with specialisation in international relations. The students alleged that the course did not meet the basic standard of academic rigour and demanded that the course details be made public and be subjected to scrutiny by all relevant stakeholders, including subject experts. The students’ body said that it rejects the introduction of such courses that reek of the “Islamophobic agenda of the administration” and demanded that the course be rolled back. Myopic understanding The students in a statement said “two of the modules under this course are potential inciters of Islamophobia and present a myopic understanding of countering terrorism. The modules of ‘Fundamentalist-Religious Terrorism and its Impact’ and ‘State-sponsored Terrorism: It’s Influence and Impact’ reveal attempts of misusing the university space to escalate propaganda-based misrepresentation of facts to satisfy the communal and anti-Communist propaganda of the current regime with a total disregard to basic principles of scientific pedagogy”. JNU Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar had said that the objective of the course is to give students an in-depth understanding on the challenges emanating from terrorism to India’s national security and how India can get equipped with the adequate responses in the case of any eventuality. “It is imperative that an academic institution like JNU takes the lead and builds a good set of counterterrorism specialists. India urgently needs a critical mass of such specialists in this field,” Mr. Kumar said. ‘Curriculum holistic’ The university said that the curriculum has been designed keeping in mind the terrorist activities at the global level and India’s experiences in handling them. It added that the curriculum is holistic and also contains sections on the role of intelligence information and the counterterrorism cooperation among major powers.  objective of the course is to give students an in-depth understanding on the challenges emanating from terrorism to India’s national security||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/details-of-counterterrorism-course-should-be-made-public-says-jnusu/article36313281.ece
06 September 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active case tally dips again||Maharashtra reported 5,916 recoveries on Sunday against 4,057 new COVID-19 cases as the active case tally dipped incrementally to 50,095. With 67 fatalities, the State’s death toll rose to 1,37,774, while the case fatality rate remained at 2.12%. The State recorded over 44,000 new cases between August 26 and September 4, said Pradeep Vyas, Principal Secretary, State Health Department. Pune and Ahmednagar districts continued to remain hotspots. A number of districts in the Vidarbha region had reported zero or single-digit cases for the last several weeks, he said. “Ten districts have 90% of the State’s cases, while in six districts, including Dhule, Nandurbar, Wardha and Gondia, the active cases were zero to negligible. Pune constitutes 22% of the active cases reported in the past week, while Ahmednagar constitutes 17%,” said Mr. Vyas, adding that the case positivity rate in Pune and Ahmednagar continued to be on the rise, with the figure well above 5%. Mr. Vyas informed that 6% of total patients in the State were in the ICU, of whom 2% were on ventilator, 16% of patients required oxygen. Meanwhile, the total cases have reached 64,86,174, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 62,94,767, with the recovery rate has risen incrementally to 97.05%. “Of a total 5,48,54,018 laboratory samples tested thus far, 64,86,174 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 11.92%) have returned positive, with more than 1.94 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported nearly 840 new cases, taking its total cases to 11,21,068. Eight deaths pushed the toll to 18,738. As per district authorities, the active case tally has exceeded 9,300. Mumbai reported 495 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,46,341, while the active case tally rose to 4,003. Two more deaths took the city’s toll to 15,993.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtras-active-case-tally-dips-again/article36313452.ece
06 September 2021||New Delhi,||Minor girl rape case: HC rejects hotel owner’s bail application||The Delhi High Court has rejected anticipatory bail to a man in whose hotel a 16-year-old girl was raped multiple times for four days, noting that he facilitated the crime by running the hotel without a valid licence or maintaining guest list. Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar observed that the man, who is the owner of the hotel and resides at the same place, cannot say that he was not aware of what was going on in his hotel and he cannot put the entire blame on the staffer of the hotel. According to the victim, she was kept in the hotel for about four days where she was repeatedly raped by another man. No record of guests “First of all, the hotel was being run by the petitioner without any valid licence and no record of the guests was being maintained and no IDs were being taken,” the judge said, adding “had ID of the victim and the accused would have been taken at the time of the said booking, then the minor girl would have been saved”. “By running this type of hotel and without keeping a record of the guests staying in the hotel, the petitioner is facilitating in crime and prosecutrix is one such victim in this case,” Justice Bhatnagar said. With the testimony of the victim yet to be recorded and looking into the allegations and the seriousness of the offence, and the role played by the hotel owner, the court said, “no ground for bail is made out. The bail application is therefore dismissed”. The FIR was registered in Dayalpur police station on March 5, 2021, on the complaint of the victim’s father. The man pleaded that he is the owner of the hotel and has no role to play in bookings which are being done by the hotel staffers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minor-girl-rape-case-hc-rejects-hotel-owners-bail-application/article36313283.ece
06 September 2021||Pune,||Rane slapgate row sees Aaditya’s Yuva Sena come into its own||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Union Minister Narayan Rane’s slapgate row has seen a revival of the Shiv Sena’s supposedly dormant aggressive spirit. Within hours of Mr. Rane’s controversial statement (of August 23) that he “would have slapped Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray” for allegedly forgetting the year of India’s Independence, Sena workers, mainly from the party’s youth wing, the Yuva Sena, led agitations at several places in the State, pelted the BJP offices and squared-off with its activists on the streets of Mumbai. According to observers, the most important takeaway from the fiasco is the coming of the Yuva Sena, led by Mr. Thackeray’s son Aaditya Thackeray, into its own. It also marks a forceful assertion of a party whose combative, street-fighting disposition was thought to have ‘mellowed’ under Mr. Uddhav Thackeray’s leadership. “After [Sena founder] Bal Thackeray’s death in 2012, a section of the senior Sena leadership were convinced the party’s fortunes would plummet under Uddhav Thackeray, and accordingly had begun subtly voicing such opinions. However, not only did Mr. Thackeray manage a creditable performance in the 2014 Assembly election, but shifted alliances after the 2019 poll. Now, the Chief Minister has succeeded in silencing his bitterest adversary Narayan Rane by unleashing the Yuva Sena who have been showcased as the next generation of Shiv Sainiks,” says Vivek Bhavsar, a senior Mumbai-based political analyst and long-time Sena watcher. According to sources, soon after Mr. Rane’s intemperate remarks, a night meeting between the Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and the Home Minister had allegedly decided on Mr. Rane’s arrest on grounds that the most vicious Sena baiter had finally crossed the moral rubicon. Accordingly, the Yuva Sena was mobilised to coordinate the street agitations and fight off the BJP and Mr. Rane’s supporters, and to ensure that the Union Minister was brought from Ratnagiri to the court in Mahad in Raigad without incident. Fillip ahead of BMC polls “The incident has showcased the potential of the Yuva Sena led by Mr. Aaditya Thackeray, not just to the party’s detractors like Mr. Rane and the BJP, but to the senior leadership within the Sena. By restoring confidence among ground-level workers, this rallying of the Sena is likely to hold the party in good stead in the crucial Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls next year,” says Mr. Bhavsar. The 2017 BMC polls left the Sena with a tenuous majority (97 of the 227 seats), with the BJP dramatically improving its performance to come a close second (with 82 seats). The BMC, which is India’s richest civic body, is the Sena’s chief cash-cow and the lifeline of the party’s existence in the State. However, the Rane fiasco could affect the BJP’s chances this time, according to analysts. Eye on Gujarati votebank “The Gujarati votebank in Mumbai has been the traditional constituency of the BJP. However, after this incident, these voters may defer more to the Sena, which has shown that nobody in the BJP may henceforth take the Chief Minister for granted. Furthermore, the Sena has been assiduously wooing the Gujarati voters with an eye on the 2022 BMC polls,” said an election watcher. The person to come off worst in the slapgate is undoubtedly Mr. Rane. For all his bluster, the Konkan strongman stands exposed as a weak local leader whose regional influence appears to be rapidly diminishing. “He must understand that the Sena, which he claims he helped build, is a bigger and more solid brand than himself,” said a Sena leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rane-slapgate-row-sees-aadityas-yuva-sena-come-into-its-own/article36313454.ece
06 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||BJP alleges corruption by Patnaik govt. in deal for CCTV cameras||The Odisha unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday accused the Naveen Patnaik Government of indulging in corruption in the installation of closed-circuit television cameras in all police stations across the State. “The State government through the Odisha Computer Application Centre (OCAC) has given a purchase order for the installation of CCTV cameras at all 593 police stations to Mumbai-based vendor Crystal Integrated Services Limited. The government would pay Rs. 104.96 crore for the project,” said Thakur Ranjit Das, BJP leader, while addressing a press conference here. Mr. Das said the price quoted for installation of eight bullet cameras and 12 dome cameras to keep a tab on the activities in each police station was Rs. 15.57 lakh. “If one purchases cameras of similar specifications from open market and pay for installation and maintenance, not more than Rs. 6 lakh would be required for one police station. Going by the price, the government would have spent Rs. 38.58 crore. However, the Mumbai-based vendor would be paid Rs. 94.415 crore. A central monitoring system would be set up at an estimated cost of Rs. 10.21 crore. For obvious reasons, the government is spending additional Rs. 60 crore,” he alleged. ‘Cancel contract’ The overpriced installation and maintenance of CCTVs in police stations indicated BJD leaders and officials would stand to get pecuniary benefits out of the deal, Mr. Das charged. The BJP demanded that the contract be cancelled and officials involved in finalising the tender document be held accountable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-alleges-corruption-by-patnaik-govt-in-deal-for-cctv-cameras/article36313279.ece
06 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Police cannot be given the licence to meddle with civil disputes: court||A local court here has ordered the registration of an First Information Report (FIR) against the Station House Officer of Bhondsi Police Station and a Sub-Inspector for “interfering in the civil dispute” and disobeying the directions of law as contained in Section 155(2) of Criminal Procedure Code. The court, hearing a bail application, observed that “it is not the job of (the) police to meddle with civil disputes and police officials cannot be given (the) licence to meddle with the civil disputes”. Jasbir Singh, Additional Sessions Judge, Gurugram, in his order earlier this month, also directed that “to serve the ends of justice” the applicants would be given at least 10 days’ notice prior to their arrest in case any FIR was registered on the basis of the complaint. The matter pertained to a complaint to the police in connection with a dispute between Raj Dhankar and Rajbir, the applicant, over the sale of a plot measuring around 1,500 sq yards in Bhondsi. As per the complaint to the police, Raj bought the plot from Rajbir through an agreement to sell on February 27, 2018, and paid him Rs. 17.5 lakh through cheque and Rs. 3 lakh through RTGS. But the sale deed could not be executed, and Raj filed a civil suit at Sohna court seeking possession. The complainant twice approached the police for probe on August 2 and 4 last year, but the police dropped proceedings saying that the matter was civil in nature and the civil suit was pending in the Sohna court. However, the complainant again approached the police for the third time this year and a notice was served to the applicant on August 25 asking him to appear before the police and furnish certain information. ‘No power to decide’ The court, in its order, observed that it was a settled proposition of law that police had got no power to decide about the possession of a party on any piece of land, but the act of police in the present case, prima facie, revealed that “the enquiry officer is bent upon to give his findings regarding possession over the suit property”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-cannot-be-given-the-licence-to-meddle-with-civil-disputes-court/article36313282.ece
06 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Rana slams unbeaten 138, puts Pistons in strong position||Himanshu Rana slammed an unbeaten 138 (200b, 11x4, 1x6) to put India Pistons in a strong position at 220 for two against Globe Trotters on the first day of the second round match of the TNCA first division league here on Sunday. At the Wahe Guru ‘A’ ground, Bhargav Merai (102 batting, 154b, 7x4, 1x6) helped Grand Slam end the day on 252 for five against Nelson SC. Left-arm spinner Bhargav Bhatt took four wickets as Vijay CC bowled out IOB for 148 at Guru Nanak. In another match at the MAC Stadium, Wilkins Victor’s 101 took Young Stars to 254 for eight against MCC. Wilkins added 140 for the fifth wicket with Vignesh S. Iyer.  The scores: Grand Slam 252/5 in 78 overs (S. Radhakrishnan 46, Bhargav Merai 102 batting, Adithya Ganesh 51) vs Nelson. Toss: Nelson.   India Pistons 220/2 in 61.5 overs (Himanshu Rana 138 batting, S. Guru Raghavendran 47 batting) vs Globe Trotters. Toss: Trotters.   IOB 148 in 59.5 overs (Y. Sandeep 47, A.G. Pradeep 41, Bhargav Bhatt 4/30) vs Vijay 23 for no loss in 12.5 overs. Toss: Vijay.   MRC ‘A’ 229/7 in 78 overs (B. Anirudh Sitaram 81) vs Swaraj. Toss: MRC ‘A’.   UFCC (T. Nagar) 193 in 77 overs (Vishnu Solanki 41, K. Vishal Vaidhya 57) vs Jolly Rovers 36/1 in 8.1 overs. Toss: UFCC.   Young Stars 254/8 in 84 overs (Wilkins Victor 101, Vignesh S. Iyer 72) vs MCC. Toss: MCC .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rana-slams-unbeaten-138-puts-pistons-in-strong-position/article36313213.ece
06 September 2021||IMPHAL,||Opium seized from Imphal hotel, two arrested||Acting on a tip-off, the Manipur police raided a hotel in Imphal on September 2 and arrested two persons. They seized one kg of opium from them. The arrested were identified as M. Katrick (27) of Chennai and A. Banik of Moreh in Manipur. Police suspect they were involved in other incidents too. In another development, a combined team of Manipur police and troops of 38 Assam Rifles raided some areas at Kangchup Maku village in Kangpokpi district on Saturday. Militant held The team arrested Thongkhohao Doungel, a cadre of the Kuki National Front (P). One 9 mm pistol and one magazine with three live rounds were recovered from him. Meanwhile, Jogeshchandra Haobijam, Superintendent of Police, Thoubal district, said that acting on reliable information, they beefed up vigilance in the Lilong area of the district. On suspicion, they intercepted a person on Saturday in the Lilong Turel Ahanbi area and seized 22 packets of heroin from him. The man, Mohammad Mujibur (42), disclosed that two tribal women had given him the packets. The value of the contraband is said to be over Rs. 8 crore in the international market Two tribal women, D. Haokip (25) and M. Tuiboy (37), both of Moreh, the border town of Manipur, were arrested. The women, who tried to escape in a jeep, had supplied the heroin to Mujibur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/opium-seized-from-imphal-hotel-two-arrested/article36313280.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Last purchase of DTC buses in 2008: govt.||The last purchase of new buses in the DTC, the Delhi government said, was undertaken in 2008 and the last bus under that order was inducted in the DTC fleet in October 2011. “Since then, we’ve been constantly floating tenders but have not been successful. The tenders were floated twice in the year 2013, then in the years 2014, 2018, 2019 and 2020. In spite of this, we have 300 electric buses being inducted in the DTC which will start arriving in the next two months,” said a senior transport department official. Delhi is mandated to go to single-fuel mode, CNG-propelled buses. The Supreme Court has mandated that Delhi induct only fully disabled-friendly low-floor buses as well as only air-conditioned buses. “Buses are to be manufactured against the specific work order for requirement of Delhi. Such specified buses are not purchased by any other State except Delhi,” the official said, adding that only three vehicle manufacturers were available to fulfil all these mandatory conditions. A Delhi government spokesperson alleged it was the BJP which had derailed the induction of 1,000 buses. “The BJP does not want induction of buses by the DTC,” the spokesperson alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/last-purchase-of-dtc-buses-in-2008-govt/article36313285.ece
06 September 2021||Nainital,||‘Application delivered to DoPT in time’||Senior Indian Forest Service officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi’s application for the post of SSC member was delivered in time to the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) in Delhi, says an affidavit filed by the postal department in the Uttarakhand High Court here. The affidavit flies in the face of a claim made by the DoPT in the court that his application was received after the due date. The postal department’s affidavit has been filed in response to notices issued in February by the court on a plea filed by Mr. Chaturvedi claiming irregularities in the selection process for the post of member in the Staff Selection Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/application-delivered-to-dopt-in-time/article36313276.ece
06 September 2021||Hoshiarpur (Punjab),||Man strangles wife to death||A 23-year-old woman was strangled to death allegedly by her husband here on Sunday, police said. Accused Neeraj (27) informed his brother-in-law over the phone that he killed her and dumped the body near a canal, police said. The accused is absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-strangles-wife-to-death/article36313277.ece
06 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||National tennis from Oct. 25||The Fenesta National tennis championships for men and women will be played at the DLTA Complex here from October 25. Entries close on October 4. A standard entry fee of Rs. 1,250 will be charged per player irrespective of them playing singles, doubles or both. The organisers have assured that all COVID-19 protocols would be followed for the safety of everyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/national-tennis-from-oct-25/article36313220.ece
06 September 2021||Mumbai,||Rashmi Shukla cannot seek quashing of FIR: State to HC||The Maharashtra government has told the Bombay High Court that senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla has not been named as an accused in the case of alleged illegal phone tapping and leaking of confidential documents related to police transfers and postings, and hence she cannot seek quashing of the FIR. In an affidavit filed on Saturday, the government said the investigation only pertains to how sensitive and confidential information was unauthorisedly leaked to third parties from the State Intelligence Department and has got nothing to do with the contents of the said documents. It claimed that the offences are not in any way connected to the offences being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation against former State home minister Anil Deshmukh. The affidavit was submitted in response to a petition filed by Ms. Shukla seeking quashing of the FIR, alleging that she was being made a scapegoat for submitting a report on alleged corruption in police transfers and postings. The affidavit filed by Rashmi Karandikar, Deputy Commissioner of Police of the Mumbai Police Crime Branch, said the FIR registered by the police is against “unknown persons” and hence the petitioner has no locus (standi) to file the plea seeking to quash the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rashmi-shukla-cannot-seek-quashing-of-fir-state-to-hc/article36313451.ece
06 September 2021||September 06 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, I div., Nelson vs Grand Slam (Wahe Guru ‘A’); Globe Trotters vs India Pistons (CPT-IP, turf); IOB vs Vijay (IC-Gurunanak); MRC ‘A’ vs Swaraj (SRMC, turf); UFCC (T. Nagar) vs Jolly Rovers (IITM-Chemplast); MCC vs Young Stars (MAC Stadium), day 2, 9 a.m.; Harrington CA under-14 tournament, N.M Greens, Medavakkam, 1 p.m.  Snooker: St. Gobain-S.A. Faheem memorial 6-red all-India tournament, Eldarado Building, Nungambakkam High Rd., 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/engagements/article36313209.ece
