07 September 2021||Kozhikode,||11 more show Nipah symptoms as 251 contacts of victim traced||The number of people symptomatic for Nipah infection rose to 11 on Monday, a day after Mohammed Hashim, 12, of Pazhoor, near Chathamangalam in Kozhikode district of Kerala, succumbed to the virus at a private hospital here. Health Minister Veena George told the media late in the evening that among those symptomatic are Hashim’s parents, Vayoli Aboobacker and Wahida, their close relatives and healthcare workers. “Their condition is stable. The boy’s mother had fever on Sunday night, but it has subsided now,” Ms. George said. The number of people on the contact list of the deceased has gone up to 251, which, Ms. George said, could increase further. Of the total contacts, 129 are healthcare workers. Of the 54 high-risk contacts, 30 are healthcare workers and have all been quarantined at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode. “The boy was taken to at least four healthcare institutions, including the MCH, Kozhikode, before being admitted to the private hospital where he died. That is why a majority of the contacts are healthcare workers,” the Minister said. Two of them are from Malappuram and Kannur districts, because of which an alert was sounded in those places on Sunday. Special lab ready The Minister said a special laboratory under the aegis of the National Institute of Virology, Pune, had been set up at the MCH. It will have facilities to conduct both point-of-care and RT-PCR tests. The samples of three symptomatic persons would be tested here and those from eight others were being sent to Pune. The results from Pune are expected late on Monday. Officials from the Department of Animal Husbandry also collected the blood and oral swab samples of two goats from the premises of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11-more-show-nipah-symptoms-as-251-contacts-of-victim-traced/article36329901.ece
07 September 2021||MANGALURU,||KFDC introduces reefer vans to supply fresh fish to far-off places||Those fond of fresh saltwater fish but stay far off from the coast now have a reason to rejoice as Karnataka State Fisheries Development Corporation (KFDC) will provide almost fresh fish through 50 of its outlets across the State. Minister for Fisheries and Ports S. Angara on Monday flagged off eight refrigerated and insulated (reefer) vans procured by KFDC to transport freshly brought marine fish to the shore by fishermen to far off places, including Bengaluru, Mysuru and North Karnataka districts. In his introductory address, KFDC Chairman Nithin Kumar said that the reefer vans were procured with funding under National Agriculture Development Mission to supply fresh marine produce to people through the outlets of the fisheries corporation. Of the 50 outlets, KFDC itself runs 13, has given out another 10 under licence and extended franchise facility for another 27 outlets that are located in Bengaluru. Mr. Kumar thanked the Minister for supporting the corporation to set up cold storages in every district to store saltwater as well as freshwater fish. The then Fisheries Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari too had extended support to the corporation, he noted. Mr. Angara said that while saltwater fish was delicious fishermen should exercise caution while harvesting them. Unnecessary greed depletes natural wealth, he said and added that unlike freshwater fish, marine fish cannot be cultivated. He said that the government would extend all help to develop the fisheries sector that has been providing employment to large sections of society. The reefer vans, Mr. Angara said, will ensure customers in places far off from the coast get fresh marine produce. Mangaluru South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath thanked Mr. Angara for getting Rs. 22 crore sanctioned from the government for the third phase of Mangaluru Fishing Harbour project that was languishing for a long time. In all, coastal Karnataka will see 16 fisheries development projects worth Rs. 1,100 crore shortly because of the initiative of the BJP government, the MLA said. Mayor Premananda Shetty and KFDC Managing Director M.L. Doddamani and others were present.  Unnecessary greed depletes natural wealth and unlike freshwater fish, marine fish cannot be cultivated, fishermen advised||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kfdc-introduces-reefer-vans-to-supply-fresh-fish-to-far-off-places/article36330388.ece
07 September 2021||MYSURU,||Congress wins Ward 36 in MCC byelections||The Congress has managed to wrest Ward No. 36 of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) from the Janata Dal (S) in the bypolls. In a keenly fought contest, Rajini Annaiah of the Congress defeated Leelavathi S. of the Janata Dal (S) by a margin of 1,997 votes. According to Assistant Commissioner of MCC Zone 6, Karthik, who was the Returning Officer for the elections, the Congress candidate polled 4,113 votes while the JD (S) nominee secured 2,116 votes. BJP’s Shobha P. bagged 601 votes. During the polling held on September 3, a total of 6,896 votes were cast out of the total electorate of 10,693. As many as 66 votes were polled in favour of NOTA (None of The Above). No vote was rejected from the remaining 6,830 votes taken up for counting on Monday. The bypolls were announced to Ward No. 36 after the High Court disqualified the then Mayor Rukmini Made Gowda of the JD (S) from the membership of the MCC based on a petition filed by Ms. Annaiah challenging her election on the grounds that she had submitted a false asset affidavit at the time of filing her nomination to the elections in 2018. Ms. Annaiah, who had lost to Ms. Rukmini Made Gowda from Ward No. 36, had moved the court against her rival. Ms. Rukmini Made Gowda had to vacate the Mayor’s post barely three months after her election in February this year. Ms. Rukmini Made Gowda’s disqualification from the MCC led to not only mid-term elections to the post of Mayor, which was held on August 25, but also bypolls. The bypolls held close on the heels of the collapse of Congress-JD (S) alliance for the mayoral polls, leading to BJP’s Sunanda Palanetra winning the Mayor’s post, had sparked off much political interest with both the Congress and JD (S) leaders campaigning hard in the ward. Senior leaders, including former Minister Tanveer Sait from the Congress and former Minister S R Mahesh from the JD (S) campaigned for the candidates from their respective parties. The Congress victory takes the party’s tally in the 65-member MCC to 20; the BJP strength is 22 and the JD-(S) strength is 17. The BSP has one seat and Independents have won five seats in the hung MCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-wins-ward-36-in-mcc-byelections/article36330417.ece
07 September 2021||Kabul,||Taliban claim total control as Panjshir resistance folds||The Taliban on Monday claimed total control over Afghanistan, saying they had won the key battle for the Panjshir Valley, the last remaining holdout of resistance against their rule. Following their lightning-fast victory in mid-August over the former Afghan government’s security forces and the withdrawal of U.S. troops after 20 years of war, the Taliban turned to fighting the forces defending the mountainous Panjshir Valley. As the Islamist hardliners claimed victory, their chief spokesman warned against any further attempts to rise up against their rule while urging former members of the security forces to join their regime’s ranks. “With this victory, our country is completely taken out of the quagmire of war,” chief spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said. “Anyone who tries to start an insurgency will be hit hard. We will not allow another,” he later added at press conference in Kabul. 40 years of resistance The Taliban published a video of their flag being raised over the Governor’s house in Panjshir — underscoring a historic win that has seen the anti-Taliban bastion defeated for the first time in 40 years of conflict. It remained in the hands of resistance fighters during Soviet rule, a subsequent civil war and the Taliban’s first regime of the late 1990s. The National Resistance Front (NRF) in Panjshir — made up of anti-Taliban militia and former Afghan security forces — on Sunday acknowledged suffering major battlefield losses and called for a ceasefire. But on Monday the group said in a tweet that its fighters were still present in “strategic positions” in the valley. The NRF includes local fighters loyal to Ahmad Massoud — the son of the famous anti-Soviet and anti-Taliban commander Ahmad Shah Massoud — as well as remnants of the Afghan military that retreated to the Panjshir Valley. As Taliban fighters amassed in the valley, Mr. Massoud on Monday called on Afghans in and out of the country to “rise up in resistance”. Govt. formation Meanwhile, the Taliban are yet to finalise their new regime after rolling into the capital Kabul three weeks ago. As they undertake a mammoth transition into overseeing key institutions and cities , Mr. Mujahid said an interim government would first be announced “Final decisions have been taken, we are now working on technical issues,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taliban-claim-total-control-as-panjshir-resistance-folds/article36329909.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,||ASER report finds huge drop in learning levels in State||The Annual Status of Education Report (ASER), which was drawn up in March 2021 in only Karnataka this year, found a huge drop in learning levels in both reading and numeracy, especially for primary classes. What is worrying is that the survey, which was released on Monday, reported nearly a year of ‘learning loss’ among students across the State. A press release issued by Pratham, the organisation that conducts the survey, stated that the decline in foundational skills is visible throughout the elementary grades, among students enrolled in government and as well as private schools. It found that 56.8% of class I students surveyed could not read letters. In comparison, the 2018 report stated that 40% of class I students were unable to read letters. This is a drop of over 16 percentage points. For the current report, Pratham surveyed 18,385 children between the age of five and 16 from 13,365 households across 24 districts. This was done earlier this year, the first since the COVID-19 pandemic set in. In the 2021 survey, 66% of the class VIII students were able to read a standard II text, compared to 70% in 2018. The study noted that only 9.8% of the class III students were able to read a standard II level text. In 2018, however, 19.2% of the students in the same category were able to read a class II level text. There is a similar drop in learning level in reading skills in class V as well as class VIII. Arithmetic skills The decline in learning levels is steeper in the arithmetic skills of the students. Nearly half, 42.6% of students in class I, were unable to recognise numbers one to nine. The number of students who were unable to recognise numbers in class I in 2018 was far lower with only 29.7% of them being unable to do so. Only 17.3 % of the class III students were able to do subtraction while in 2018, it was as high as 26.3%. Similarly, only 38.9% of the class VIII students this year could do division. Rishikesh B.S., associate professor, Azim Premji University said every single study conducted since schools closed has indicated that the learning loss is accompanied by learning regression. “Foundational skills have been lost by children. It cannot be business as usual as we open schools. Teachers should be given the autonomy to decide where children stand and decide what they want to teach,” he said. He suggested that education departments should not push teachers to complete the usual syllabus. “There is an urgent need to reconfigure curriculum and plan the next two years very differently than what is done during normal academic years,” he added. The report stated that there was also a slight shift in enrolment from private to government schools across all age groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aser-report-finds-huge-drop-in-learning-levels-in-state/article36329955.ece
07 September 2021||PATNA,||Prices of things will go up, what can one do, asks Nitish||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said that since it was a difficult time due to COVID-19, prices of things would go up and there should not be more debates on it. “At present, the priority is on eradication of the pandemic, and once it gets over, things would be normal again. But we should all accept that the country is currently passing through a difficult time. Prices of things would go up and other things too would happen. What can one do? There should not be much debate or discussion on this [price rise] now”, Mr. Kumar told media persons after his weekly ‘ Janata ke durbar mein Mukhyamantri (Chief Minister in people’s court) programme. The Centre and the State government have been spending huge amounts to tide over the crisis, he said and added, “The State government has spent Rs. 10,000 crore on COVID-19 management.” He said he had not received any response from the Centre on the consistent demand to conduct a caste-based census. “We’ve already met the Prime Minister on this issue. It [caste-based census] will benefit all sections of society”. On the flood situation in the State, he pointed out that nearly 57 lakh people have been hit by this, and the problem is not over yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prices-of-things-will-go-up-what-can-one-do-asks-nitish/article36330354.ece
07 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Low pressure triggers heavy rain in North Andhra||The low pressure formed over the Bay of Bengal off south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts on Monday triggered more rainfall across the State which has been witnessing rainfall for the past few days. According to India Meteorological Department, the low pressure formed in the early hours of Monday. Several places in the north coastal districts of Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported very heavy rainfall during the past day. Pedapudi mandal and Kakinada Rural mandal in East Godavari received over 186 mm of rainfall in 12 hours since 8.30 a.m. on Monday, according to the AP State Development Planning Society (APSDPS). Other mandals in East Godavari, including Kakinada Urban, Karapa, Vararamachandra Puram and Kunavaram received 120 mm to 170 mm rainfall. Several other mandals in Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam recorded over 75 mm to 100 mm rainfall. Vizianagaram town and Pusapatirega mandal in Vizianagaram district recorded over 150 mm rainfall. AP State Disaster Management Authority Commissioner K. Kanna Babu asked fishermen not to venture into the sea till the next 24 hours as similar weather is likely on Tuesday. IMD warned of very likely occurrence of heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in north coastal districts and Yanam till Wednesday morning. Moderate to heavy rainfall is likely to occur in most places in the three North Andhra districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/low-pressure-triggers-rain-in-ap-telangana/article36329890.ece
07 September 2021||Belagavi,||Central team faces protest||Some farmers and villagers staged a protest against the visit of the Central flood assessment team in Manjari village near Chikkodi on Monday. When the team members were standing on the Manjari Bridge, trying to assess the damage caused by the floods in July, some farmers walked up to them and asked them to go back. “This is not how to assess flood damage. First of all, you have come three months later. Secondly, you are only visiting some roads and bridges that are chosen by the officers. Third, you are not visiting houses and fields of farmers who lost their houses and crops. This is not a proper assessment. This is a name-sake visit. It is better that you stop this exercise and go back,” they said. Manoj Ranjan, a senior officer who spoke Kannada, and some local officers then spent a few minutes talking to the farmers. The protesting farmers were convinced and left the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-team-faces-protest/article36330194.ece
07 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Mobile Internet suspended in Karnal ahead of farmers’ stir||The Haryana government has suspended mobile Internet services in Karnal district from 12.30 p.m. on Monday till 23.59 p.m. on Tuesday and beefed up security arrangements in view of the farmers’ proposed protest on September 7. A similar order has been issued for Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat districts where mobile Internet services will remain suspended from Tuesday midnight till 23.59 pm. Farmer unions have given the call for protest demanding strict legal action against the IAS officer who was at the centre of controversy over the baton charge on protesting farmers in Karnal on August 28. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has announced to lay siege to the Karnal mini-secretariat on September 7 if its demands are not met. Kisan Mahapanchayat The order for suspension of mobile Internet services, issued by the State Home Department, stated that the measure is being taken in a bid to maintain law and order in Karnal ahead of the ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’, called on Tuesday morning. It said there was a clear potential for disruption of public utilities, damage to public assets and amenities and threat to law and order in Karnal district on account of misuse of Internet services by way of spread of inflammatory material and rumours, which are being or could be circulated to the public through mobile Internet services, SMSes and other dongle services. Additional Director General of Police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said elaborate security arrangements have been put in place in view of the farmers’ call for “ gherao”.  “The primary objective of these arrangements is to maintain peace and order, prevent any kind of violence, facilitate the functioning of traffic and public transport system and to safeguard public property across the State in general and Karnal in particular,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mobile-internet-suspended-in-karnal-ahead-of-farmers-stir/article36330073.ece
07 September 2021||Vijayawada,||Free-trade warehousing zones, gateway port on CM’s wishlist||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has called upon the officials to explore the opportunities for developing a gateway port in Kakinada SEZ by taking advantage of its land bank and suggested that it be provided with the required road and railway connectivity. He also suggested development of free-trade warehousing zones around the seaports in the State, and ordered that the construction of four fishing harbours in the first phase at Uppada, Machilipatnam, Nizampatnam and Juvvaladinne should be completed by June 2022. Further, he wanted air connectivity from Kadapa and Kurnool to Visakhapatnam improved. In a review meeting on the development of sea and airports and road infrastructure on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said top priority should be given to increasing international connectivity from Visakhapatnam and Tirupati airports. Ports The officials informed him that the construction of the Ramayapatnam port would be completed in 24 months and 25 million tonnes of cargo would be transported in the first phase. The tender process for construction of Bhavanapadu port would be completed by the end of October. One million tonnes of cargo was targeted to be transported in the first phase. Tenders for the Machilipatnam port would be finalised by September 14. Thirty-five million tonnes of cargo would be transported in the first phase. Officials told the Chief Minister that works related to Vijayawada-Bangalore National Highway (NH) via Kodikonda checkpost were going on at a brisk pace and focus was laid on the NH connecting Sheela Nagar with Sabbavaram in Visakhapatnam district. The CM directed the officials to speed up land acquisition for Nadikudi-Srikalahasti, Kadapa-Bangalore, Kotipalli- Narsapur and Rayadurg-Tumkur railway line projects. While blaming the previous government for the bad condition of roads, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered the officials to take up repairs as and when the rains subside, and claimed to have created a special fund for repairing the damaged roads. He said there should not be inordinate delays in completing approach road works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-trade-warehousing-zones-gateway-port-on-cms-wishlist/article36329899.ece
07 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,||Where healing and farming go hand in hand||Is there a connection between palliative care and organic farming? For the Kanjikuzhy-based K.K. Kumaran Pain and Palliative Care Society, they are two sides of the same coin. As a palliative care unit, the society has been providing care to around 1,000 bedridden and people with terminal illnesses free of cost. At the same time, it is engaged in the cultivation of safe-to-eat food. By the side of National Highway 66 at Kanichukulangara is a thriving 15-acre farmland growing 13 varieties of vegetables, different types of fruits, a large collection of marigolds and sunflowers, and fish ponds. “We launched the farming initiative two years ago in line with the State government’s call to increase the cultivation of safe-to-eat vegetables by utilising barren and fallow lands,” says M. Santhosh Kumar, treasurer, K.K. Kumaran Pain and Palliative Care Society, who is also the vice president of Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat. Fallow land It started farming after transforming fallow land in the possession of Steel Industrials Kerala Ltd., a public sector unit. The society roped in K.P. Subhakesan, an organic farmer and winner of the Haritha Mithra award of the Agriculture Department, who designed the farm. On average, the farm is producing 500 kg of vegetables on alternate days. While a portion of the veggies is provided to cancer patients free of cost, the rest are sold to the public. “We are not doing it to make a profit. Our sole aim is to do our bit in the production of quality vegetables. Any profit from the farm, there is hardly any given the high cost involved in the organic farming, is given to Subhakesan who has been entrusted with the day-to-day affairs of the farm,” says Mr. Kumar. The farming endeavour helped the society bag an award instituted by the Agriculture Department last year. “We are cultivating vegetables and fruits like watermelon and shamam in an organic way. Only cow dung and chicken litter are used as fertilisers. There was a huge demand for the farm produce during the Onam season,” says Mr. Subhakesan. Apart from producing safe-to-eat vegetables, fish, fruits and flowers, the farm has been attracting a good number of visitors, including some high profile guests such as Agriculture Minister P. Prasad and Speaker M.B. Rajesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/where-healing-and-farming-go-hand-in-hand/article36330274.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Upper primary classes reopen after 17 months||Upper primary classes reopened on school campuses on Monday in Karnataka, but with thin attendance. While students came into classes in Bengaluru after 17 months, it was after five months in most other parts of the State. According to the Department of Primary and Secondary Education’s data, attendance for class VI across the State was 29.15%, while it was 28.05 % in class VII and 23.22 % for class VIII. Many school managements that The Hindu spoke to said the response for offline classes for upper primary classes was not as good as the high school classes. Although data indicated that attendance was lower than this on August 23 when high school classes reopened, department officials say that the data is not updated and actual attendance was higher. Anbukumar, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that the attendance in upper primary classes will pick up in the coming days. Like high school classes, the response was better in rural areas compared to the urban areas. Private school managements said that they expected the attendance to improve after the Ganesh Chaturthi festival. Many parents said they were confident to send their children to school as they knew all the SOPs were in place for high schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/upper-primary-classes-reopen-after-17-months/article36329953.ece
07 September 2021||HUBBALLI/BELAGAVI/KALABURAGI,||BJP set to come to power in three NK corporations||In the elections to three municipal corporations of North Karnataka, the results of which were announced on Monday, the ruling BJP won Belagavi with a clear majority, retained Hubballi-Dharwad though with losses compared to earlier, and may come to power in Kalaburagi also despite not having majority. In the 58-member Belagavi city municipal corporation, BJP won 35 seats, while Congress got 10, AIMIM one, and the rest 12 were Independents. In Hubballi-Dharwad, the BJP is just short of registering a clear majority. In the 82-member council, it won 39, which is three short of the magic number 42. Congress bagged 33 seats. Independents bagged six, AIMIM three, and JD(S) one. However, as nine legislators and one MP also have votes, BJP has six votes and all it needs is another member’s support to stake claim. In Kalaburagi, JD(S) emerged kingmaker with just four seats. Congress which held sway for years emerged single largest party with 27 seats in the 55-member council. BJP won 23 seats and there is one Independent. As the Independent has announced support to BJP and it has the votes of three MLCs, two MLAs and one MP, the decision of JD(S) will mark who will come to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-set-to-come-to-power-in-three-nk-corporations/article36329956.ece
07 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State’s COVID tally lowest in 167 days||The State reported 14 deaths due to COVID-19 and 739 new infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. It was the lowest single-day tally in 167 days. However, only 43,598 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 1.70%, which was also the lowest in the past 166 days. The cumulative tally increased to 20,22,064 and the death toll reached 13,925 with a mortality rate of 0.69%. The recovery rate remains at 98.59% with a total of 19,93,589 recoveries, including 1,333 recoveries in the past day. There were 14,555 active cases in the State. Chittoor and Prakasam reported four deaths each while Krishna and Nellore reported two each. Anantapur and East Godavari recorded one death each. Eight districts reported no death in the past day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-covid-tally-lowest-in-167-days/article36329896.ece
07 September 2021||Vijayawada,||HC strikes down online Intermediate admissions||The High Court on Monday struck down a notification issued by the government for online admissions to Intermediate courses and directed that the conventional system be followed for the current academic year. The proposed online admissions could be done from the next year but after taking the opinions of all stakeholders, the court ordered during the hearing on a petition by the Central Andhra Junior College Managements’ Association that challenged the Board of Intermediate (BIE)’s decision to make the admissions online. The BIE had called for online applications from September 13 to 23 and made it clear that the statutory reservations would be implemented as usual. The petitioner’s argument was that there were no proper guidelines for conducting the admissions online and it was apparently a hasty move. The BIE’s counsel contended that online admissions were meant to avoid physical contacts which could lead to the spread of COVID-19. However, the court faulted the proposed online admission process and said the BIE could take it up later after holding due consultations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-rejects-plan-for-online-admissions/article36329740.ece
07 September 2021||Vijayawda,||Govt. should give up its ‘anti-Hindu’ stand: Somu||State BJP president Somu Veerraju on Monday condemned the ‘anti-Hindu’ stand of the Andhra Pradesh government, alleging that it imposed curbs on ‘community celebrations’ of Vinayaka Chaturthi festival while allowing congregations at mosques and churches as usual, by citing guidelines issued by the Central government. Addressing mediapersons at Nandikotkur in Kurnool district, Mr. Veerraju said there were no restrictions on prayers at churches and Moharrum and Ramzan but the government wanted to crack down on Vinayaka Chavithi which had been a part and parcel of the Hindu culture and traditions. When devotees were going to temples, schools were reopened, buses were plying and commercial and business establishments resumed, on what grounds was the government forcing the Hindus to celebrate Vinayaka Chavithi at home, he asked. Protests held Mr. Veerraju said churches were being built with government funds and salaries were being paid to pastors. Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao who did nothing to bring those who vandalised temples to justice, had no right to criticise the BJP, he said. Meanwhile, BJP cadres across the State staged protests demanding that the government ease the restrictions on the celebrations of Ganesh Chaturthi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-slams-anti-hindu-stance-of-ap-govt/article36329741.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||Fill tribunal vacancies by Sept. 13, SC tells Centre||A Special Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, on Monday said the court was “not interested in a confrontation” with the government, but it was running out of patience and the Centre should conform and fill the long-pending vacancies in key tribunals by the next hearing on September 13. The Bench, also comprising Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao, said tribunals across the country were on the verge of collapse. Cases were being adjourned by a year. Many operated with just one member as no appointments had been made for months, if not years. “You have no respect for the judgments of this court… You are testing our patience,” Chief Justice Ramana addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the government. ‘Tribunals collapsing’ “Everybody is happy with the quick way in which the government cleared the Supreme Court appointments… We do not want any confrontation with the government. But if you can so quickly make appointments to the Supreme Court, you can very well do so with these small tribunals. The tribunals have virtually collapsed… Why are you being so particular about the tribunals?” Chief Justice Ramana asked Mr. Mehta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fill-tribunal-vacancies-by-sept-13-sc-tells-centre/article36329908.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Minister orders State-wide review of rowdy-sheeters||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has ordered a State-wide review of all rowdy-sheeters to “remove activists and innocent people” included in the list. “There is no sense in keeping rowdy sheets against thousands of people open, calling them and humiliating them in the name of rowdy parades if they have not indulged in criminal activities for a considerable time. There are rowdy sheets against farmers, Kannada and other pro-people activists, which need to be reviewed,” said Mr. Jnanendra, speaking to media persons after the annual IPS officers meeting he chaired on Monday. A rowdy sheet is a record a police station keeps of criminal activities of an individual -- if found to be a habitual offender -- for follow-up and surveillance. The direction has been met with considerable opposition from within the Police Department. Many officers, who did not wish to be named, said this would only be misused by political parties, especially the ruling party, to get rowdy sheets against their workers and supporters closed. “There have been several rowdy sheets against Hindutva activists in the coastal, Malnad, and Bombay Karnataka districts. There is already pressure to drop rowdy sheets against many of them,” a senior police official alleged. The direction for review comes in the backdrop of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s announcement on August 11 that his government would review “false cases” against not only BJP workers and right-wing activists but also Kannada and farmer activists. When asked whether the review would be misused, Mr. Jnanendra, however, said it will be undertaken according to guidelines for opening rowdy sheets laid down by the department and spearheaded by superintendents of police. “There will be no misuse,” he said. Mr. Jnanendra has also ordered a survey of all foreign nationals in the State. “Several foreign nationals have been overstaying, indulging in criminal activities and violating their visa norms. There are many illegal immigrants as well. Each police station has to conduct a survey of all foreign nationals in their areas, deport those staying illegally and keep a hawk’s eye on all such trouble makers,” he said. The Home Minister also directed police officials to put a stop to all illegal transport of cattle across the State, in line with Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020, the BJP government had passed in February this year. Mr. Jnanendra also addressed the issue of security concerns in coastal Karnataka and the government planned to strengthen the Karnataka State Coastal Security Police Force, to prevent any illegal infiltration by the sea route. The State government is considering recommending to the Union government to open a division of the National Investigation Agency in either Mangaluru or Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-orders-state-wide-review-of-rowdy-sheeters/article36329959.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Taliban provincial Governor vows to fight Islamic State||As a Taliban commander, he spent years battling the former Afghan government. Now, with his hard-line movement back in power, Mullah Neda Mohammad vows to continue fighting against rival jihadists, the Islamic State (IS) group. “We are searching for individuals who are hiding,” Mohammad, Governor of Nangarhar province, said, claiming his forces had arrested 70 to 80 IS members since they took control of Nangarhar’s provincial capital Jalalabad, the country’s fifth biggest city.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taliban-provincial-governor-vows-to-fight-islamic-state/article36329894.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Risky affair||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/risky-affair/article36329961.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to school||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/back-to-school/article36330391.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Throwing caution to the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/throwing-caution-to-the-wind/article36330349.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||An eager crowd||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/an-eager-crowd/article36330196.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccine in the works||Can a Covishield-like vaccine provide protection against the Nipah virus? Preliminary animal trial results seem to suggest so. In July, researchers from the U.K. and the U.S. reported that the ChAdOx1 vaccine vector, when customised to the Nipah virus, fully protected African green monkeys.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-in-the-works/article36329895.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi hails record pace of vaccination||India is administering COVID-19 vaccines at a record pace of 1.25 crore shots a day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, adding that the figure is higher than the population of many countries. Mr. Modi was interacting virtually with health workers and beneficiaries of the COVID-19 vaccination programme in Himachal Pradesh. The success of the inoculation drive in India was due to the spirit and hard work of its citizens, he said. He praised doctors, ASHA workers, Anganwadi workers, medical personnel, teachers and women for their contribution. The Prime Minister expressed happiness that even in a remote district like Lahaul-Spiti in Himachal Pradesh, 100% first dose was administered. “This is the area which used to be cut off from the rest of the country for months before the Atal Tunnel was built,” said Mr. Modi, while praising the people of Himachal Pradesh for not allowing any rumour or disinformation to hamper the vaccination efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-hails-record-pace-of-vaccination/article36329907.ece
07 September 2021||GUNTUR,||‘Curbs as per norms of Centre’||Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas said that the restrictions on public celebrations of Vinayaka Chavithi were imposed as per the Centre’s guidelines to curb COVID-19 spread. “The BJP is trying to play politics over the issue and instigate communal violence,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-as-per-norms-of-centre/article36329910.ece
07 September 2021||new delhi,||SC notice to government on plea against NEET quota||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the government to respond to a petition challenging the decision to provide 27% quota to Other Backward Classes and 10% reservation to Economically Weaker Sections in the All India Quota category for NEET admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-notice-to-government-on-plea-against-neet-quota/article36330350.ece
07 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha govt. to spend 100 cr. on ‘iconic’ school||The Odisha government plans to set up an ‘iconic’ school at an investment of Rs. 100 crore to help create role models in varied fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-govt-to-spend-100-cr-on-iconic-school/article36330351.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Pothole menace: Minister sets September deadline||After multiple protests on the pathetic condition of roads across the city and citizens lodging complaints with agencies, Minister R. Ashok instructed the BBMP to fill all potholes by September end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pothole-menace-minister-sets-september-deadline/article36329957.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||School students start profit-making ventures||As part of a pilot project under the Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum, 41 students of Delhi government’s School of Excellence in Khichripur were given Rs. 1,000 each as seed money and asked to start business ventures of their own. On Monday, they presented the success of their nine business endeavours that had managed to make a profit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/school-students-start-profit-making-ventures/article36330072.ece
07 September 2021||Kolkata,||No coercive action against Suvendu: HC||The Calcutta High Court on Monday granted interim relief to Suvendu Adhikari by directing that no coercive action be taken against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-coercive-action-against-suvendu-hc/article36330352.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED records statement of Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee, nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate on Monday to record his statement in a coal theft case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-records-statement-of-abhishek-banerjee/article36330356.ece
07 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Varavara Rao’s bail extended till Sept. 24||The Bombay High Court on Monday extended the interim medical bail of Telugu poet Varavara Rao (81) till September 24. It posted the matter for hearing on September 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/varavara-raos-bail-extended-till-sept-24/article36330411.ece
07 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||11 district offices to be opened in Hosapete||As part of efforts to make the newly formed Vijayanagara district independently functional, the State government has decided to open 11 district-level offices at Hosapete, headquarters of the district, in the first phase. At a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Bengaluru on Monday, it was decided to sanction Rs. 53 crore for the repair and renovation of government offices and providing infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11-district-offices-to-be-opened-in-hosapete/article36330198.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||Paswan’s bust at former bungalow sparks row||Less than a year after his death, erection of a bust of Ram Vilas Paswan, former Union Minister and Lok Janshakti Party founder, at 12 Janpath, his official residence for more than 31 years, has sparked a controversy with some quarters alleging a possible effort by his family to continue to occupy the house. Paswan died on October 8 from a prolonged illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paswans-bust-at-former-bungalow-sparks-row/article36330074.ece
07 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Farmers’ rally refreshed horrors of riot-ridden rule’||The show of strength by farmers in Muzaffarnagar on September 5 refreshed memories of the riot-ridden rule of the Congress and the Samajwadi Party, said Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, referring to the communal violence that shook the western U.P. district eight years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-rally-refreshed-horrors-of-riot-ridden-rule/article36330432.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,||‘BJP’s victory pointer to shape of things to come’||Describing the BJP’s good performance in the three city corporation poll as “people’s acceptance of the new BJP regime”, CM Basavaraj Bommai said it was a pointer to the shape of things to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjps-victory-pointer-to-shape-of-things-to-come/article36330418.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Health officials put on alert in border districts||The Deputy Directors of Health in the districts bordering Kerala have been advised to be vigilant to prevent the spread of the Nipah virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-officials-put-on-alert-in-border-districts/article36330008.ece
07 September 2021||Srinagar,||PDP chief alleges disrespect to Geelani||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti and Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Monday accused the J&K administration of showing disrespect towards the body of senior separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, who died in Srinagar at the age of 92 on September 1. “From the videos I saw and the statements made by Geelani’s family members, it’s unfortunate that his body was maltreated and desecrated. It’s sad a person who is dead was not treated with dignity. We cannot do revenge politics on a dead man’s body,” Ms. Mufti said. Deep grief She said Geelani’s death had induced a deep sense of grief and pain among his followers and also those who disagreed with him. “I may disagree with his politics, but people’s respect towards him was visible from the spontaneous shutdown. People are also saddened that Geelani’s last wish [of being buried in Srinagar’s ‘Martyrs’ Graveyard’) was not granted. Even the last wish of a person about to be hanged is granted. This goes against Indian culture. We should keep in mind that the world has a very high opinion of India and its values,” she said. She said booking Geelani’s family under the UAPA “shows the Centre’s deep-rooted paranoia and ruthlessness”. “This is New India’s Naya Kashmir,” she said. The family of ex-Hurriyat chairman Geelani has accused the police of forcibly lifting his body before sunrise and burying him in haste, with no close family member attending the last rites. However, the police denied the allegations. Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, in a statement, condemned the police move to lodge an FIR against the family of Geelani. “The details shared by Geelani sahib’s son about the burial is appalling and painful to hear. It is so tragically inhuman when a family is denied the basic right of burial of their loved one and one can only imagine what the family must have gone through,” the Mirwaiz said. Video released Meanwhile, the police released a series of videos on the last moments of Geelani's burial, which showed the rites of ablution and wrapping of the shroud being performed, besides the funeral prayers. The videos are the first of the funeral as no journalist was allowed to cover the last rites and funeral prayers of Geelani on September 2. The family alleged not even the late Hurriayt leader’s sons were allowed by the police to participate in the last rites and funeral prayers. After four days, Kashmir reopened partially on Monday. However, restrictions on the movement of people were imposed in Srinagar’s Hyderpora and Eidgah areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pdp-chief-alleges-disrespect-to-geelani/article36329698.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi to attend BRICS, SCO, Quad meets in Sept.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting of BRICS leaders including Chinese President Xi Jinping, Russian President Vladimir Putin and leaders of Brazil and South Africa on Thursday, the first in a series of summit-level meetings he is expected to attend in September that will be dominated by discussions on the situation in Afghanistan. The meeting will be held in virtual format due to COVID-19 restrictions. The PM will also attend via video conference the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Heads of Government meeting being held in Dushanbe on September 16 and 17, but is expected to travel later this month to the U.S., to meet U.S. President Joseph Biden and address the UN General Assembly, officials confirmed. The meetings will see Mr. Modi straddle both sides of views on the future of Afghanistan, given the growing polarisation between the Russia-China bloc, and the U.S. and its allies on engaging the new Taliban regime. The BRICS leaders summit on September 9 is expected to focus on four priority areas including the multilateral reforms in bodies such as the UN, the IMF and the WTO, counter-terrorism, technology and people-to-people exchanges, a statement issued by the External Affairs Ministry on Monday said. “The leaders will also exchange views on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other current global and regional issues,” which is expected to include Afghanistan, where Russia and China have played an important role in talks with the Taliban. Meanwhile, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla returned to India after meetings in Washington to firm up Prime Minister Modi’s visit to the U.S., due to begin on September 23. Busy schedule The PM’s visit, only his second visit abroad during the coronavirus pandemic, is expected to include meetings in Washington with Mr. Biden, a possible Quad summit on September 23 and 24, and his address to the UN General Assembly on September 25. MEA officials said the details of the meetings are still being “finalised”, in view of the uncertainty of Japan’s participation after Premier Yoshihide Suga announced he would resign at the end of the month. While Indo-Pacific security, and Quad cooperation on climate change, and vaccines will be at the top of the agenda at the Summit, the situation in Afghanistan after the U.S. pullout is likely to be discussed as well. The SCO meeting next Thursday in Tajikistan will see a much greater focus on Afghanistan, given that it comprises regional countries Russia, China, Central Asian nations and Pakistan, and will include a special SCO Contact group meeting. Mr. Putin, Pakistan PM Imran Khan and other leaders will attend the summit in Dushanbe in person, and Mr. Modi and Mr. Xi are expected to appear virtually at the “hybrid” conference. India would be represented on the ground in Dushanbe by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, said officials, explaining that the Tajikistan government has been extremely cooperative during India’s evacuation mission from Afghanistan, when Indian Air Force aircraft was allowed to park at the Dushanbe airport between its slots for landing in Kabul. The government has thus far evacuated 565 people from Afghanistan, and still hopes to evacuate 140 others, including 20 Indians, and will possibly need further assistance. Of the SCO countries, Russia, China and Pakistan continue to operate their embassies in Kabul, while U.S. and its allies have moved their embassies to Doha, where the Taliban’s political office is based. Though neither side has promised recognition to the Taliban regime, both sides are divided on the extent of engagement with a new government, sanctions, and the subject of the freezing of Afghan reserves by the IMF, which the Russia-China combine has criticised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-to-attend-brics-sco-quad-meets-in-sept/article36329719.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccine in the works against Nipah virus||Can a Covishield-like vaccine give protection against the Nipah virus? Preliminary animal trial results seem to suggest so. In July, researchers at the Jenner Institute, Oxford University and the National Institutes of Health, United States, reported that the ChadOx1 vaccine vector, when customised to the Nipah virus, fully protected African green monkeys, a primate species. No approved vaccine yet exists for the lethal Nipah virus that has killed a 12-year old boy in Kozhikode, Kerala. An outbreak of the virus in the State in 2018 killed 17 of the 18 confirmed with the virus. The study appears on the pre-print server bioRxiv, indicating that it is yet to be peer-reviewed. ChAdOx1 is a multi-purpose vaccine vector, meaning it can be customised to carry DNA from a wide variety of pathogens. The version of ChAdOx1 that is used in the Covishield or AstraZeneca vaccine is the ChAdOx1 with a piece of spike protein of SARS-CoV-2. For the Nipah study, the scientists loaded a piece of glycoprotein from a Nipah virus strain found in Bangladesh, where annual outbreaks occur. This test vaccine for the purposes of the study was called ChadOx1 NiV. 8 monkeys chosen One group of four monkeys was administered either two shots or a single shot of the ChadOx1NiV and another group of four was given shots of a dummy protein (ChAdOx1 GFP), again vectored by ChAdOx1. All the eight were then “challenged” or artificially infected with the Nipah virus, some given via the nose and others through the throat. Within three days, the unvaccinated group manifested disease symptoms and within 5-7 days were euthanised after they were confirmed to manifest severe disease. On the other hand, the vaccinated animals showed no disease. Throat and nose swabs from all unvaccinated animals revealed evidence of replicating virus whereas swabs from one only one vaccinated animal showed such signs of virus. “These data suggest the vaccine may provide close to complete protective immunity in African green monkeys,” the scientists report in their study, “ If the next pandemic were to be caused by a member of the genus Henipavirus [to which the Nipah virus belongs], the current study could be influential in the development of a rapid vaccine.” Hamster trial The study in monkeys follows a study by the group on Syrian hamsters. Encouraging studies on the primates pave the way for trials in people. For instance, the group’s work on developing a vaccine for the Middle Eastern Respiratory Virus (MERS) and tested in rhesus macaques paved the way for the development of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which was among the first vaccines to be approved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-in-the-works-against-nipah-virus/article36329735.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Database created with records of 5.5 cr. farmers||The Centre has created a National Farmers’ Database with records of 5.5 crore farmers, which it hopes to increase to 8 crore farmers by December by linking it to State land record databases, according to Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Addressing Chief Ministers at a virtual conference on agriculture on Monday, Mr. Tomar said the farmers’ database was key to advances in digital agriculture. “Agriculture has to be linked with digital technology, scientific research and knowledge,” he said, according to an official statement Mr. Tomar explained that the national database was created by taking data from existing national schemes such as PM-KISAN, soil health cards and the insurance scheme PM Fasal Bima Yojna. So far, 5.5 crore farmers had been identified in this manner. The Minister urged the States to create their own databases using the national database’s federated structure and also allow linkages to the land records maintained by the States. With the help of State governments, a total of eight crore farmers would be included by the end of the year, he said. He also urged them to study the Karnataka model for digital agriculture presented at the conference. In July, Mr. Tomar told the Lok Sabha that the database could be used “for targeted service delivery with higher efficiency and in a focussed and time-bound manner” and that it was the core for the proposed Agristack digital agriculture ecosystem. Already, companies such as Microsoft, Amazon and Patanjali had been asked to develop technology solutions for farmers using data from the database. Activists have raised privacy and consent concerns about using farmers’ data in such a way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/database-created-with-records-of-55-cr-farmers/article36329700.ece
07 September 2021||Sukhet (Madhubani),||Sukhet’s villagers trade waste for wellness, get free LPG refills||While the rising prices of LPG cylinders are pushing refills out of reach for most people, especially in rural areas, bucking the trend is Munni Devi, a mother of three sons and owner of three cows in Sukhet village in Jhanjharpur block of Madhubani district in Bihar. Earlier, most of Munni Devi’s time was spent over an earthen stove in a corner of her house. Fired with wood, crop waste and cow dung, the stove billowed noxious smoke into the house, leaving her ill and breathless. Every month she had to consult a local doctor for huffani (breathing) trouble. Rampari Devi, in her sixties, and her daughter-in-law Lalo Devi too had similar stories of ill-health and visits to doctors. Though they had LPG connections, the rising cost of refills put the cleaner cooking fuel out of reach. But not any more. In the last six months, the lives of these rural women has changed dramatically with the Sukhet model that allows them to get their LPG cylinders refilled every two months in exchange for cow dung and the farmyard waste. The unique programme, which was lauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his latest episode of ‘Mann ki Baat’ on August 29, offers four-fold benefit to the villagers: it ensures a pollution-free environment at home, waste disposal, monetary assistance for LPG cylinders and availability of organic fertiliser to the local farmers. Today the mud stoves of Sukhet lie abandoned. Man on a mission The Sukhet model is an initiative by the Dr. Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University (RPAU) at Pusa in Samastipur district and the brainchild of Vice-Chancellor Ramesh Chandra Srivastava, a vermicompost enthusiast. “I was quite impressed with the government’s Ujjawala Yojna to provide free LPG connections to people but I found out that in rural areas people are not being able to refill LPG cylinders for two reasons: their economic condition and the patriarchal nature of society. I mulled over the problem and later introduced this model, popularly known today as the Sukhet model for refilling their cylinders in exchange for farmyard waste and cow dung,” Dr. Srivastava told The Hindu . The agri scientist had earlier launched vermicomposting to produce organic manure in two unlikely settings — the temples of Baba Baidyanath Dham in Deoghar of Jharkhand and Garibnath Temple of Muzaffarapur in Bihar — where flowers and leaves offered to the deities are collected and composted. Under the Sukhet model, two local workers visit households that have cattle to collect cow dung and farmyard waste and bring it to a vermicomposting yard. “Any family which gives us 1,200 kgs of cow dung and wet garbage waste every two months gets their LPG gas cylinders refilled for free. Everyday, they have to meet the target of 20 kg of cow dung and garbage waste to avail the refill. Since February 4, 2021, as many as 44 households of this village are getting this facility while many more have evinced keen interest,” said Sudhir Das, who is in charge of the Sukhet model and the Jhanjharpur Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) . “The target is to take this model to 100 households of the village in first phase,” he added. The Sukhet panchayat consists of five villages — Sukhet, Godhanpur, Mazidi, Bisoul and Balliyari. The panchayat has 2,500 households and 7,000 voters and has mixed population of all castes and communities. “However, out of total 44 households availing the Sukhet model facility, more than half are from the Yadav caste,” said Ashutosh Yadav, a research fellow of RPAU, Pusa. “The only problem is that only those households who have cattle to give us cow dung are able to benefit from the Sukhet model,” he pointed out. Along with Mr. Das and Mr. Yadav, two supporting staff, two drivers and a scientist from Pusa are engaged to make this model a “role model for other villages and panchayats in the State”. “RPAU, Pusa is going to emulate the Sukhet model in seven more places in Bihar — East Champaran, West Champaran, Siwan, Saran, Gopalganj, Vaishali and Samastipur,” said Dr. Srivastva. Scaling up “Our plan is to implement this Sukhet model in 16 districts of Bihar where KVK units are located under RPAU, Pusa. It will also generate employment for the local youth and to make village soil nutrient self-sufficient,” said Shankar Jha, assistant professor, soil sciences, at RPAU. On the sustainability of the model, Dr. Srivastava said: “Primarily I would suggest three points to be taken care of — treat it as micro industry, consider the contract work under MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) scheme and through CSR funds by industries.” Sunil Yadav, a villager, has donated 3.5 kattha of his land to set up a bamboo-roofed vermicompost unit at the entrance to the village, just a kilometre off the National Highway 57. He has been appointed as supervisor of the Sukhet model and gets a monthly salary of Rs. 10,608. Two other workers, who collect dung and farmyard waste from the households, are paid Rs. 9,600 each. “The villagers also purchase the good organic manure produced here at the unit at Rs. 600 per quintal,” said Mr. Das. “After five years we’ll hand over the whole structure with all facilities to Sunil Yadav to sustain the model in the village,” he added. Ramesh Yadav, a farmer who had just bought a 50 kg sack of vermicompost, said: “We get good quality of vermicompost cheaper than the market price here at our village. What could be better than this?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sukhets-villagers-trade-waste-for-wellness-get-free-lpg-refills/article36329729.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||Bust of Paswan in former official residence sparks row||Less than a year after his death, erection of a bust of Ram Vilas Paswan, former Union Minister and Lok Janshakti Party founder, at 12 Janpath, his official residence for more than 31 years, has sparked a controversy with some quarters alleging a possible effort by his family to continue to occupy the house. Paswan died on October 8 from a prolonged illness. The bust was put up a few days ago. Sources close to his son Chirag Paswan said the family did not want to hold on to the bungalow. Mr. Chirag, who is the MP for Jamui, has been allotted 23 North Avenue and he has asked for an upgrade. The family has established a Trust in Paswan’s name. ‘Supporter’s gesture’ “The bust was put up by Ram Vilas  ji ’s supporters as a tribute to him. It is ridiculous to say that we must not put up his pictures or bust. And we will take the bust wherever we shift,” a close aide of Mr. Chirag said. The Chirag faction of the LJP feels that an eviction from 12 Janpath, which has been his father’s house since 1989, will only further help him in garnering sympathy. As part of his “Ashirwaad Yatra”, he has covered 26 districts in Bihar so far. “Wherever he goes, people are showering a lot of love on him because they feel that after losing his father, his uncle betrayed him,” a leader of the Chirag faction said. The family, as per the rules of the Directorate of Estates of the Union Urban Development Ministry, had been served notice for vacating the building within 15 days of Paswan’s death. Since 2014, the government has been strict in evicting squatters in the highly coveted Lutyens’ bungalows. South Avenue bungalow In a similar situation, Neeraj Shekhar, son of former Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar, was evicted from his 3 South Avenue bungalow. He had managed to hold on to the bungalow long after his father’s death in July 2007. But in December 2014, after the Modi government took over, he was forced to leave the house, though he was a Rajya Sabha member then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bust-of-paswan-in-former-official-residence-sparks-row/article36329717.ece
07 September 2021||Muzaffarnagar,||In Muzaffarnagar, leaders call for BJP’s ouster but many farmers disagree||Farmer leaders raised a war cry against the BJP at a rally in which they also called for Hindu-Muslim unity in this western Uttar Pradesh town on Sunday, but many of their listeners that The Hindu spoke to have not given up on the party. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait called for the ouster of the Yogi Adityanath government in the Assembly election to be held in the State in 2022. And a section of farmers wants to punish the BJP for the three farm laws at the centre of the controversy. “The BJP fooled us in the last election by bringing up the Pulwama issue and speaking of national interest... I am a farmer first, a Jat second and then only a Hindu. Farmers’ interests are national interests,” said Birender Singh, who owns three acres of land in Bulandshahr district. Mr. Tikait’s chanting of religious slogans of both Hindus and Muslims during the rally was widely seen as an attempt to win over a large section of Muslim farmers who parted ways with the BKU, after communal tensions rose in the region in recent years. Mannan Balyan, a Muslim from the Balyan Khap who is also a leader of the Azad Samaj Party, insisted that “Muslim farmers were always with the BKU, and it was the Jat farmers who parted ways.” The Jats aligned with the BJP in recent elections. Mr. Balyan estimates that 60% of Jat farmers may be upset with the BJP, but the rest are still allied with the party. Digpal Singh, an elderly farmer from Aligarh with two acres of land, said they had seen through the BJP. “It is sad that we realised it only when we were cheated with farm laws and the increasing input cost that is threatening to push our children out of agriculture.” Now, he said, there is an attempt to alienate farmworkers from landowners by distributing free ration. “This new attempt at dividing society could have dangerous repercussions in the long run,” he said. There are others who were willing to give the BJP another chance given its nationalist agenda and ability to keep the “Muslims in control”. “We have had no issues with Yogi. With the Taliban raising their head in the neighbourhood, we need a strong government in the State,” said Ranvir Singh, a farmer from Bulandshahr. He hoped that with pressure mounting, the State government would increase sugar cane prices, but wondered whether that would be enough considering the high rise in input costs. Elections on the anvil “If Modi ji listens to us even now, we will give him our vote again. But if not, we will vote for whomever listens to our demands, or we will stand for elections ourselves,” said Rishipal Singh from Aligarh. Mr. Tikait’s highlighting of issues such as pensions for teachers and policemen as well as permanent positions for sanitation workers was also seen as an attempt to cross not just religious but also caste and social barriers. The ASP, which is headed by Bhim Army chief Chandrasekhar Azad and has been courting Dalit votes, supported Sunday’s mahapanchayat. Several farmers that The Hindu spoke to were clear that they support the BKU for farmers’ issues, but that may not extend to electoral politics. “The moment the BKU takes a decision on political participation, not only the movement will come to a halt, the Tikaits will face a revolt in villages,” a leader of the Rashtriya Lok Dal said requesting anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-muzaffarnagar-leaders-call-for-bjps-ouster-but-many-farmers-disagree/article36329886.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar to explore career opportunities in liberal studies||A webinar on Liberal Education, presented by Sai University in association with The Hindu, will be held on September 10 at 5 p.m. An expert panel will encourage participants to explore career options in Liberal Education and elucidate the need for critical thinking individuals in a contemporary society. N.R. Narayana Murthy, Co-Founder and former chairperson, Infosys; K.V. Ramani, Founder and Chancellor, Sai University, and Jamshed Bharucha, Founding Vice-Chancellor, Sai University, will speak at the webinar. The discussion will be moderated by Shubashree Desikan, Senior Assistant Editor, The Hindu . Students and parents who are interested can register for the webinar at https://bit.ly/SAIEDIT or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-to-explore-career-opportunities-in-liberal-studies/article36329689.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Khori Gaon demolition: SC to fix liability||The Supreme Court on Monday said it intended to hold somebody responsible for the series of events that led to the demolition of unauthorised residential buildings constructed on forest land in Khori Gaon village in Haryana and displacement of hundreds of families who lived there. “The mushrooming of the forest area into slums, action not being taken despite court orders... We will have to hold somebody responsible for all of this,” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, heading a Special Bench, addressed the State and the Faridabad Municipal Corporation. Forest area The court disagreed with the submission made by the government, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, that identification of forest and non-forest areas in the locality in question would take long because of the expanse of the land in question. It said forest areas across the country were already identified and notified. “It should not take time to identify the area,” it observed. The Bench said it did not want to get into the tug of war between residents and the municipal body on the temporary facilities provided to the former. It made it clear that its primary focus was on the rehabilitation of people who lost their homes to the demolition. “Instead of going into this debate, we have called upon the counsel for the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to tell us the time required to rehabilitate the eligible people,” it noted. The municipal body has sought time to provide the court with the rehabilitation scheme and the timeline. It has filed an affidavit rejecting submissions made in court by residents that the displaced have not been given proper temporary shelters, food, water and other basic amenities. Field report The local body was responding to a field report prepared by researcher Manju Menon and advocate Srishti Agnihotri that the displaced people were living in tin sheds with mud floors ands hardly any privacy. The report had submitted that the facilities in the temporary shelter provided at the Radha Swami Satsang community centre were “woefully inadequate”. “It further has no space for families to store their belongings, which were left in the open after their homes were demolished. These are belongings that the petitioners and their families have bought after years of saving every rupee,” senior advocate Sanjay Parikh had quoted from the report in the previous hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/khori-gaon-demolition-sc-intends-to-fix-responsibility/article36329696.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||CPI supports caste census||The CPI on Monday extended support to a caste census in the country, a key demand of many political parties, including NDA ally Janata Dal (United). The Narendra Modi government so far remains non-comittal on the issue. The CPI, at the conclusion of its two-day national executive in Delhi, said the BJP was deliverately avoiding the caste census. “They want to utilise the caste conflicts in various States for their own political gains,” the party said in a statement here. Amending quota cap The CPI said it demanded and supported a caste census. “However if the present restriction of 50% imposed by the Supreme Court decision is not amended, the whole exercise may prove futile,” it said. The party also extended support to the Bharat Bandh call given by the Maha Kisan Panchayat to be held on September 27. “The government has to forgo their arrogant attitude and listen to the farmers who have been protesting nearly for an year. The government cannot go on turning a blind eye towards them any more,” CPI general secretary D. Raja said regarding the ongoing protest against the Centre’ farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpi-supports-caste-census/article36329715.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||After arrest of actor Leena Paul, four more held in cheating case||The Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi Police has arrested four more persons — apart from actor Leena Paul — in connection with a cheating case registered based on a complaint by Aditi Singh, wife of former promoter of Ranbaxy Malvinder Mohan Singh. Police said that the four have been identified as Kamlesh Kothari, Samuel, Arun Muthu and Mohan Raj – all associates of conman Sukesh Chandrasekhar and his partner Ms. Paul. Police said that all the accused were produced before the court on Monday and Ms. Paul, Mr. Raj and Mr. Muthu were sent to 15-day police custody. Police have invoked the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime (MCOCA) Act against Mr. Chandrasekhar. Police said that Ms. Paul allegedly helped Mr. Chandrasekhar in duping Ms Singh. A First Information Report was registered on August 7 after Ms. Singh informed the police that a man posing as a senior official of the Law Ministry in June last year had offered to help secure bail for her husband, who was in jail at the time. The man had promised to help in return for money. According to the police, Mr. Chandrasekhar is an accused in 21 cases, including the Election Commission bribery case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-arrest-of-actor-leena-paul-four-more-held-in-cheating-case/article36329730.ece
07 September 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC acquits man in POCSO case||The Bombay High Court has acquitted a man of charges of raping and sexually assaulting a five-year-old. It said, “It is well known that a child witness, by reason of his/her tender age, is a pliable witness. He/she is amenable to tutoring and inducement and is often prone to telling imaginative and exaggerated stories.” Justice Anuja Prabhudessai was hearing a criminal appeal filed by Janardan Kapse through advocate Ravindra Chalke. Sessions Court order He is challenging an order by the Sessions Court at Thane in 2019 of convicting him under Section 376 (punishment for rape) and 354 (A) (1) (i) (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures of the Indian Penal Code and and Section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) and 8 (punishment for sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences. The 12-page-order passed recently recorded, “The child has stated that her parents had told her how to give the statement. She has further stated that she was questioned by the police about the incident and that her mother had given the answers, which were taken down in writing. She has admitted that her parents had told her how to depose before the court.” The order reads, “The minor on her own admission is a tutored witness and hence no implicit reliance can be placed on her evidence. It is in the evidence that the appellant, his wife and two children live in a room on the 5th floor, which is above the room of the first informant (mother of the child). The first informant has admitted that there was a quarrel between her and the appellant over leakage of water from his toilet. Hence the possibility of false implication cannot be ruled out.” Commenting on the Sessions Court judgment, the court said the judge had held the appellant guilty of all offences solely on the basis of the victim’s statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-acquits-man-in-pocso-case/article36329691.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||11 more show Nipah symptoms in Kozhikode||Two of them are from Malappuram and Kannur districts, because of which an alert was sounded in those places on Sunday. Special laboratory ready The Minister said a special laboratory under the aegis of the National Institute of Virology, Pune, had been set up at MCH. It will have facilities to conduct both point-of-care and RT-PCR tests. The samples of three symptomatic persons would be tested here and those from eight others were being sent to Pune. The results from Pune are expected late on Monday. Officials from the Department of Animal Husbandry also collected blood samples and oral swabs of two goats from the premises of the deceased. The goats were reportedly unwell recently. The samples will be examined at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases at Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh to find out if the animals had been infected.Some half-eaten rambutan fruits too were collected from the neighbourhood of the boy’s house in Pulparamb near Koolimad after it was revealed that he had eaten them. The boy’s parents had informed the special team of the National Centre for Disease Control that the area had the presence of fruit bats, considered to be the natural carriers of the virus. Another habitat of bats has been identified across the river which flows near the area. A special team from the NIV would reach Chathamangalam on Wednesday to collect the body fluid samples of fruit bats from the area, Ms. George said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-symptomatic-for-nipah-in-kozhikode/article36329692.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED records statement of Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee, nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday to record his statement in connection with a coal theft case. Mr. Banerjee reached the Jam Nagar House of the ED in Delhi around 11 a.m. His statement was recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The proceedings went on till evening, said an official. Emerging out of the ED office after about eight hours of questioning, Mr. Banerjee targeted the BJP saying the Trinamool Congress would go to every State where the BJP was in power and fight it more vigorously. He told the media that regardless of whatever tools were adopted, the TMC would be instrumental in defeating the BJP in the next polls. The ED case is based on an FIR registered by the CBI last year, alleging theft of coal from the Kunustoria and Kajora mines of the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) in Asansol. Among the accused are Anup Majhi and some ECL officials. Security and railway personnel are also under the scanner. The agency had summoned Mr. Banerjee’s wife, Rujira. However, she is learnt to have asked the ED to take her statement in Kolkata in view of the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-records-statement-of-abhishek-banerjee/article36329695.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Modi hails record pace of vaccination||He praised doctors, ASHA workers, Anganwadi workers, medical personnel, teachers and women for their contribution to the vaccination campaign. The Prime Minister expressed happiness that even a remote district like Lahaul-Spiti in Himachal Pradesh had achieved 100% first dose coverage. “This is the area which used to be cut off from the rest of the country for months before the Atal Tunnel was built,” said Mr. Modi, while praising the people of Himachal Pradesh for not allowing any rumour or disinformation to hamper the vaccination efforts. He said the State was a proof of how the country’s rural society was empowering the world’s largest and fastest vaccination campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-hails-record-pace-of-vaccination/article36329703.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Fill tribunal vacancies by Sept. 13, SC tells Centre||Cases were being adjourned by a year. Many operated with just one member as no appointments had been made for months, if not years. “You have no respect for the judgments of this court… You are testing our patience,” Chief Justice Ramana addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the government. “Everybody is happy with the quick way in which the government cleared the Supreme Court appointments… We do not want any confrontation with the government. But if you can so quickly make appointments to the Supreme Court, you can very well do so with these small tribunals. The tribunals have virtually collapsed… Why are you being so particular about the tribunals?” Chief Justice Ramana asked Mr. Mehta. The court said it had three options: close the tribunals, make the appointments itself or initiate contempt. Mr. Mehta, who asked and was refused an adjournment by the Bench as soon as the hearing began, showed a screenshot of a letter addressed to him by the Union Finance Ministry on September 6. In this letter, the Ministry said a new law — Tribunal Reforms Act of 2021 — had come into effect and would “pave the way for filling of vacancies in the tribunals”. The letter promised that “the government will ensure that within next two weeks, a decision on appointments to all the tribunals is taken where the Search-cum-Selection Committees have already given their recommendations to the government”. ‘Astonishing replica’ But Justice Chandrachud said the new Act hosted an “astonishing replica” of provisions expressly struck down by the Supreme Court in multiple recent judgments. “This seems to continue… that when we strike down a law, they bring a replica,” he stated. The legislature could bring in a law which took away the basis of a judgment but could not bring a law simply to contradict a judgment. The court issued notice and asked the government to reply to a series of petitions, including one by Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh, challenging the legality of the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021. Mr. Ramesh, represented by senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, said the 2021 Act abolished nine key tribunals, raised a serious threat to judicial independence by giving the government wide powers regarding appointments, service conditions and salaries of members of key tribunals. The Bill was passed without parliamentary debate amid ruckus in the House. But Justice Rao questioned even the very basis of the assurances given in the Finance Ministry letter, especially the one regarding the 2021 Act being a harbinger to a flurry of tribunal appointments. “The appointments we are talking about here have been pending for over a year-and-a-half. Why were these appointments not made,” he asked. Justice Chandrachud said the names for appointments had been cleared by the Intelligence Bureau and then by a committee, which also included Supreme Court judges and senior bureaucrats. “Yet, they have not been cleared,” he observed. Companies’ tribunals, riddled with vacancies, were critical to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the economy of the country, he noted. The Bench refrained from recording its oral observations in a judicial order. Instead, it gave time to Mr. Mehta to convince the government to make appointments. “I will convey [to the government]...” Mr. Mehta offered. Chief Justice Ramana said, “No, no, Mr. Mehta… ‘conveying’ is something else… If you don’t want an order from us, you pass the order of appointments… We expect some appointments to be made by Monday”.  We do not want any confrontation with the government. But if you can so quickly make appointments to the Supreme Court, you can very well do so with these small tribunals. N.V. Ramana, Chief Justice of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fill-tribunal-vacancies-by-sept-13-sc-tells-centre/article36329705.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI arrests four more in JEE (Mains) case||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested four more persons in connection with the alleged irregularities in the JEE (Mains) examination. Among the arrested are two laboratory technicians, Arvind Saini and Kuldeep Garg; assistant professor Sandeep Gupta; and a peon named Tulsi Ram. The accused worked at a private engineering college in Sonepat, Haryana. The agency had earlier arrested seven persons, including two directors and four employees of Affinity Education Private Ltd., in the same case. The accused persons charged Rs. 12 lakh to 15 lakh per candidate to facilitate admissions to top National Institutes of Technology (NITs). They allegedly helped the candidates solve their question papers through remote access from the examination centre in Sonepat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-four-more-in-jee-mains-case/article36329888.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC notice to govt. on plea against NEET quota||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the government to respond to a petition challenging the decision to provide 27% quota to Other Backward Classes and 10% reservation to Economically Weaker Sections in the All India Quota category for NEET admissions. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli issued notice, returnable by September 20, to the government on the petition filed by Neil Aurelio Nunes and others. The petition has sought to quash a July 29 notification announcing the reservation policy. The quota covers undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses. The government believes the policy would help marginalised sections get better opportunities. The petitioners said the selection process had already begun for the academic year and could not be interfered with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-notice-to-govt-on-plea-against-neet-quota/article36329731.ece
07 September 2021||Pune,||Prioritise lives over festivities, says Uddhav||Expressing concern that Maharashtra stood on the brink of a “third wave”, Chief Minister Udhav Thackeray on Monday exhorted all political parties to immediately stop agitations and cancel political and social meetings to avoid crowding and prevent the spread of the contagion. Mr. Thackeray’s appeal comes amid an incremental rise in COVID-19 cases and with the Ganesha Chaturthi festivities due to commence later this week. “We can celebrate festivals later. Let us first prioritise the lives and health of our citizens. The situation can go out of hand in view of the spike in daily cases,” Mr. Thackeray said in a statement, noting the massive surge in cases in Kerala post-festivities. Despite Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar stating last week that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government did not plan to impose additional restrictions on movement during the festival, there are strong indications that Mr. Thackeray may announce some curbs soon. “Who would like to impose restrictions on festivals and religious programmes? But people’s lives are important. The upcoming festive days will be crucial and the onus is on political parties to ensure things do not go out of control. So, I appeal to all political parties, including the Shiv Sena, to cancel all social and political gatherings that draw large crowds,” said Mr. Thackeray. Senior Congress leader and Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said restrictions on large crowds were likely and that the Chief Minister would be announcing the decision in a day or two. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit out at the MVA leadership and the Chief Minister’s alleged “double standards”, claiming that while the public was being compelled to celebrate Ganesha festivities ‘online’, MVA leaders openly held political meets which saw large crowds. “Why are these norms only imposed on the public? Why does the Chief Minister not restrain his colleagues Sanjay Raut [Sena MP and spokesperson] who recently held a big party meet or NCP leader Jitendra Awhad?” asked BJP leader and former Minister Ashish Shelar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prioritise-lives-over-festivities-says-uddhav/article36329733.ece
07 September 2021||Mumbai,||‘Pregnant women’s health is family’s joint responsibility’||Union Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani on Monday said pregnant women’s health should be a joint responsibility of the family. She was speaking at Poshan Jagrukta Abhiyaan (nutrition awareness campaign) programmes organised by the Union Ministry for Women and Child Development and Union Ministry for Minority Affairs for women from minority communities. “Discussions on maternal health are no longer confined to women. Nowadays, men are also thinking about women’s health. Pregnant women’s health should be a joint responsibility of the family,” she said. During the day-long programme, Ms. Irani and Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi interacted with members of Muslim, Buddhist, Jain, Sikh, Christian and Parsi communities. Ms. Irani said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has turned women’s issues into a social issue. “If we want to be able to tell the world that not a single child in India suffers from malnutrition, then it is important for members from all communities to come forward.” Mr. Naqvi said health and hygiene, ignored earlier, are the mainstay of a result-oriented priority programme by the Modi-led government. The Central government has worked on a war-footing to provide affordable and quality health services to the country, he said. The National Digital Health Mission was launched on August 15 last year to provide a health ID to every Indian. Over 2.11 crore people were provided free treatment under the Jan Arogya Yojana, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pregnant-womens-health-is-familys-joint-responsibility/article36330413.ece
07 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Death toll in Assam floods reaches eight||On receding mode, the floods in Assam claimed one more human life and two rhinos on Monday. According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), eight persons have drowned or were washed away by the floods so far, while the number of affected people has come down to 43,416 across 12 districts. Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve authorities said two rhinos were found dead in the wildlife reserve, 30% of which is flooded now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-toll-in-assam-floods-reaches-eight/article36329706.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Capital facelift||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/capital-facelift/article36329710.ece
07 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Gogoi leads rally against cattle law||Activist and Sibsagar MLA Akhil Gogoi on Monday led a rally against the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 2021, stating that the law was an assault on the farm economy in the name of religion. The rally was organised in Dhemaji district’s Jonai. Mr. Gogoi, who is the president of Raijor Dal, said the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Assam government had introduced the cow protection law “to harm Muslims and Christians in the name of safeguarding Hinduism”. The MLA also advised dairy farmers to leave their cattle in front of Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s residence if the law was not rolled back. The Act was passed amid an Opposition walkout in the Assembly a month ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gogoi-leads-rally-against-cattle-law/article36329711.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||Ministers to use emergency landing strip||An Indian Air Force (IAF) plane, carrying Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari, will conduct a mock emergency landing on a national highway in Barmer, Rajasthan, this week, sources said on Monday. The Ministers will be inaugurating the 3.5-km-long strip, which is ready to handle emergency landings of IAF planes on the highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministers-to-use-emergency-landing-strip/article36329884.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dengue caused deaths in Firozabad||In a letter to U.P. Chief Secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said a Central team, looking into the cause of a fever outbreak and deaths among children in Firozabad district, has found that this was due to dengue, while a few are cases of scrub typhus and leptospirosis. In his letter on Monday, the Health Secretary said the Central team consisting of National Centre for Disease Control and National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme officials have suggested that adequate vector surveillance and control measures need to be put in place to contain the situation. The team has also recommended that all fever patients should be screened for dengue, malaria, scrub typhus and Leptospirosis. It said there is also a need to strengthen ELISA-based testing facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dengue-caused-deaths-in-firozabad/article36329693.ece
07 September 2021||Kolkata,||No coercive action against Suvendu: HC||The Calcutta High Court on Monday granted an interim relief to Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari by directing that no coercive action be taken against him and the State had to take leave of the court before arresting him. The court stayed investigation in three of the five cases filed against the BJP leader. Among the cases in which the court granted relief to him is the ‘unnatural’ death of his security guard in 2018. The Criminal Investigation Department of the police had summoned him to appear in the case. He refused to appear before the agency in the day. A Bench of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha also stayed the probe into the case first registered in Contai, along with one involving a political clash at Nandigram, and another of gold chain snatching at Panskura, all three places in Purba Medinipur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-coercive-action-against-suvendu-hc/article36329701.ece
07 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Varavara Rao’s bail extended till Sept. 24||The Bombay High Court on Monday extended the interim medical bail of Telugu poet Varavara Rao (81) till September 24. It posted the matter for hearing on September 27. Mr. Rao, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence, was granted the bail on February 22 for six months on a cash bond of Rs. 50,000 by a Division Bench of justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale. However, due to a delay in obtaining a solvency certificate, he was released on March 6. From then on, he has been residing with his wife P. Hemalatha at Malad East. The bail expired on September 5. Senior advocate Anand Grover, appearing for Mr. Rao, informed a Division Bench of Justices Shinde and N.J. Jamadar that Mr. Rao was living in a rented flat with his wife. His plea urged the court to allow him to reside in Hyderabad with his family instead of Mumbai. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the case, filed an affidavit that read, “The Taloja jail authorities have been following the jail code and providing the best medical facilities as per jail manual.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varavara-raos-bail-extended-till-sept-24/article36329702.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Make Rahul Cong. chief again: IYC||The Indian Youth Congress (IYC) passed a resolution on Monday calling for Rahul Gandhi to be made president of the Congress party once again. The resolution was passed unanimously on the final day of the two-day national executive meeting of the IYC in Goa, the Congress’s youth wing said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/make-rahul-cong-chief-again-iyc/article36329713.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Allow farmers to protest peacefully’||Ahead of a proposed ‘mahapanchayat’ at Karnal on September 7, the Congress on Monday urged the Central and the Haryana governments to remove section 144 and allow farmers to peacefully carry on with their protests. In a statement, Congress general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal said the State government should act against the officials responsible for the “brutal lathi charge”on farmers on August 28 and keep the Internet services functional in the area. “The BJP governments are busy crushing and suppressing the Gandhian ways of farmers’ protests instead of rendering justice to the farmers,” he stated. “The Modi government at the Centre and the Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana should shed their stubbornness and arrogance. They should remove section 144 and restore Internet services. The Congress demands that an FIR to be registered against the guilty officials and start a dialogue with the farmers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/allow-farmers-to-protest-peacefully-says-congress/article36329714.ece
07 September 2021||Pune,||Sena unhappy with Akhtar’s RSS remarks||Noted poet-lyricist Javed Akhtar’s comparison of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) with the Taliban was utterly misplaced, the Shiv Sena said on Monday. Analogising a fanatical movement with Hindutva constituted an insult to Indian culture, it noted. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana observed that despite being a Hindu majority country, Indian governments had successfully raised the flag of secularism. “How can you say those who favour the concept of a ‘Hindu Rashtra’ are of Talibani mindset? We [the Sena] do not agree with this. While you can have differences with the RSS, to call their philosophy Talibani is completely wrong,” said the editorial, rebuking Mr. Akhtar. “Nations like Pakistan and China have supported the Taliban regime because in these two countries, human rights and individual freedom have no value. But this is certainly not the case with India and we are an incredibly tolerant country,” the editorial stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sena-unhappy-with-akhtars-rss-remarks/article36329720.ece
07 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Manda buffalo gets ‘unique breed’ tag||The National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR) has recognised the Manda buffalo, found in the Eastern Ghats and plateau of Koraput region of Odisha, as the 19th unique breed of buffaloes found in India. The Manda are resistant to parasitic infections, less prone to diseases and can thrive on modest resources. This buffalo germ-plasm was first identified through a survey conducted by the Animal Resource Development (ARD) department of Odisha in collaboration with the Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT). Bishnupada Sethi, former ARD director and Susanta Kumar Dash, an animal geneticist of OUAT, had played a key role in seeking national recognition for the Manda breed.The NBAGR, affiliated to Indian Council of Agriculture Research, made an assessment and recognised it as an indigenous and unique breed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manda-buffalo-gets-unique-breed-tag/article36329723.ece
07 September 2021||Damoh (M.P.),||MP: Minor girls paraded naked in village to please rain god; NCPCR seeks report||At least six minor girls were paraded naked in a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh district as part of a ritual to please rain gods and get relief from the drought-like situation, officials said on Monday. Taking cognisance, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has sought a report from Damoh administration about the incident which occurred at Baniya village in the Bundelkhand region on Sunday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-minor-girls-paraded-naked-in-village-to-please-rain-god-ncpcr-seeks-report/article36330075.ece
07 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Crop in Odisha blocks hit due to deficit rainfall||Prolonged dry spell in the ongoing monsoon season has affected paddy crop in 102 out of 314 blocks of Odisha, the State government said on Monday. The government said it was not in a hurry to declare the affected region as drought-hit. “It is generally announced by October 30. The government is monitoring the situation,” Sudam Marndi, State Revenue and Disaster Management Minister, said in the Assembly. He said field officials were asked to analyse situation on daily basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crop-in-odisha-blocks-hit-due-to-deficit-rainfall/article36330357.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||SC refuses to entertain plea for opening of Singhu border||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea filed by residents of Sonipat seeking opening of the roads connecting Delhi and Haryana at Singhu border, which have been blocked by farmers protesting against three agri laws and asked the petitioners to approach the High Court. The top court said that the invitation to interfere is very tempting but there are High Courts, which can deal with the local issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-for-opening-of-singhu-border/article36329708.ece
07 September 2021||Lucknow,||Farmers’ rally refreshes memories of riots under Congress, SP rule: Mayawati||The show of strength by farmers in Muzaffarnagar on September 5 refreshed memories of the riot-ridden rule of the Congress and the Samajwadi Party, said Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, referring to the communal violence that shook the Uttar Pradesh district in 2013. While the Congress-led UPA was ruling at the Centre, Akhilesh Yadav was the Chief Minister when violence broke out in Muzaffarnagar and nearby districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-rally-refreshes-memories-of-riots-under-congress-sp-rule-mayawati/article36329712.ece
07 September 2021||Chandigarh,||Mobile Internet to be suspended in Karnal on Sept. 6||Amid the beefed-up security ahead of the farmers’ proposed protest in Haryana’s Karnal on September 7, the State government has decided to suspend the mobile Internet services in the district from 12.30 a.m. on September 6, an official order said. The order from the State Home Department said the direction to suspend mobile Internet in Karnal will come into effect from September 6 at 12.30 hours and will continue till 23.59 hours on September 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mobile-internet-to-be-suspended-in-karnal-on-sept-6/article36329721.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Black spots at major junctions to go||The Highways Department will take up work on eliminating black spots at 11 locations in the city — four each on Anna Salai and Poonamallee High Road (E.V.R. Periyar Salai), two on Jawaharlal Nehru Salai and one on G.N.T. Road. “The administrative sanction for the work has been issued and tenders are to be invited. Depending on each location, the geometrics will be corrected as required. If there is a blind curve, visibility will be improved,” said an official. “If the chamber of the road is not right at a curve, it can lead to the driver losing control over the vehicle. If there is an increase in the height of the road, even a gradual one, it can lead to lack of visibility. These are some of the factors that are looked at by engineers when they study a road for corrections to minimise accidents,” he pointed out. Some of these chosen junctions will get traffic islands, if required, to prevent direct entry of motorists from side roads. “They will be provided free left turn and allowed to merge with the traffic or allowed to go around a traffic island that will automatically slow down the speed and guide the vehicle in the right direction,” said another official. Work is likely to commence by December at the Omandurar Government Estate junction, Walajah Road junction, Spencer Plaza junction and Gemini flyover junction, Gandhi Irwin bridge junction, Raja Annamalai Road junction, Flowers Road junction, Ega Theatre junction, Udhayam Theatre junction, Senthil Nagar junction and at Ambedkar College junction. Apart from geometrics, pedestrian comfort will be given serious consideration. “We will ensure footpaths are properly laid or repaired wherever needed. Also points where pedestrians get on and off will be provided easy access. Railings will be installed so that pedestrians are separated from vehicles on the main carriageway. Pedestrian crossings will be marked depending on the requirement,” the official said. Along with these works, improvement of aesthetics, lighting and signage will be taken up. Citizens’ concerns Ganesh Ramakrishnan, a resident of Alwarpet, said the department should ensure that these facilities are maintained. “Not just the highways, but other line departments too fail when it comes to maintenance. They need to ensure that telephone and cable companies do not dig up footpaths. The railings are not restored if they get dented. They have to ensure that people don’t dump garbage and encroach on such spaces,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/black-spots-at-major-junctions-to-go/article36330023.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,556 fresh cases reported in the State||Four districts recorded fresh COVID-19 cases in single digit, as Tamil Nadu recorded 1,556 infections and 18 deaths, pushing the overall tally to 26,24,234 cases and the toll to 35,036. Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli reported nine fresh cases each and Virudhunagar reported seven cases. Three persons tested positive in Theni. But four large districts recorded over 100 cases. In Coimbatore district, 206 people were infected, and in Chennai, 169 tested positive. Chengalpattu reported 110 cases and Thanjavur 104 cases. As many as 1,564 people were discharged after treatment. The total number of recovered patients has gone up to 25,72,942. At present, 16,256 patients are under treatment. The daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health said that in Chennai, 145 people were discharged, three persons died of the disease and 1,772 patients are under treatment. So far, 5,45,158 people have tested positive in the district, and 5,34,973 have been discharged. Six of the 18 deaths were recorded at private hospitals, and 12 persons died at government hospitals. The State tested 1,55,609 samples. So far, 4,32,72,865 samples have been tested. A total of 5,29,749 people were vaccinated at 2,804 sessions held across the State on Monday. Among them were 295 healthcare workers; 527 frontline workers; 3,27,003 people aged 18-44; 1,55,604 people aged 45-59 with co-morbidities; and 46,320 senior citizens. So far, 5,30,973 sessions have been held to administer Covishield and Covaxin. As on date, 1,60,52,620 people aged 18-44; 1,06,00,951 people aged 45-59; and 49,93,672 senior citizens have been inoculated. The tally has gone up to 3,37,14,573. Since May 1, when private centres were permitted to administer vaccines, 22,17,054 doses have been administered. The total number of people vaccinated at government and private facilities is 3,59,31,627.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1556-fresh-cases-reported-in-the-state/article36330011.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to launch civic projects||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will visit Ripon Buildings on Tuesday to distribute appointment orders to 195 people who have been given jobs on compassionate grounds by the Greater Chennai Corporation. The Chief Minister will also launch civic projects. The Corporation is expected to get more personnel, including gardeners and workers to control the mosquito menace and for conservancy operations. This is the first visit of Mr. Stalin to Ripon Buildings after he became the Chief Minister in May 2021. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru and HR and CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu visited Ripon Buildings on Monday in the presence of Shiv Das Meena, Secretary to the Government, Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply, and Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi to supervise the arrangements for Tuesday’s programme. On Tuesday, Mr. Stalin will launch battery-operated vehicles for zones such as Anna Nagar, Tondiarpet, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar and Royapuram. Over 1,600 battery-operated vehicles have been proposed to be procured in the four zones, replacing tricycles. Tricycles to go Battery-operated vehicles have been introduced in 11 zones managed by private conservancy operators. Once these vehicles are launched in the four remaining zones managed by the Corporation, tricycles will be phased out. The city generates 5,100 tonnes of garbage every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-launch-civic-projects/article36330026.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Modern facility for making palm jaggery to be set up||The Tamil Nadu government will set up a common facility for producing pure palm jaggery on the premises of the Confederation of Tirunelveli District Palmyra Products Manufacturers’ Cooperative Societies, R. Gandhi, Minister for Khadi and Village Industries, said on Monday. Replying to the debate on demand for grants for his department in the Legislative Assembly, the Minister said the objective of the Rs. 40-lakh facility was to help palmyra tappers in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts. “The facility will utilise modern technology for producing pure palm jaggery,” he said. Mr. Gandhi said the government would procure modern machine for packaging palm sugar, palm jaggery powder, palm root powder and other palm products. “They will be attractively packaged and marketed. The modern machines to be purchased at a cost of Rs. 16.50 lakh will be installed in Egmore and Cuddalore,” he said. The Minister said palm products would be promoted by organising awareness camps and they would be publicised on social media platforms such as Instagram, Facebook and YouTube. Mr. Gandhi said an exhibition showcasing textile tradition and artistic features of Tamil Nadu would be set up up at a cost of Rs. 5 crore. “This will help preserve the tradition and educate the future generation about the skills and greatness of weavers of the State,” he said. The government would launch a campaign, ‘Co-optex at every house’ to ensure every house had at least one Co-optex product. The allocation for the promotion campaign was Rs. 50 lakh. The Minister also told the Assembly that children’s organic clothing would be sold through five Co-optex sales centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modern-facility-to-make-palm-jaggery-to-be-set-up/article36330152.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health officials put on alert in border districts||The Deputy Directors of Health in the districts bordering Kerala have been advised to be vigilant to prevent the spread of the Nipah virus. In a letter, the Director of Public Health has instructed the Deputy Directors of Health of the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Kanniyakumari, Theni and Tenkasi districts to be alert to the arrival of people from Kerala. The Director of Public Health has detailed the origin of the virus and how it spreads. He has asked the Deputy Directors of Health to screen people coming from Kerala, in coordination with district officials, for signs and symptoms of the disease. In humans, the infection manifests with fever, headache, drowsiness, disorientation, respiration distress, coma and potential death. Anyone who has come in contact with an infected person should be monitored for the longest period of incubation (21 days) to rule out the infection, the letter has said. Those with symptoms should be isolated and samples collected within 4-5 days of the start of illness. A health worker must be attired in personal protective equipment and follow all bio safety precautions while collecting the throat swab and blood and urine samples. He must wear an N-95 mask and wash hands before and after taking the samples, the letter said. The samples must be transported at 2-8 degrees Celcius to the State Public Health Laboratory for screening and preliminary investigation, and to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for confirmation. The district health officials have been given a set of forms that they should maintain. They include the list of contacts to be traced and the format for recording deaths due to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-officials-put-on-alert-in-border-districts/article36330009.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM commissions new facilities of Sankara Nethralaya||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin commissioned on Monday two new facilities of Sankara Nethralaya. The eye hospital with its main branch on College Road, Nungambakkam, has opened a facility in St. Thomas Mount and another in Raja Annamalai Puram. They were commissioned to mark the 43rd anniversary of the institution. Mr. Stalin commissioned the buildings virtually from his office. Senior officials of Sankara Nethralaya, including chairman Girish Shiva Rao, vice-chairman T.S. Surendran and secretary G. Ramachandran were present. Free treatment Earlier, Sankara Nethralaya’s governing body officials took the Chief Minister on a virtual tour of the Jaslok Community Ophthalmic Centre, a facility which will offer free service in St. Thomas Mount, and the expanded Raja Annamalai Puram clinic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-commissions-new-facilities-of-sankara-nethralaya/article36330039.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu makes it official: it’s workers’ right to sit||It might not have all the connotations of a Rosa Parks’ protest, but the Bill that the Tamil Nadu government introduced in the Assembly on Monday is revolutionary enough by recognising workers’ “right to sit”. Kerala is the only other State to have legislated on the ‘“right to sit” in response to protests conducted by sections of the labour force. In Tamil Nadu, the government has taken a proactive step by introducing a piece of legislation that will provide a chair to each worker, and a whole lot of dignity, besides helping the employees avoid the discomfort and health issues arising from remaining on their feet throughout the day. Act to be amended The Bill, which will benefit thousands of employees of large and small establishments, especially those working at textile and jewellery showrooms, was introduced by Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan. It seeks to amend the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments Act, 1947, by adding a sub-section. The proposed Section 22-A reads, “The premises of every establishment shall have suitable seating arrangements for all employees so that they may take advantage of any opportunity to sit which may occur in the course of their work and thereby avoid the ‘on their toes’ situation throughout the working hours.” The subject was placed at a meeting of the State Labour Advisory Board on September 4, 2019, and was unanimously approved by the members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-makes-it-official-its-workers-right-to-sit/article36330068.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu makes it official: it’s workers’ right to sit||It might not have all the connotations of a Rosa Parks’ protest, but the Bill that the Tamil Nadu government introduced in the Assembly on Monday is revolutionary enough by recognising workers’ ‘right to sit’. Kerala is the only other State to have legislated on the ‘right to sit’, and that, in response to protests conducted by sections of the labour force. In Tamil Nadu, the government has taken a proactive step by introducing a piece of legislation that will provide a chair to each worker, and a whole lot of dignity, besides helping the employees avoid the discomfort and health issues arising from remaining on their feet throughout the day. Act to be amended The Bill, which will benefit thousands of employees of large and small establishments, especially those working at textile and jewellery showrooms, was introduced by Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan. It seeks to amend the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments Act, 1947, by adding a sub-section. The proposed Section 22-A reads, “The premises of every establishment shall have suitable seating arrangements for all employees so that they may take advantage of any opportunity to sit which may occur in the course of their work and thereby avoid the ‘on their toes’ situation throughout the working hours.” The subject was placed at a meeting of the State Labour Advisory Board on September 4, 2019, and was unanimously approved by the members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-makes-it-official-its-workers-right-to-sit/article36330193.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reservation scheme for rural local bodies in 9 districts notified||In a key step towards conducting polls for rural local bodies in nine newly reconstituted districts in Tamil Nadu, the State government on Monday notified in the gazette the details of the reservation of seats for the post of chairpersons of district panchayats and panchayat unions in these districts. Rural local body elections were not conducted in the districts of Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, Kallakurichi, Villupuram, Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupathur, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli, which were bifurcated/created during the erstwhile regime on the directions of the Supreme Court. Recently, the top court had set September 15 as the deadline for completing civic elections in these districts. [It is likely that the elections could be postponed.] As per the notification, while the post of chairperson in the district panchayats of Chengalpattu and Kallakurichi have been reserved for the Scheduled Castes, the post in Tenkasi and Ranipet have been reserved for women (General). The remaining districts have been notified as ‘General’. Earlier on Monday, the State Election Commission convened a meeting of representatives of recognised political parties in the State to discuss about the rural civic polls in these districts, and said it would announce the dates of polls soon. The party representatives urged the SEC to not extend the timing for voting. The SEC had proposed to hold the polls from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Most of the political parties said polling should be completed either by 5 p.m. or 6 p.m., the additional hour due to Covid-19 protocols. Former Fisheries Minister and AIADMK representative D. Jayakumar said the AIADMK had objected to the timings being extended till 7 p.m. “In the last one hour, in these type of elections, there are possibilities of violence and untoward incidents,” he said. He told journalists that there was consensus among all the parties, including the DMK, on the issue. BJP representative Karate R. Thiagarajan said the party made a similar demand. DMK representative Girirajan said the party had sought more polling booths and necessary security arrangements in constituencies identified as volatile. TNCC representative Dhamodharan said the party had sought more polling booths and Covid-19 protocols to be followed strictly. Veerapandian of CPI said the party wanted 100% Covid-19 vaccination for the polling staff to be ensured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-notifies-reservation-scheme-for-rural-local-bodies-in-9-districts/article36330034.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government plans to invoke Goondas Act to curb bill trading||The Tamil Nadu government will introduce amendments to the Tamil Nadu Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, to bring bill trading under the purview of the Goondas Act, Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy said in the Assembly on Monday. Replying to the debate on the demand for grants, he said duplicate bills produced through bill trading to get input tax credit had caused a revenue loss to the government. So far, 371 taxable persons had been identified and action had been taken under the Tamil Nadu Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. “Further beneficiaries who have availed themselves of input tax credit are being identified, and action is taken by way of blocking the wrongly availed credit and the amount is collected with penalty and interest.” He announced a plan to amend the Indian Christian Marriage Registration Act, 1872, to simplify the procedure for certification. So far, the certificates can be obtained only from the office of the Inspector-General of Registration in Chennai. The amendment will pave the way for distributing them at the nine zonal offices. Mr. Moorthy said all services of the Commercial Tax Department would be made available in Tamil. “Since the details of the GST and the Goods and Services Tax Network are available only in English, traders are unable to understand them fully.” He announced the creation of a modern building with equipment, at a cost of Rs. 3.86 crore, at the office of the Commercial Tax Commissioner to co-ordinate with roving squads and alert them to the movement of suspected vehicles. New buildings for the Department would be constructed at Polur, Pudukottai, Thuraiyur, Attur (rural) and Attur (urban), Sathyamangalam and Gobichettipalayam at a cost of Rs. 15 crore. Mr. Moorthy said a registration grievance redress camp would be organised every Monday at the district registrar office. He also announced a welfare fund from which pension would be given to document writers, assistance to their families in case of death in accident and educational assistance to their children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-plans-to-invoke-goondas-act-to-curb-bill-trading/article36330014.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to create column in forms to mention mother’s name too||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Centre as well as the State government to respond to a public interest litigation which insisted on creating columns in all forms, certificates, applications, licences and other government documents to mention mother’s name in addition to the name of the applicant’s father. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu sought the governments’ response after observing that it might be appropriate if the columns in printed forms permit mentioning the name of either or both parents as per the wish of the applicants since there might be many who were brought up by single parents. Patriarchal mindset Advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan of Thoothukudi filed the PIL petition on the ground that the government applications and forms continue to follow the patriarchal mindset of seeking only father’s name though the mother plays a vital role in the development of a child, who might want to give equal recognition to her too. He said even now most private as well as government institutions seek only father’s name of applicants and do not bother to insist upon mother’s name. It was pointed out to the court that only father’s name was insisted upon right from nomination forms issued to apply for awards to the applications issued for seeking ration cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-create-column-in-forms-to-mention-mothers-name-too/article36330037.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court questions how a 16-year-old can be permitted to appear for NEET||If a 16-year-old has good knowledge about politics, can we allow him/her to vote in elections? the Madras High Court asked on Monday while hearing the plea of a 16-year-old girl to allow her to write National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and Krishnan Ramasamy raised the query during the hearing of a writ appeal preferred by National Testing Agency (NTA) against a single judge’s order to allow the 16-year-old to write NEET and one more writ petition filed by the student S.P. Shree Harini, of Kumbakonam, seeking permission to write the test. Senior counsel G. Rajagopalan, representing the NTA, contended that the single judge had erred in allowing the 16-year-old girl to write the test when the regulations clearly state that the candidates must have completed 17 years of age as on December 31, 2020. He said the courts should not interfere in such decisions taken by the National Medical Commission (NMC). NMC counsel Subharanjini stated that there was a difference between the intelligence of a student and his/her maturity. Stating that certain amount of physical as well as mental maturity was required to undergo medical courses, the counsel said the Intelligence Quotient (IQ) could not be considered a measure of maturity. While recognising that the writ petitioner might be a brilliant student with a very high IQ, the counsel said she still could not be allowed to write NEET in violation of the regulations. On his part, senior counsel A.R.L. Sundaresan, representing the student, said he was not challenging the age criteria fixed by the NMC but only insisting upon carving out an exception for an academically brilliant student. Pointing out that the Central Board of Secondary Education had permitted her to write Plus Two examinations, he said, she could not be forced to waste one year to write NEET. He urged the court to permit the student to write NEET, scheduled on Sunday, and then take a decision on allowing her to join MBBS or not. However, warning that a possible poor performance in NEET might demoralise the student and affect her psychologically, the judges decided to pass orders on the writ appeal as well as the writ petition on Tuesday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-hc-questions-how-a-16-year-old-can-be-allowed-to-write-neet/article36329991.ece
07 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Periyar’s birth anniversary to be celebrated as ‘Day of Social Justice’, CM tells Assembly||The birth anniversary of social reformer and Dravidar Kazhagam founder ‘Periyar’ E.V. Ramasamy will be observed as the ‘Day of Social Justice’ on September 17 every year, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced in the Assembly on Monday. Employees of all State government offices would undertake a pledge that day to follow the principles of self-respect, rationalism, brotherhood, equality, humanitarianism and social justice, he said in a suo motu statement. He said ‘Periyar’ spoke what others hesitated to utter. Abolition of the caste system and equality of men and women were his two primary principles. “The first amendment to the Constitution came about because of this man who never went to Parliament,” Mr. Stalin said. ‘Periyar’ questioned all that were against these two principles, posed questions based on science and went on to motivate people to do so. Among the members of the DMK-led alliance who welcomed the announcement were Leader of the House Duraimurugan, K. Selvaperunthagai (Sriperumbudur), M. Sinthanai Selvan (Kattumannarkovil), T. Ramachandran (Thalli), V.P. Nagaimaali (Kilvelur), A. Tamilarasi (Manamadurai), T. Velmurugan (Panruti), E.S. Eswaran (Tiruchengodu), M.H. Jawahirullah (Papanasam) and T. Sadhan Thirumalai Kumar (Vasudevanallur). Representatives of all parties in the AIADMK-led alliance, too, hailed it. PMK floor leader G.K. Mani (Pennagaram), BJP floor leader Nainar Nagenthran (Tirunelveli), R. Vaithilingam (Orathanadu) and M. Jagan Moorthy (Kilvaithinankuppam) spoke in support of the announcement. Mr. Duraimurugan urged that the social reformer’s principle of self-respect be included in the school curriculum. “What is wrong in including it in textbooks? Only those who do not have self-respect would oppose it,” he said. Mr. Nagenthran said, “Social justice is one of the principles of the BJP. The party also stands for the rights of women and the abolition of the caste system. The BJP, which believes in theism, welcomes this announcement.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/periyars-birth-anniversary-to-be-celebrated-as-day-of-social-justice-cm-tells-assembly/article36330016.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro stations to have more signages||After commuters expressed dissatisfaction over lack of signage, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. has decided to put up additional ones in all 32 stations in the phase I project covering 45 km. Commuters complained that in many stations directions were not clear, especially in the concourse level. S. Venkatesan of Elango Nagar, Padi, who frequently travels from Thirumangalam to Alandur by Metro Rail, feels lost at the exit, not knowing which side of the road he will reach. Rohan S., another commuter, said signage was inadequate even six years after train operations were started. Sources said some commuters felt confused at stations like Alandur and Central Metro where they have to change trains. According to CMRL officials, tenders had been floated and the work was expected to be completed in three months after the award of contract.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-stations-to-have-more-signages/article36330021.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police launch manhunt||The Ashok Nagar police are searching for a three-member gang, which assaulted a 24-year-old man in West Mambalam. The police said Pramod, working in a private company, was buying liquor at a Tasmac shop located on Bhaktavatsalam Street, West Mambalam, when three persons accidentally broke his bottle. This led to a spat. One of them bit his ear, and the trio fled the spot. Mr. Pramod was taken to a private hospital. The police are inspecting footage from CCTV cameras installed near the shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-launch-manhunt/article36330028.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexually abusing 10-year-old girl||The Ennore All Women Police have arrested a 41-year-old man for sexually abusing a 10-year-old girl in the Madhavaram station limits on Monday. A senior police official said a case was filed at the Ennore All Women police station by the parents of the 10-year-old girl about a private security guard making sexual advances and verbally abusing her daily when the victim used to play outside the house. Based on the complaint, a case was registered and the police team, on inquiry, found that V. Ramesh, a resident of Shanmugapuram in Thiruvottiyur, was trying to sexually harass the girl. (ChildLine operates a toll-free helpline 1098 for children in distress).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-sexually-abusing-10-year-old-girl/article36330029.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Policewoman nabs phone thief, wins praise||Indrani, a policewoman, came in for praise from senior officials after she caught a cellphone robber on Monday. An Armed Reserve constable, Ms. Indrani was boarding a bus near the Central railway station after her duty when Damodaran, a senior citizen, raised an alarm after a man snatched his cellphone and took to his heels. Ms. Indrani caught the robber after a chase. The robber was later handed over to the Flower Bazaar police station. On inquiry, the accused was identified as Balaji, 28, of Vyasarpadi. He has several mobile theft cases pending against him in several police stations, including Avadi and Koyambedu. The accused was later arrested and sent to prison after being produced before a judicial magistrate. Senior police officials congratulated Ms. Indrani for her swift action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policewoman-nabs-phone-thief-wins-praise/article36330030.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre should make Law Commission a constitutional or statutory body, says HC||The Madras High Court has directed the Union government to consider making the Law Commission of India a constitutional or statutory body. “What is the use of constitutional courts delivering judgments and making recommendations for enacting laws when they are not actually acted upon by the legislature? What is the use of having a Law Commission of India without its recommendations being acted upon?” it asked. It also directed the Union government to appoint nodal officers in every department to keep track of judicial recommendations. Justices N. Kirubakaran (since retired) and B. Pugalendhi also took a serious note of the posts of Chairperson and members of the 22nd Law Commission not having been filled so far and ordered that the posts be filled within three months. In case of failure, the Union Law Secretary must appear before the court, they warned. The judges also directed the Union government to consider enacting a law for fixing tortious liability on the state for the loss caused to citizens due to the negligence of government officials. The court passed the judgment while disposing of a writ petition which complained that the Union government was yet to bring in legislation in the field of torts and state liability, though such a recommendation was made by the first Law Commission in 1956. Though a Bill was introduced in 1965 and re-introduced in 1967, it got lapsed in 1970. Thereafter, nothing was done to enact such a law despite the Supreme Court having underscored the need for it in its verdicts delivered in 2011 and 2014. Concurring with the submissions made by litigant K. Pushpavanam, the Bench, led by Justice Kirubakaran, said it was essential to have a law on tortious liability of the state. It lamented that such a law had not been passed even after half-a-century since the first Law Commission made its recommendation, and said many other recommendations of the Law Commission had also been put into cold storage. The judges disapproved of the practice of successive Law Commissions having served without any statutory backing and directed the Union government to allot more funds and adequate infrastructure to the Commission for conducting research activities. They pointed out that most of the laws enacted during the colonial rule but remaining in vogue today were the ones that were enacted on the basis of the Law Commission’s recommendations. Even post-Independence, the Law Commission had made an immense contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-should-make-law-commission-a-constitutional-or-statutory-body-says-hc/article36330042.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why ban festivities when other States are allowing them: Annamalai||Tamil Nadu BJP president K. Annamalai on Monday questioned why the State government had imposed a complete ban on Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations when States like Maharastra and Karnataka and the neighbouring Union Territory Puducherry had allowed the festivities without any restrictions. Mr. Annamalai accused the ruling DMK government of trying to win over votes and support of people of other religions in the State by not respecting the first God of Hindus and continuously insulting Vinayaka devotees. He also accused the government of indulging in police high-handedness by arresting poor Vinayaka idol makers. “An idol maker in Cuddalore district was arrested by the police and sent to jail. Is making Vinayaka idols now a crime?,” he asked. He questioned whether people of the State needed permission from Mr. Stalin to worship a God of their choice. Mr. Annamalai warned that the BJP would not silently watch the atrocities of the police “who are behaving like goons of the ruling DMK”. The BJP leader asked the people of the State to support their party’s plans of celebrating Vinayaka Chathurthi where one lakh party cadres will keep the idol on their doorsteps and celebrate the festival. “Mr. Stalin should understand that he is continuously insulting the Tamil people, infringing upon their individual rights. Those who are insulting Lord Vinayaka will be punished by him. You should understand that. Otherwise Lord Vinayaka will teach you a lesson,” Mr. Annamalai said. He also requested the citizens to send a postcard to the Chief Minister to wish him on Vinayaka Chathurthi as he has a habit of wishing people of other religions on their festivals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-leader-questions-ban-on-celebrations/article36330033.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||53 arrested for bid to hold rekla race near Chennai||Fifty three persons were arrested and several vehicles seized in a police crackdown on rekla racing (traditional sport of horse-drawn cart race) on the Outer Ring Road in Avadi Tank Factory station limits on Sunday. The police are searching for two persons who allegedly organised the event. The police said the Outer Ring Road had become a place for conducting two-wheeler races and horse-drawn cart races. While the police had been regularly checking the Outer Ring Road to prevent two-wheeler races, they received a tip-off on Saturday night that a group was attempting to conduct a race of horse-drawn carts for money. A special police team was deputed to Vellanur village near the 400 ft Outer Ring Road on Sunday morning when they found several vehicles loaded with horses and carts for holding a race. The police arrested 53 persons, including M. Irfan of Mount Road, S. Prakash of Saligramam and M. Dinesh of Virugambakkam, for trying to conduct the illegal race of horse-drawn carts. Fourteen horses were rescued, and nine mini-trucks and 11 two-wheelers were seized. The police are searching for Saravanan and Hari, who were said to be the event organisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/53-persons-arrested-for-bid-to-hold-rekla-race/article36330032.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Chaturthi public celebrations banned based on Home Ministry advice’||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday told the Madras High Court that the Union Home Ministry had on August 29 written to the Chief Secretaries of all States and advised them to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during the festive season. Therefore, the government banned installation of idols in public places during the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations this year. Appearing before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram said Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla had asked the State governments to impose local restrictions with a view to curbing large gatherings and also to initiate action against government officials for any laxity in strict enforcement of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Pursuant to the communication, the State government issued a Government Order on August 30 banning installation of idols in public places or to hold any kind of celebrations in public places on account of Vinayaka Chaturthi. A ban was imposed on processions and mass immersion of idols in waterbodies too. People were requested to celebrate the festival in their homes. The Government Order also stated that individuals would be permitted to worship by placing Vinayaka idols in their homes, and they would also be permitted to immerse the idols individually in waterbodies. Chennai scenario However, as far as Chennai is concerned, a total ban would be in place against immersion of idols in the beach particularly in the stretch between Santhome and Napier bridge. “The above permission is only for individuals. Organisations are totally banned to carry out this action. Permission is granted for individuals to leave idols, which were worshipped in their houses, in front of temples or in and around temples. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department would take necessary action to remove those idols later,” the Government Order read. It also made it clear that gathering of people in public places during the birth anniversary of Mary Annai to be celebrated by Christian community members in Chennai, Velankanni, Nagapattinam and other places would also stand banned, and the ban on religious processions and communal festivals would continue due to the COVID-19 situation. The G.O. was produced in court during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition filed by K. Gopinath of the Hindu Munnetra Kazhagam. He had sought a direction to the State government to lay down a standard operating procedure for the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations this year. He said that the government had already laid down the guidelines. After recording his submissions, the judges disposed of the PIL petition.  Individuals can place Vinayaka idols in their houses and immerse them in waterbodies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vinayaka-chaturthi-celebrations-banned-owing-to-centres-advice/article36330041.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Action on pleas for building regularisation in Kodaikanal: Minister||Since there were 1,496 appeals seeking regularisation of buildings constructed in Kodaikanal and a related litigation was pending in the court, the government would take an action on them, Housing and Urban Development Minister S. Muthusamy informed the Assembly on Monday. He was replying to a special call attention motion moved by DMK legislator I.P. Senthil Kumar (Palani), who urged the government to introduce a one-time regularisation of buildings and implement the new master plan for the hill station. Master plan During his reply, Mr. Muthusamy acknowledged that there was a need for change in the way the master plan was being implemented since 2019. “The government will look into the issue and take appropriate action,” the Minister said. As for concerns raised by Mr. Senthil Kumar that a committee constituted in this regard had met only two times in the span of 22 years, the Minister said “ right persons” would be included in the committee to serve as representatives of the general public. While some builders were genuinely ignorant of the restrictions, a few went ahead despite knowing them, the Minister said, adding that the relevant Acts should not be bent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-promises-action-on-building-regularisation/article36330169.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health Minister clarifies on booster dose||If the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 decides on a third dose, the Tamil Nadu government will be the first to act, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian informed the Assembly on Monday. “According to doctors and medical experts, two doses provide safety of about 97.5%,” he said in reply to a special calling attention motion moved by AIADMK member and former Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar (Viralimalai). The death rate is “almost nil”. Speaking on the motion, Mr. Vijayabaskar referred to some of the recent statements about the possible third dose by Anthony Fauci, Chief Medical Advisor to the U.S. President. Elaborating on the steps being taken in Tamil Nadu for vaccination, Mr. Subramanian said the State received 19,22,080 doses on September 5, the highest consignment received since the vaccination started on January 16 this year. On September 4, 6,20,255 persons were inoculated, the highest single-day tally. The Minister said that as advised by the Chief Minister, the Tamil Nadu government would organise 10,000 vaccination camps across the State on September 12. The Chief Minister ordered complete vaccination in all districts bordering Kerala, which reported over 20,000 cases daily.  According to doctors and medical experts, two doses provide safety of about 97.5%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-minister-clarifies-on-booster-dose/article36330013.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free laptops for 11.72 lakh students||The Tamil Nadu government has commenced preliminary works towards distributing over 11.72 lakh laptops to school students across the State, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said in the Assembly on Monday. In his reply to a special call attention motion moved by CPI(M) legislator V.P. Nagaimaali (Kilvelur), Mr. Poyyamozhi said laptops had not been distributed to 4,97,028 students, who were in Class XI during 2020-21. Approximately five lakh students, who are at present in Class XI, have to be distributed laptops too, he said. “Besides, 1,75,789 laptops have to be given to students of the academic year 2017-18. In total, 11,72,817 laptops have to be distributed,” the Minister said. Mr. Nagaimaali pointed out that Class XII students enrolled during the 2017-18 academic year had not been given free laptops by the government so far. Mr. Poyyamozhi explained that a Government Order issued on November 1, 2019 allowed distribution of laptops only to Class XII students enrolled during 2017-18 and 2018-19, who eventually pursued higher education. “Based on this, laptops have been distributed to Class XII students in Chennai, Coimbatore, Erode, Kancheepuram, Madurai, Perambalur, Salem and Theni districts. As for other districts, administrative sanction has been accorded on February 18, 2021 to distribute laptops to students on producing bona fide certificate from institutions where they are pursuing higher education,” the Minister said. Since 2011-12, the government has spent Rs. 6,349.63 crore on the scheme, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-laptops-for-1172-lakh-students/article36330017.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK backs caste-wise census||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Monday participated in a protest organised by Samooga Needhi Koottamaippu demanding that the State government conduct a caste-wise census before implementing any changes in the reservation for MBC and denotified communities in education and jobs. The Samooga Needhi Koottamaippu has been demanding that the 20% MBC/DNC quota be reinstated. Speaking at the meeting, Mr. Thirumavalavan said, “I will take your demands to the Chief Minister. The party has the responsibility.” “In an effort to embrace all communities, the State government must conduct caste-wise census,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-backs-caste-wise-census/article36330472.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Labour Fund contributions to be hiked||Every employee, his/her employer and the government will have to contribute Rs. 50, Rs. 100 and Rs. 50 respectively to the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund, according to a Bill tabled in the Assembly on Monday. There is a need to increase the contributions because they were fixed in 2015, according to the Bill, which was tabled by Minister Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan. Another Bill tabled by Mr. Ganesan sought to amend the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments (Amendment) Act, 2018, to do away with the renewal of shop registration. It followed a request of the Union Ministry for Labour to the States to do away with the provision in their Acts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/labour-fund-contributions-to-be-hiked/article36330020.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK against polling time extension||The AIADMK on Monday opposed the proposed move of the State Election Commission to hold polling between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. during the proposed polls to rural local bodies in nine districts. After attending an all-party meeting at the State Election Commission (SEC)’s headquarters here, D. Jayakumar, former Minister, told journalists that law and order problems might erupt if the duration of polling got extended beyond 6 p.m., even though it was understandable to have the polling held up to 6 p.m. in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Consensus He claimed that there was consensus among all the parties including the DMK on the issue. Mr. Jayakumar said the delimitation of constituencies earmarked for women, scheduled castes and scheduled tribes should be carried out properly. Counting centres At the counting centres, there should be a three-tier security with the installation of CCTVs. Only such measures would ensure “free and fair” election. Asked about the reported move of the SEC to get the election postponed by six months, he recalled that when his party was in power, it was criticised for not facilitating the poll. Eventually, it had got the election held in 28 districts. “Why should the present government be reluctant to have the poll ?” Mr. Jayakumar questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-opposes-secs-move-to-extend-polling-duration/article36330047.ece
07 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Survey to prepare report on metro rail feasibility begins||Work to survey various parts of the city to prepare a feasibility report for the Coimbatore metro rail project began here recently. Sources said consultants engaged by the Chennai Metro Rail Limited had deployed surveyors across the city. After studying various aspects needed for building a metro rail for the city and collecting details like bus routes, passenger movement, vehicle movement and strength, the consultants would submit the feasibility report to Chennai Metro Rail Limited. The survey followed a high-level meeting held in Chennai, a few days ago. Senior bureaucrats from the Municipal Administration and Water Supply, Finance and a few other departments and CMRL representatives had participated in the meeting. The study that the CMRL had earlier conducted a few months ago was for preparing the pre-feasibility report. In the current survey, the consultant would look at routes where metro rail could be built, alternative routes, whether to build elevated rail corridor or on surface (at grade) or underground, the cost involved for land acquisition, wherever necessary, and construction, the sources said. The survey is the latest development in Coimbatore metro rail proposal as previous governments had promised to provide metro rail services to the city. Initially, the government said it would be metro rail for Coimbatore. Then it was changed to mono rail and now it was back to metro rail, the source said and added that in flip-flop what had changed on ground was the construction of elevated corridors and flyovers on Avinashi Road and Trichy Road, two of the arterial roads of Coimbatore. The consultant preparing the feasibility report would have to factor in the flyovers under construction and proposed ones to come up with a viable suggestion, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-to-prepare-report-on-metro-rail-feasibility-begins/article36330052.ece
07 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Various departments intensify checking at border check-posts||The Health, Revenue and Police Departments have intensified checking of passengers at all the inter-State check-posts in the district in the wake of a Nipah virus infection reported in Kerala and COVID-19 cases remaining high there. Coimbatore District Collector G.S. Sameeran on Monday visited Walayar check-post and inspected the checking of passengers coming from Kerala. He told mediapersons that in Coimbatore, “we are taking all necessary precautions on the borders.” Checking is done at 13 inter-State check-posts including Walayar, Mulli, Gopalapuram, Meenakshipuram and Anaikatti round-the-clock. Deputy Director of Health Services P. Aruna and Madukkarai tahsildar Nagarajan accompanied him. According to the Collector, the district administration has already made mandatory complete vaccination certificate or COVID-negative report obtained within 72 hours to enter Coimbatore district from Kerala. RT-PCR test is done randomly on passengers who come without COVID-19 negative report before allowing them into the district. Liquid oxygen storage The Collectorsaid the total capacity of liquid oxygen storage in the district had increased from 50 kilo litre to 83 kilo litre. Oxygen generation had also been increased. There was no panic situation in the district, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/various-departments-intensify-checking-at-border-check-posts/article36330063.ece
07 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to clean and develop canal||Coimbatore Corporation will start work to clean the Sanganoor Canal and build roads along its banks. Sources familiar with the project said the civic body recently issued work order to contractor J.S. Associate Development India Pvt. Ltd. following a resolution passed at the July council meeting. Two phases The corporation would develop the stretch of the canal between Mettupalayam Road and Sathyamangalam Road in two phases for about Rs. 80 crore. The State Government under the Infrastructure and Amenities Fund would extend financial support. Of the Rs. 79.30 crore, the Government would give Rs. 49.96 crore and the civic body would chip in with 29.34 crore, the sources said. In the first phase, the corporation would develop that stretch of the canal between the Mettupalayam Road and Sathyamangalam Road for 2.3 km for Rs. 49 crore. And, in the second phase it would develop the stretch from 2.31 km to 3.30 km for Rs. 30.30 crore. The sources said the contractor would start the work anytime soon and had two years to complete the 3.30 km stretch. The work involved cleaning the canal – removing bushes, removing waste from the canal to ensure smooth flow of water, arresting sewage flow and strengthening the banks. And then, build roads along both the banks to improve connectivity between the Mettupalayam Road and Sathyamangalam Road. The corporation had earlier proposed development of the entire stretch of the canal till the Trichy Road and had estimated Rs. 458 crore for the project as it included removing encroachments and providing alternative accommodation for the people living along the banks. But due to paucity of funds the corporation had proposed to develop the canal and build roads in phases. The project was also announced by then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in the run-up to the mayor by-election, a few years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-clean-and-develop-canal/article36330050.ece
07 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rare sighting of dhole at Ukkadam tank||In what appears to be a strange sighting in an urban area, a dhole ( Cuon alpinis ), also known as Asiatic wild dog, was spotted on the banks of Ukkadam tank on Monday. D. Gajamohanraj, a city-based wildlife photographer and nature enthusiast, spotted a lone dhole on the banks of the urban waterbody in the morning. Mr. Gajamohanraj had gone to the tank for birding and he saw a canine chasing crows on the tank bund. “On the first sight itself I was sure it was a dhole. I was really taken aback as sighting a dhole in the heart of Coimbatore city was something strange,” he said. Mr. Gajamohanraj took a few photographs and videos of the carnivore before informing the Forest Department about the sighting. “I still wonder how the dhole reached the tank in the city. I believe it could have come through the tracks of river Noyyal,” he said. Dhole is listed as ‘endangered’ species in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Independent biologist G. Sivasubramanian said that sighting of a dhole from very far away of their natural habitat was a surprise. “It could have landed near the tank by accident or got stranded from its pack,” he said. According to Mr. Sivasubramanian, Asiatic wild dogs roam and hunt as a pack. They attack animals like spotted deer and sambar. They are normally seen in areas with large prey base of these animals,” he said. A senior official from the Forest Department said that the staff were sent to the tank to monitor the carnivore. Forest Veterinary Officer A. Sukumar also went to the location to observe the dhole which was seen on the banks of the tank in the evening too. “The nearest forest area is located 12 km from the location. The dhole could have come to the place through streams,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rare-sighting-of-dhole-at-ukkadam-tank/article36330061.ece
07 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Office-bearers elected||The Coimbatore Productivity Council recently elected K. Muthukumar as its new president at its annual general meeting. A release said that the 63rd annual general meeting was held virtually on August 27 to elect a new team of office-bearers, governing body members and special invitees for the year 2021-22. K. Arul and S. Sudhakar were elected as the new vice-presidents, K. Chitra as its honorary secretary, R. Ravikumar honorary treasurer, and G. Manoharan was elected as the honorary joint secretary, it said. Saplings distributed Non-governmental organisation Siruvani Vizhuthugal on Monday distributed 750 medicinal saplings at Madvarayapuram and Ikkarai Boluvampatti villages as part of the ‘Ayush Aapke Dwar’ campaign launched by the Central government. A release said the medicinal saplings included Java tea, lemongrass and East Asian wild mint and that the plants were distributed under the guidance of the District Siddha Medical Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/office-bearers-elected/article36330065.ece
07 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||OSAI raises concern over concrete lining of tanks||Environment organisation OSAI has written to Coimbatore Collector expressing concern over reinforcing tanks in River Noyyal system with concrete. In his letter of September 6, the organisation president K. Kalidasan said under the River Noyyal rejuvenation project, the Public Works Department was removing silt and reinforcing bunds in 18 check dams and 22 tanks. While removing silt and reinforcing bunds were welcome as they would improve water holding capacity and recharge ground water, use of concrete on bunds was environmentally hazardous. The move would destroy vegetation on bunds – reeds, grass, trees and shrubs and as a consequence birds like warblers, prinias, bee-eaters, etc. would lose their habitat. Concrete on bunds would permanently damage the bund eco system, he said and cited the questions raised in Parliament and Assembly to underscore the importance of the issue. Mr. Kalidasan also said that it was necessary to safeguard wet land ecosystem and suggested strengthening bunds by planting saplings of native species, which with their root system would strengthen the bunds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/osai-raises-concern-over-concrete-lining-of-tanks/article36330053.ece
07 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sholayar, Parambikulam nearing full reservoir level||Water level in Sholayar and Parambikulam reservoirs are nearing the full reservoir level (FRL). A communique from the district administration said water level in Sholayar Reservoir stood at 161.29 feet against the FRL of 165 feet. In Parambikulam, it was 71.68 feet against 72 feet. Aliyar Reservior, too, saw the water level inch up the FRL as it stood at 118.95 feet against 120 feet. Rainfall Meanwhile, in the 24 hours ending 8 a.m. Monday, Chinnakalar recorded 70 mm rainfall, Cincona- 46 mm, Valparai PAP area- 42 mm, Valparai Taluk office- 40m and Sholayar- 37mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sholayar-parambikulam-nearing-full-reservoir-level/article36330054.ece
07 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNAU UG admission to start on September 8||The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University will start the admission process for undergraduate courses on September 8. A release from the institution said it offered 11 UG programmes in 14 constituent and 28 affiliated colleges. The application forms would be available online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-ug-admission-to-start-on-september-8/article36330048.ece
07 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Around 175 medical professionals participated in an annual conference on obesity management organised by Gem Hospitals on Sunday. Titled ‘Understanding Obesity Amidst the Pandemic’, the event was organised in adherence to COVID-19 protocols, a release said. Surgeons, physicians, endocrinologists, diabetologists, gynaecologists and dieticians participated in this conference, which stressed a multi-modality approach for treating obesity, it said.   Kanishkaa Shree, a Class XII student of National Model Senior Secondary School, recently won the ‘Best Delegate Award’ from Model United Nations conference organised by The Model UN (MUN) Company. A release said around 130 students from seven schools across the country participated in the online event, wherein students role-play the protocols of selected committees and assemblies of the United Nations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article36330058.ece
07 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||TB screening vehicle flagged off in Cuddalore||District Collector K. Balasubramaniam on Monday flagged off a mobile tuberculosis screening van at the Cuddalore Collectorate. According to a release, the vehicle is equipped with a digital mobile X-ray unit. The van will test 40 to 50 persons in one day. Health Department personnel will engage in ‘verbal screening’ in a given area, which involves inquiring residents experiencing symptoms of tuberculosis such as persistent coughs, fever and weight loss. Based on this, the van will reach the particular area for further tests. Commencing operations from Monday, the van will first visit Naduveerapattu then, move on to Oraiyur, Marungur and Mangalur and cover all block hospitals in the district in the coming month. Based on the X-ray tests, the sputum (mucous from lungs) samples collected from the patients will be sent to the Cuddalore Government Medical College Hospital, where the testing for tuberculosis will be done using the cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) method. The government will also provide Rs. 500 per month as social support for affected patients, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tb-screening-vehicle-flagged-off-in-cuddalore/article36330479.ece
07 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Public meet on expanding Cuddalore Municipality||The district administration will hold a public hearing on the upgradation of the Cuddalore Municipality to a municipal corporation at the Collectorate on September 7. According to a release, the State government had announced the plan to expand the municipality by annexing 22 panchayats. As a follow-up to the announcement, the administration will hold a public hearing at the Collectorate at 11.30 a.m. on Tuesday. Residents of the 22 panchayats may attend the hearing or submit their suggestions on the proposal in writing to the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-meet-on-expanding-cuddalore-municipality/article36330480.ece
07 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore records 42 cases, 1 death||Cuddalore district recorded one more COVID-19 death and 42 new cases on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 62,561. A 75-year-old man died of the disease, taking the toll to 841. The district saw 61,272 recoveries and 390 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 21 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 44,958. Kallakurichi district reported 26 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 30,239.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-records-42-cases-1-death/article36330481.ece
07 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Comprehensive livelihood improvement project planned for Kathirimalai people||Residents of Kathirimalai tribal hamlet in Anthiyur Taluk will soon see improvements in their socio-economic conditions as the district administration has come out with a comprehensive livelihood project that will be implemented by various government departments. As many as 80 families comprising 294 members belonging to Solaga community reside in the hamlet inside the reserve forest area of Chennampatti Forest Range in Erode Forest Division. The hamlet in Bargur Panchayat Union can be reached only on foot by traversing the rough terrain for nine km from Kathiripatti at Kolathur in Salem district. Solar panels light up the households, while pregnant women and patients are still carried in cloth cradles to the hospital in Kolathur. Most of the 90 acres in the hamlet is used for cultivating millets for self-consumption. Livestock rearing and handicrafts production are the major source of income. On September 4, Pratik Tayal, Additional Collector (Development) / Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency, led a team comprising officials from the Departments of Revenue, Animal Husbandry, Agriculture Engineering and ICAR Krishi Vigyan Kendra, MYRADA, to the village and discussed various projects for implementation. The officials conducted door-to-door surveys and ascertained the requirements of the people. It was decided to introduce high yielding new crop varieties, create community storage godown, focus on crop diversification, go for compartmental bunding for optimum utilisation of available land and to prevent soil erosion, increase strength of goat and poultry, encourage them to make furniture from Lantana camara and establish bio-plants. It was also decided to identify water sources in the hamlet and construct check dams. Collector H. Krishnanunni told The Hindu that the comprehensive livelihood project will provide sustainable income for the families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/comprehensive-livelihood-improvement-project-planned-for-kathirimalai-people/article36330183.ece
07 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Police official gets U.K. scholarship||R. Ponkarthik Kumar, Additional Superintendent of Police (Headquarters), in Erode district, has got the prestigious Chevening Scholarship to study in the United Kingdom. Chevening is the U.K. government’s international scholarship programme offered to talented working professionals who would be leaders in their country in their respective fields. He completed his Mechanical Engineering in 2007 from PSG College of Technology in Coimbatore and was directly recruited as DSP from 2009-10 batch Group-I Services. A native of Dindigul district, Mr. Ponkarthik will be pursuing his full-time Masters in Security, Terrorism, and Insurgency at the University of Leeds from September 20, 2021 to September 19, 2022 and a specialised course aligned with his field. The scholarship is for one year and it covers tuition fees, monthly living allowances and travel costs. He is the first Tamil Nadu Government servant to get this coveted scholarship. The State government had accorded permission for his study and he would be leaving for the U.K. next week. Applications for the next round of Chevening Scholarships are open at https://www.chevening.org/ and the last date is November 2, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-official-gets-uk-scholarship/article36330176.ece
07 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Differently-abled persons demand levelling of ground allotted to them||Urging the district administration to fulfil its promise to level the ground allotted to 86 differently-abled persons in a hillock, members of the Erode District Differently-Abled Welfare Association staged a sit-in protest at the Collectorate on Monday. Led by its president S. Durairaj, the members said free house site pattas were given to 59 beneficiaries at Nalla Goundan Palayam at Chithode on December 27, 2018 and to 23 beneficiaries at Kagam panchayat in Modakkurichi Taluk while four persons are yet to receive pattas. Since the land at Chithode was located in a hillock, the administration promised to level the ground and survey it after which plots would be allotted to them. After various protests, the officials promised to complete the works. But, even after three years, the works were yet to be taken up. They said that due to COVID-19, they lost their livelihood and could not pay house rent and were forced to vacate the houses. During their protest at Chithode on November 24, 2020, officials from the departments of revenue and differently-abled held talks with them and gave a written assurance to level the ground at the earliest. “It requires at least Rs. 10 lakh to level the ground and we cannot do it,” they said and wanted the administration to keep up its promise. Their protest continued till afternoon after which District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan held talks with the association. But Mr. Durairaj told the DRO that until their demands were met, they would continue their protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-persons-demand-levelling-of-ground-allotted-to-them/article36330179.ece
07 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water in Sadayampalayam tank up to the brim||The recent rain led to the tank at Sadayampalayam in the Corporation limits getting filled to the brim, thus presenting a picturesque sight to people. The tank is spread across seven acre and the civic body had carried out beautification works four years ago. Seepage from the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal and rainwater are the main sources of water to the tank and it fills to the brim from September to February every year. The recent rain brought copious inflow into the tank. Though water is yet to be released into LBP canal, the tank received rainwater in the past one week, according to the residents of Sadayampalayam. The tank is located near the Outer Ring Road that connects Thindal and Kokkarayanpettai in Namakkal district. Since the ring road project was completed, flow of vehicles was high and the tank captured the attention of road users, said Raja, a resident. “Additional amenities will attract more people,” he added. Farmers said the tank helped recharge open wells and borewells in over 10 km radius and water shortage would not be there in villages around the area during summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-in-sadayampalayam-tank-up-to-the-brim/article36330185.ece
07 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Kavalan app comes to the rescue of minor girl||A minor girl who sought the help of police using Kavalan SOS mobile app was rescued and five persons were arrested on charges of kidnapping her at Gobichettipalayam here. According to the police, the 17-year-old girl hails from a village in Tiruvannamalai and had lost her father two years ago. She is employed in a private mill at Arasur in Gobichettipalayam Taluk. Following COVID-19 pandemic, she returned home last year and her mother performed her marriage with Annamalai (28) in July this year. Acting on a tip-off, the Social Welfare Department in Tiruvannamalai district rescued the girl and sent her to a government protection home. Last month, her grandmother Pomaliya (70) took her home and later sent her to the mill. On September 4, Annamalai, Pomaliya, relatives Gowri (40) and Panjumoorthy (34) went to the mill, produced her marriage photograph and requested the administration to send her with them. Since the girl’s grandmother was with them, the administration permitted her to go. The girl, on entering the car owned by Palani (25), used the Kavalan SOS App of the Tamil Nadu Police and sought assistance. The police control room alerted the traffic police in Gobichettipalayam and the police intercepted the car at Othakuthirai village. All the five persons and the girl were taken to the police station. Kadathur police registered a case and arrested the five. The girl was sent to a government home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kavalan-app-comes-to-the-rescue-of-minor-girl/article36330181.ece
07 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Toll plaza workers stage protest||Workers of Krishnagiri toll plaza staged a protest against the newly appointed subcontractor over the revised terms of employment. Among the contentious terms include the condition that the workers may be transferred to any part of the country, where M/s Racy Projects wins a subcontract On Monday, the Tamil Nadu Toll Plaza Workers Federation led by the Tamil Nadu General Workers Union staged a sit-in protest outside the Collectorate here over the revised terms of contract by the new subcontractor appointed by Reliance Infrastructure, the concessionaire of the toll plaza. Citing the pending conciliation proceedings under the Industrial Disputes Act, and an earlier Madras High Court order of 2020 on maintenance of status quo without altering service conditions or termination of services by the subcontractor in various toll plazas, the Federation slammed the revision of terms. According to the Federation, on July 31, the workers were asked to sign accepting the new terms and conditions of Racy Projects. The protesters said the revision of terms and conditions was untenable. When contacted Yuvaraj, Project Manager of Reliance Infrastructure, Krishnagiri toll plaza, he said, “it is a general norm to draw up a contract. A section of workers had started work accepting the terms, while another section has refused to work.” Both the parties had moved the court, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-plaza-workers-stage-protest/article36330174.ece
07 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Many people submit grievance petitions||Though the official grievance redressal meeting has not been taking place at the Collectorate due to COVID-19 pandemic restrictions, a plenty of people from across the district reached out to the collectorate officials and handed over their petitions here on Monday. S. Ganeshan, a 30-year old physically-challenged person, brought a petition seeking a tricycle. He said, “The tricycle I have been using got broken recently and hence, I have requested a new one. COVID-19 has been tough on people like us. Before the pandemic, I was taking tuition classes for schoolchildren. Now, there is no possibility for employment of any kind. This cycle would at least help me move around on my own.” An elderly couple from the city, who belonged to the Panimalar Kalai Mandram, came seeking opportunities for conducting awareness programmes in a few villages in the district. K.S. Mani, 75, who leads the group of 6 artists, said, “For the past one and a half years, most of the small-scale cultural programmes and awareness programmes conducted by the Collectorate in the rural sides have not been happening due to the COVID-19 protocols. We request the district administration to restart some of them and provide us with employment. We can start doing dramas and performances about COVID-19 awareness and reduction of plastic usage.” V. Saravanan from West Masi Street petitioned for a new building for an anganwadi in Melavasal. He said, “The anganwadi is currently functioning without proper structural facilities. There are asbestos sheets used in some corners. If it is shifted to a proper building, it will be beneficial for the children there who mostly come from disadvantaged backgrounds.” A group of residents from Kurunji Nagar near Madakulam Main Road approached the Collectorate seeking to clear an encroachment on their street. R Navaneedhakrishnan, one of the residents said, “Our way out to the road is blocked by this extension from a private building. Essential services like ambulance and milk delivery are affected due to it. We have approached both the Collectorate and the Corporation, to help us in this regard.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-people-submit-grievance-petitions/article36330382.ece
07 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Give us weekly off without wage cut, demand Corporation contract workers||Sanitary workers and other contract-based workers under the engineering and health department of the city corporation protested on the Corporation’s premises in Arignar Anna Maligai on Monday, demanding the Corporation to give them their weekly off without cutting their wages. M. Balasubramanian, secretary of the Madurai Corporation Employees Union affiliated to the Centre of India Trade Unions (CITU), Madurai, said, “Many contract workers have been working for the Corporation for more than 10-15 years. We want them to be made as permanent employees with proper benefits. We also want the salary to be given by the Corporation and not by the contractors. Recently, the Corporation has been cutting workers’ salary, saying that they cannot be paid on weekly offs when they do not work. This is not fair as such practices were never undertaken before.” He said that every worker deserves an off and he does not have to work on all seven days to get his full salary. He also said that the Corporation should fill the 2400 vacancies in the engineering and health department. K P Thangavel, president of the Madurai Corporation Sanitary Workers Welfare Association, affiliated to the Labour Progressive Federation, Madurai, said, “As front line workers, we also have to be given Rs. 15,000 that was announced as COVID-19 relief fund.” They also asked for employment for sons/daughters of workers who had died in the past on compassionate grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-us-weekly-off-without-wage-cut-demand-corporation-contract-workers/article36330378.ece
07 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special awareness sessions on educational loans||In an attempt to help more students in the district avail educational loans without any complexities, special awareness sessions on educational loans were conducted in the past two weeks, for about 10,000 students who had completed 12th standard this year. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar and Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan presided over a meeting that aimed to provide educational loans for students in the districts to the tune of Rs. 500 crore in the current year, with officials from the education department and banks, at the Collectorate, on Monday. This is the third round of meeting in the district’s intensive drive to facilitate more students to obtain educational loans. As a result of earlier meetings, one teacher has been appointed in each of the 357 high schools and higher secondary schools in the district, as a nodal officer in their respective schools, to help students learn about the loan procedures. In the past two weeks, these teachers have educated about 10,000 students who have finished 12th this year, on the loan procedures. While interacting with the media after the meeting, MP Su. Venkatesan said, “About 38,000 students in the district have finished class twelve this year. Around 20,000 of them might pursue higher education. If we assume that around 10,000 of them would opt for technical education that requires more educational loans, we have successfully reached a good portion of aspirants who might seek for loans this year. We will continue to reach out to more students.” Colleges and banks in the district have been asked to put up awareness banners in the college premises on how to acquire educational loans, he added. Dr. Aneesh Sekhar said, “So far, loans to the tune of Rs. 50 crore have been provided to 630 students. A help desk to facilitate educational loans, with a specific contact number, will be established at the Collectorate this week.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-awareness-sessions-on-educational-loans/article36330383.ece
07 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Explain progress made in extortion case probe: High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday sought details of the progress made in the investigation into the extortion case involving suspended Inspector of Police S. Vasanthi. She has been booked for extortion of Rs. 10 lakh from a tailor. Justice B. Pugalendhi directed the State to submit a report to the court on Tuesday on the progress made in the investigation after the arrest of Vasanthi, who is now in judicial custody. The court was hearing the anticipatory bail petition filed by Vasanthi, who claimed that she was innocent. Following her arrest, her counsel sought to withdraw the plea seeking anticipatory bail in order to move the district court for bail. However, taking into account the serious nature of the offence, the the judge sought to know the progress made in the investigation, and whether the accused was booked for any other offence and her antecedents. The judge directed the State to submit the details. The suspended Inspector of Nagamalai Pudukkottai under the Madurai Rural District Police was booked based on a complaint lodged by the tailor, K. Asrath. He said his bag containing Rs. 10 lakh was taken away by the Inspector and the money was not returned. The complainant said he had raised a loan of Rs. 10 lakh to set up a tailoring unit and needed more money. Under these circumstances, a group of persons offered to help him get a loan. But, they returned to the spot with Vasanthi. She is said to have told them that they would have to come to the police station for an inquiry, but she dropped Mr. Asrath midway. When Mr. Asrath went to the police station the next day, he was told by Vasanthi that his bag contained only newspapers and documents. In her anticipatory bail petition, Vasanthi claimed that she visited the spot based on secret information about exchange of fake currency notes. She took those who had assembled there to the police station for an inquiry, but released them after finding no incriminating materials in the bag. Vasanthi was nabbed in Kotagiri in the Nilgiris district by a special team on August 27. The other accused are Pandiaraj, Palpandi, Karthik and Ukkirapandi, and all of them have been secured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/explain-progress-made-in-extortion-case-probe-hc/article36330148.ece
07 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Interim relief paid to family, HC told||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court was on Monday informed that the family of the Thanjavur infant whose left hand thumb was cut while a staff nurse attempted to remove the paediatric venflon (cannula) at a Government Hospital in Thanjavur, had received the interim compensation amount of Rs. 75,000 ordered by the court The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Ganesan of Thanjavur, the father of the infant. He sought an appropriate compensation from the State government for the negligent act of the staff nurse. The incident took place in June 2021. Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy took note of the fact that the family of the infant received the interim compensation amount ordered by the court and directed the counsel representing the petitioner to work out the details for a final compensation amount to be paid to the family. Earlier, the court had observed that in cases of this nature the strict liability theory had to be applied, taking into account the horrific experience of the parents who had to see their child writhing in pain. The court was informed that the parents had taken the infant to the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital in Omandurar Estate, Chennai, for treatment. They were told that the overall function of the thumb of the infant would be restricted to a limited extent. The State had told the court that best possible treatment would be provided to the infant and scientific development would be used to treat the infant. The court adjourned the case by a week. The Thanjavur Government Hospital staff nurse has been booked for causing grievous injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-out-details-for-compensation-amount/article36330123.ece
07 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Eight arrested with Rs. 62.39 lakh demonetised currency notes||Madurai rural district police have busted a racket of "exchanging" demonetised currency notes with seizure of demonitised currency notes in the denominations of Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 500 to the tune of Rs. 62,39,500 and arrested eight persons, including two from Kerala. Acting on a tip-off, Nagamalai Pudukottai police raided the house of S. Sivan on Bharatiyar Street where they found all the accused and the demonitised notes. The arrested are G. Kaveri (31) of Dharmapuri district, M. Karuppanan (65) of Namakkal district and T. Udhayakumar (48) and R. Aravind Kumar (63), N. Vijayakumar (37) of Kerala and Sivan. Others were identified as J. Muthumohan (32), C. Rajkumar (41) of Viralimalai. The police are on the lookout for one more accused, Senthil. Kaveri is involved in poultry business and Karuppanan in pandal business. "They were promised of exchanging demonitised currency notes for a commission by a gang," Madurai Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said. The police were initially perplexed when the accused said that they could make the demonitised notes into valid notes through some puja. However, an enquiry revealed that both Kaveri and Karuppanan were duped by the gang that had asked them to collect demonitised notes in crores for converting them into valid notes. "It looks like the gang and directed the duo to collect the demonitised currency notes from some of their own members in different parts of the State for a commission at the rate of Rs. 3 lakh (valid notes) for Rs. 30 lakh demonitised notes," the SP said. Since, the gang would have already got the money through commission, they had planned to cheat them by enacting some drama of police presence when they come for “conversion” of notes through puja. However, they were caught by the real police. Among the accused, Udhayakumar is a clerk with a nationalised bank in Kollam, said Nagamalai Pudukottai Inspector B. Sivakumar. The accused had quarrelled with the police and did not cooperate for the enquiry. They were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including for using abusive language, preventing the police officials from discharging their duties and provisions of Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017. All of them were remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-held-with-demonetised-currency-notes/article36330164.ece
07 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man attacks girl with machete||A minor girl suffered bleeding injury on her hand when a 59-year-old man, K. Selvam, attacked her with a machete in Kandai near Tirumangalam on Sunday. The police said that Selvam had developed enmity with C. Muniyandi (36) due to rivalry during election. When Muniyandi’s daughters, Ramya and Keerthana were standing in front of his house, Selvam attacked Ramya in which she sustained injuries on her left hand. Sindupatti police have arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-attacks-girl-with-machete/article36330166.ece
07 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Idhayam Trust employee gets bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday granted bail to an employee of Idhayam Trust in the Madurai illegal child adoption case. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted bail with conditions to R. Kalaivani, coordinator of the Trust. The key accused in the case are director of the Trust G.R. Sivakumar and his accomplice Madarsha. The main accused are remanded in judicial custody. They had allegedly sold two infants to two childless couples without the knowledge of their mother. The woman had handed her children to the home run by the Trust as she was unable to take care of them. Police nabbed Sivakumar when he was on the way to Kerala. The court later granted bail to the two childless couples, a vegetable merchant and a social worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/idhayam-trust-employee-gets-bail/article36330379.ece
07 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Girl attacked with machete||A minor girl suffered bleeding injury on her hand when a 59-year-old man, K. Selvam, attacked her with a machete in Kandai near Tirumangalam on Sunday. The police said that Selvam had developed enmity with C. Muniyandi (36) due to rivalry during election. When Muniyandi’s daughters, Ramya and Keerthana were standing in front of his house, Selvam attacked Ramya in which she sustained injuries on her left hand. Sindupatti police have arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-attacked-with-machete/article36330524.ece
07 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Consider plea to remove encroachment’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the Tahsildar of Melur taluk in Madurai district to consider the representation made to remove the encroachments on the pathway to a graveyard in Melavalavu and pass appropriate orders. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and J. Nisha Banu directed the authorities to ascertain if the pathway was encroached upon and take necessary action after ascertaining the facts. The court was hearing the petition filed by P. Bharathi of Melavalavu. In the public interest litigation petition, Bharathi said he was residing in Adi Dravidar Clony. He alleged that the pathway to the graveyard was encroached upon by a former union councillor Chellammal. He said he and others submitted representations, but no action was taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-plea-to-remove-encroachment/article36330385.ece
07 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Monday stood at 131.90 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,033 cusecs and discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level stood at 61.81 feet (71 ft.) with an inflow of 933 cusecs and discharge of 1619 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,900 mcft.  Rainfall Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday was (in mm): Periyar dam 14; Thekkady 17.4, Gudalur 8.7, Shanmuganadhi 5.3, Veerapandi 3.4, Manjalar dam 1, Sathaiyar dam 10 and Kodaikanal 13.6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36330154.ece
07 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Girl attacked with machete||A minor girl suffered bleeding injury on her hand when a 59-year-old man, K. Selvam, attacked her with a machete in Kandai near Tirumangalam on Sunday. The police said that Selvam had developed enmity with C. Muniyandi (36) due to rivalry during election. When Muniyandi’s daughters, Ramya and Keerthana were standing in front of his house, Selvam attacked Ramya in which she sustained injuries on her left hand. Sindupatti police have arrested the accused.    Meanwhile, in a separate case, Melur police have booked two persons for sexually abusing a boy and videographing the act. The police said that K. Ayyanar of Kottagudi had abused the 5-year-old boy and it was videographed with a mobile phone by T. Munisamy of the same village. Based on a complaint by the father of the victim, the Melur police have booked the absconding accused under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and under the provisions of Information Technology Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-attacked-with-machete/article36330386.ece
07 September 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen told to operate within IMBL||In the wake of two incidents of mid-sea attack on fishers by unknown persons within a week this month, the district administration on Monday convened a meeting of fishermen at Arcouttuthurai in the district that was attended by officials of Coastal Security Group, and Marine Enforcement Wing. The fishers were apprised about the imperative need to operate within the international maritime boundary line (IMBL), Collector A. Arun Thamburaj said. The apprehensions of fishers of Keechankuppam and Akkaraipettai who had borne the brunt of the attack with knives and rods by unidentified men was that they were being cornered by Sri Lanka-based sea pirates. Representatives of fishers were apprised by police officials about self-defence mechanisms to protect themselves. The affected fishers who had lost their GPS devices, nets and other equipment worth lakhs of rupees had sought compensation from the Government. Efforts were on to determine the identity of the unknown men who had indulged in the mid-sea attacks. The request for compensation made by the fishermen has also been conveyed to the State Government, the Collector said. The two mid-sea robberies that had taken place within a week has occurred after a gap of a few years, Sakthivel, a representative of fishers in Akkaraipettai said. In both incidents, the unknown persons had attacked the occupants of the fibre boat and had gone away with the nets, GPS devices and the catches. “Our apprehension is that the miscreants get away with their crime in the guise of fishermen,” Mr. Sakthivel said. The involvement of miscreants from amongst the fishers also cannot be ruled out, Mr. Sakthivel said, emphasising that stepped-up patrolling by Coast Guard could instil a sense of fear among the miscreants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-told-to-operate-within-imbl/article36330124.ece
07 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Burglary attempt at nationalised bank||A burglary attempt was made at the branch of a nationalised bank in Tiruchengode. According to the police, an unidentified gang had cut open the windows and tried to break open the strong room at the bank. However, they failed in their attempts and fled from the place. Bank staff noticed the break in and immediately alerted the police. Forensic experts collected fingerprints from the place. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglary-attempt-at-nationalised-bank/article36330186.ece
07 September 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||BJP: will take joint decision on NDA’s Rajya Sabha nominee||The nominee of the National Democratic Alliance for the lone Rajya Sabha seat in Puducherry will be decided jointly by the alliance party leaders, BJP in-charge for the Union Territory Nirmal Kumar Surana said. “The National Democratic Alliance has got a comfortable majority in the Assembly. Nobody else will have any say on the seat and the candidate will be from the NDA,” he told The Hindu over phone. Mr. Surana, who wound up his two-day trip to the Union Territory on Sunday, said his visit was purely on organisational matters and had nothing to do with the Rajya Sabha elections. When asked about NDA-constituent All India N.R. Congress also being reportedly interested in the seat, the BJP leader said, “We will sit together and decide after the notification is issued.” The term of present Rajya Sabha member N. Gokulakrishnan comes to an end in October. The notification kick-starting the process to elect the next member representing Puducherry in the Upper House was expected soon, an official associated with election work said. Addressing a question on the local body polls, Mr. Surana said the party wanted the Election Department to conduct the polls as directed by the Supreme Court. It might be recalled that party legislators, such as A. John Kumar, while speaking on the motion of thanks to the Lt. Governor’s address, had sought postponement of the polls. He had urged the State Election Commission to rectify the ‘mistakes’ in the delimitation exercise. Mr. Surana said the party had already started the work to select candidates for municipalities and panchayats. The work to identify candidates had commenced much before, he added. When asked whether the alliance would continue for the local body polls, he said, “Since we are in government together, we naturally think of an alliance.” Mr. Surana said the local unit had arranged a month-long programme, starting September 17, to mark the birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-will-take-joint-decision-on-ndas-rajya-sabha-nominee/article36330483.ece
07 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Expedite formation of labourers’ welfare board: former MP||The absence of a functional Welfare Board to implement schemes of social security to 28 categories of unorganised or casual labourers has hit them hard, especially during the pandemic, former MP M. Ramadass said on Monday. In a press statement, Mr. Ramadass said while the government, after a long delay, framed the Puducherry Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Rules, 2020, on the lines of the Government of India Act, 2008, and published the same in the Government Gazette on November 12, 2020, no Government Order was issued to implement the rules regarding the constitution of the board, its activities and sourcing finances for the welfare fund. While the government was dithering on these matters, the Government of India enacted a new comprehensive act called the Code on Social Security , 2020, replacing or amending the old act. This, in practice, implies that the Puducherry Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Rules, 2020 has become outdated and irrelevant, and the Puducherry government has to restart the rule framing process. All the while, the conditions of these workers, now numbering 26,974, is becoming miserable with the progressive process of privatisation and the onset of the COVID-19 crisis. These included taxi and autorickshaw drivers, carpenters, hair dressers, tailors, cycle-rickshaw pullers, cobblers, washermen, tree climbers, pottery workers and hawkers. “It is quite unfortunate that the just concluded Budget session of the Assembly has also not taken note of this serious issue. Their poverty and penury are deepening, and they suffer from insecurity of jobs and income. A welfare government cannot be a passive spectator to the sad plight of these hapless and helpless citizens,” Mr. Ramadass said. He urged the Government to expedite the formation of the Puducherry Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Board for which a new code of social security has to be created. The government has to work on a war footing. A committee of experts drawn from various departments of the government should be constituted with a mandate to complete the work on new social security laws within a month’s time. The new laws could be published in the gazette, and the government should be in preparedness to take quick decisions and issue orders constituting the Social Security Board, delineating its functions and the rate of contributions to the welfare fund by workers, employers, if any, and the government, Mr. Ramadass said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-formation-of-labourers-welfare-board-former-mp/article36330475.ece
07 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New COVID-19 cases fall to 32 in U.T., one dies||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death as new cases fell to 32, the fewest in over a month, and the test positivity rate was under 1% on Monday. With the death of a patient in Puducherry, the cumulative toll in the Union Territory went up to 1,818. Toll by region The toll by region is Puducherry (1,433), Karaikal (238), Yanam (105) and Mahe (42). Puducherry accounted for 20 of the new cases, which were confirmed from 3,434 tests, followed by Karaikal (6), Yanam (1) and Mahe (5). The test positivity rate was 0.93%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.80%. 78 recoveries With 78 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 914. This comprised of 175 patients in hospitals and 739 cases in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded 1,24,184 cases against 1,21,452 recoveries. Of an estimated 16.73 lakh tests administered to date, over 14.20 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 2,226 persons took the jab against COVID-19, taking the total number of vaccinated people in the Union Territory to 8,38,485.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-covid-19-cases-fall-to-32-in-ut-one-dies/article36330476.ece
07 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy playing politics over Vinayaka Chaturthi issue: AIADMK||AIADMK (east secretary) A Anbalagan on Monday accused former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy of playing politics over the Vinayaka Chaturthi festival. Addressing newspersons, he said various State governments had permitted celebrations with necessary COVID-19 precautions, and in Puducherry as well, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan had authorised celebrations in a safe manner. By seeking restrictions on public display of Ganesha idols, Mr. Narayanasamy was trying to play politics in the issue, he alleged. Mr. Anbalagan pointed out that when COVID-19 was at its peak, Mr. Narayanasamy, as Chief Minister, had permitted the Saneeswaran temple festival in Karaikal as well as New Year celebrations. Stating that there was no need to follow every announcement of the DMK government in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Anbalagan added that Mr. Narayanasamy should be able to see through any attempt to polarise people on the basis of their faith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-playing-politics-over-vinayaka-chaturthi-issue-aiadmk/article36330477.ece
07 September 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||19-year-old Sri Lankan woman detained in Rameswaram||A Sri Lankan national, identified as Kasturi, 19, daughter of Sivanesan of Mullivaikal, was detained by the Marine Police here on Monday. The police said they spotted the woman near Dhanushkodi seashore. Preliminary inquiries revealed that she lived in Velachery, Chennai. On Sunday, she had reached Rameswaram and stayed in a lodge. She had planned to sail to Sri Lanka after an “agent” assured to fix a fibre boat. A police officer, who inquired her, said that she had come to Chennai from Sri Lanka in 2018 and stayed in a relative’s house in Velachery. As her visa had expired, she was advised by an agent to travel to Sri Lanka in a clandestine manner. In the early hours of Monday, she was to have left from Dhanushkodi shore. However, vigil by the Indian Coast Guard personnel forced the boatman to leave her at an isolated point in Dhanushkodi shore. Following information, the Marine Police rushed there and handed her over to the Rameswaram police. The woman said she wanted to go back home as her father was sick. Statement recorded After recording her statement, the police detained three persons - Muniaraj and Maridas of Rameswaram and boat owner-cum-driver Murugavel - for inquiry. The State and Central agency officials were informed about the detention of the Sri Lankan, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-trying-to-flee-to-sri-lanka-detained-in-rameswaram/article36330161.ece
07 September 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||47 vulnerable areas identified in Ranipet ahead of monsoon||The district administration in Ranipet has identified 47 areas that are prone to inundation during the monsoon. At a review meeting on measures that need to be taken before the onset of northeast monsoon, Collector A.R. Gladstone Pushparaj said door-to-door inspection of houses in residential areas should be done by sanitary staff to check for any rainwater stagnation in unused household items to prevent dengue. Overhead tanks in each house should be thoroughly checked and disinfected after creating awareness among residents of preventing rainwater stagnation in their houses. “This exercise should be done once in three days apart from other dengue prevention activities like fogging,” Mr. Pushparaj said. The newly carved-out Ranipet district has six taluks including Arcot, Walajah, Arakkonam, Sholinghur and Nemili, covering 330 revenue villages. Among these, Ranipet, Arcot, Walajah, Arakkonam and Melvisharam are municipalities. Many villages in the district are located along the Palar. The district administration has issued a flood alert to 16 villages located along the river — Marudhambakkam, Yegambaranallur, Kondakuppam, Seekarajapuram, Narasingapuram, Lalapettai, Thengal, Kaarai, Thirumalaiseri, Poondi, Kudimallur, Sathambakkam, Visharam, Arcot, Sakkaramallur and Pushupadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/47-vulnerable-areas-identified-in-ranipet-ahead-of-monsoon/article36330469.ece
07 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC bus attached for delaying compensation||Attachment proceedings were initiated against a bus under the Salem division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation after the Corporation delayed payment of compensation to an accident victim. Injured in accident In 2015, Mahendran, a textile trader from Mettur, suffered severe injuries in an accident involving a TNSTC bus and his right hand was amputated. Mr. Mahendran moved the Special Court for MCOP cases demanding compensation. Hearing the case, the court in 2018 directed the transport corporation to pay a compensation of Rs. 15 lakh to Mahendran. However, the Corporation delayed the payment. Mahendran moved the Special Court again and the court recently directed the Corporation to pay the amount including interest or to attach a government bus. On Monday, Mahendran along with court staff and lawyers came to initiate attachment proceedings at the new bus stand.  Released Later, officials from the Salem division paid Rs. 19 lakh to Mahendran and released the bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-bus-attached-for-delaying-compensation/article36330192.ece
07 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Bridge works progressing at Maravaneri||The construction works for rail overbridge (ROB) at the Maravaneri junction are progressing and are expected to be completed within a year. A rail overbridge at Maravaneri level crossing has been a long-standing demand of the people here. Located on the Salem-Virudhachalam section, the level crossing is closed multiple times a day, leading to severe traffic congestion in the region. The Maravaneri junction is one of the major junctions in the district which is accessed by motorists from Salem-Ulundurpet road, Military road to reach the Collectorate and the Salem Government Hospital. According to officials, though a rail overbridge was sanctioned at Maravaneri, the works got delayed due to litigations regarding land acquisition. The works had resumed now and the bridge would ensure free traffic movement. The officials said the foundation works had begun and land acquisition works had been completed. The project was being implemented at an approximate cost of Rs. 92 crore. The bridge would have a motorway of 11 metres and cover a distance of 800 metres. The bridge was being constructed through an alternate route, using the existing approach road, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bridge-works-progressing-at-maravaneri/article36330172.ece
07 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain lashes Salem||Heavy rain lashed the district on Sunday and an average rainfall of 14.88 mm was recorded. The highest rainfall was recorded in Salem, 54.4 mm follwed by Kadayampatti 34 mm; Sankari 27 mm, Omalur 26 mm, Edappadi 17 mm, Yercaud 15.8 mm, Kariyakovil 10 mm, Thammampatti 10 mm, Mettur 8.6 mm, Anaimadaivu 8 mm, P.N.Palayam 7 mm, Gangavalli 3 mm and Attur 8.6 mm. In Mettur dam, water level stood at 72.6ft against a total scale of 120ft. The storage was 35,055 tmcft. The dam received an inflow of 22,076 cusecs and discharge through Cauvery river was 5,000 cusecs and 650 cusecs was released through East-West canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-lashes-salem/article36330190.ece
07 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CCTV cameras inaugurated||Salem City Police Commissioner Najmul Hoda launched the functioning of CCTV cameras installed at areas under Sooramangalam limits. According to the police, 120 CCTV cameras have been newly installed in the Sooramangalam police limits. Addressing at the event, Mr. Hoda said there were 17,500 cameras in the city limits and cameras had also been installed covering 10-15 statues in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cctv-cameras-inaugurated/article36330187.ece
07 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments removed||Buildings constructed encroaching Postal Department’s land near Attayampatti here were demolished on Monday. According to the officials, the department owns about 7,900 sq.ft of land valued at Rs. 30 lakh near Attayampatti and 2,234 sq.ft was under encroachment. The department moved the Civil Court in 2004. The Court ruled in favour of the department in 2008. However, the encroachments were not removed and the department approached the Court recently. The Court directed the authorities to implement the order on August 27. On Monday, the encroachments were removed from the department’s land in the presence of police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-removed/article36330189.ece
07 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||HMK opposes ban on Ganesh festival||Hindu Makkal Katchi on Monday condemned the decision of the State government banning Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations this year. The cadre staged a protest in front of the district Collectorate. They claimed that despite daily caseload of COVID-19 positive cases being so low, the State government has prohibited placing idols in public places while permitting reopening of schools and liquor outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hmk-opposes-ban-on-ganesh-festival/article36330191.ece
07 September 2021||Srivillputtur,TAMIL NADU||Boy drowns in well||A 15-year-old boy, Prathap of Koomapatti, drowned in a farm well on Sunday. The boy had gone to take bath in the well with his friends. After he drowned, Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Watrap struggled for more than 12 hours to retrieve the body. However, since the well had water for nearly 70 feet, they could not reach the bottom. After they suspended the search operation past midnight, the body floated in the water on Monday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-drowns-in-well/article36330167.ece
07 September 2021||STAFF REPORTER,TAMIL NADU||DVAC raids residence of govt. school headmaster||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Monday raided the residence of a government school headmaster at Nedunchalai Nagar for allegedly acquiring assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. According to sources, G.Venkateshwaran, headmaster at the government tribal school near Pethanaikenpalayam, was charged with accumulating wealth beyond his income by the DVAC . His wife P.Ramya is also named an accused in the case. Venkateshwaran joined government service in 2002 and has been working at the tribal school from 2018. The accused is said to have accumulated assets to the tune of about Rs. 24 lakh beyond his income between 2012 and 2018 and a case was registered by the DVAC in November 2020. The search that began at the residence of Venkateshwaran in the early hours of the day continued till about 3 p.m. Investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-raids-residence-of-govt-school-headmaster/article36330188.ece
07 September 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Use party fund to release ‘Dravida Kalanjiyam’, DMK told||The Thamizh Desiya Periyakkam (TDP) has urged the DMK to compile and release the ‘Dravida Kalanjiyam’ book using the party funds and not the exchequer for bringing out this publication. In a statement the TDP president, P.Maniarasan, welcomed the clarification given by the Minister for Tamil Official Language, Tamil Culture and Archaeology, Thangam Thennarasu that the proposed publication would be a compilation of the speeches/literary works of the Dravidar Kazhagam/Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam personalities such as Periyar, Anna, Kalaignar, publications brought out by other writers about the traits and achievements of the DK/DMK personalities and the works/thesis of others such as Iravatham Mahadevan, Balakrishnan who have tried to paint the Tamil Language and Tamil Culture as part of Dravidam . Such being the intention of the present administrators then it would be apt if they bring out the proposed compilation using their party fund, he said and added that it would not be fair to spend the exchequer to bring out a publication containing the so called achievements of DK and DMK. He also questioned Chief Minister M. K. Stalin’s claim that the ‘Dravidian Model’ adopted by the DMK played a key role in the social economic development of Tamil Nadu. “Were the Tamilians inferior to the people of Northern region prior to Independence or during the British Rule?” he wondered and added that the Tamil speaking landmass enjoyed a flourishing socio economic status when it was called the Madras Presidency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-party-fund-to-release-dravida-kalanjiyam-dmk-told/article36330128.ece
07 September 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Boats seized||The District Fisheries Department officials have impounded four fishing vessels at Sethubhavachatram Fishing Harbour on Saturday on charges of using banned nets for fishing. According to sources, Assistant Director (AD) (Fisheries) Sivakumar received information that the banned double fold (“irattai madi”) fishing nets were being used in some vessels registered at the Sethubhavachatram Fishing Harbour. Subsequently, a team of officials led by the AD (Fisheries) conducted a surprise inspection of the vessels at Sethubhavachatram on Saturday afternoon where they have found the banned fishing nets in four vessels registered in the name of Raman, Balakrishnan, Kalimuthu and Murugan. Subsequently, the officials impounded the vessels and the nets and initiated legal proceedings under the Marine Fishing Regulation Act. The impounded vessels would not be permitted to venture into sea for fishing until the legal proceedings initiated under the Act comes to an end, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishing-vessels-seized/article36330127.ece
07 September 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Suspended town services revived||The following town services which were suspended earlier by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Kumbakonam division, Thanjavur Town Depot-2 were revived from Sunday: The services that were operated on Thanjavur-Palaiyapatti, Thanjavur-Kangeyampatti and Thanjavur-Thirukattupalli routes were flagged off by the Thiruvaiyar MLA, Durai Chandrasekaran, at the depot in Thanjavur. Meanwhile, the Peravurani MLA, N. Ashokkumar, had flagged off bus services on the following routes – between Peravurani and Aavudaiyarkovil; Peravurani-Sornakadu and Peravurani-Pattukottai – last week at Peravurani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspended-town-services-revived/article36330129.ece
07 September 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Printing machine seized||Police investigations into the counterfeit currency case has opened up a Pandora’s box. On Sunday, the police arrested Alexander, 42, of Anaimalayanpatti near Rayapanpatti in Uthamapalayam block, and his accomplice Kannan, 35, of TTV Dhinakaran Colony on charges of possessing counterfeit currencies in the denominations of Rs. 2,000, Rs. 500, Rs. 100 and Rs. 50. The face value of the currencies was close to Rs. 20 lakh. Investigating officers said on Monday that one of them was an autorickshaw driver. After specific inputs, the police trailed hims and found his spending pattern unusual. A search on his premises revealed that he had a printing and cutting machine. He had confessed to have ordered them online. The accused had frequently visited Bengaluru. The tracking of the mobile phones showed that he had contacts with people there and in Kerala. Explaining the modus operandi, the police said he visited the markets bordering Tamil Nadu and Kerala. He purchased different commodities in bulk and paid ‘cash’ in the higher denominations and got back genuine currencies as change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fake-notes-case-police-seize-printing-machine/article36330163.ece
07 September 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||24x7 surveillance of Kerala passengers||Following the death of a 12-year-old boy of Nipah in Kozhikode district in Kerala, vehicles coming from there are examined by a joint team of officials at the specially installed checkposts in Bodi Mettu, Cumbum Mettu and Kumuli. Collector K. V. Muralidharan, who inspected the checkposts recently, said that the staffs from Health, Revenue and Police are manning the check posts round-the-clock. The vehicles would be sanitised and the occupants checked for body temperature and vaccination certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24x7-surveillance-of-kerala-passengers/article36330525.ece
07 September 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||24 tonnes of ration rice seized||Following the death of a 12-year-old boy of Nipah in Kozhikode district in Kerala, vehicles coming from there are examined by a joint team of officials at the specially installed checkposts in Bodi Mettu, Cumbum Mettu and Kumuli. Collector K. V. Muralidharan, who inspected the checkposts recently, said that the staffs from Health, Revenue and Police are manning the check posts round-the-clock. The vehicles would be sanitised and the occupants checked for body temperature and vaccination certificates.  Over 24 tonnes of rice and 1,450 kg of wheat, meant for public distribution system and illegally stocked in a godown here, were seized by Virudhunagar district police on Monday. Acting on a tip-off, a special team of police led by Superintendent of Police M. Manohar raided the godown at K. K. S. S. N. Nagar in the evening found huge quantities of the rice and wheat at the godown belonging to K. Kannan, 45, of Allampatti. Kannan and three others were arrested, and a van, a cargo vehicle and a two-wheeler were seized. The ration goods were handed over to Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation godown.      Permission for placing advertisement hoardings and banners in rural areas should be obtained from respective local bodies and local police stations. In a statement issued here on Monday, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that the hoardings and banners for marriages, festivals and advertisements that were put up without permission would be removed by the authorities concerned. Besides, fine would be imposed on the violators, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-tonnes-of-ration-rice-seized/article36330165.ece
07 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Villagers demand reopening of Sterlite Copper plant||Residents from villages around here and two areas of the coastal town on Monday submitted a petition at the Collectorate seeking the Collector’s intervention in reopening Sterlite Copper as the plant’s closure had left them unemployed besides denying them the benefit of welfare schemes. Residents from Saaminaththam, Pudur Pandiyapuram, Madaththur, Silverpuram, Balaiyapuram, Subramaniyapuram, Fatima Nagar and Our Lady of Snows Basilica came to the Collectorate separately on and submitted petition seeking the reopening of the plant that remained sealed since May 2018 following protests that witnessed the killing of 13 persons in police firing. The petitioners said they were getting employment directly or indirectly when the plant functioned and lost their livelihood after it closed. After battling poverty, most of them moved out of the town to far-off places in search of jobs, but in vain. Consequently, the jobless breadwinners had to do menial job to feed their families. “Besides providing us with jobs, it organised medical camps in the villages for the benefit of our families and gave financial assistance to self-help groups, while unemployed youth were equipped with employable skills,” they said. “It gave assistance to conduct marriages of poor women, purified drinking water and renovated temples. Since the plant closed down, we have been left unemployed and the welfare measures are not available to us. Hence, the District Collector should take steps to reopen Sterlite Copper and ensure distribution of purified drinking water,” the petitioners further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-sterlite-copper-plant/article36330151.ece
07 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Thuraiyur-Perambalur Road upgradation under way||The Thuraiyur-Perambalur Road is getting a facelift with the stretch being taken up for upgradation under the Chennai-Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor Project (CKICP). The upgradation of the 30-km-long stretch connecting Thuraiyur town with the Tiruchi-Chennai Highway is expected to give a boost to industrial development of the backward Thuraiyur region and also help provide an improved transportation link for industries in Ariyalur belt. The project has been taken up at a cost of about Rs. 143 crore under the CKICP funded by the Asian Development Bank. According to sources, the road is being widened as a two-lane road with paved shoulders. Two by-passes are to be built at Nakkasalem and Kurumbalur. The upgradation would also involve construction of 12 minor bridges and 55 box culverts. The road will be widened from the existing seven metres to 10 metres. The project, which began a couple of months back, is scheduled to be completed by February 2023. “This is an important link road. A large number of travellers from Chennai to Karur/Erode take this road. This is the shortest route for people travelling from Karur to Chennai. Also a lot of heavy vehicles carrying goods from Ariyalur to Kerala and other States take the road,” said Saravanan Natesan, a road safety activist. However, the existing narrow road had far too many speed breakers. Previously it had 76 speed breakers, making for a back breaking ride. After representations to the district authorities, 30 of them were removed. But it still takes a long time to cover this short distance, Mr. Saravanan said. “Once the road is upgraded, it will be a big relief for travellers, besides being a major infrastructure upgrade for local industries,” he added. A short stretch of about 3.40 km of the road was already widened as a four-lane road in 2018 at a cost of Rs. 87 lakh under the Central Road Fund Project.  This is an important link road and a large number of travellers from Chennai to Karur/Erode take this road Saravanan Natesan Road safety activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thuraiyur-perambalur-road-upgradation-under-way/article36330136.ece
07 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Residents of Gundur oppose merger with Tiruchi Corporation||Residents of Gundur, Thiruvalarchipatti, Gundur Burma Colony, Ayanputhur and Ayyampatti villages falling under Gundur panchayat have petitioned the district administration not to merge the panchayat with the Corporation. Around 400 residents - majority of them being women from the five villages situated on the city's outskirts - came to the Collectorate on Monday morning where they raised slogans in support of their demand carrying placards. A petition submitted by the residents said merger of the Gundur panchayat with the Corporation would adversely affect their livelihood as majority of the residents were farm labourers who were dependent on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. The petition further said merger of the Gundur panchayat with the Corporation would also prevent them from getting government schemes meant for rural areas. There were more than 10,000 people residing in Gundur panchayat which was a backward area, they further said. The villagers appealed to the district administration to continue to allow Gundur to function as a panchayat. Later, a section of villagers met Collector S. Sivarasu and handed over the petition to him. There are plans to merge about 25 panchayats with the Tiruchi Corporation as part of the move to expand the urban civic body. Residents of a few other panchayats too have expressed their opposition to the plan on similar grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-of-gundur-oppose-merger-with-tiruchi-corporation/article36330139.ece
07 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Follow govt. directions on Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations’||The City Police conducted separate meetings range-wise with Vinayaka idol installation committee members here driving home the State government’s recent instruction pertaining to Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations and the directions issued in this regard. The meetings were held in Fort, Cantonment and Ponmalai ranges which was presided over by the Assistant Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) of the respective ranges. Inspectors of different police stations also participated in the meetings that were held on Saturday. During the meetings, the law enforcers informed the participants about the State government’s recent announcement prohibiting the installation of Vinayaka idols in public places and to take them in processions for immersion in waterbodies in an effort to curb the spread of COVID-19. The participants were also informed that individuals could keep clay idols of Lord Vinayaka for worship on the Vinayaka Chathurthi festival day in their respective residences. They can immerse the idols in the nearby waterbodies by taking them individually, said the police sources. It was also conveyed to the participants that individuals should desist from keeping the idols which they had worshipped in their respective homes within the premises of a temple or in its surroundings. The law enforcers also sounded a warning that action as per law would be initiated against those who violated the government’s instructions announced ahead of the Vinayaka Chathurthi festival and asked the participants to follow the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-govt-directions-on-vinayaka-chathurthi-celebrations/article36330141.ece
07 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Reopen sand quarries along Coleroon river’||A group of bullock cart labourers from various villages staged a demonstration here on Monday urging the Public Works Department authorities to reopen the sand quarries along the Coleroon river at Madhavaperumalkoil and Thalakudi villages to enable transportation of sand through bullock carts and the protect the livelihood of the labourers involved in this activity. The demonstration by the members of the Manal Maatu Vandi Thozhilalar Sangam owing allegiance to the CITU was led by its secretary Sekar. Labourers from villages including Bikshandarkoil, Mallachipuram and Thalakudi took part in the demonstration that was held in front of the PWD office at Cantonment. CITU district secretary S. Rengarajan who took part in the demonstration said that the sand quarries at Madhavaperumalkoil and Thalakudi villages had been functioning until COVID-19 pandemic broke out. He said several labourers were dependent on this activity adding that the authorities should reopen the quarries with several relaxations having been announced. The demonstrators later presented a petition to the PWD authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-sand-quarries-along-coleroon-river/article36330132.ece
07 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Slight increase in COVID-19 cases||The central region reported 323 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday. Three patients succumbed to the viral infectionl in Thanjavur district. Thanjavur continued to record over 100 fresh cases. On Monday, 104 patients reported positive in Thanjavur while in Tiruchi 58 fresh cases were recorded. According to data from the Department of Health, 794 patients were under treatment in Thanjavur and 589 in Tiruchi. Thanjavur had a positivity rate of 1.4%, and Tiruchi, 1.1%. Tiruvarur reported 46 cases while Nagapattinam reported a dip, with 28 fresh cases. Tiruvarur had a higher positivity rate with 1.6% and Nagapattinam 1.4%. In Pudukottai district, 22 patients tested positive while Mayiladuthurai reported 21. Pudukottai had a positivity rate of 1% and Nagapattinam 1.4%. Karur recorded 18 cases while in Ariyalur 16 tested positive. Karur had a positivity rate of 0.4% and 159 active cases, and Ariyalur, 0.8% with 160 active cases. Perambalur district reported 10 fresh cases, the first time that it has recorded a two-digit number in over a month. The total number of active cases in the district is 81, while the positivity rate is 0.8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slight-increase-in-covid-19-cases/article36330143.ece
07 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps to be held in city today||COVID-19 vaccination camps will be held at the following places on Tuesday: Corporation Zonal Office, Srirangam; North Devi School, Srirangam; Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College, Thiruvanaikovil; Bishop Heber Nursery School, Teppakulam; Schwartz Nursery and Primary School, Teppakulam; Thevar Hall; Renganathan Park, Mela Kasipalayam; Ramaswamy Thevar Dispensary, Varaganeri; Corporation School, Senthaneerpuram; Corporation School, Valluvar Nagar; Anganwadi Centre, Arjun Nagar, Mela Kalkandarkottai; Panchayat Union Middle School, Military Colony; Corporation Middle School,, Subramaniapuram; TVS Nagar, Khajamalai; Morais City, Sembattu; Corporation School, Kamaraj Nagar; M.M.P.School Madurai Main Road; Edamalaipattipudur; Corporation School, Khajapettai; Anganwadi Centre, Syed Nagar, Marsinghpet; National College, Seventh Day Adventist School, Bheema Nagar; Hindu Mission Hospital, Thennur; Quaid-e-Milleth School, Thennur, Francis School, Shanmuga Nagar; RC School, Uyyakondan Thirumalai; Corporation School, Kuratheru; Anganwadi Centre, Salai Road; S.M.Higher Secondary School, Woraiyur; Anganwadi Centre, Kalaiyan Street, Woraiyur; SIT, Ariyamangalam; Anganwadi Centre, Valluvar Nagar and Mukkulathor Primary School, Tiruverumbur. Six hundred and fifty doses of Covishield will be administered here. Four-hundred and ninety doses of Covaxin will be administered at a camp to be held at Krishnamurthy Nagar Park, K. K. Nagar. The camps will begin at 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-to-be-held-in-city-today/article36330514.ece
07 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Transgenders learn to make organic farm inputs||A group of 10 transgenders from Tiruchi district, along with a dozen youth from rural areas, learnt methods to produce organic farm inputs at a vocational training programme organised by Krishi Vigyan Kendra at Sirugamani near here. The three-day training, which concluded on Friday, was organised as organic nutrient inputs have attracted lot of attention and are being promoted on a large scale to sustain soil health. In the recent years, production of organic inputs has offered a source of supplementary income for farmers, KVK scientists said. The transgenders plan to set up a production unit. Programme coordinator N. Tamilselvan elaborated on the rising demand for organic inputs and their importance in the agriculture sector. Soil scientist V. Dhanushkodi explained production techniques of vermicompost and coir pith compost. There were hands-on training in preparation of ‘panchakavya’ and ‘meen amilam’ (fish oil). Programme Assistant Yamuna spoke on use of organic inputs in nursery media preparation and techniques of establishing vertical garden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transgenders-learn-to-make-organic-farm-inputs/article36330122.ece
07 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cine-goers get jab during movie break||In an innovative attempt to reach the public, health officials conducted a COVID-19 vaccination camp at a cinema in the city on Saturday. A total of 80 people were given Covishield shots during a movie break in the cinema in an attempt to cover people spending time in indoor spaces. Mohammed A. Hakkim, Emergency physician and in charge of the vaccination drive in the city, devised the plan to visit the cinema on Saturday afternoon to vaccinate people on site. “When we approached the theatre management, they happily obliged. They said that around 200 people visit the theatre on weekends. “It was not a planned vaccination camp, but we set out to vaccinate whoever was willing to do it,” Dr. Hakkim said. An announcement was made at the ticket counter, and also during the intermission of the afternoon show. People who were willing to get themselves inoculated came on their own volition and took the shot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cine-goers-get-jab-during-movie-break/article36330125.ece
07 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Formalin found in fish in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi||In what is certainly not good news for seafood lovers, officials of the Departments of Food Safety and Fisheries have seized fish preserved with formalin, a poisonous cancer-inducing chemical used as disinfectant or to preserve biological specimens in laboratories. When the officials led by G.A. Bushra Shabnam, Assistant Director, Department of Fisheries, Tirunelveli, recently conducted surprise checks in six shops — three each in Palayamkottai and Melapalayam — they detected fish preserved with formalin. They seized around 25 kg and destroyed them immediately. Similar surprise raids conducted in Tenkasi and Melagaram also led to seizure of 10 kg of fish preserved with formalin. Since the retailer told the officials that they made the puchase from wholesale traders, the officials could not zero in on the real culprits who sprinkled formalin on the fish to extend its shelf life. Traders in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi, who buy fish mostly from Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts, also purchase the seafood from Kerala either directly through auction or from bigger sellers. At times, they also buy from Rameswaram, Pamban and Mookkaiyoor fish markets in Ramanathapuram district. Following information about the sale of fish preserved with formalin, Ms. Bushra Shabnam and officials drawn from the Department of Food Safety and Tirunelveli Corporation swung into action that led to seizure of fish preserved with formalin from retail traders in Palayamkottai and Melapalayam. The officials say fish preserved with formalin does not have any specific smell and the texture stays hard even if it is stale. Moreover, a sliced portion treated with the chemical will be white instead of the natural flesh colour. “It can be detected by using a kit costing about Rs. 450 and marketed by Kochi-based Central Institute of Fisheries Technology and a private firm. When two drops of the colourless chemical reagent in the kit is added to the flesh of the fish put in a test tube with distilled water, it will turn from colourless to pink within 30 seconds, indicating the presence of formalin,” says Ms. Bushra Shabnam, winner of the prestigious Dr. T.J. Varghese Award. The kit can be used to conduct 300 samples within three months. Food Safety officials too say that awareness among consumers is of paramount importance even though frequent surprise checks will be conducted in the markets. “When we raided the fish traders in Palayamkottai, we found the use of formalin to preserve the fish, mostly Sankara variety. The samples have been sent for analysis. While buying, the texture should be checked as it should not be unusually hard. Those who can afford to buy the test kit, may go for it,” said an official who participated in the raid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/formalin-found-in-fish-in-tirunelveli-tenkasi/article36330519.ece
07 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Fuel price hike only temporary: G.K. Vasan||Though the fuel price hike is “temporary”, the unprecedented increase of petrol, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas price is unacceptable since it was hitting the common man hard, Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan has said. Speaking to reporters here on Monday evening, Mr. Vasan said the oil companies that would fix the fuel price based on the crude oil price in the international market had increased the price of petrol, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas, which was only “temporary”. Since the global economy and international crude oil prices were responsible for the fuel prices in India, the price hike had become unavoidable. Moreover, the COVID-19 and the borrowings by the previous government had made the situation worse now. “At the same time, the unprecedented temporary fuel price hike cannot be accepted since it is hitting the common man hard,” Mr. Vasan said. The Tamil Nadu Government should allow the opening of Navodhaya schools in Tamil Nadu and take sincere steps for rejuvenating the Nanguneri Multi-product Special Economic Zone, which was remaining lifeless since 2001 as no hefty industrial investment had been made there to start new manufacturing units, the TMC leader said. The DMK government, which should fulfill its poll promises, should go by the law in the Kodanadu heist case instead of taking revenge on political opponents. ‘Implement protocol’ While allowing the parents to pay 85% of the tuition fee in three instalments, the State government should strictly implement the COVID-19 protocol on the school premises to avert new infections. Since the festival season was fast approaching, the State government should discuss with experts in the Department of Public Health once again on allowing the functioning of educational institutions, Mr. Vasan said. While speaking to reporters in Thoothukudi, Mr. Vasan said the expansion of the Thoothukudi airport and the seaport should be taken up immediately and completed within the stipulated period to ensure growth in export and import of goods. On TMC candidates contesting in the upcoming civic polls, he said the party, having good relationship with the AIADMK, would identify winnable segments and field its candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fuel-price-hike-only-temporary-gk-vasan/article36330521.ece
07 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||ASHA workers for regularisation of job, consolidated pay of Rs. 18,000 a month||A group of Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers on Monday submitted a petition in the Collectorate seeking regularisation of services of their cadre who had served for 10 years. The petitioners from Vairaavikulam, Mannarkovil, Ambasamudram and Agasthiyarpatti said the ASHA workers, who did a commendable job during COVID-19 pandemic and in taking the ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme to the rural population, were being given only an incentive up to Rs. 3,000 instead of timescale or consolidated pay, at least. Besides regularising the service of ASHA workers who had served for 10 years, the State government should give them consolidated pay ofRs. 18,000 a month. Since the incentive was not given for the past one year, the arrears should be given immediately and it should be disbursed within the first week of every month. In recognition of the service of ASHA workers during the pandemic, they should be given relief of Rs. 25,000. Apart from an identity card of the Department of Public Health, they should also be given free bus passes, the petitioners said. Hindu Makkal Katchi cadre led by party district president Udaiyar submitted a petition seeking permission for installing a three-foot-tall idol of Lord Vinayaka near Peratchi Amman Temple in Vannarpet and immersing the idol in the Tamirabharani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asha-workers-for-regularisation-of-job-consolidated-pay-of-rs-18000-a-month/article36330517.ece
07 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Headmistress visits students’ houses to boost attendance||A headmistress of a government school in Palladam, Tiruppur district, visited over 50 residences of her students on Sunday in an effort to increase attendance in her school following its reopening. A. Pushpalatha, headmistress of Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Palladam, said on Monday that she visited 57 residences in three villages around the school namely 63 Velampalayam, Ammapalayam and Kallampalayam. With 310 students studying in Classes IX to XII in the school, only 182 showed up on September 1, the reopening day, she said. By Saturday, it increased to only about 210 students. “Hence, I decided to visit their houses on Sunday so that I can meet the students and their parents,” Ms. Pushpalatha said. While some parents were hesitant to send their students to school amid the COVID-19 situation, other parents were allegedly allowing their children to work in private garment companies and other works as their livelihoods were affected due to the pandemic-induced lockdowns. “We warned such parents that legal action could be initiated against them and explained the various schemes of the State government available to them,” the headmistress said. On Monday, there was about a 30% increase in the attendance of the students following the visits, she said. This initiative would continue this week, according to Ms. Pushpalatha. When contacted, Tiruppur Chief Educational Officer R. Ramesh said that surveys to estimate the number of out-of-school children in the district were under way and allegations of school children going for work will be investigated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/headmistress-visits-students-houses-to-boost-attendance/article36330056.ece
07 September 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||TEA hails decision on setting up tax division||President of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association (TEA) Raja M. Shanmugham has welcomed the announcement made at the Legislative Assembly on Monday regarding the setting up of a Commercial Taxes Territorial Division in Tiruppur. This will help the knitwear sector in the city and will help in addressing issues related to commercial taxes in Tiruppur itself, he said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-hails-decision-on-setting-up-tax-division/article36330064.ece
07 September 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvannamalai parks, pools, dams to stay shut till Sept. 12||With the number of COVID-19 cases in the temple town increasing, the district administration has decided to extend the closure of all parks, swimming pools and dams in Tiruvannamalai and neighbouring Kattam Poondi till September 12. The extension of lockdown restrictions in these public facilities was announced by District Collector B. Murugesh. According to a press release, parks, pools and dams were ordered to remain closed only till September 5. However, due to the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, the measures would continue until September 12. Hotels, bakeries and tea shops can function only between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on all days. All shops, including roadside eateries and those run by hawkers and petty traders can operate between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. in the town. Only 50% occupancy is allowed in hotels and tea shops, with the owners and staff of these establishments expected to have taken the second dose of the vaccines. Imposition of fines for not wearing face masks and not following social distancing norms in public places and 50% occupancy in government buses are the other restrictions. The Tiruvannamalai municipality has a total of 39 wards, covering key areas including Pallavan Nagar, Thenimalai, Samuthivam Kalani and Ajish Colony, with a population of around 8 lakh. The relaxation of lockdown restrictions, especially since July 11, has increased the flow of traffic in the town, with key routes like Tiruvannamalai Road, Vellore - Thoothukudi High Road, Perumpakkam Road, Polur Road and Avalurpettai Road witnessing pre-COVID-19 levels of traffic congestion. In fact, most of these key routes connect the famous Arunachaleswarar temple to adjoining districts like Vellore, Tirupattur and Villupuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvannamalai-parks-pools-dams-to-stay-shut-till-sept-12/article36330471.ece
07 September 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested||Two persons were nabbed by the public near Tiruvarur when they attempted to lift a motorcycle parked in front of a house at Kunniyur on Monday. According to police, the duo – Moorthy and Shakthivel of Pulivalam – attempted to lift a motorcycle from a house at Kunniyur in the early morning. On seeing them, local people caught hold of the culprits and handed them over to the Tiruvarur Taluk Police. Subsequently, the police recovered three motorcycles stolen by them from different places around Tiruvarur. They were then remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested/article36330130.ece
07 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Operation of 70 fireworks units in Virudhunagar suspended||Special teams have suspended the operation of 70 fireworks units for violating safety norms. The teams, formed in July, have been reconstituted eight times for inspecting fireworks units and monitoring illegal ones. The teams inspected 758 fireworks units in the taluks of Sivakasi, Vembakottai, Sattur, Virudhunagar, Rajapalayam, Srivilliputtur and Aruppukottai. Units found violating safety norms were kept under suspension and locked. However, 49 of those units rectified the shortcomings in implementing safety norms and were permitted to resume work, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said in a statement. Meanwhile, notices were issued to 116 units which had flouted rules. Six cases were booked under the Indian Explosives Act, 1884, for illegally manufacturing crackers in houses and illegally packing fireworks in shops. The teams are being reconstituted regularly to prevent nexus between the officials and violators. Mr. Reddy warned of stringent action, including cancellation of licenses of units flouting safety norms. He also warned of criminal action against those involved in illegal manufacturing of crackers. Habitual offenders would be booked under the Goondas Act, he said. Individuals can alert the Special Tahsildar (Matches and Fireworks Units Inspection) at 93426 94959 concerning illegal cracker units and violations of safety norms in licensed ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/operation-of-70-fireworks-units-in-virudhunagar-suspended/article36330036.ece
07 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Operations in fireworks units halted||Special teams, which were formed to check whether safety measures were being violated in fireworks units, have suspended operation of 70 units that were involved in grave violations. The special teams, which were formed in July, were reconstituted eight times. They would inspect fireworks units and also monitor illegal cracker units. The teams that inspected 758 fireworks units in the taluks of Sivakasi, Vembakottai, Sattur, Virudhunagar, Rajapalayam, Srivilliputtur and Aruppukottai found that 70 units were involved in grave violations. Their operations were suspended and the units locked. However, 49 of those units rectified the shortcomings in implementation of safety norms and were permitted to resume operation, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said in a statement. Meanwhile, notices were issued seeking explanations from 116 units where safety rules were flouted. Six cases were booked under Indian Explosives Act, 1884, for illegally manufacturing crackers in houses and illegally packing fireworks in shops. The teams are being reconstituted every week to lessen workload and also to prevent nexus between officials and violators. Mr. Meghanath has warned of stringent action, including cancellation of licences of units that were found to flout safety norms. He also warned of criminal action against those involved in illegal manufacturing of crackers. Habitual offenders would be booked under Goondas Act, he said. People can alert Special Tahsildar (Matches and Fireworks Units Inspection) over 93426 94959 with regard to illegal cracker units and violation of safety norms in licensed units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-halted-in-70-fireworks-units-for-violation-of-norms/article36330160.ece
07 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Fiat on banners and hoardings||Permission for placing advertisement hoardings and banners in rural areas should be obtained from respective local bodies and local police stations. In a statement issued here on Monday, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that the hoardings and banners for marriages, festivals and advertisements that were put up without permission would be removed by the authorities concerned. Besides, fine would be imposed on the violators, the statement from the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fiat-on-banners-and-hoardings/article36330526.ece
07 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||24 tonnes of ration rice seized||Over 24 tonnes of rice and 1,450 kg of wheat, meant for public distribution system and illegally stocked in a godown here, were seized by Virudhunagar district police on Monday. Acting on a tip-off, a special team of police led by Superintendent of Police M. Manohar raided the godown at K. K. S. S. N. Nagar in the evening found huge quantities of the rice and wheat at the godown belonging to K. Kannan, 45, of Allampatti. Kannan and three others were arrested, and a van, a cargo vehicle and a two-wheeler were seized. The ration goods were handed over to civil supplies corporation godown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-tonnes-of-ration-rice-seized/article36330527.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||6 students, 2 teachers across State test positive for virus||A total of 12 school students have tested positive for COVID-19 across Tamil Nadu. Within a week of the reopening of schools, eight students from Coimbatore district tested positive for the infection. This was confirmed by officials from the Department of School Education on Monday. The affected students included three Class IX boys from the Government High School, Sulthanpet; a Class XI girl from the Government Higher Secondary School, Arasur; two Class XII girls from the Municipal Girls’ Higher Secondary School, Pollachi; a Class XII girl from the Government Higher Secondary School, Puravipalayam; and a Class IX boy from a private school near Pollachi. All of them were asymptomatic and their health condition was stable, officials said. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer N. Geetha said the cases from the government schools were detected through a random sample collection exercise as part of the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) healthcare initiative. A few contacts of these students underwent COVID-19 testing on Monday, she said. However, none of these schools would be closed, and regular classes would continue as usual, Ms. Geetha clarified. Collector G.S. Sameeran said there was no need for panic as over 2,100 samples were collected from students of schools and colleges, and only eight had returned positive. A total of five school teachers had tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruppur district as of Monday, including three teachers from the same school, officials said. No student has tested positive for the infection so far. After a 34-year-old teacher at the Municipal High School in Nesavalar Colony tested positive for the virus on Saturday, two more tested positive on Monday. Tiruppur Chief Educational Officer R. Ramesh said the school will remain closed from Tuesday to Thursday as a precautionary measure. A 51-year-old man working as a part-time arts teacher at the Government Higher Secondary School at Kolathupalayam, near Dharapuram, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. A teacher from the Government Boys’ Higher Secondary School, Uthukuli, had tested positive on September 1. The schools concerned will function as usual on Tuesday, Mr. Ramesh added. Chennai school shut A school in Chennai had to close on Monday after a student tested positive for COVID-19. The Grove School on Eldams Road, Teynampet, was reopened for senior classes earlier this month. “A student’s parents, who had contracted the infection, informed us that their child subsequently tested positive for the virus. We immediately reached out to the Greater Chennai Corporation, and COVID-19 tests were conducted on all teaching and non-teaching staff and students before the school was closed,” said Nanditha Krishna, president, C.P. Ramaswami Aiyar Foundation, which runs the school. A Class X student of the Adi Dravidar Welfare School at Mullankurichi village in Pudukottai district tested positive for the infection. “The girl is undergoing treatment at the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital, and her condition is stable,” an official said. Samples were lifted from her close contacts, teachers and fellow students. The classroom to which she belonged was disinfected and closed, but the school continues to function. A Class IX student of the Melpattampakkam Government Higher Secondary School, near Panruti, also tested positive for COVID-19. The boy is undergoing treatment at the Cuddalore Government General Hospital, and his condition is stable. A team from a primary health centre on Monday lifted the samples of 14 students who had been sitting close to the boy. The team also took the samples of four teachers who had interacted with him. The classroom was disinfected. The school continues to function. A student of a private school in Tiruchi and a government school teacher in Karur tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The patients were put under home quarantine, health officials said. After the Class XII girl student of a private school in Uyyakondan Thirumalai tested positive for the infection, the school was closed for a week. The Health Department lifted samples from Class XII teachers and recommended that the students visit the nearby primary health centre to get themselves tested if they experienced any symptoms. Disinfection work was taken up at the school on Monday. The government school teacher tested positive for the infection after reporting mild symptoms, including a cold. She informed the school authorities when she experienced the symptoms on September 3 and went home. “We have disinfected the school, but we will not be closing it or carrying out tests. If others experience any symptoms, we have asked them to alert us, after which further action will be taken,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-school-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-across-state/article36330012.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NMR services resume after over four months||The Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) services that was suspended for over four months resumed from Monday. The train no. 06136, left Mettupalayam Junction at 7.10 a.m. on Monday with 105 passengers, a railway official said. With the capacity of the train being 133 passengers, the occupancy was nearly 80% on the first day, he said. As the NMR trains are being operated as fully reserved special trains, the passengers were advised to prefer booking their tickets online to prevent crowding at the passenger reservation system (PRS) counter, the official said. Tourists on board the train expressed their joy at having experienced a train ride. Ram Kumar, a tourist from Chennai, said that he didn’t want to pass up an opportunity to travel on board the NMR, and had delayed leaving for Chennai by two days to take the train. In a press release, the Salem Division of Southern Railways said that one fully reserved special train will run between Mettupalayam – Udagamandalam and three fully reserved special trains will be operated between Coonoor – Udagamandalam. The railways said that only reserved passengers will be allowed to board the train. “All the COVID-19 safety protocols will be strictly followed. Passengers are requested to cooperate with Railways and adhere to appropriate behaviour such as wearing of masks and social distancing. Passengers are also requested to adhere to the regulations issued by the Nilgiris district administration,” a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nmr-services-resume-after-over-four-months/article36330045.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gutkha case: four detained under Goondas Act in Dindigul||Collector S. Visakan has ordered detention of four accused, who were nabbed by Vedasandur police with banned tobacco products (gutka), under Goondas Act here on Monday. According to Superintendent of Police V. R. Srinivasan, the four - Sikkandar Kalid, 36, of Salem, Kanava Sadiq Ali, 32, of Begampur in Dindigul, Abdul Rafiq, 42, of Salem and Sivakumar, 38, of Krishnagiri district were caught by a special team. The SP has warned of stern action against habitual offenders who indulged in smuggling or selling banned tobacco goods. Plea for procession In the event of ban on taking out Vinayaka idols in a procession, members of Hindu Makkal Katchi have appealed to the public to join them in filling up prisons across Tamil Nadu. Speaking to reporters at the Collectorate here on Monday, its State deputy general secretary Dharma said that the Chathurthi celebration was an important festival for Hindus. “We are ready to cooperate with officials in following all standard operating procedures. When Maharashtra, where more COVID-19 cases were being reported, allowed Chathurthi processions, Tamil Nadu government should also allow them,” he added. Inspector booked Inspector Thangaraj of Kannivadi police station in Dindigul district was booked by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption police on Monday. According to sources, he had amassed wealth disproportionate to his income during his tenure in Sulur and Palladam stations in Coimbatore region during 2016-19. The Inspector had properties in his name and his wife’s name.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gutkha-case-four-detained-under-goondas-act-in-dindigul/article36330162.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||96 new COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 96 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total cases to 99,085. While 118 persons were discharged, 1,238 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 661. In Salem, 59 positive cases were reported on Monday. Health officials said, 49 cases were indigenous and seven cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal saw 60 cases and one death. Two deaths were reported in Salem. Krishnagiri reported 17 cases and one death. There were 205 active cases. Dharmapuri saw 17 fresh cases. The number of active cases stood at 231.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/96-new-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article36330177.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: Coimbatore district reports 206 cases||Coimbatore district reported 206 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 2,37,410 cases. The Health Department reported the death of a 69-year-old woman who was undergoing treatment for the disease, taking the district's death toll to 2,281. The district had 2,198 active cases and 219 patients were reported to have recovered on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 82 fresh cases, which took the case tally to 90,828 cases. The death of a 54-year-old man took the overall toll to 933. The district had 769 active cases and 71 patients from the district recovered on Monday. In the Nilgiris, 33 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 31,924. The number of deaths stood at 195 in the Nilgiris while 309 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-coimbatore-district-reports-206-cases/article36330059.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||06Sept2021_Campus Connect||The UBA Cell of Ramco Institute of Technology in Rajapalayam conducted a hour-long online awareness session on homoeopathy  for school students at Nadar Higer Secondary School in Zamin Kollankondan on September 2 . The Ministry of AYUSH funded this initiative. Sarada Krishna Homeopathic Medical College, Kanniyakumari, hosted the event, which was inaugurated by Headmaster N. Pown Raj. It was conducted by U. Kumaran, UBA Coordinator, under the guidance of L. Ganesan, Principal, S. Rajakarunakaran, Vice-Principal, and K. Basarikodi, HoD, Maths.   Pandian Saraswathi Yadav Engineering College at Arasanoor in Sivaganga district organised Teacher’s Day celebration on September 4. PSY group of Institutions chairman Malaysia S. Pandian, MLA, and Saraswathi Pandian presided. Managing Directors P. Saravanan, SP.Varadharajan, college advisor R. Vijayabaskar and trustee N. Boominathan were present. Best Teachers were honoured on the occasion. Mr. Pandian appreciated the teacher’s best practices and honoured them by presenting mementos and citations. Six students were selected and provided 100% scholarship under Paasamalar admission scheme of PSY College of Education. Principal P. Madhavan proposed the vote of thanks.   Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Education (KARE) in Krishnankoil in Virudhunagar district conducted an online freshman induction programme for first year students of B.Tech / B.Arch /Agriculture / Horticulture. Chancellor K. Sridharan presided and spoke on how students’ dreams of higher studies in foreign universities, getting good placements and becoming an entrepreneur could be fulfilled at KARE. Needs of slow learners and fast learners will be taken care of through FFS, he said. Vice-President S. Shasi Anand inaugurated the 19-day FIP. Vice-Chancellor R. Nagaraj introduced the faculty. Registrar V. Vasudevan and Dean C. Ramalingam spoke.   The Curriculum Development Cell of Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal College, Sivakasi, celebrated Teacher’s Day. Principal C. Ashok, in his address, urged teachers to be techno-savvy and exercise transformation in their attitude towards teaching. In the present environment, teachers need to be more vigilant and updated so as to inspire the students, he said. R. Jayabalan. formerly Vice-Principal of Vivekananda College. Thiruvedagam, delivered the Teacher’ s Day Address. He quoted from the life of A.P.J. Abdul Kalam and Albert Einstein.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/06sept2021campus-connect/article36330158.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CAMPUS CONNECT||The PG and Research Department of Biotechnology, J. J. College of Arts and Science, Pudukottai, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Bio-Techno Solutions Training and Research Institute, Tiruchi, for mutual collaboration and reciprocity of scientific ideas The MoU envisages internships and trainings for students, faculty and staff, development and implementation of collaborative research projects on priority areas of both the institutions, and sharing of scientific information and methodology leading to development of joint academic programmes. K. Manjula of Bio Techno Solutions Training and Research Institute, and G. Manigandan, Head of the Biotechnology Department, signed the MoU in the presence of the college Principal Parasuraman on Saturday. Dr. Manjula delivered a talk on ‘Natural Remedy for Periodontitis Disease Prevalence among the type two Diabetes Mellitus’, organised by The Wilmut Club of Biotechnology on the occasion. Smoking, alcohol drinking and drug abuse were the major causes of periodontitis disease, Dr. Manjula said, adding that periodontitis, also called gum disease, damages the soft tissue and, could even destroy the bone that supports the teeth, if treatment was delayed. Vitis vinifera seed is used for treating people infected with periodontitis disease as wells as diabetics.   The various types of cancer and treatment methods such as surgery, chemotherapy, hormone therapy, immune therapy, targeted therapy and radiation therapy were explained in detail by P.Venkatesan, Post-doctoral Research Fellow, Laboratory of Nanomedicine and Drug Delivery, Department of Chemistry, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, during a lecture on ‘Mesoporous silica nano particles based drug delivery for cancer therapy and chemsensors for bio-imaging,’ hosted by the Chemistry Association, Space and Sputnick, of the PG and Research Department of Chemistry, Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College recently. Dr.Venkatesan also explained the effectiveness of mesoporous silica nanoparticles in delivering cancer drugs directly to the target cancer cells and destroying them. In the second part of the lecture, he explained the ill effects of mercury and its detection using a chemosensor. R. Santhi, Associate Professor, Department of Chemistry, Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College and G. Valarmathy, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect/article36330126.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science: Students development programme on Social Behaviour, Language and Etiquettes, webinar, R. Saranya, Assistant Professor, Department of English, KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology, Coimbatore, guest speaker, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article36330180.ece
07 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Path-breaking polls for people of Belagavi||As expected, the city corporation election proved to be path-breaking for the people of Belagavi. For the first time in several decades, the elections were fought on the basis of party affiliation and not language. Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, that had come to dominate the city’s politics since the 1950s, seemed to have lost its sway over the voters. MES was in power in the outgoing corporation. But when the results were announced on Monday evening, MES ended up with a small portion of the 12 Independents in the 58-member body. “This is a historic election as the MES has been clearly defeated,’’ said Ashok Chandaragi, Kannada activist. “The thinking voter has given a message that Belagavi has moved away from linguistic politics. MES has been winning elections only by dividing people on linguistic lines. They had very little to say on the development of the city. But the people of the city are tired of this divisive politics. The people of Belagavi have asked the national parties to take the city on the path to development,’’ he said. Not many, however, share his optimism about a development agenda for the city, after the polls. “I don’t think people have voted for better infrastructure of amenities for the city. Voters have chosen BJP members in 35 wards, only because they have expressed their support for the BJP and the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,’’ said Srikant Kolli, community organiser and a resident of Bhagya Nagar, who has voted since the 1980s. The Aam Aadmi Party failing to open its account despite fielding 27 candidates and AIMIM entering the council through its lone member, while its 11 other candidates lost, are the other highlights. The Congress that got 10 seats has become the main opposition party and the Janata Dal(S) has failed to win any seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/path-breaking-polls-for-people-of-belagavi/article36330201.ece
07 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Revanasiddappa Darge, senior journalist, dead||Revanasiddappa S. Darge, senior journalist and Lingayat community organiser, died in Belagavi on Sunday. He was 56. He was admitted to a private hospital after he suffered a stroke some time ago. He worked for several Kannada dailies, including Hosa Diganta in Belagavi, Bidar and Kalaburagi. As a member of the committee seeking religion status for Lingayat, he had organised several meetings and rallies across North Karnataka. NGO He founded the NGO Basava Bheema Sene in Belagavi to create awareness about the ideologies of Basaveshwara and Ambedkar. The NGO felicitated teachers in the name of Savitribai Phule and Fatima Sheikh, woman activists who opened schools for girl children over a century ago in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revanasiddappa-darge-senior-journalist-dead/article36330199.ece
07 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Comfortable win for BJP in Belagavi||Belagavi is all set to have a BJP Mayor, with the party winning 35 of the 58 wards in the city corporation on Monday. Congress, the main opposition, came a distant second with 10 seats. AIMIM entered the urban local body with one seat and the rest 12 are Independents. The Independent candidates include the nominees of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, as it is not a recognised party and its nominees don’t fight on a common symbol. The MES, which was in power in the outgoing council, has been edged out, as it managed to win only four seats. The results of the city corporation elections are being seen as the end of the linguistic politics of the MES. Mayoral polls Deputy Commissioner and administrative officer of the corporation M.G. Hiremath said that the Department of Urban Development will fix the dates for the election of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor. Mr. Hiremath thanked all poll duty officers for the smooth conduct of the polls, including Commissioner Rudresh Ghali, Election Trainer R.S. Sirgaonkar, Executive Engineer Lakshmi Nippanikar, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/comfortable-win-for-bjp-in-belagavi/article36330202.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 700 sites illegally registered in Yelahanka taluk||In one of the biggest detections of registration of sites illegally in Bengaluru, authorities have found over 700 gram thana sites registered by two sub-registrars who allegedly subverted registration rules. Revenue Department officials and those dealing in real estate say that it is the tip of the iceberg and such cases are rampant, especially on the outskirts of the city. The sites in Hesarghatta and Yelahanka hoblis in Yelahanka taluk in Bengaluru Urban districts were illegally registered without obtaining computerised Form 9 and Form 11 A or 11 B. As many as 731 sites were registered in the Kacharakanahalli sub-registrar’s office between June 28 and July 5, 2021. Between March 1 and June 21, 2021, it was also found that 256 properties were kept in abeyance without the 18 digit e-Khata number for rural properties issued by the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj. This was discovered based on a complaint and a departmental inquiry. “While large-scale illegal registration has been detected in Kacharakanahalli sub registrar’s office, it is a menace on the outskirts of Bengaluru as well as other places in Karnataka. There are complaints that properties without valid documents including that of land conversion are being registered in violation of the rules that are made to protect the buyers,” a Revenue Department source told The Hindu . It is learnt that the sub-registrars deliberately did not seek information on properties online from the e-Swathu portal of the RDPR Department, violating government orders issued in 2013 and 2014. They did not even seek computerised Form 9 and Form 11 A or 11 B that carries the digital signature of the panchayat development officer, which was in violation of the government orders. “It is a criminal case and an FIR can be filed. The RDPR Department will have to cancel it to prevent the already registered sites from being illegally sold again,” another senior Revenue official said. The sites coming under gram panchayats were registered without insisting on the sale deed, which is mandatory for registration under the KAVERI-e Swathu integration to prevent such frauds. “The fact that 256 documents for property registration was kept in abeyance for the appearance of the party raises suspicion. To prevent it from the KAVERI-eSwathu softwares, the property type was chosen as Bhoomi/Agriculture land,” said the order that has kept the two sub registrars under suspension pending inquiry.  According to real estate consultant K. Ramesh, though it is illegal, it is also quite common in Bengaluru that sites without proper documents are being registered. “Thousands of sites on the outskirts of Bengaluru, including those in the green belt, are being registered. The green belt is shown as the extension of the village for the purpose of registration. Without verification of e-Khata, registration should not be done,” he said. Inspector-General of Registration and Commissioner of Stamps K.P. Mohan Raj was not available for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-700-sites-illegally-registered-in-yelahanka-taluk/article36329969.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many schools in rural areas stop online classes||With upper primary schools resuming offline classes on Monday, students right from class VI to X and pre-university, now have the option of physically reporting to classrooms. While schools in urban areas, where access to infrastructure for e-learning is more robust, are reporting poor attendance, that is not the case for those in rural areas. In fact, many schools in rural and semirural areas have either stopped online learning for classes VI to X, or are considering this option as they are recording higher physical attendance, said management members. While the State government has ordered school managements to conduct both online and offline classes for students, principals and teachers, especially in rural schools, said they were finding it difficult to comply. “We do not have sufficient teachers to conduct both online and offline classes. Some teachers complained that they were being overworked as they had to handle both classes,” said a principal. In compliance with COVID-19 SOPs, schools with higher enrolment are conducting physical classes in multiple batches to ensure that social distancing rules are followed. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president, Recognised Unaided Private Schools' Association, Karnataka, said that many schools had seen very high attendance for high schools and were anticipating upper primary classes attendance to also pick up. “It is pointless conducting online classes when attendance for physical classes is high. Schools are not able to sustain conducting both types of classes,” he said. Not all parents are happy with this decision. Shalini S., a software engineer whose daughter studies in class IX at a private school, said, “I am teaching my daughter at home and she attends virtual classes. I do not want her to go to school physically until the parents of her classmates have taken doses of the vaccine. The school management should ensure that they conduct online classes when the percentage of students benefited is small,” she said. On the other hand, many private schools in urban areas have almost done away with physical classes. Some did not open on Monday citing poor response from parents who are unwilling to send their children to school. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka was of the opinion that the government cannot insist on schools conducting both modes of classes. “In many private schools, parents of even 40% of the students have not paid the fees. It is very difficult to run the school in such circumstances, and the government cannot expect us to run both online and offline classes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-schools-in-rural-areas-stop-online-classes/article36329987.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jobs sites report a surge in searches for teaching jobs||Clicks for teaching and training-related jobs saw a 50% increase, while searches for such jobs rose by 13% in the last year between July 2020 and July 2021, reported job portal ‘Indeed’. Reflecting a similar trend, Apna.co, a job site targeted at the rising workforce, said it witnessed a 70% surge in job vacancies in the teaching/training category since April 2021. As per Indeed, searches for tutor jobs too have increased significantly by 78% in the last year. ‘Teachers have adapted’ Sashi Kumar, Head of Sales, Indeed India, said, “Teaching was one of the worst casualties of the pandemic. However, the increased demand for teacher jobs suggests that teachers pivoted and adapted themselves to new circumstances in record time to keep themselves relevant.” Women applicants Apna.co said job volumes on its platform were increasing under teaching and training since April this year. “We have seen a 70% growth in job postings on our app and we also see a 10% increase in women applicants. Teaching jobs, with flexible options, are increasingly coming under gig economy,” said Manas Singh, Chief Business Officer, at the portal. The majority of teaching job clicks were from Kolkata and were followed by Hyderabad, Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru. Also, the average monthly salary for all kinds of teaching jobs was Rs. 20,000 in the last year, as per Indeed. ‘Sense of uncertainty’ Analysing the demand-supply scenario in the country’s teaching job market, hiring expert and CEO of Human Capital, B.S. Murthy said vocational educators have lost their jobs and a large number of regular teachers also lost their occupation since March, 2020. “There is so much panic and sense of uncertainty even among teachers who still have a job in hand. A large number of teachers who lost their jobs are now looking for a job or multiple flexible teaching, training and tutoring options. A tiny percentage of them are exploring jobs in edtech ventures which means quite a career change for them,” added Mr. Murthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jobs-sites-report-a-surge-in-searches-for-teaching-jobs/article36329978.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No fresh approval needed for repair of transmission lines on forest land’||In what the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd. (KPTCL) is terming as a major relief, the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) has recently cleared maintenance and repair of old transmission lines on forest land to be carried out without fresh approval. The FAC, after a meeting in August, agreed to allow works related to repair and maintenance of transmission lines with prior permission of the State Forest Department subject to certain conditions. This includes one that the transmission lines were constructed on forest land prior to 25/10/1980 i.e., the date of enactment of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, and that they fall outside protected areas. No felling “No breaking up of forest land or felling of trees shall be allowed. While repair and maintenance of transmission lines, adequate precautions should be undertaken by the user agency to avoid any damage to flora and fauna. No crushing or breaking of stones shall be allowed inside forest areas. Readymade materials shall be used for upgradation of such lines, and no new roads shall be constructed for the purpose of maintenance,” the conditions say, adding that no labour camp, and no widening of existing roads or paths in the forest will be allowed. The subject came up for discussion following a request from former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to allow execution, reconstruction and upgrade of transmission lines in the existing corridor in forest areas without insisting on fresh approvals. The text of the DO letter reproduced in the minutes of the August 16 meeting said: “The existing transmission network of KPTCL has 38,841 circuit kilometres of transmission lines under various voltage classes. Some of the existing transmission lines of KPTCL are passing through forest area, which were built before Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 came into existence. KPTCL had not availed any specific approval from Forest Department at that time, as there was no such requirement. Such transmission lines are of prime importance to the State power transmission as they enable evacuation of power generated to reach the consumers across the State.” Deteriorated lines The letter added: “Now, it is observed that some of the old transmission towers have deteriorated, and aged conductors are to be replaced. If any such aged conductor snaps in the forest area, it may lead to a fire and also be harmful to wildlife in forest areas. KPTCL is not allowed take up such reconstruction, upgrade works in the existing transmission lines,” after which the former chief minister had requested intervention to ‘issue necessary directions to execute re-construction, upgrade of transmission lines in the existing corridor in forest area without insisting on fresh approvals’. Welcoming the decision, KPTCL MD N. Manjula told The Hindu the clearance would be very helpful. “We can take up upgradation and replacement works immediately in 12 lines now. Also, in the future, similar works can be attended to unhindered.” She also said the conditions laid would not be difficult to adhere to. Among the pending proposals are the Jog-Sirsi line, Shimsha-Mandya line and Supa to Goa line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-fresh-approval-needed-for-repair-of-transmission-lines-on-forest-land/article36330000.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protest by a section of pourakarmikas||Garbage collection in many parts of the city was affected temporarily on Monday when pourakarmikas in some wards went on a protest. Supported by the Karnataka State Corporations, Municipalities, Town Municipalities’ Pourakarmika Union, several pourakarmikas also staged a dharna in front of the Gandhi statue at Maurya Circle, demanding that services of 18,000-odd civic workers be regularised. Narayana (Mysore), president of the union, told The Hindu that despite assurances from the government more than three years ago, the services of drivers, cleaners, etc. had not been regularised. They continue to remain under contract though the civic body has been disbursing their salaries directly to their accounts since January 2018. “We have been appealing to the government to heed to our demands. We also want the government to regularise the services of 3,000-odd drivers, cleaners, loaders and assistants of auto-tippers and compactors,” he said. Apart from increasing the minimum wage to Rs. 25,000, the union has also demanded that for the recruitment of 4,000 pourakarmikas, the age limit be increased from 45 to 55, ensure that the services of pourakarmikas and others involved in solid waste management do not come under the newly constituted SWM special purpose vehicle. The union has submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Other pourakarmika associations said that they did not support the strike. Senior officials said that the protest delayed garbage clearing in around 60 wards in the city. BBMP’s Chief commissioner said some grievances and demands had been addressed. “However, there should not be any disruption in services, as citizens will be inconvenienced greatly by this,” he said. Later in the day, representatives of the union met Revenue Minister R. Ashok and senior BBMP officials. Mr. Narayana said that the Minister sought two month to address their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-by-a-section-of-pourakarmikas/article36329971.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||7.11 lakh citizens surveyed in 54 wards||The door-to-door health survey, ‘Palike Vaidyaru Nimma Mane Bagilige’, initiated by the BBMP three weeks ago, has covered 2.48 lakh households and 7.11 lakh individuals. Minister for Revenue R. Ashok told reporters on Monday that the BBMP had achieved around 90% of the target. The initiative, under the first phase, has been taken up in 54 wards in the city and will be extended to the remaining 144 wards in a month. The survey showed that 22,313 individuals had COVID-19 previously, while 57,528 (8%) had comorbidities. While 50.86% had diabetes mellitus, 35.82% had hypertension, 2.99% had hypothyroidism and 2.48% had Ischaemic heart disease, which were the top four types of comorbid conditions found in the surveyed population. Around 4.39 lakh of those surveyed had been vaccinated with at least one dose and 1.67 lakh had received both doses. According to Mr. Ashok, some zones, such as Bommanahalli and Dasarahalli, had exceeded the target that had been set. In the two zones, on an average, the civic team was covering 2,124 households a day (Bommanahalli) and 1,950 (Dasarahalli). Under the programme, each team has been given a target of surveying at least 50 homes every day, while each ward will have five doctors. If any person is found to be infected by COVID-19, the team will assess their condition and recommend home isolation, or admit them to COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) or hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/711-lakh-citizens-surveyed-in-54-wards/article36329984.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP’s victory pointer to shape of things to come: Bommai||Describing the BJP’s good performance in the three city corporation elections as “people’s acceptance of the new BJP regime”, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said it was a pointer to the shape of things to come. He said the party had faced the local body polls under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP national president J.P. Nadda, former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, and party State president Nalin Kumar Kateel. Mr. Kateel said the party would capture power in the three corporations Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi with the help of legislators and MPs. He attributed the party’s good performance to the administration of Mr. Yediyurappa and his successor Mr. Bommai. Results were an indication of people asking the Congress leaders to desist from eyeing the chief ministerial position. He also alleged that Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had intentionally desisted from an active campaign just to show KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar in poor light. ‘Satisfactory’ Meanwhile, the Congress maintained that the results were satisfactory as they had worked within the limitations due to COVID-19. He said “We have done well in Kalaburagi while our results have improved in Belagavi and Hubballi-Dharward city corporations.” He alleged that the ruling BJP had misused its power to draw the reservation matrix in such a way as to put it in an advantageous situation. Officials had adopted a partisan attitude by allowing the BJP to campaign in a full-fledged manner while restricting the Congress citing COVID situation, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjps-victory-pointer-to-shape-of-things-to-come-bommai/article36329997.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prolonged pandemic, restrictions dampen tourism prospects in some destinations||The impact of the second wave of COVID 19 pandemic is continuing to make its presence felt on the tourism sector in some prime destinations as they continue to be under restrictions. On August 30, Karnataka government withdrew weekend curfew in Belagavi, Bidar, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Mysuru and Chamarajanagara districts, but decided to continue with restrictions in Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Udupi and Hassan districts. The tourism sector is questioning the move, asking why crowd control is being exercised specifically in some districts and not in others. M. Ravi, joint secretary of Karnataka Tourism Society, offered an example. “On August 31, a group of 36 flew from Hyderabad in Telangana to Kannur airport in Kerala. They wanted to go to Kodagu. A bus picked them up, but it was stopped at the border checkpost and they were told they can't enter Karnataka. All 36 had negative RT-PCR reports. They were allowed to resume their journey after an hour.” The first impact of such restrictions is on tourism, he added. Though Mysuru is no longer on the list, prolonged restrictions impacted the tourism business, he said. “People from Bengaluru and other cities had to pass through Mysuru, and many usually stop over. Even that was not happening. Now Nandi Hills is also closed due to the landslide. The Tourism Minister is changed constantly, which is also a destabilising factor,” Mr. Ravi said. B. R. Nagendra Prasad, president, Kodagu District Hotels, Resorts and Restaurants’ Association, said theirs has become a ‘neglected industry’. “Even Kodagu politicians don’t care. We protested asking for weekend curfew to be lifted, but to no avail. Tourists are heading to other destinations. They just want to travel, not necessarily to a particular place. So, many are heading to Chikkamagaluru instead of Kodagu. The economy is also down. From auto drivers to petty shops to hotels, there is no business,” he said. The industry got some respite for a week-and-a-half when the blooming of Neelakurinji flowers in Kodagu district attracted visitors, he said, but added, “This did not benefit local lodges and hotels. Only high-end hotels benefitted as they have formulated schemes to attract people, such as perks of membership and free one-night stay. Many smaller hotels have not even opened, because it costs lesser to remain closed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prolonged-pandemic-restrictions-dampen-tourism-prospects-in-some-destinations/article36329981.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lalbagh: Suresh Jayaram’s search for that elusive apple tree||Artist Suresh Jayaram has explored his favourite haunt in the city since childhood, Lalbagh. His recently published book, Bangalore’s Lalbagh: A Chronicle of the Garden and the City , brings the historic green lung to life with its stunning design and illustrations, making it an experience to be savoured and not just read. Lalbagh is a site of the city’s history starting from the rock said to be 3.5 billion years old; Kempegowda’s watchtower stands on the rock. The park is a reflection of Bengaluru’s layered history from the influences of Hyder Ali - Tipu Sultan to the British who made Lalbagh a centre of commercial botany and the Mysuru Wodeyars, said Mr. Jayaram. “This layered history is a palimpsest - multiple narratives of many minds,” he notes in the book. Retracing his Thigala ancestry - a community of traditional gardeners said to have been brought to the city by Hyder Ali and played a key role in shaping Lalbagh - was one of the motivations for the work, he said. Narrative of hope The narrative, though tinged with a sense of loss and decay, is also one of hope. Mr. Jayaram’s grandmother, who was born in Mavalli, right next to Lalbagh, often told her grandson stories of how they grew apples in orchards for the ‘sahibs’. The search for that elusive apple tree in the city, becomes a recurring metaphor to change and loss. “The vision of Bangalore as a garden city was short-lived and had to be sacrificed for the development of industries that made it a global brand..If this garden [Lalbagh] is an ecosystem, it brings to our notice the imbalance of our reality outside of its walls,” he writes in the book. However, he sees hope in Lalbagh, describing it as “our spiritual real estate”. “It is here that we can safely place our hope when all else is lost,” he said. The book’s narrative occurs on two planes: in text by Mr. Jayaram and in visuals such as photographs from his family albums, archival maps, botanical illustrations from colonial archives and recent illustration works by various contributors. “The images don’t necessarily always illustrate the text, but coming from various sources and with several contributors, they expand upon and shape the narrative in unexpected ways,” the editor of the book Sarasija Subramanian said. Mr. Jayaram, an art historian and garden enthusiast, is now working on a book on the other famed garden of the city, Cubbon Park.  It is here [Lalbagh] that we can safely place our hope when all else is lost: Suresh Jayaram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lalbagh-suresh-jayarams-search-for-that-elusive-apple-tree/article36329967.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister sets September deadline to address pothole menace||After multiple protests on the pathetic condition of roads across the city and citizens lodging complaints with agencies, Minister for Revenue R. Ashok on Monday instructed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to fill all potholes by the end of September. Speaking to reporters after a review meeting with senior civic officials, the Minister announced fresh deadlines. He has directed BBMP to repair bad reaches and fill potholes on 1,332 km of major roads by September 20 and ward roads by September 30. “The heavy rains that have lashed the city over the past four months have contributed to the deterioration of roads. If the rains continue, more potholes will develop; filling them is a continuous activity,” he said. Around 20 loads of asphalt from the BBMP’s hot mix plant will be supplied to eight zones every day. Jurisdictional engineers have been directed to oversee pothole filling work and ensure that they are only filled after they are properly cleaned. “Each pothole will be geo-tagged and the details of potholes filled, along with photographs, will be uploaded on the civic body’s website, which will be accessible to the public. This is to ensure transparency,” he added. Pointing out that both the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) and Bengaluru Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) had dug up several roads for utility work, he also said that in many places, the agencies had failed to take permission from the civic body. He added that the civic body had been directed to identify such places, along with taking photographs of the dug up stretches. “A coordination meeting between all three civic agencies will be held in around 15 days, where we will decide on road restoration issues. The lack of coordination is inconveniencing the citizens,” added Mr. Ashok.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-sets-september-deadline-to-address-pothole-menace/article36329973.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC seeks govt.’s response on Arkavathi Layout commission report||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the State government to file its response to a PIL petition seeking a direction to the government to table the report of the inquiry commission set up in 2015 to probe the allegation of illegalities in denotification of the notified lands from the Arkavathi layout. A Division Bench, comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, passed the order on the petition filed by Committee for Public Accountability, a city-based charitable trust. It has been pointed out in the petition that the commission, headed by H.S. Kempanna, a retired judge of the High Court, was set up in 2015 to probe among other terms and references that whether deletion/exclusion of lands by the Bangalore Development Authority and de-notification of lands by the government to a total extent of 983.33 acres of lands are in violation of various orders of the High Court and the Supreme Court. The government so far has not laid the report before the Legislature despite the Section 3(4) of the Commission of Inquiry Act,1952 mandates tabling of the reports within six months of submission of the report, along with the memorandum of action taken based on the report, it was contended in the petition pointing out that the commission submitted its final report way back in August 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-seeks-govts-response-on-arkavathi-layout-commission-report/article36329963.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Confusion on Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations||Though Ganesh Chaturthi is just around the corner, there is confusion over the number of idols that can be installed in public places. While the State government announced that permission would be given only for one idol to be placed in public places in each ward, Minister for Revenue R. Ashok on Monday stated that if there is demand for more installations, the local police and the jurisdictional Assistant Executive Engineer from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will take a call on whether to give permission. Speaking to reporters on Monday, he said that the immersion of idols not more than 4ft in height in kalyanis and lakes will be allowed only for five days. Idol immersion would be allowed till 9 p.m. “Around 300 people have been hired for the immersion activity. Immersion will be overseen by the local police and civic officials to ensure that COVID-19 norms are not violated. Mobile tanks will go around the city and citizens may immerse the idols there,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/confusion-on-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations/article36329964.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Conviction rate not satisfactory, says CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, while appreciating the work of the Karnataka State Police as “efficient”, said the conviction rate and the quantum of punishment in crimes in the State was “not satisfactory”. Speaking after inaugurating the annual IPS officers conclave on Monday, he said, “officers’ work does not end with detection of crimes, but they need to meticulously follow up on cases, ensure witnesses do not turn hostile,and get good convictions. The quantum of punishments being awarded in conviction cases is not satisfactory.” He said all Superintendent of Police and above rank officers, including DG&IGP, need to have a dashboard through which they have to constantly monitor cases. “Judgments and observations made by the courts need to be studied and inculcated in upcoming investigations,” Mr. Bommai said. The Chief Minister announced in the meeting that the government was mulling over introducing in-service mid-career training for police officials of all ranks, a first in the State. Presently, personnel are trained after recruitment and there are no further training modules available. “Police personnel need to upgrade their skills, including fighting new forms of crime like cyber crimes and to adopt technologies in investigation. We need to have an academic approach,” the Chief Minister reportedly said, adding a dedicated training institute for the purpose may come up in Belagavi. Modalities of the mid-career training are yet to be worked out, a senior police official said. Training modules may be made mandatory after or before every promotion in the force, apart from specialised training modules based on one’s interest. Beat system Meanwhile, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said the beat system in both rural and urban areas would be strengthened. “The Station House Officer will be held accountable for illegal activities in his/her jurisdiction. Our government has zero tolerance for gambling, drugs, sand mining, and other nefarious activities,” he said. Mr. Bommai also cautioned police officials from intervening in civil disputes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conviction-rate-not-satisfactory-says-cm/article36329992.ece
07 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||JD(S) leaders meet CM seeking early clearance for irrigation projects||A delegation of JD(S) legislators led by former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and appealed to him to take an all-party delegation to Delhi to request the Centre to give an early clearance for prominent irrigation and drinking water schemes including Mahadayi, Mekedatu, and Upper Krishna Project. Mr. Kumaraswamy said the JD(S) had appealed to the Chief Minister to schedule the Delhi visit on a priority in the interest of the State’s irrigation and drinking water schemes. He expressed concern over the delay in getting necessary clearances for the projects crucial for Karnataka. Mr. Kumaraswamy argued that parched districts of Kolar, Chickballapur, and Bengaluru Rural were unlikely to get sufficient quantum of drinking water if the lacunae in the Yettinahole drinking water scheme were not rectified. He alleged that the storage capacity of Byragondlu tank, which is supposed to store water under the scheme for supplying to these districts, had been drastically reduced. He demanded that the technical errors in the scheme should be set right so that the scheme could benefit people in the above parched districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-seeks-early-clearance-for-irrigation-projects/article36329990.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Abuse of Bangladeshi woman: Chargesheet filed||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a chargesheet in the recent case of sexual abuse of a Bangladeshi woman in Bengaluru that came to light in June earlier this year when the video of the incident went viral on social media in North East India. A probe by the city police had uncovered a multi-State prostitution ring allegedly run by illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. During their investigation, the police rescued seven women and one child of Bangladeshi nationality from the custody of four human traffickers at a house in K. Channasandra. Both perpetrators and victims in the case hailed from Dhaka, Bangladesh. The NIA, which took over the case, has filed the chargesheet against 13 individuals, all hailing from Bangladesh for human trafficking, sexual exploitation of trafficked women and under Foreigners Act, 1946. ‘Promise of jobs’ “Investigation has revealed that the chargesheeted accused persons had illegally crossed over to India from Bangladesh. They were luring women from Bangladesh and trafficking them to India with the promise of jobs,” said the NIA in a press release. The women were allegedly confined in rented accommodations and subjected to sexual exploitation. “The accused persons had also forged identity cards and used these forged documents as genuine to obtain Indian identity cards such as Aadhaar, PAN cards, etc., for themselves and their victims,” the NIA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abuse-of-bangladeshi-woman-chargesheet-filed/article36329988.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Go ahead with KSPCB chief’s appointment’||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday permitted the State government to go ahead with the process of appointing a person to the post of chairperson of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). However, the court made it clear that the appointment would be subject to the final outcome of the proceedings on the PIL petitions related to selection and appointment of KSPCB chairperson. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order while modifying the earlier direction of restraining the State government from finalising the name for the post from the selection process carried out earlier. After going through the documents submitted by the government in a sealed cover on selection process, the Bench told the petitioner that going by the qualification of the person named in the document it can be said that “the person is not any Tom, Dick, and Harry”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/go-ahead-with-kspcb-chiefs-appointment/article36329995.ece
07 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Illegal water connections disabled||The team formed by Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) to detect the meter-bypassed water connections, recently detected 1,436 such connections from CE East Zone and 2,388 connections from CE West Zone. The consumers have been penalised. BWSSB in a release said legal action would be initiated against consumers who draw meter-bypassed connections which is illegal. The team, which noticed difference in the water consumption of consumers based on their monthly average, inspected the lines during the supply hours, and the illegal connections were disabled, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-water-connections-disabled/article36329977.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Demand to extend metro timings being considered||With more people reporting to their workplaces as well as schools reopening, an increasing number of citizens are demanding that Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (BMRCL) revert to pre-COVID-19 timings and begin Namma Metro services early in the morning. At present, trains operate between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. BMRCL PRO B. L. Yeshwanth Chavan said they would take citizens’ needs into consideration. Decision soon “Before the pandemic, train services used to start at 5 a.m., but they currently begin by 7 a.m. Now that economic activities are restarting in full swing, we will consider this demand. A call will be taken soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-to-extend-metro-timings-being-considered/article36329985.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 973 new cases, 17 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 973 new cases of COVID-19, with Bengaluru Urban and Dakshina Kannada accounting for the maximum number — 243 and 258 respectively. This takes the total number of positive cases to 29,56,137. With 17 deaths, the toll across the State rose to 37,426. Bengaluru recorded the highest death toll, with eight people succumbing to the virus. As many as 1,071 people were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 29,012,99. At present, Karnataka has 17,386 active cases. While the positivity rate for the day was 0.69%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.74%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-973-new-cases-17-deaths/article36329989.ece
07 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM launches scholarship for Brahmin students||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday launched the process of disbursing Sandeepani students’ scholarship being implemented by the Brahmins’ Development Corporation through Direct Benefit Transfer mode. Mr. Bommai said a scholarship of Rs. 13.77 crore had been sanctioned for 9,206 meritorious students of Brahmin community through the corporation. He also launched  Annadata scheme to provide financial assistance to Brahmin farmers to set up agri-based enterprises and  Purushottama scheme to provide loan assistance for self-employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-launches-scholarship-for-brahmin-students/article36329998.ece
07 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||November deadline for vaccinations||The State government has set an ambitious target of vaccinating the entire adult population by the end of November. Karnataka has already announced that it would vaccinate at least 5 lakh people every day and 10 lakh on every Wednesday under a special weekly drive. The November deadline was announced by Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar at a press conference on Monday after holding video conference with DCs and ZP CEOs of 23 districts which are lagging behind in vaccination coverage. The Minister said these 23 districts have been given a target of speeding up coverage and complete first dose for all by the end of this month. “They have been told to complete both the doses for all by November,” he noted. The progress and achievement on testing, setting up of oxygen plants and other civil works were also discussed, he said. On Ganesha festival Speaking about Ganesh Chaturthi festivities, he said, “Even last year, the government had allowed celebration of Ganesha festival despite a high number of cases. This year we have a positivity rate of 0.7% and guidelines have been issued to ensure precautionary measures especially with respect to public celebration. We will review the situation district-wise and issue separate guidelines wherever the positivity rate is more than 2%.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-sets-november-as-deadline-for-vaccinations/article36329979.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru/Mysuru/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools still out of bounds for children in Kodagu, DK||In Kodagu and Dakshina Kannada, two districts where the positivity rate is over and around 2%, and schools have not reopened, teachers are interacting with students in smaller groups, providing lesson plans and giving them worksheets to ensure that their learning is not hampered this academic year. V. Anbukumar, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that teachers in the two districts were instructed to continue with online classes. He added that they were allowed to call students in groups (not more than five students) to school and give them advice or clarify their doubts. However, he added that the department was hoping that the COVID-19 situation would improve and schools would reopen soon. “We cannot start classes as we will have to comply with all the recommendations of the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee,” he said, adding that the department was not thinking of starting any special measures in these districts as this was a ‘temporary situation’. Kerala factor In Dakshina Kannada, a key reason for delay is because many students from Kasaragod district in Kerala, which has a high test positivity rate, attend schools here. The test positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada is hovering around 2%. However, parents are worried. Rajesh Shrivana, the parent of a Class 6 student in Mangaluru, said that if offline classes are not resumed soon, students will definitely lag behind academically. Online classes do not offer face-to-face interaction and communication is not effective. Students do not show seriousness in studies and one of the parents will have to be with the students regularly when classes are online, he said. National award-winning high teacher Yakub Koyyur said that the learning ability of students has dropped as they have lost exposure to regular offline classes for over one-and-half years. There is a lack of interest in studies and many are addicted to mobile phones. The knowledge levels have also come down. It will be difficult for teachers to prepare Class 10 students for examinations, he said. In Kodagu, the wait for the reopening of schools has been getting longer for the children who are out of schools since last year. Until Kodagu’s positivity rate falls below 2%, schools are unlikely to reopen and the authorities have made all preparations for their reopening in hope of a continuous drop in new virus cases in the district. In Kodagu, there are about 37,000 children studying from Classes 6 to 10. Nipah scare too In Kodagu’s case too, proximity to Kerala is among the reasons for delay, with the threat of Nipah virus now adding to the worry. Kodagu DDPI Sridharan said, “Learning through WhatsApp is on and teachers are willing to go the extra mile to help students facing Internet problems, visiting their houses for distributing worksheets and clearing their doubts.” So far, 97% of admissions in Kodagu schools are done and the children are awaiting the start of physical classes as the hurdles in Internet connectivity have bothered them most, unlike children in other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-still-out-of-bounds-for-children-in-kodagu-dk/article36329976.ece
07 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Congress retains Tarikere TMC||Congress emerged as the single largest party in Tarikere Town Municipal Council by winning 15 of the total 23 seats. The party is all set to return to power in the council. Independent candidates won seven seats. BJP could win only one seat. The election result is being seen as an embarrassment for BJP MLA D.S. Suresh who represents Tarikere in the Karnataka Assembly. Of the total 23 seats, elections were held for 22 seats, as the candidate for one ward was elected unopposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-retains-tarikere-tmc/article36330427.ece
07 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman, daughter, granddaughter found dead||Three members of a family were found dead at Makkimane near Sringeri on September 6. The deceased have been identified as Sharadamma, 70, her daughter Veena, 49, and granddaughter Shravya, 15. Veena’s husband had gone to work when the incident occurred. Local people informed Sringeri police. Veena had been working as an anganwadi worker.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-daughter-granddaughter-found-dead/article36330428.ece
07 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Women’s hockey coach felicitated||Shivamogga district administration felicitated Ankita B.S., assistant coach of the Indian women’s hockey team, which finished fourth in the Olympics at Tokyo, in Shivamogga on Monday. Ankita has been working in Shivamogga as a hockey coach. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar felicitated her in his office, in the presence of other senior officers. Accepting the felicitation Ankita said she was proud to be identified with Shivamogga. “The achievement of our team has made people speak about hockey. We have many talented players. They all need proper training to win medals at international events”, she said. Ankita also stressed the need for a well-planned hockey stadium for the local talents. He said the women’s hockey team did a remarkable achievement in the Olympics. “We are happy that Ankita, who has been working in Shivamogga, was part of the team as a coach. We wish the women’s hockey team performs well in future events”, he said. Ankita is from Shuntikoppa in Kodagu district. She has been working as a hockey coach for Karnataka Sports Authority in Shivamogga for the last two years. She participated in the training camp for the women’s hockey team, which took part in the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/womens-hockey-coach-felicitated/article36330213.ece
07 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Hike temporary’||C.T. Ravi, former Minister and BJP national general secretary, has said the hike in fuel prices and LPG was a temporary development and it would not warrant protests by Congress workers. Speaking to presspersons in Chikkamagaluru on Sunday, he said the LPG price was as high as Rs. 981 during the UPA rule. Earlier, the price of essential products rose owing to corruption in the Congress rule. However, now the prices were going up owing to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hike-temporary/article36330210.ece
07 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||BJP may manage to come to power in Hubballi-Dharwad||Despite being backed by a Union Minister, a former Chief Minister and being a ruling party in the State, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) failed get a clear majority in the elections to the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation, the results of which were announced on Monday. However, it is better positioned to get the magic number in the 82-member municipal council as it is just three short of 42. The BJP has won 39 seats and there are six independent candidates who are mainly rebel candidates or having affiliation to the BJP and the Congress. In the 82-ward municipal council, where 420 candidates were in the fray, 42 is the magic number. This apart, there are eight MLAs and MLCs and one MP who have voting power. Of these, six belong to the BJP and two are from the Congress. Chairman of the Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti also has a vote. That takes the number to 91 and any party getting 46 votes will come to power. Getting the support of one independent will get power for the BJP. On the other hand, even if it gets the support of AIMIM, Janata Dal(S) and all six Independents, the Congress will still fall short of majority. Comparatively, Congress has improved its tally by securing 33 seats much to the embarrassment of BJP leaders, including Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and the former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar and Textile Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa, who is the district-in-charge. In the previous council elections, the Congress had held 22 of the total 67 seats, while this time it has gone up to 33. And, in two wards its rebel candidates have won. All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), which entered the fray for the first time in Hubballi-Dharwad, has won three out of 11 seats it contested. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi visited the twin cities for a day to canvass for party candidates and the large gathering witnessed during his visit has converted into votes, which is evident from the win in three wards. The biggest setback is for the Janata Dal(Secular), which has to be contented with only one seat, down from nine it held during the previous council election. After district unit president and former councillor Rajanna Koravi quit the party and joined the BJP, Gururaj Hunasimarad was made the district unit president and together with him the former MLA from Navalgund N.H. Konaraddi had campaigned extensively after the party fielded 49 candidates in the elections. The Aam Aadmi Party, which contested in 41 wards and had taken up extensive campaigning apart from various activities, failed to make any impact on the citizens of Hubballi-Dharwad. Meanwhile, several prominent leaders of both the parties have suffered defeat. They included the former Mayor Pandurang Patil (BJP), the former councillor Sanjay Kapatkar, BJP rebels and former councillors Lakshman Gandgalekar, Lakshmi Uppar, Manjula Akkur and Congress rebel Ganesh Tagargunti. Among the Congress rebels Akshata Mohan Asundi has won from Ward No 82, while BJP rebel Durgamma Shashi Bijwad has won from Ward No 69.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-may-manage-to-come-to-power-in-hubballi-dharwad/article36330207.ece
07 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Wrong decisions caused setback to Congress’||President of Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagar Zilla unit of the Congress Altaf Halwoor has said that the Congress suffered a setback in the municipal elections due to wrong decisions in ticket allotment. However, the Congress has increased its tally from 22 to 33, despite the setback, he said. Addressing presspersons along with Block Congress president Rajat Ullagaddimath in Hubballi on Monday, Mr. Halwoor said that if ticket were allotted as per the list finalised by the district committee, the party would have won more seats. “However, some candidates brought pressure from senior leaders to get the list changed and we were forced to issue B forms unwillingly to such candidates. Consequently, winnable candidates rebelled against the party and contested as independents resulting in other parties making benefit out of it,” he said. Mr. Halwoor also accused the officials of being partisan while issuing permissions for campaigning activities of the Congress when senior Congress leaders visited the twin cities. “We were denied permission. However, when AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi came for campaigning, all rules were thrown to the wind to help the party which is better known as the B team of the BJP,” he said. Clarifying that he had no role in the expulsion of some candidates, Mr. Halwoor said that those who had contested as rebel candidates and won would be welcomed back to the party. He also said that if needed, independents and AIMIM councillors would be approached.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wrong-decisions-caused-setback-to-congress/article36330209.ece
07 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Quota for mayoral posts declared in Jan.||While counting of votes in the municipal corporation elections in Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Kalaburagi was taken up and the results announced on Monday, the authorities have clarified that reservations for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor for these urban local bodies were declared in January 2021. According to the authorities concerned, an order signed by Under Secretary to Urban Development Department pertaining to reservations for these posts was declared on January 21, 2021 and it was subsequently published in the State Gazette on February 11, 2021. As per the order, the reservation for Mayor and Deputy Mayor’s post in Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation has been allotted for Backward Classes A category and Scheduled Castes (Woman), respectively. For the Kalaburagi City Corporation, the Mayor’s post is reserved for General category and Deputy Mayor’s post for Backward Classes B category. Similarly, the Mayor’s post for Belagavi has been reserved for General category and the Deputy Mayor’s post for General (Woman) category, the authorities have said. The gazette notification of February 2, 2021, comprises reservations for 10 city corporations, including Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Kalaburagi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quota-for-mayoral-posts-declared-in-jan/article36330208.ece
07 September 2021||HUBBALLI/BELAGAVI/KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Local body polls: BJP wins, but has reason to worry in Hubballi||As the results of three major municipal corporations in North Karnataka – Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi, and Kalaburagi – were out Monday, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seems to have scored a point. While it is a triumphant victory for the saffron party in Belagavi, it has something to worry about in Hubballi-Dharwad. On the other hand, the Congress has lost its strong bastion in Kalaburagi. Sweep for BJP The BJP has a clear majority in Belagavi Municipal Corporation (BCC) where elections were held on party symbols for the first time after the corporation was formed in 1981. The BJP won 35 seats out of 58, Congress 10, Independents 12, and AIMIM one. It is evident that the Maharashtra Ekikarana Samiti (MES), which held sway for over six decades fighting polls on issues of language and border, has been voted out. The MES is not a recognised party and its nominees don’t fight under a common symbol and this time its tally is estimated to be just four. In Hubballi-Dharwad, the BJP has registered a marginal increase in its seat-tally despite the presence of Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar. BJP’s tally of 33 in the 67-member previous council has increased by six (now 39) in the 82-member council. While it is in a better position to stake claim to power, the Congress’ increase in seats (from 22 to 33) is a cause of concern for the BJP. On the other hand, the Congress is worried with the emergence of AIMIM, which has won three seats in Hubballi and one in Belagavi. It has won none in Kalaburagi but has definitely begun eating into the Congress vote share.  In Kalaburagi corporation, the Congress fort has been breached. BJP’s tally has almost doubled (from 14 to 23), while that of Congress has seen marginal increase (from 23 to 27). The bonhomie Despite being the single largest party, the Congress may not come to power, given the bonhomie between the BJP and the JD(S). With the sole independent candidate announcing support to the BJP, the JD(S) with four seats, has emerged the “kingmaker”. And given the palpable soft corner towards Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda may choose the BJP over the Congress. And BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel’s claim about bagging all three municipal corporations seems to indicate this. The election results have also shown that the time has not yet come for AAP, which tried to woo urban electorate with the “Delhi Model”. While the JD(S) lost some seats it held earlier — its rally in Kalaburagi reduced from 10 to four and in Hubballi-Dharwad from nine to one — it is may just be part of ruling dispensation in Kalaburagi.  (With inputs from Praveen B. Para)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/local-body-polls-bjp-wins-but-has-reason-to-worry-in-hubballi/article36329994.ece
07 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||It is a fractured mandate in Kalaburagi corporation polls||The results of the Kalaburagi City Corporation election, which were declared on Monday, threw up a fractured mandate where no party has won enough number of seats to secure an overall majority to form the council. Of the 55 seats in the city corporation, the Congress has won 27 and the BJP 23, relegating the Janata Dal (Secular) to the third position with four seats. While an Independent candidate backed by the BJP has also won. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Communist Party of India (CPI) failed to bag even a single seat. Any party winning 28 seats would be able to form the council and occupy the Mayoral seat. A majority requires a party to win more than 50% of seats to form the council. The Congress, which has won 27 seats, can increase the number to 29 seats with one each Rajya Sabha member and MLA. While the BJP won 23 seats, it can take its tally to 30 by adding the Independent candidate, three MLCs, two MLAs and one MP. The possibility is that the party which gains the support of the Janata Dal(S) candidates will form the council. Those who won the elections for the second and third term in a row are the former Mayor Syed Ahmed, Ali Khan, Putali Begum, Lata Rathod, Vishal Dhargi and Prabhuling Hadimani. Both the BJP and the Congress leaders exuded the confidence of their respective parties forming the council. Large and Medium Industries and district in-charge Minister Murugesh Nirani said that the BJP will grab power for the first time in the city corporation with the required number of MLAs and MLCs. The independent councillor has already extended his support to the BJP, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-is-a-fractured-mandate-in-kalaburagi-corporation-polls/article36330205.ece
07 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||11 district offices to be opened in Hosapete in the first phase||As part of efforts to make the newly-formed Vijayanagara district independently functional, the State government has decided to open 11 district-level offices at Hosapete, headquarters of the district, in the first phase. At a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Bengaluru on Monday, it was decided to sanction Rs. 53 crore for the repair and renovation of government offices and providing infrastructure to them. As per information provided by the administration of Ballari, the district from which the new district was carved out, the government has decided to open the district-level offices and recruit the required staff in two phases. In the first phase, 11 offices — the Deputy Commissioner, the Zilla Panchayat, the Superintendent of Police, the District Health and Family Welfare, the Deputy Director of Land Records, Public Instruction, Women and Child Development, Information and Public Relations, Registration and Stamps, Urban Planning and Development and the Forest — that see more people coming for work on a daily basis will be opened. “Karnataka Housing Board has identified 83 acres of land in Hosapete for the construction of the district administrative complex. The required funds will be provided in two phases,” Mr. Bommai told the meeting and directed the officials concerned to prepare the blueprint for the district administrative complex ensuring maximum utilisation of available space. Fund distribution The distribution of District Mineral Foundation funds between Ballari and Vijayanagara districts was also discussed at the meeting. “The already approved action plan for Ballari District Mineral Foundation funds will be implemented till 2023-24. After that, a formula for distribution of the funds between the two districts will be formulated,” the Chief Minister said. Tourism potential Considering the potential for developing tourism in the newly formed Vijayanagara district, the Chief Minister said that a meeting will be held with officials of the Archaeological Survey of India to chalk out tourism development plans with focus on the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Hampi. Tourism Minister Anand Singh, Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance Department, I.S.N. Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, Public Works and Home Rajneesh Goel, Special Officer, Vijayanagara district, Anirudh Sravan and other senior officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/11-district-offices-to-be-opened-in-hosapete-in-the-first-phase/article36330215.ece
07 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Good showing by BJP, Congress in Kalaburagi||Both the BJP and the Congress have improved their performance by winning more seats this time than in the 2013 city corporation elections. After eight years, in 2021, the BJP rose to 23 seats from 14 then, while the Congress has taken its tally to 27 from 23 in the Kalaburagi City Corporation elections, the results of which were declared on Monday. Of the 27 seats won by the Congress, seven were in wards coming under the Kalaburagi North Constituency represented by Congress MLA and 10 seats in South Constituency represented by two-time MLA of the ruling BJP. The BJP has performed well in Kalaburagi North Constituency, which is considered a stronghold of the Congress. It has taken a big leap from five seats in 2013 to 11 in this election. And, in Kalaburagi South, it has bagged 12, up from nine. The Janata Dal(S) has been reduced to a mere four seats from 10. Of the 23 seats bagged by the Congress in the 2013 elections, 15 were from Kalaburagi North Constituency and eight in wards of Kalaburagi South Constituency. Of the 14 seats won by the BJP, 10 were from Kalaburagi South Constituency and four from Kalaburagi North Constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-showing-by-bjp-congress-in-kalaburagi/article36330203.ece
07 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Curb vehicle parking on footpaths: Mayor||Mayor Premananda Shetty on Monday asked the police to take seriously people parking vehicles on footpaths in the city and impose fine on wrong-doers. Speaking at a co-ordination meeting called by him to address traffic management issues, the Mayor said that the civic body will extend to the police the necessary cooperation in the matter. The Mayor said that several roads in the city have been widened and footpaths have been constructed. But some people parked their four-wheelers and two-wheelers on footpaths causing trouble to pedestrians. Earlier in the meeting, some councillors pointed out the increasing number of such incidents in the city. Some demanded that such vehicles should be towed away to traffic police stations. Mr. Shetty said that the civic body will join hands with the police in creating awareness among people not to violate traffic rules. It will install some sign boards to create awareness among people. Representing civil society, G.K. Bhat said that a vehicle should be exclusively devoted to create awareness on traffic rules throughout the day in different parts of the city. The vehicle should make public announcement through loud speakers. The Mayor instructed the officials of the civic body to ensure that marriage halls made proper arrangements for parking vehicles. They can hire nearby vacant sites on marriage day. If vacant space of the corporation is available nearby, they can apply to the corporation, pay a fee for hiring the space for the marriage day. The step is to avoid roadside parking thereby causing inconvenience to road users. The meeting discussed the traffic woes in the Service Bus Stand and the Hampankatta area but did not take any particular decision on ending them. Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar said that an Executive Engineer of the corporation will be made the co-ordinator to deal with traffic-related issues with police. Councillor Naveen R. D’Souza and others spoke on the mushrooming of roadside vendors on the road between Father Muller Hospital and Nandigudda and traffic issues on the Falnir Road. Councillor and former Mayor M. Shashidhar Hegde suggested that the corporation have a policy on traffic management. It can ask the National Institute of Technology-Surathkal (NIT-K) to study traffic and road issues scientifically and submit a traffic management plan. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic and Crime) B.P. Dinesh Kumar spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curb-vehicle-parking-on-footpaths-mayor/article36330405.ece
07 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Southern Railway felicitates track maintainers for exemplary work||Southern Railway recently felicitated three trackmen from Mangaluru region for their exemplary service while appreciating the staff for detecting track abnormality near Kulashekara on August 25 and speedy restoration of the track. General Manager John Thomas presented the appreciation award to Chandan Kumar, Track Maintainer-III/ Mangaluru Junction, for his alertness and timely action. During his night patrol duty in the Padil-Kulasekhara section at 1 a.m. on August 25, he noticed that the ER clips (Elastic Rail Clips) were in damaged condition for a length of 300 metres at Kulashekara. He immediately exhibited the danger signal towards the approaching Train No 06098 Yog Nagari Rishikesh-Kochuveli Express Special consequent to which, the train was stopped. This ensured safety of passengers and prevented damage to valuable railway assets. Lakshman Sirka, Track Maintainer-II, was awarded in appreciation of his devotion to duty. He was the first staff who turned up at the site for restoration work, on receipt of information. R. Manikanta, Track maintainer -I/ Mangaluru, was also awarded in appreciation of his devotion to duty. He turned up at the spot immediately and contributed to the restoration work. Mr. Thomas also presented the award and certificate of merit to C. Vikas Babu, Track Maintainer IV, Ullal, for his excellent projection of track maintainers working as night patrolmen under different weather conditions through his social media post. Mr. Babu had in his social media post said that not many were aware that there existed a category called track maintainer. Guarding steel rails and remaining vigilant at the dead of night, track maintainers keep watch on swelling waters under bridges and watch out for tree fall or landslip on tracks, he had said. Walking 20 km along the track with heavy backpack of tools, they take a break every 5 km and struggle hard to keep away sleep, he had written. Following this, the Railways rationalised their working to some extent recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/southern-railway-felicitates-track-maintainers-for-exemplary-work/article36330399.ece
07 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Conduct more tests: Angara||Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada S. Angara on Monday instructed the Taluk Health Officers to conduct more swab tests in such areas where COVID-19 cases are highly concentrated. Speaking at the District Disaster Management Authority meeting, the Minister said that the Taluk Health Officers should take all possible measures to contain the spread of infection from highly concentrated areas to other areas. There should be no laxity in conducting more tests. The Minister cautioned the health officials of initiating action against erring Taluk Health Officers. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra asked the tahsildars and Executive Officers of TPs to supervise the conduct of more tests in taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conduct-more-tests-angara/article36330409.ece
07 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mindcraft Studios launched in city||Mindcraft Studios, a space for Interdisciplinary Arts by Art Kanara Trust, was formally launched at Kodialguthu Center for Art & Culture, Ballalbagh, here recently. Speaking on the occasion, senior journalist V.U. George said that Mindcraft Studios fulfils a very important need to transmit the rich art heritage of Dakshina Kannada to the next generation. “Every human being is born with an instinct for art and it can flourish only when there is a right outlet for it. I am sure this venture will play an important role in propagating art in this region,” he said. Karnataka Theological College Principal, Rev. H.M. Watson appreciated the effort to keep the artistic legacy of this region alive and promised to provide his institution’s cooperation. Mindcraft Studios is an initiative of Art Kanara Trust dedicated to deliver art educational programmes for the public. It will organise educational workshops, seminars, art camps, exhibitions, internships, reading groups, publishing projects and other activities. Internship programmes will be provided to graduates of various disciplines such as fine arts, literature, architecture, media and communication and the humanities. Bridge courses will be provided to support students aspiring to study at premier, art, architecture, design and visual communication institutions in India and abroad. A range of practice and research-based programmes will be available for students and individuals in creative fields such as photography and photojournalism, art appreciation and writing, painting, sculpture and interdisciplinary practices, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mindcraft-studios-launched-in-city/article36330396.ece
07 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP afraid to face ZP, TP elections, says U.T. Khader||Mangaluru MLA and former Minister U.T. Khader said here on Monday that the State Cabinet deciding to establish a commission for delimitation of zilla and taluk panchayat constituencies by amending the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act, 1993, is not in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. The BJP-led government has taken the decision as it fears to face the elections to the zilla and taluk panchayats, he said. Addressing presspersons, the Congress leader said that the decision of the Cabinet is against relevant law. Timely elections to TPs and ZPs should be conducted to strengthen the Panchayat Raj system. He said earlier the government postponed the elections citing COVID-19. Later, the Election Commission announced the draft reservation inviting objections. Now if the government wants a commission to decide on re-drawing the constituencies, why should there be an Election Commission, he sought to know. The Cabinet’s decision is to weaken the Panchayat Raj system, Mr. Khader said adding that the government is only buying time to conduct the elections. The government should drop its decision and the Election Commission should conduct the election at the earliest, he said. Weekend curfew On the weekend curfew imposed in Dakshina Kannada, the MLA said that the district administration should re-consider its decision. All shops should be allowed to do business. He questioned some BJP MLAs of the district submitting a memorandum to the Chief Minister requesting to lift the weekend curfew. When the MLAs are part of the District-level COVID-19 Task Force they can take the decision on lifting the weekend curfew. Is there a need to approach the CM for it, he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-afraid-to-face-zp-tp-elections-says-ut-khader/article36330410.ece
07 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||27 GPs selected for AMRUT scheme||As many as 27 gram panchayats in different taluks of Dakshina Kannada were on Monday chosen for the implementation of Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. The panchayat that successfully implements the scheme will get a grant of Rs. 25 lakh for development works. Presiding over a meeting, Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport S. Angara said that the panchayats selected should execute all development works in their jurisdiction. Respective panchayat development officers and executive officer of the taluk panchayat concerned should ensure that there was no shortcomings in the required infrastructure, the Minister said. The chosen panchayats are Sangabettu, Irvathur, Pilathabettu, Kadeswalya, Balepuni and Idkidu in Bantwal taluk; Madantyar, Kokkada, Dharmasthala, Ujire, Hosangadi and Aladangadi in Belthangadi taluk; Savanur and Alankar in Kadaba taluk; Uppinangady, Aryapu and Kabaka in Puttur taluk; Aranthod, Mandekolu and Markanja in Sullia taluk; Belvai and Thenka Mijar in Moodbidri taluk and Badaga Edapadavu, Ganjimutt, Munnur, Haleyangadi and Permude in Mangaluru taluk. Mr. Angara said that while implementing the AMRUT scheme, panchayats should ensure provision of piped drinking water to every household under the Jal Jeevan Mission; provide street lights and solar street lights through own or 15th Finance Commission funds; develop parks under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme; construct and repair classrooms in primary and high schools through funds from the Education Department; provide drinking water, toilets and playgrounds in schools; digitise panchayat administration and undertake solid and liquid waste management projects. Member of Legislative Assembly Rajesh U. Naik, Zilla Panchayat Deputy Secretary Anand Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/27-gps-selected-for-amrut-scheme/article36330394.ece
07 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Test must for hotel staff||The Mangaluru City Corporation said on Monday that COVID-19 test will be mandatory for all staff of hotels and restaurants in the corporation limits. It is in view of a surge in COVID-19 cases across Mangaluru, corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said in a statement. For public convenience, all Urban Healthcare Centres have been conducting COVID-19 tests in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/test-must-for-hotel-staff/article36330402.ece
07 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bishop Basil’s 25th death anniversary on Sept. 9||The Mangaluru Diocese will observe the 25th death anniversary of Bishop Basil Salvadore D’Souza, with a Memorial Holy Mass on September 9 in the city. A release from the Diocese here said that Most Rev. D’Souza led the Catholic Diocese of Mangaluru from May 11, 1965 till his death on September 5, 1996. The mass will be conducted at the Our Lady of Holy Rosary Cathedral, Rosario, at 9.30 a.m. A short documentary film on the life and mission of the Bishop will be screened and a book will be released at the Mini Hall at 10.30 a.m. The release said that under Bishop Basil’s leadership, the Diocese that also included Udupi and Kasargod in Kerala, saw progressive changes. During his tenure, many new parishes were built and new educational and religious institutions were established. He was instrumental in starting the Canara Organisation for Development and Peace and the Institute of Social Development. He started hospitals at Badyar and Kinnigoli. He organised the visit of Pope John Paul II and Mother Teresa to Mangaluru. He was the first Bishop to start liturgy in vernacular and got New Testament, Missal and the Books of Mass Readings translated into Konkani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bishop-basils-25th-death-anniversary-on-sept-9/article36330393.ece
07 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||More coaches on train||The Railways has decided to add two more sleeper class coaches on Train Nos 09183/09184 Mumbai Central-Surathkal-Mumbai Central Special Express proposed during the Ganesha festival. A release from Konkan Railway Corporation said that the train will run with a revised composition of 17 coaches on September 8 and 15 from Mumbai and on September 9 and 16 from Surathkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-coaches-on-train/article36330395.ece
07 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||One lakh doses of vaccine tomorrow||The Department of Health and Family Welfare will organise a mega vaccination drive to administer one lakh doses in Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday. The drive will be held in 430 vaccination sites of the government. All those aged above 18 will be administered first and second doses of vaccine. Pregnant women can also get vaccinated. In addition, vaccination will be carried out in all government health facilities on Tuesday. Second dose Second dose will be given in the Government Wenlock Hospital and at ESI Hospital in the city, a release from the District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishor Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-lakh-doses-of-vaccine-tomorrow/article36330406.ece
07 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||More schools reopen||Higher primary schools on Monday resumed physical classes for the first time since last year as the COVID-19 cases in Mysuru district continued to fall, making way for their reopening. Even as nearly 80 per cent of students from Class 9 and 10 are turning up for classroom teaching after the high schools were reopened on August 23, offline classes for Class 6 to 8 also got off to a start much to the excitement of children who were out of schools since last year over the pandemic. On day one, about 40-50 per cent of attendance was witnessed across the district and the officials from the Department of Public Instruction were hoping to see a rise in the turnout in the coming days like it was noticed in the case of high schools. The children were welcomed with roses and sweets/chocolates in most schools which were also specially decorated. There was a festive ambience in schools as students turned up happily wearing uniforms. Deputy Director of Public Instruction Ramachandra Raje Urs, who visited various schools to check the arrangements and the turnout, said the turnout will go up once the festive season is done. But the attendance on day one in most schools was encouraging and there are hopes of school education coming back to normal in the days ahead. Mysuru district has 1,33,669 students studying in classes 6 to 8 in 1,617 schools, which have 12,931 teachers.“The teachers were excited to greet the children. We hope that the situation permits schools to function smoothly and normally like they were in pre-COVID-19 days,” Mr. Urs said. Meanwhile, the vaccination of teachers is almost reaching 100 per cent in the district after the drive was launched ahead of the reopening of high schools on August 23. Barring 47 teachers, all others are either partially or fully vaccinated. “I had sent CRPs (cluster resource persons) to meet each of the unvaccinated teachers to know the reason for not taking the jab. We have come to know that a few underwent surgeries or are facing some health issues. They had been advised to seek medical advice and get the jab soon. Otherwise, the unvaccinated teachers will be told to go on compulsory leave,” the DDPI said, adding that the number of unvaccinated teachers was more in Hunsur taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-schools-reopen/article36330425.ece
07 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru sugarcane growers seek higher FRP||The State Sugarcane Growers’ Association on Monday said the change in Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) announced by the Centre for sugarcane was meagre and demanded that it be revised appropriately in the interest of farmers. The farmers, led by Association President Kurubur Shanthkumar, took out a bike and tractor rally in protest against the imbalanced FRP, from Gun House Circle and later staged a demonstration at the Deputy Commissioner’s office seeking immediate revision of FRP. “When the prices of diesel, cooking gas and fertilizers are increased several times in a year, why cannot the FRP,” he asked, while addressing the protesters. Mr. Shanthkumar said injustice was being done to sugarcane farmers as they were not getting a suitable price for their produce and alleged that the sugar factories were not complying with the laws which had put farmers in distress. Calling upon the farmers to unite and fight against the injustice, he said the FRP must be fixed at Rs. 3,200 a tonne as the Rs. 50 hike announced by the Centre was unacceptable. Along with the FRP, the profit earned by the factories must be shared with the farmers, the farmers demanded. “The production cost of sugarcane is more than the FRP announced,” he claimed, adding that farmers were getting trapped in debt as they are not getting appropriate and reasonable prices for their produce. Accusing the Centre of practising “anti-farmer” policies, Mr. Shanthkumar said the FRP was revised without going into the costs incurred by farmers on sugarcane production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-sugarcane-growers-seek-higher-frp/article36330212.ece
07 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||S.R. Mahesh says he will not be silenced by ‘threats’||Welcoming the re-survey of certain parcels of land in his possession in and around Mysuru, former Minister and JD(S) MLA S.R. Mahesh described the directions issued by the Commissioner of Survey, Settlement and Land Records to re-survey the parcels of land as part of the “threats and blackmail” tactics of IAS officers Rohini Sindhuri and Munish Moudgil. “I will not be silenced or cowed by these threats and blackmail”, Mr. Mahesh told reporters in Mysuru and alleged that the directions to re-survey the land had been issued in the wake of the allegations he had raised against former Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri’s role in the distribution of eco-friendly cloth bags in urban local bodies in Mysuru as part of a plastic-free campaign during her tenure. Though he welcomed the decision to re-survey the land, Mr Mahesh sought to know from Mr. Moudgil the reason behind according priority to the complaint submitted at the behest of Ms. Sindhuri when there were complaints galore in Bengaluru. Mr. Mahesh said he still stood by the promise he made to hand over to the Governor the choultry which Ms. Sindhuri had alleged was built on rajakaluve and retire from public life if the charges were proved. The JD(S) MLA said he would raise in the coming session of the State Legislature a demand for withdrawal of government bungalows on 5 acres or 6 acres of land allotted as houses of IAS officers. “What is the need for it when several government offices were functioning from rented premises?”, he said recalling that Ms. Sindhuri during her tenure in Mysuru had built a swimming pool and renovated a heritage building allegedly in violation of the rules. Unlike MLAs, who have to meet a lot of people in their houses, nobody can enter the houses of these officials, he said. He also questioned the need for deployment of a number of servants and gardeners at the bungalows of IAS officers at government expense. He said Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar was not favouring him when his opposed the re-survey. “He was only saying that the survey should be as per law”. If any such re-survey was needed even after an exercise was conducted under the leadership of Divisional Commissioner of Mysuru, it requires a clearance from the Chief Secretary, Mr. Mahesh claimed. He dismissed former Minister A.H. Vishwanath’s support for the re-survey by claiming that the BJP MLC had always been indirectly supporting Ms. Sindhuri. ‘Against law’ Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Vishwanath found fault with Mr. Somashekar for questioning Mr. Moudgil’s authority. Pointing out that the government has given him the authority, the BJP MLC said Mr. Somashekar cannot question it. “It is against law.” If Mr. Mahesh has not encroached on government land, there is no need for him to fear. Mr. Vishwanath also heaped praises on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. “He is not under the shadow of Mr. Yediyurappa and is charting his own course, which is reassuring. The earlier Chief Minister was connecting to the family. The present Chief Minister is connecting with people”, he remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sr-mahesh-says-he-will-not-be-silenced-by-threats/article36330426.ece
07 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Alert in border villages||With Kodagu remaining a high-risk district, sharing its border with Kerala where COVID-19 cases are soaring, 26 villageshave been identified for vaccination on priority as a measure to fight the spread. The villages are located in a radius of 20 km from the border. The government is keeping a close watch on Kodagu as it is among the few districts in the State where curbs including weekend lockdown have continued. Schools and colleges aren’t open yet as the TPR is yet to fall below 2 per cent. Kodagu DHO Venkatesh said the 26 villages have an estimated population of around 30,000, including tribals who are being persuaded to get vaccinated. Screening at the border check-posts is strict and genuineness of RT-PCR negative reports is checked before allowing entry into the State in the wake of reports of use of fake reports for gaining entry. On the scare of Nipah virus in Kerala, he said all precautionary measures are in place and necessary protocols are being followed. Four years ago when the Nipah outbreak was reported in Kerala, health authorities were on alert in the border districts of Kodagu, Chamarajanagar and Mysuru. As the infection can spread from fruit bats to pigs, instructions had been given for educating people rearing pigs in Kodagu district. They had been told not to feed discarded and rotten fruit to pigs. The public were advised against eating fruits grown in trees such as papaya and chiku with bite marks as a precaution since they may have been bitten by fruit-eating bats. However, there was no threat to eating fruits at home after confirming they did not have bite marks, the health authorities had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alert-in-border-villages/article36330423.ece
07 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Raichur may see full vaccination by end of September||Deputy Commissioner of Raichur B.C. Satish has promised to complete the vaccination drive covering health workers, COVID-19 frontline workers and also other beneficiaries who have attained the age of 18 by the end of this month. He was speaking in Raichur on Monday after participating in a video-conference with Health Minister K. Sudhakar. Dr. Satish said that 80% of health workers and 92% of frontline workers have already been vaccinated. But, officers should ensure complete vaccination of these sectors. “The aim is to vaccinate at least 50,000 people on Wednesdays and Fridays, as per the instructions of the Health Minister. At least 12,000 people should get vaccinated during the rest of the week,” he said during the video-conference. The DC suggested to Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat Shaikh Tanveer that they reach the target by using the services of Panchayat Development Officers, Task Force committee members and also elected representatives. “You have to seek help from heads of churches, masjids and other religions to reach out to people in rural as well as urban areas of the district,” Dr. Satish instructed Assistant Commissioner of Raichur sub-division Santosh Kamegowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raichur-may-see-full-vaccination-by-end-of-september/article36330217.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Report: Drop in learning levels||He suggested that education departments should not push teachers to complete the usual syllabus. “There is an urgent need to reconfigure curriculum and plan the next two years very differently than what is done during normal academic years,” he added. The report stated that there was also a slight shift in enrolment from private to government schools across all age groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/report-drop-in-learning-levels/article36329974.ece
07 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||KSRTC mobility hub: test piling work begins||Test piling work of the multi-crore KSRTC Alappuzha mobility hub began on Monday. It was inaugurated by H. Salam, MLA. Officials said the piling work, being carried out under the aegis of the INKEL, would be completed in a month. Meanwhile, measures are afoot to shift the KSRTC workshop and garage temporarily to Valavanadu. Two workshop buildings at the KSRTC bus stand will be demolished. The initial works including shifting of the workshop and garage, precursor to the commencement of the first phase of construction of the mobility hub, is expected to be completed by November 1. The mobility hub with a total built-up area of 1,75,000 sq ft will come up on 4.07 acres at the KSRTC bus station here at a cost of Rs. 129 crore funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The multi-storey structure in the model of a snake boat will have bus terminals, multiplex theatre, restaurants, commercial complex, retail shops, and hospitality services. As per the design, the bus terminal area is spread over 58,000 sq ft. Seventeen pickup and drop-off points are proposed in order to control crowds during peak hours. The ground floor of the facility will host a cafeteria, A/C and non A/C waiting lounges for male and female passengers, toilets, an information desk, and a waiting area. The first floor will have facilities for parking 37 buses. As per the plan, a total of 32,628 sq ft commercial area is extended across three floors. Single-room rental facilities for 21 females and 19 males along with separate dormitory facilities will be arranged on the top floor. Four-star hotel A four-star hotel of 11,980 sq ft facing the scenic backwaters will be another attraction. The multiplex theatre with a total area of 12,044 sq ft will have two screens of 140 capacity each. A restaurant can accommodate 90 people at a time. The bus terminal is provided with a seven-storey puzzle type multi-level car parking, which can accommodate 150 cars.  The mobility hub hsa a total built-up area of 1,75,000 sq ft is to come up on 4.07 acres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-mobility-hub-test-piling-work-begins/article36330370.ece
07 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Sharp memories that cannot be written off||The English version of Professor T.J. Joseph’s autobiography Attupokatha Ormakal in Malayalam will soon be released by Penguin books. Prof. Joseph. a teacher at New Mans College Thodupuzha, whose right hand was chopped off by fundamentalists for ‘religious blasphemy’, wrote the Malayalam book with his left hand and it was released in January 2020. It was one of the best sellers in Malayalam and paved the way for a public debate on fundamentalist elements creeping into Kerala society. He fell prey to religious fundamentalism in 2010. The English version of the book titled ‘A Thousand Cuts’ was translated by K. Nandakumar, grandson of Mahakavi Vallathol Narayana Menon. According to Prof. Joseph, Penguin books informed him that the book will be released on September 20. Prof. Joseph said that the English version of the book would help it reach a wide readership and the basic issue the book dealt with had gained more importance now. “As a developed society, we consider ourselves in a safe position. My life is a clear example that our State is also facing religious fundamentalism and related issues. May this book kindle the hope for peace and a secure atmosphere and the extremist elements in any religion should not be encouraged,” he said. He said that the English version of the book was also dedicated to his wife, Salomi. He had a peaceful family life till the issue happened. Suicide The mental agony we faced took away her life, he said. The social fabric of a peaceful society should not be allowed to be destroyed by a few fundamentalists, he said. Prof. Joseph, a former Malayalam teacher, had set a controversial question paper after selecting a passage from writer P.T. Kunju Mohammed’s short story for an internal exam in Malayalam for second semester B.Com students. The attack in 2010 The Popular front of India (PFI) alleged that he had ridiculed Prophet Muhammad and its members attacked him when he was returning home from a church with his family on July 4, 2010. He lost his job and spent a long period in hospital and at home. On March 20, 2014, his wife committed suicide. Later, a court acquitted him of all charges. Prof. Joseph describes in the autobiography that the Catholic church-run management of the college and the church authorities had boycotted him.  T.J. Joseph says the basic issue that the book deals with has gained more importance now||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sharp-memories-that-cannot-be-written-off/article36330281.ece
07 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Man accused of woman’s murder held||The police on Monday arrested Benoy, 48, accused in the murder of a 44-year-old woman Sindhu, whose body was exhumed from the kitchen of his house at Panikkankudy on Saturday. Sindhu went missing from August 12 and Benoy was absconding from August 16 after Sindhu’s family filed a complaint with the Vellathooval police. The accused was arrested from a plantation at Perinchamkutty, the police said. Sindhu was staying in a rented house at Panickankudy with her 12-year-old son following a quarrel with her husband six years ago. She later shifted to Benoy’s house. The police said she had sent her son to stay with Benoy’s relative on August 11. The next day, her son noticed that Sindhu was missing and informed his relatives. The post-mortem report said she was strangled to death. There were marks of attack on her body. A rib was broken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-accused-of-womans-murder-held/article36330329.ece
07 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Tigers census commences in Wayanad||Monitoring of tigers using camera traps as part of the All-India Tiger Estimation (AITE) 2021-22 began in a big way in the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) and two territorial forest divisions in the district, a region known for the highest density of tiger population in the country. The camera traps are being installed in 312 grid lines in the three forest divisions in the district, including 203 grid lines in the sanctuary, 52 in South Wayanad and 57 in North Wayanad forest divisions. Grid line Each grid line will have two cameras which will record the movement of animals for 30 days from Wednesday. Wildlife Warden S. Narendra Babu will supervise the exercise which will follow the protocol of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). As many as 624 camera traps would be set up in the three forest divisions and the work would be completed by Tuesday, Mr. Babu told The Hindu . Prior to the programme, 100 frontline forest officials, including 50 officials of the sanctuary and 25 officials each of the territorial forest divisions, were trained for the purpose. The images captured by the camera traps will be handed over to the NTCA after the programme. According to the latest tiger estimation conducted in 2018, the region was a haven for 150 tigers, including 120 in the sanctuary and 30 in the territorial forest divisions. The sanctuary, though home to more than half the number of tigers in Kerala, is losing out on the prospect of receiving tiger reserve status following resistance by the local people. While the Periyar Tiger Reserve, with an estimated population of 30 to 35 big cats, is getting nearly Rs. 4.5 crore annually, the WWS, home to more than half of the tiger population in the State, is getting only Rs. 1 crore a year as it does not have tiger reserve status. Mr. Babu said that no new restrictions would be imposed when a sanctuary was turned into a tiger reserve. On the other hand, setting up of a tiger reserve would be beneficial to the villagers as huge funds would be allotted to the reserve for wildlife management, he said. Nilgiri Biosphere The sanctuary, which is spread over 344.44 sq km, is an integral part of the Nilgiri Biosphere in the Western Ghats and contiguous to the tiger reserves of Nagerhole and Bandipur of Karnataka and Mudumalai of Tamil Nadu.  As many as 624 camera traps will be set up in the three forest divisions and the work will be completed by Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tiger-census-gets-under-way/article36330297.ece
07 September 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Title deeds to be handed over||The Wayanad district administration will organise a ‘pattaya mela’ on September 14 to mark the 100-day action plan of the State government. As many as 406 title deeds, including 292 land tribunal pattayas, five land assignment pattayas,15 Devaswom pattayas, 41 possession certificates as per the Forest Rights Act and 53 possession certificates under the Land Bank scheme of the State government would be handed over on the occasion adhering to the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/title-deeds-to-be-handed-over/article36330294.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Corporation to open bid for operating Brahmapuram plant||The Kochi Corporation will open the single bid it has received for operating its solid waste management plant at Brahmapruam, it was decided at the Corporation Council meeting on Monday. Incidentally, a section of the Corporation councillors were opposed to the civic body considering the only bid it had received in response to its advertisement inviting companies to run the plant. Though the contract for running the plant, which was awarded to a company, had expired way back in 2011, the company had been running the unit on an ad hoc basis. The Corporation Secretary informed the council meeting that the company, which submitted the bid, appeared to have four years of experience in running such ventures and the delay in setting up a new plant and managing the waste would invite hefty fine on the civic body and the councillors. The Secretary also brought to the notice of the council the Rs. 1 crore fine slapped by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board on the civic body and the strictures passed by the National Green Tribunal for faulty handling of the municipal waste. After the heated debate, the council decided to open the bid submitted by the firm and evaluate its legal validity. The meeting also decided to initiate proceedings for setting up a new plant. Mayor M. Anilkumar also informed the council that the Corporation would try the online route for issuing birth and death certificates from Tuesday, on an experimental basis. The meeting has decided to form two squads to curb the practice of dumping waste at public places. The two teams will hit the road by September 10. A by-law for giving legal framework for the collection of municipal waste in the city will be framed within a fortnight. The Mayor asked the health standing committee to come up with the proposal. A committee led by T.K. Ashraf, chairman of health standing committee, will initiate the process. A special council will be convened to discuss the proposed legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-to-open-bid-for-operating-brahmapuram-plant/article36330320.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pets too share vicissitudes of pandemic||A few days ago a young couple frenetically rang up animal welfare activists from the Kaloor bus stand. After being told to vacate the rented apartment in the city, the newly married couple from Palakkad wanted to get rid of their puppy. Eventually, after hours, they found a person in Thripunithura who agreed to keep it. “Neither are all pets fortunate to find new homes nor are all pet owners kind enough to find one. They simply abandon them to fend for themselves, a phenomenon, which has increased ever since the pandemic,” says a section of animal welfare activists. Lockdown “The abandoning of pets has soared since the lockdown. In the initial months after the first lockdown in March last year, we were bombarded with enquiries about giving away the pets on adoption for fear that they could be carriers of the pandemic. During that period, we rescued all kinds of pet dogs from Pomeranian to Rottweiler from the streets,” said Ambily Purackal, coordinator and founding member of Muvattupuzha-based Daya Animal Welfare Organisation. However, not everyone agreed that there has been a spurt in the abandonment of pets since the pandemic but instead noticed a positive fallout. “Kochi always had its share of abandonment of pets and that number has more or less remained even during the pandemic. On the positive side, there has been increased interest in adoption. Pets, especially dogs, are a responsibility for 10-15 years and the ones wanting to quit midway through should at least be kind enough not to abandon them,” said Ashwini Prem, founder of the NGO Oneness. Spurt in adoption  Ms. Purackal, however, observed the spurt in adoption sceptically. Bored by the lockdown life, people suddenly developed a love for pets and either went for adoption or started taking strays home indiscriminately. “Then during the unlock phase, people eager to return to their normal life, found the newly adopted pets a liability and looked for ways to get rid of them. That the strays once domesticated, could hardly survive in the streets, made it all the more worse,” she said. Sajeev T.K., district secretary of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, felt that the absence of a State Animal Welfare Board enabled the owners who abandoned their pets to go scot-free. Microchips “Though pets are supposed to have microchips, the majority don't have them, making it impossible to trace and penalise the owners who abandon their pets. Illegal breeding centres also thrive in contravention of laws and the breeding animals are simply abandoned after their utility,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pets-share-pandemic-vicissitudes/article36330313.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Concern over poor patronage for KSRTC||Even as the number of services operated by KSRTC has fallen in the wake of the pandemic situation, many of the buses that operate in the district are not getting patronage for even half of their seating capacity. This has resulted in passengers and NGOs drawing a comparison with the much better patronage for private buses in different routes. T.N. Pratapan, general convenor of the city-based Janakeeya Anweshana Samithi, narrated his travel in a Muvattupuzha-bound KSRTC bus a few days ago, in which the bus travelled all the way from the Ernakulam bus stand to Palarivattom with just two passengers. “Another passenger boarded the bus from Palarivattom, up to Kakkanad. There was yet another occasion about three months ago, when I was the sole passenger in a low-floor AC bus of the agency from the international airport up to Vyttila - a distance of over 25 km. How on earth will the agency lessen its loss, leave alone make profit," he wondered. He asked why the agency had not readied time charts at the local level in a scientific manner, in keeping with demand in different routes and published it online or at least displayed them in bus stands and stops. Less said the better about its enquiry system, since landlines are almost always busy or unavailable. All this points to apathy at different levels in the agency, Mr. Pratapan said. GPS in buses While admitting that installing/activating GPS in KSRTC buses (which would help passengers know the real-time location of buses) is long overdue, KSRTC sources said the patronage for many buses during off-peak hours was far from adequate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-poor-patronage-for-ksrtc/article36330317.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Renovation work of synthetic track at Maharaja’s College ground to start soon||A monitoring committee consisting of sportspersons, former students, and elected members will be formed to execute the relaying of the synthetic track at Maharaja’s College ground here. The move comes two days after the government issued administrative sanction for the Rs. 6.9-crore renovation work. The Directorate of Collegiate Education had included the project among its other proposals in the annual plan for 2021-22. The synthetic track was opened in 2007 at a project cost of around Rs. 5 crore. Its condition turned worse due to lack of maintenance. The track had developed cracks and it was not able to host sporting events for more than a year. With the project getting administrative sanction, the authorities are hopeful of giving a facelift to the stadium. “We will form a monitoring committee to oversee and provide expert inputs on how to ensure the proper relaying of the synthetic track. The works will be executed by the Public Works Department,” said Mathew George, Principal. Detailed report The detailed project report was submitted by the Public Works Department. The state-of-the-art relaying of the synthetic track will be ensured by the monitoring committee, according to the authorities. The stadium is expected to have pits for long and high jump as part of the track relaying work. The track was open to the public who had used it for walking and jogging by paying a fee fixed by the authorities. Mr. George said a detailed project report on renovating the hockey ground near the synthetic track would be submitted to the government soon. The facility had turned into a waste dumping yard at the time of the construction of the Kochi metro station near the college ground. The once vibrant ground had hit a rough patch after 16.5 cents were handed over to Kochi Metro Rail Limited for setting up the station. The college council did not receive any compensation as the metro authorities cited that it was land owned by the government. The land value estimated was around Rs. 8.8 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovation-work-of-synthetic-track-at-maharajas-college-ground-to-start-soon/article36330327.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Seaweed farming to shore up Dweep’s development drive||After fisheries, coconut and tourism, the Lakshadweep administration has prioritised seaweed farming as the major development driver of the islands. A demonstration of seaweed farming has been launched in nine inhabited islands of the group of Lakshadweep islands, with technical support from the ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI). The initiative is in line with a CMFRI study that revealed immense potential for production of quality seaweeds in the pollution-free lagoons of Lakshadweep for sectors such as pharmaceuticals, food and nutraceuticals. The indigenous red algae, Gracilaria edulis and Acanthophora spicifera are the species being farmed in nearly 2,500 bamboo rafts, benefiting 100 families belonging to 10 self-help groups under women in different islands. Known for its unique tuna fisheries and corals, reef fishes, the marine sphere of the islands could be known as the seaweed farming hub of the country, said K. Mohammed Koya, CMFRI scientist. Promising results Recent studies by the CMFRI showed nearly 60-fold growth in 45 days for the seaweed species Gracilaria edulis . The Lakshadweep administration has now joined hands with the CMFRI for multi-locational trial farming and capacity-building of stakeholders. Experimental-scale trial farming has been conducted in the islands of Kiltan, Chetlah Kadmath, Agatti and Kavaratti during 2020-21 with promising results. Production of seaweeds worth Rs. 75 crore per year is expected as the studies revealed that the island has the potential to produce nearly 30,000 tonnes of dry seaweed year by utilising just 1% (200 ha) of its 21,290 ha of lagoon area (inhabited islands), said Dr. Koya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seaweed-farming-to-shore-up-dweeps-development-drive/article36330342.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Meeting held on Nipah prevention||A meeting of health officials and members of the rapid response team was held here on Monday in the wake of the Nipah outbreak in Kozhikode. They discussed the measures to be taken in the wake of any such incident in the district and decided to step up surveillance. Training Training will be given to health personnel on disease surveillance and monitoring. A meeting of various departments will be held to coordinate and implement the disease prevention and management plan, according to a communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meeting-held-on-nipah-prevention/article36330324.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Matsyafed’s nylon net factory to get cracking||The Matsyafed fish net factory in Kochi will induct six new machines and five machines at its Kannur unit to improve production to meet new requirements that include nets that are deployed in a wide range of activities from fish cage culture to protective cover for chicken and duck farms. The Kerala State Cooperative Federation for Fisheries Development is the apex body comprising 560 primary fishers’ cooperatives across the State. The apex cooperative is engaged in various activities, including fish net production and Kochi is one of its major centres. Matsyafed sources said that eight machines at the Kochi unit, which were about 30 years old, had been disposed of and new machines were being inducted by October this year. The Kochi unit of Matsyafed net factory is one of the busiest and produces around 600 tonnes of fish nets annually. The factory was established with he aim of making quality nylon fish nets available to fishers at a reasonable cost. The increasing demand for quality nylon nets is stretching the production capacity of the Kochi unit. There is great demand for Matsyafed net from farmers, who want to make provisions for cultivation of crops like cow pea and snake gourd, which are creepers. The unit is catering to a wide range of requirements, including demand from sports centres, where protective covers are needed. Several cricket clubs and cricket practice centres have raised demand for nets from the Matsyafed unit. Cage fish farming has increased the demand for quality nylon nets, Matsyafed sources said. Nets to prevent incursion of birds are also supplied by the unit. Cattle and aquaculture farms too have increased their demand for quality nylon nets. Rs. 30-crore turnover The unit’s turnover is Rs. 30 crore per year and has been operating in profit over the past 30 years. Fishing net production by the cooperative unit has been able to prevent the exploitation of fishers to a large extent even as it provides employment to 100 people directly and 200 others indirectly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/matsyafeds-nylon-net-factory-to-step-up-production/article36330323.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Medical tech firm ties up with govt. for internship||The State government has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Medtronic Private Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Medtronic plc. a global medical technology, services and solutions company, under its Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP). The collaboration is aimed at equipping final year engineering students with advanced skill sets and improving their overall employability within the health-care industry by offering internship programmes. While ASAP will continue to provide and implement skill development programmes for youths through its Advanced Skill Development Centres, Medtronic will leverage this talent pool for its internship projects through its Acquire Early Programme. In addition, final year students from Tier 3 and Tier 4 institutes will undergo the Bridge Programme developed by ASAP and upon successful completion, will be assessed for internship opportunities by Medtronic. “The very philosophy of ASAP as a skill development agency is to accentuate the employability of youths. We look forward to leveraging this philosophy through a mutually beneficial collaboration with Medtronic and offer some unique opportunities for the youths of Kerala,” Usha Titus, chairperson and managing director, ASAP Kerala, said in a release. “Medtronic has enabled skill proficiency building across biomedical engineering and multiple therapy areas, significantly contributing to the health-care ecosystem in India. Our partnership with ASAP is one more step in that direction. We remain confident that through our collaboration we will leverage our common strengths and continue to work with students and develop the skill development ecosystem in the country,” said Madan Krishnan, vice president and managing director, Medtronic India. The internship programme proposes to open for students the door to the innovative world of medical technology and improve access to latest therapies. “We firmly believe that our internship program provides an opportunity to gain valuable work experience and understand a rapidly growing and evolving med-tech industry,” said Mr. Krishnan.  The selected students will benefit from mentor support, constructive job experience, and enhancement of their overall soft and employment skills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-tech-firm-ties-up-with-govt-for-internship-programme/article36330311.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MGU offers LLM course for just one student||The Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) has the unique distinction of offering its one-year LLM course for one student from Monday onwards. The decision to enrol Lakshmi Jayakumar, who had applied under the quota for the differently abled, as a special case for the one-year LLM course under the varsity’s School of Indian Legal Thought was taken on the basis of an order issued by the Kerala High Court in March. The authorities had no other option but to offer the programme for the aspirant as it had decided to drop the one-year LLM course and replace it with a two-year programme from October onwards. The aspirant could not be admitted to the last batch of the one-year programme on the basis of the court directive as the academic sessions were coming to a close by September 30. The classes for the last batch of the one-year LLM programme had started in December last. The student had approached the court stating that she could not get admission in the one-year LLM course despite clearing the entrance examination as the varsity authorities had not provided her grace marks on account of her eligibility under the physical disability quota from the seventh semester of her B.A LL.B course in 2019. The petitioner had pointed out that she had been given grace marks up to her sixth semester. However, the varsity authorities had said that the candidate had not been awarded grace marks as she had failed to produce the latest medical certificate issued by the government’s medical board specifying the permanent nature of disability. The court had pointed out that it was not stated that the validity of the certificate was for a specified period and asked the university to consider admitting her for the one-year LLM course. The student had also filed a contempt petition alleging that the university had failed to comply with the order. Senior faculty members at the School of Indian Legal Thought said the first semester classes for the student would be over by the second week of January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-offers-one-year-llm-course-for-only-one-student/article36330328.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||18 guns seized from cash logistics firm personnel||The Kochi City police seized 18 guns from personnel attached to a private cash logistics firm at Kalamassery on Monday, close on the heels of five men from Jammu and Kashmir, who were employed as security guards for such a firm in Thiruvananthapuram, being arrested on Wednesday on the charge of possessing guns and ammunition without valid permits. Further inquiry is on to ascertain whether the personnel deployed as security guards to provide escort for employees of agencies who transport currency for banks and their ATMs, had valid gun licence. Fake licence A preliminary probe suggests their licences were fake. A case will be registered in this regard under the Arms Act. A background verification is being done since multiple departments are involved in issuing gun licence. “We hope to widen the ambit of the probe once we get more information on other such firms in the city,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/18-guns-seized-from-cash-logistics-firm-personnel/article36330314.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL urged to explore alternative revenue||The Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) must probe ways to garner alternative (non-ticketing) revenue, since the metro systems take years to break even, Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve said, after inaugurating the second general body meeting of the Kochi Metro Employees’ Union on Monday. The union and the management should work together to ensure the well-being and growth of Kochi Metro, especially in view of the pandemic situation. The State government was trying to get the Union Cabinet’s nod for the extension to Infopark, he said. In his keynote address, Antony Raju, Minister of Transport, said the metro agency must woo passengers by reducing the travel fare. It must also mobilise alternative revenue to reduce the revenue-expenditure gap. While pledging support to different issues raised by the union, Mr. Raju said it should come up with ideas that would enable Kochi Metro’s growth. Former MP, K. Chandran Pillai, launched the website of the union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-urged-to-explore-alternative-revenue/article36330315.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Poll petition against Babu adjourned||The Kerala High Court on Monday adjourned till October 4 the hearing on a petition challenging the election of K.Babu from the Thripunithura constituency. In his petition, M.Swaraj, defeated CPI(M) candidate, alleged that Mr. Babu and other Congress workers had canvassed votes in the name of Lord Ayyappa. Therefore, his election was vitiated by corrupt practices under the provisions of the Representation of People Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-petition-against-babu-adjourned/article36330318.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,029 more COVID cases in district||A total of 2,029 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Monday. As many as 1,994 persons got infected through local contact while the source of infection in 26 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 12.92%. The regions in which the number of positive cases was higher than 50 included Kuttampuzha (112), Thrikkakara (80), Vengoor (74), Kalamassery (63), Parakadavu (56), Chittatukara (54), and Thripunitura (51). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Elamkulam, Aikkaranad, Keerampara, Pindimana, Mulavukad, Ramamangalam, Kadamakkudy, Karuvelipadi, Pachalam, Panampilly Nagar, Mattancherry, Edakochi, Panayappilli and Perumpadapu, according to an official release. As many as 31,329 persons are under treatment for the disease. Vaccination will be held in all local bodies on Tuesday. It will start from 9 a.m onwards. Spot registration for receiving Covishield vaccine will be available, according to an official communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2029-more-covid-cases-in-district/article36330325.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fake lawyer case: hearing adjourned||The Kerala High Court on Monday adjourned to September 8 hearing on an anticipatory bail petition filed by Sessy Xavier, an accused in a case registered for impersonating herself as a lawyer and practising in various courts in Alappuzha. The high court also impleaded advocate P.K. Vijayakumar, member of the Alappuzha Bar Association, as a respondent in the case. Mr. Vijayakumar said in his petition that the office-bearers of the bar association did not show any interest in pursuing the complaint that was filed by the association against the fake lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fake-lawyer-case-hc-adjourns-hearing/article36330364.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Award for Cusat Pro Vice Chancellor||P.G. Sankaran, Pro Vice Chancellor of the Cochin University of Science and Technology, has won the “Distinguished Statistician Award 2020” instituted by the Indian Society for Probability and Statistics (ISPS). Prof. Sankaran’s areas of research include Survival Analytics, Distribution Theory, Reliability Theory, Quantile Functions and Statistical Interference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-cusat-pro-vice-chancellor/article36330321.ece
07 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,444 more cases in Kollam district||The district reported 1,444 COVID-19 cases on Monday. It recorded three COVID-19 deaths. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 17.39%. The fresh cases include 1,405 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 35 others remains unidentified. Four health staff also tested positive. Meanwhile, 1,836 people who were undergoing treatment recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 15,345. Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 1,020 persons testing positive for the disease on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 996 persons including five health workers contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day stood at 14.03%. With 106 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases. As many as 2,555 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 9,733. Meanwhile, 54,214 persons remain in quarantine. 670 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 670 persons tested positive during the day. Of this, 665 persons contracted the virus through contact. The contact source of two cases was yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 16.7%. With 44 cases, Koyipram panchayat reported the highest number of cases. The decease claimed three more lives in the district. With 1,245 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 11,429.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1444-more-cases-in-kollam-district/article36330368.ece
07 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU Vice Chancellor gets professional researcher title||Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam has been identified as a professional researcher post by the Royal Society of Research London. An official statement by the varsity said Mr. Thomas would get the title PRes in consideration of his contributions to research and academic background. The honour is based on the academic output of Mr. Thomas from scopus-indexed journals, number of publications, citation count, and H-index. With an H index of 115 and high number of citations (more than 64,000), Mr.Thomas was the topper in the list. He has outstanding contributions in the field of polymer science and nanoscience and nanotechnology and has already guided 116 PhD. scholars.  His work is outstanding in the field of polymer science and nanoscience and he has guided 116 PhD scholars||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-vice-chancellor-gets-professional-researcher-title/article36330360.ece
07 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Students’ FM channels get going on Teachers’ Day||The way of observing Teachers’ Day is different for each school. Two schools in Kozhikode city chose the day to launch their own radio stations. The Government Model UP School at Puthiyangadi and the Calicut Girls’ Vocational Higher Secondary School have made it possible amidst so many limitations imposed by the pandemic. “Sruthi Tharangam”, the radio station of the Calicut girls was launched on Sunday by noted radio jockey Lishna while M.K. Raghavan, MP, launched the GUPS FM. "The radio channel is intended to improve the self confidence, language skills and team work of the students besides encouraging them to speak and listen", M. Salih, the teacher who coordinates the channel of Calicut girls, said. On the other hand, the students of GUPS, Puthiyangadi, are mostly from fishermen families and are comparatively younger. For them, getting their voice heard on the radio is a big deal and a big boost to their confidence, headmaster Ashok Kumar said. Both the stations will be available through a mobile application and the links of the programmes will be shared among the students. It was on the previous Teachers’ Day that GMUPS started their Youtube channel, which has been a great success. “The students have taken it very seriously and have been doing several programmes, especially on important days", Mr. Ashok Kumar said. The GMUPS FM had a poem by one of the students as its launch programme on Sunday. News in four different languages will be broadcast initially while the students come up with other programmes. A smart classroom of the school has been converted into a radio studio temporarily. The voice clips sent by the students are processed and uploaded into the radio. Meanwhile, Calicut Girls' Shruthi Tharangam is yet to start broadcasting. Mr. Salih said that the programmes would begin by the end of the month and that there would be live as well as recorded programmes. The school already has a well equipped studio, which will be used for the radio. The school also has plans to start a Youtube channel, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-fm-channels-get-going-on-teachers-day/article36330277.ece
07 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||10 years on, ‘Swabhiman’ turns an outdated portal||A web-based solution launched by the district administration nearly ten years ago for the public to book the service of skilled labourers at an affordable rate and create better employment opportunities is now close to extinction. Swabhiman, the exclusive portal which came into existence in 2010, is hardly available now. It lacks the technical support to move in pace with the time. When the new entrants in the field make use of user-friendly mobile applications and vibrant customer support, the Swabhiman team is moving at a slow pace with an outdated telephone booking system. The total number of enrolled labourers in Swabhiman, which stood at 500 at the time of its launch, is only 100 now. Though there had been over 25 different categories with specialised labourers, only five categories comprising coconut climbers, electricians, plumbers and masons are available now for service. “When Swabhiman was launched, it was a pioneering scheme which integrated technology for employment generation and quick service delivery. For nearly five years, it went on well with official and public support. After that, the project slowly lost its steam,” said a labourer who was earlier part of the project. He added that the delay in domain renewal also led to the failure of the project. A proposal to enrol skilled migrant workers and Kudumbashree members in the project remains a non-starter with the frequent changes at the administration level. Main hurdle Meanwhile, Unnikrishnan, a coordinator of the project, said the need for a user-friendly application had already been placed before the district administration and the National Informatics Centre. “The cost of designing such an application is the main hurdle now though they are convinced of our demands,” he said. “Apart from this, we had appealed to the authorities to facilitate the opening of block panchayat-level offices for Swabhiman to expand its network. The main reason for this was to link it with the Labour Department’s services,” said Mr. Unnikrishnan. He added that all the requirements, including the need for better insurance coverage, had already been brought to the attention of the district administration.  The demand for a user-friendly application has been placed before the authorities Unnikrishnan Project coordinator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-years-on-swabhiman-turns-an-outdated-portal/article36330301.ece
07 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NIT-C basks in glory of diamond jubilee||With a humble beginning of 125 students on the temporary campus of the Government Polytechnic College at West Hill, the National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NIT-C), formerly the Regional Engineering College (REC) Calicut which is celebrating its diamond jubilee this month, is today proud to have a strength of 6,500 students, on a sprawling green picturesque campus of around 120 hectares at Chathamangalam. The NIT-C has faced many ups and downs during its journey over the years. Currently, the institute offers 11 undergraduate programmes, 30 postgraduate programmes and doctoral programmes in various streams of engineering, management and science. The institute, among the NITs in the country, admits the largest number of students in a year, says Shijo Thomas, Associate Dean, NIT-C. History The erstwhile REC Calicut, the ninth one in the country, was inaugurated on September 1, 1961 by the then Chief Minister of Kerala Pattam Thanu Pillai. Dr. M.V. Kesava Rao was its first Principal. At the time of inception, the REC offered only three undergraduate programmes in civil, mechanical and electrical engineering. Prof. Humayun Kabir, the then Union Minister of Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs, laid the foundation at Chathamangalam on September 11, 1962. A year later, students were shifted to the permanent campus near Chathamangalam and the first batch of 250 students joined the main campus in 1964. The first batch of five female students joined during the academic year 1965-66. Initially, the college was affiliated to Kerala University and later to the University of Calicut until 2002, when REC was converted to NIT, a deemed to be university. Thus, NIT-C was named as a technical institution of national importance set up by the NIT Act of 2007. Now, the institute is under the Ministry of Education. Deputy Director P.S. Sathidevi said the NIT-C was ranked 23rd in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) under the engineering stream in 2020 and it maintained the third rank in architecture in 2019 and 2020. It also secured the eighth rank and is the only NIT among the top 10 in the category of Institutes of National Importance, Central Universities; Centrally Funded Technical Institutions in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020. “It is a collective effort of the faculty, staff, students and alumni,” she said. The Institute Innovation Council of NIT-C was given a five-star rating in the evaluation done by the MIC (Ministry of Human Resource Development’s Innovation Council) and AICTE for the activities during 2019-2020, securing a score of 95.833 out of 100. Incubator The NIT-C has a Technology Business Incubator (TBI) which has incubated 77 start-ups from various sectors so far, out of which 52 have graduated after 3 years of incubation period. Four graduated companies of the TBI are employing more than 100 people each and 15 of the companies had more than Rs. 1 crore turnover in the last financial year. Its alumni of over 30,000 have been occupying positions in academia, research organisations and leading industrial sectors in India and abroad. The alumni of NIT-C include more than 10 Ranji trophy players, many civil service officers, film stars, researchers, industrialists and entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nit-c-basks-in-glory-of-diamond-jubilee/article36330288.ece
07 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Traders defy containment zone curbs||A section of the merchants owing allegiance to the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) on Monday opened their shops in many of the containment zones in Kozhikode district as a token of their protest against the “unjust” regulations in the name of the pandemic threat. The majority of those who defied rules were small-scale traders from villages who are going through serious financial crisis. They also alleged that the curbs were targeting only the merchants’ community and that it was tough for them to cooperate with it any more. “Traders opened their shops in all the restricted places as informed by the Samiti earlier. It was not part of any open violation of rules but a move for their own survival,” said KVVES State secretary K. Sethumadhavan. In Perambra, curbs on shops had irked a large number of traders in non-essential service category. According to them, the authorities are treating traders as those responsible for spreading the pandemic. At a recent testing camp, only two out of the 500 merchants tested positive, they claimed. Some of the local functionaries of the KVVES alleged that the district-level directives issued as part of COVID-19 prevention measures were mostly targeting the traders’ community. In an order issued on August 29, nearly 20 regulations mentioned by the District Collector were directly related to traders, they claimed. Meanwhile, police officials from Rural police stations said the opening of shops in micro containment zones would be treated as a violation of the COVID-19 protocol. Action would be taken on the basis of further investigations into such violations, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-defy-containment-zone-curbs/article36330300.ece
07 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Mammootty turns ‘sweet 70’ today||On the list of Kamal Haasan’s favourite Indian films is the 1971 Malayalam classic Anubhavangal Pa a lichakal. While watching it for the first time, he may not have noticed the presence of his friend and fellow-actor Mammootty in it. It was a you-blink-you-miss kind of role. Mammootty had to wait for another decade before Malayalam cinema began to give him enough screen time. The early 1980s saw him rise as an actor with exceptional talent, stunning good looks and a great voice. A complete package like no other before him in Malayalam cinema, Mammootty went on to become one of the rarities in Indian cinema – a superstar who could be counted among the country’s finest actors. Scripts began to be written for him, in the main as well as the parallel streams. The most talented and established directors were willing to wait for him. They still are. He turns 70 on Tuesday. It may be a cliché, but to say that Mammootty is 70 years young would be no exaggeration. Not merely does he look young enough to play the hero, he has retained his passion for acting. When it comes to the sheer passion for acting and a constant wish to be part of quality films, he doesn’t have many equals in Indian cinema. He is constantly on the lookout for challenging roles. If a potentially fine film doesn't come to him, he would go to it. Many a director would vouch for it. He is justifiably proud of the fact that he could act in an astonishingly large number of great films. He had told this writer as much during an interview once. Multiple films It is no coincidence that some of the most artistic of our filmmakers like directors like Adoor Gopalakrishnan, K.G. George and T.V. Chandran have cast him in multiple films. He has, of course, been as much at home in the commercial cinema of directors such as Joshiy and I.V. Sasi. He has been able to find that right balance between box-office success and creative satisfaction. Now that Malayalam cinema has resumed shooting after the restrictions imposed by COVID-19, several new films starring Mammootty are set to take off. It may be a while before the theatres are open in Kerala, but thanks to the internet, you could always rewind some of his memorable films, like Yavanika, Askharangal, Yathra, Arappetta Kettiya Gramathil, New Delhi, Thaniyavarthanam, Oru CBI Dairyakurippu, Oru Vadakkan Veeragatha, Vidheyan, Ponthan Mada, Ore Kadal, Paleri Manikyam: Oru Pathira Kolapathakathinte Katha, Pathemari, Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar, Thalapthi and Kandukondain Kandukondain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mammootty-turns-70-today/article36330285.ece
07 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records 2,205 fresh cases||Kozhikode district recorded 2,205 new COVID cases on Monday after 12,332 people were tested for SARS-CoV-2. The test positivity rate is 18.24%. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said that 2,169 of the new patients were infected through local contact while the source was unknown in 30 cases. A total of 3,439 people were discharged from various treatment facilities in the district after recovering from the disease. The active caseload now is 34,663 while 11,0078 people are under observation. Meanwhile, vaccination is progressing in the district. As many as 25,60,219 people have been vaccinated, of whom 18,69,217 have received only the first dose of vaccine while 6,91,002 received both the doses. They include 13,248 palliative care patients, 12,498 differently abled persons, 3,806 persons of 18-45 age group from scheduled tribes, 768 persons from old age homes and 25 transgenders. There are 1,266 beds available in COVID hospitals, besides 77 ICU beds, 47 ventilators and 475 beds with oxygen supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-records-2205-fresh-cases/article36330290.ece
07 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Protest by anti-liquor forum||The Kerala Madhya Nirodhana Samiti will organise a ‘standing protest’ in front of the newly opened Kerala State Road Transport Corporation’s commercial complex in Kozhikode city on Tuesday in protest against the State government’s move to permit the opening of liquor shops in all KSRTC stands. Samiti leaders said it was part of the attempts to weaken all existing regulations and promote an unfair trade challenging social security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-by-anti-liquor-forum/article36330295.ece
07 September 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||UDF seeks more HS, UG seats in Malappuram||United Democratic Front (UDF) district chairman P.T. Ajaymohan demanded that the government increase the number of higher secondary and undergraduate seats in Malappuram district in tune with the demand. He said the shortage of seats in higher secondary and undergraduate level was denying many in the district their chances for higher education. “Students should have the option of selecting the programmes of their choice. This will be possible only if there are enough seats,” he said. Mr. Ajaymohan said that Malappuram was witnessing a dearth of seats when higher secondary seats were lying vacant in southern districts. The government should address the concerns of parents about the future of their children, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-seeks-more-hs-ug-seats-in-malappuram/article36330291.ece
07 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||MSF seeks justice for murder victim’s kin||The Muslim Students Federation (MSF) staged a protest here on Monday evening, demanding justice for the family of 21-year-old civil defence worker in Delhi, who had been abducted, raped, murdered and mutilated. “It shows the nation’s state of mind. There is no condemnation or uproar or demand for justice over this brutal incident of August 27. It was shocking for humanity. In spite of all these days, the [victim’s] family has not got justice. The reason behind India shying away from discussing this brutal crime should be exposed,” said MSF State vice president Faris Pookottur. He inaugurated the protest. MSF district president Kabeer Muthuparamba presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/msf-seeks-justice-for-murder-victims-kin/article36330293.ece
07 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Jaleel accuses Kunhalikutty of fraud||Former Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel has accused Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MLA, of making fraudulent transactions to the tune of Rs. 1,021 crore through a cooperative bank in Malappuram. Addressing the media on Monday, Dr. Jaleel said the Cooperative Department had detected transaction of illegal funds to the tune of Rs. 1,021 crore in the A.R. Nagar Service Cooperative Bank. “Mr. Kunhalikutty and his benami and former bank secretary V.K. Harikumar are the kingpins of this fraud,” he said. Dr. Jaleel accused Mr. Harikumar of helping the IUML general secretary launder his illegal money by creating 862 fake accounts using 257 customer IDs. “The inquiry report says that illegal transactions to the tune of Rs. 114 crore had taken place in the last 10 years.” “The Income Tax wing could find so much fraud in a random examination of the 257 customer IDs,” Dr. Jaleel said He said the bank would have to pay a fine equivalent to Rs. 1,021 crore. “If the bank crashes because of that, Mr. Kunhalikutty and his team will be responsible to the 50,000-odd members of the bank.” Dr. Jaleel demanded that the government initiate a thorough investigation into all the transactions and deposits in the bank, which has nearly 80,000 accounts. He also alleged that Mr. Kunhalikutty and V.K. Ebrahim Kunju might have shifted the kickbacks they got from a Travancore Titanium Products’ deal when they were Ministers of Industries in the State. He said Mr. Kunhalikutty’s son Ashique had deposited Rs. 3 crore in the bank by flouting rules.  Former Minister says money was laundered through 862 fake accounts in coop. bank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jaleel-accuses-kunhalikutty-of-rs-1021-crore-bank-fraud/article36330330.ece
07 September 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||DCC chief’s inauguration to mark protest against Centre||Newly appointed District Congress Committee (DCC) president V.S. Joy will assume office on Tuesday. K. Muraleedharan, MP, will inaugurate the function at DCC office here at 11 a.m. The inauguration of Mr. Joy will take place under a specially prepared banner with the names of 387 ‘Moplah martyrs’ of the 1921 Malabar Rebellion proposed to be removed from the list of freedom fighters by the Centre. It will be the party’s protest against the decision of the Indian Council of Historical Research to delete the names of the martyrs’ from the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dcc-chiefs-inauguration-to-mark-protest-against-centre/article36330292.ece
07 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Coop. bank to celebrate Foundation Day today||The Ottapalam Cooperative Urban Bank is set to celebrate its 84th Foundation Day on Tuesday. The financial institution had bagged the award for the best urban bank in the State three times consecutively. The bank was formed in the pre-Independence days, in 1937, with the objective of meeting the financial needs of the farmers of Ottapalam. It later achieved the distinction of introducing the first telebanking service in the cooperative sector in the State. Nine branches The bank has nine branches and a head office. Apart from Ottapalam municipality, it covers Lakkidi, Ananganadi, Ambalapara, Vaniyamkulam and Mannur panchayats. It has eight ATMs as well. The bank crossed a milestone when it became the first in the district to collect a deposit of Rs. 500 crore during the COVID-19 lockdown. It has 61,000 members and about one lakh accounts. In the previous financial year, the bank registered a business of Rs. 844.78 crore. “We are aiming at Rs. 1,000 crore business in the current fiscal,” said chairman I.M. Satheesan. The bank had gained attention by introducing ‘Sneha Vahanam’ aimed at helping those suffering from lack of transportation during the lockdown period.  Institution bagged the award for the best urban bank in the State thrice in a row||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coop-bank-to-celebrate-foundation-day-today/article36330461.ece
07 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala ropeway project gets impetus||The ambitious ropeway project in Sabarimala, which has been in limbo for a couple of years now, has received a fresh lease of life with the authorities planning to kick start the works by January next year. As part of it, a technical team has begun the testing of soil samples in the project areas that fall within the Periyar Tiger Reserve. The testing of soil at the Hilltop near Pampa, which falls within the Ranni Forest Division, was carried out more than six months ago. “The soil tests, in areas including the site of the upper terminal point at Sannidhanam and the line towers, are being carried out on the basis of a permission granted by the Chief Wildlife Warden. The tests will be completed within the next couple of days and this will be followed up with planning and designing works,” explained an official with the Eighteenth Step Damodar Cable Car Private Ltd, which executes the project. Meanwhile, the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) report of the project, prepared by the agency, has received an in-principle approval from the Forest Department. “We are now awaiting the letter of approval from the department, based on which an application for wildlife clearance from the MoEF can be forwarded. Considering that there are no delays in obtaining the final permission, the works on the ground will begin by January next year,” the official added. Implemented by The project, being implemented by the Sabarimala High Power Committee, has run to several delays over the years following the contentions raised by the Forest Department. Last year, it raised objections to the EIA prepared by the project consultant on various counts including its ‘failure in quantifying the impact of large-scale removal of earth and cutting of trees’. The project, however, had received a fresh lease of life on an intervention by Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan, said TDB sources. The ropeway project, having a total length of 2.7 km and a width of 12 m, seeks to to facilitate easy transportation of goods from Pampa to Sannidhanam and replace the tractors operating in the route currently. The detachable grip mono-cable ropeway system covers a total area of 48,094.64 sq m including two terminal stations, 19 towers, and the ropeway corridor etc.  A technical team has begun the testing of soil samples in the project areas within the Periyar Tiger Reserve||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ropeway-project-gets-fresh-lease-of-life/article36330366.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,483 new cases in capital, 2,085 recover||The district recorded 1,483 fresh cases and 2,085 recoveries as the active case load fell significantly to 16,717 on Monday. The test positivity rate stood at 13.6%. The district authorities have currently placed 43,398 in quarantine as part of the pandemic management efforts. The death toll stood at 3,604 in the district. With Thiruvananthapuram district in the throes of yet another COVID-19 surge, the district administration has clamped down strict lockdown in 174 local body wards that have recorded weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) above seven. The places where intensified special lockdown restrictions came into effect on Monday include Velamkonam, LMS and Karichiyil in Attingal municipality; Pulippara, Mughavoor, Valiyamala, Tharatta, Padavallikonam, Kannaramkodu, Mancha, Market Ward, Koppam, Chirakkani and Nagarikunnu wards in Nedumangad municipality; Vazhuthoor ward in Neyyattinkara municipality; Sivagiri, Perumkulam, Janathamukku and Kannamba wards in Varkala municipality. Lockdown curbs were also imposed in various parts of Andoorkonam, Aruvikkara, Aryanad, Azhoor, Balaramapuram, Chemmaruthy, Cherunniyoor, Chirayinkeezhu, Edava, Kadakkavoor, Kadinamkulam, Kallara, Kallikkadu, Karakulam, Karavaram, Kattakada, Kilimanoor, Kizhuvilam, Kunnathukal, Kuttichal, Madavoor, Malayinkeezhu, Manamboor, Mangalapuram, Manickal, Maranalloor, Mudakkal, Nagaroor, Nanniyode, Navaikulam, Nedumangad, Ottasekharamangalam, Ottoor, Pallikkal, Panavoor, Pangode, Pazhayakunnummel, Peringamala, Poovachal, Pulimath, Pullampara, Tholicode, Uzhamalackal, Vakkom, Vamanapuram, Vellanad, Vembayam, Vettoor, and Vithura grama panchayats. In her order, District Collector Navjot Khosa has stated that only those shops that sell essential commodities will be permitted to open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. in these areas. Strict perimeter control also shall be enforced. The District Disaster Management Authority has also lifted the restrictions that had been previously imposed in certain wards of Nedumangad and Attingal municipalities, Mudakkal, Nanniyode, Pazhayakunnummel and Pulimath grama panchayats after the WIPR in such areas fell to less than 7. ‘Be the Warrior’ The ‘Be the Warrior’ campaign launched by the government to tackle the third wave of COVID-19 has got under way in the capital district. Dr. Khosa launched the logo of the campaign. The campaign focused on ensuring public participation in the pandemic mitigation efforts and to intensify vaccination. District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu, District Programme Manager in-charge Sukesh Raj, Ardhram Mission assistant nodal officer A. Ajesh, District Education and Media Officer B. Pamela and Arogya Keralam junior consultant J. Varsha were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1483-new-cases-in-capital-2085-recover/article36330504.ece
07 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hostilities likely to ease in Cong.||An easing of hostilities in the Congress in Kerala seemed to be on the horizon on Monday. A party insider claimed the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) leadership had dropped the move to orchestrate a purge of ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions in the party by cracking the whip on ‘indiscipline.’ Instead, the KPCC seemed inclined to accommodate the choices of Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala to some measure in future party appointments. ‘Take them back’ KPCC president K. Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan claimed the party stood united after a meeting with Mr. Chandy and Mr. Chennithala. By one account, both Mr. Chandy and Mr. Chennithala demanded that suspended party leaders K. Sivadasan Nair and K.P. Anil Kumar be taken back. Both Mr. Nair and Mr. Kumar were reportedly inclined to issue a conciliatory statement clarifying their controversial remarks about DCC reorganisation. The KPCC has sought an explanation from Congress leader Rajmohan Unnithan, MP, for allegedly suggesting that those opposed to the choice of DCC presidents should form their parties or try their luck in other organisations. Both Mr. Chandy and Mr. Chennithala had taken strong exception to Mr. Unnithan’s statement. A party insider said Mr. Chandy and Mr. Chennithala had pointed out to the KPCC leadership that disciplinary action should not be a one-way process lest party workers construed it as biased. The rapprochement between Congress factions came on a day when expelled KPCC secretary P.S. Prasanth delivered a broadside against the party’s leadership at a public meeting to announce his defection to the CPI(M). The KPCC has dismissed Mr. Prasanth’s averments as those of an embittered politician out to avenge his exclusion from the list of DCC presidents. However, a party leader said the Congress was concerned over the CPI(M)’s measures to woo Congress workers . Hence, the immediate task for the KPCC was to keep its flock together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hostilities-likely-to-ease-in-cong/article36330335.ece
07 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tests come down in State, cases too||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph dipped again with the State reporting 19,688 new cases on Monday. However, the samples tested in 24 hours too dropped significantly to 1,17,823. The test positivity rate on the day, which had been steady at over 17% since the past few days, dipped to 16.71%. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State was 2,421 (2,411 on Sunday), while the number of patients requiring ventilator support remained more or less steady at 999 (997 on Sunday). The active case pool which had been rising steadily, dropped to 2,38,782 patients on Monday, with 28,561 patients recovering. 135 deaths The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 21,631 with the State adding 135 recent deaths to the official list of COVID-19 deaths on Monday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,463 on Monday. Total hospitalisations of people with moderate or severe COVID-19 are also on a steady increase and now stands at 33,157. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 42,27,526 cases. Highest in Thrissur Among districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases with 3,120 cases, Kozhikode 2,205, Ernakulam 2,029, Malappuram 1,695, Kollam 1,624, Palakkad 1,569, Thiruvananthapuram 1,483, Alappuzha 1,444, Kannur 1,262, Kottayam 1,020, Wayanad 694, Pathanamthitta 670, Idukki 506, and Kasaragod 367 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tests-come-down-in-state-cases-too/article36330333.ece
07 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF emerges ‘united’ from leadership meeting||The United Democratic Front (UDF) has put in place a system to address the grievances of coalition partners, enhance coordination between allies, and act on matters of common interest in real-time. A UDF liaison team will function from the office of the Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan. The move came against the backdrop of the Revolutionary Socialist Party’s (RSP) declaration last week that it would chart a new political course if Congress disregarded their post-Assembly poll grievances. RSP’s complaint The RSP’s main grouse was that the UDF’s electoral machinery had failed to click in Chavara, which the party viewed as a sure seat. The RSP was also miffed with the Congress for offering seats where the party had no roots. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Kerala Congress had in private objected to the findings of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee’s (KPCC) post-poll review. Both parties felt Congress’s organisational weakness had contributed to the election loss. However, Congress reviewers attempted to blame UDF partners for the poor show, the allies reportedly felt. KPCC president K. Sudhakaran, Mr. Satheesan, and UDF convenor M. M. Hassan said Congress would accord equal political space to all constituents. Mr. Sudhakaran reportedly told Communist Marxist Party (CMP) leader C.P. John Congress would treat UDF constituents on an equal footing when the latter complained that the coalition had denied his party a seat in the Assembly polls. Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala were present at the UDF leadership meet. They urged the UDF to explain to the public the coalition’s opposition to the semi-high speed railway project, the flagship project of the LDF government. Mr. Chennithala had maintained earlier that the scheme was financially unviable, would increase the State’s debt, and was primarily a cover for advantaging the real estate mafia. On September 20 The UDF meeting decided to revitalise the coalition from the grassroots level. Mr. Hassan said UDF liaison committees would come into existence at the block and mandalam level onwards. The UDF would meet again on September 20. It also declared support for the government’s attempt to control the Nipah outbreak.  Congress will accord equal political space to all allies, say leaders UDF liaison committees to come up at block, mandalam levels||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-emerges-united-from-leadership-meeting/article36330336.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Grant-in-aid institution postings via PSC||Future recruitment to non-academic posts in all grant-in-aid institutions should be made through the Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC) to ensure uniformity and transparency, the 11th Pay Revision Commission has recommended. The panel, headed by former bureaucrat K. Mohandas, also wanted the institutions to augment their own resources and trim establishment costs. The recommendations are part of the commission’s sixth report dealing with pay revision proposals for 26 grant-in-aid institutions. So far, recruitments were carried out through the employment exchanges, selections by the institutions, and regularisation of provisional, contract and daily-wage employees on the strength of court orders or otherwise. However, “it is desirable that the recruitment processes in these institutions are uniform and transparent,” the panel said. Special rules of individual institutions should be amended accordingly and PSC recruitment should be a criterion for the institutions to become eligible for the next pay revision, it said. The commission has fixed the minimum basic pay for regular employees as Rs. 23,000 and the maximum as Rs. 1,66,800, the same as government employees. For part-time contingent employees, (category 1) the minimum pay proposed is Rs. 13,000 and the maximum, Rs. 21,080. For (category 2), it is Rs. 11,500 and Rs. 18,940 respectively. The remuneration of casual sweepers should be enhanced to Rs. 8,000 per month from Rs. 6,000, according to the panel. According to the proposals, the revision should have retrospective effect from July 1, 2019. However, it should be limited to the categories of posts and the number of posts sanctioned by the government, the panel said. The revision of pay and allowances in the 26 institutions would entail an additional financial commitment of about Rs. 11.60 crore annually. The commission wanted the institutions to take concrete measures to become less dependent on government grants in the future. To achieve this, they should augment their own resources and prune establishment expenses in a time-bound manner, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/grant-in-aid-institution-postings-via-psc/article36330501.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local panels to monitor those in quarantine||The Local Self-Government Department has issued guidelines for neighbourhood committees to be formed across the State for monitoring COVID-19 patients in home quarantine. A committee each will be set up for clusters of 50 houses, with representatives from residents’ associations, Kudumbashree volunteers and Janamaithri Police. The responsibilities of contact tracing, monitoring to ensure that quarantine norms are being followed and doorstep delivery of essentials have to be divided between the committee members. The panels also have to ensure that a person testing positive for COVID-19 has enough facilities to isolate himself/herself at home. If the person has multiple co-morbidities, he or she has to be shifted to a domiciliary care centres or COVID-19 first-line treatment centre. In other cases, medical assistance must be ensured in case they experience breathing difficulty, chest pain, difficulties in speech or movement while in home quarantine. The committees will shift such persons to hospitals at the earliest on noticing symptoms. Those in home quarantine should be monitored daily over phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-panels-to-monitor-those-in-quarantine/article36330337.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman jumps into well with son, both die||A 38-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide along with her five-year-old child by jumping into a well near Nagaroor after purportedly hurling acid on her husband following a dispute late Sunday. According to the Nagaroor police, the deceased was identified as Bindu of Panthuvila in Koduvazhunoor, Pulimath and her younger son Rijin. The incident is suspected to have taken place around 10.30 p.m. on Sunday. The woman is believed to have committed the suicide after pouring acid on her husband Rejilal (36) in a fit of rage after an argument that broke out among the couple. The couple have been at odds of late with Bindu suspecting him of being involved in an extra-marital relationship. Having been married for seven years, it was both their second marriage. While Bindu had separated from her first husband, Rejilal’s first wife is believed to have committed suicide when she was pregnant for seven months. Subin (14), Bindu’s elder son in her previous marriage, was witness to the dispute between the couple, the police said. The bodies of Bindu and Rijin were retrieved by the Attingal fire force. Despite suffering significant burns, Rejilal’s condition remained stable, the police said. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471 – 2552056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-jumps-into-well-with-son-both-die/article36330500.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Milma to protest against move to tax coops.||The Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation, popularly known as Milma, has strongly opposed the Centre’s move to impose income tax on the Anand-model primary milk cooperative societies Milma will organise a mass protest at the Palayam Martyrs Column on Tuesday to seek a rollback of the move. Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchurani will inaugurate and light a ‘protest flame’ during the programme that will be presided over by the Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan. Addressing media persons here on Monday, Milma chairman K.S. Mani said the decision to impose tax on dairy cooperatives could break the backbone of a vast majority of dairy cooperatives and also deal a crippling blow to millions of dairy farmers across the country. He pointed out that the Central Board of Direct Taxes has invoked Section 194Q of the Income Tax Act, 1964, to tax milk cooperatives that generate an annual turnover of over Rs. 50 lakh at the rate of 0.1% as Tax Deducted at Source (TDS). Apart from procurement and distribution of milk, the income from all allied products including cattle feed sales will be taken into account while calculating tax. The expenses of the cooperatives are met from the profit registered by them after paying procurement price for milk to the dairy farmers. A portion of the profits is also utilised to meet the federation’s welfare commitments including member relief fund, professional education fund, cattle development fund and other charitable purposes. The cooperatives give away 65% of the post-audit surplus to dairy farmers as bonus, he claimed. Mr. Mani pointed out that the adverse decision came at a time when Milma has been witnessing a steady increase in its sales. The total sale of milk during the Onam festival from August 20 to 23 this year stood at 79,86,916 litres, marking an increase of 6.64% from the same period last year. On the Thiruvonam day (August 21), a record quantity of 32,81,089 litres of milk was sold. This registered an 11.85%-increase from last year. Curd and other dairy products marketed by Milma also witnessed a surge in sales during the period. Self-sufficiency He added that the federation has succeeded in meeting the government’s objective of achieving self-sufficiency in milk production. During the last five months, the average milk procurement stood at 15,11,580 litres per day, while sales is around 13,89,841 litres per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-to-protest-move-to-tax-milk-cooperatives/article36330373.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. to reimburse COVID outlay of local bodies from Plan funds: CM||The State government will reimburse the expenses incurred by local bodies for COVID-19 management from their plan funds, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The Chief Minister was addressing the meeting of the State-level committee on the Nava Keralam initiative. Houses Houses will be provided to families whose residences were partly destroyed in the floods if they are eligible under LIFE Mission, he said. The Chief Minister also instructed the Nava Kerala Mission officials to draft the detailed action plan for activities that are to be undertaken under the mission by September 25. The four missions under the Nava Keralam Karma Padhathi (NKPP) for building a new Kerala will be taken forward with active public participation, Mr. Vijayan said. The State has succeeded in garnering national attention through its achievements in the health and education sectors. However, much more needs to be done. Schemes should be designed to update the achievements in each sector to suit the current requirements, the Chief Minister said. Time-bound manner Leader of Opposition V. D. Satheesan urged the government to complete the projects in a time-bound manner. Ministers, the Chief Secretary, Planning Board vice chairman and other officials attended the meeting.  The four missions under the Nava Keralam Karma Padhathi for building a new Kerala will be taken forward with active public participation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-expenses-of-local-bodies-to-be-reimbursed/article36330282.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Infant received at Ammathottil in capital||The Kerala State Council for Child Welfare welcomed an infant left at its electronic cradle Ammathottil in Thycaud during the wee hours of Monday. The baby boy, believed to be a day-old, weighed 2.45 kg. The health of the child, who has been kept under close observation, was found to be satisfactory. The council has named the child Neeraj in honour of Tokyo Olympics gold-winning javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, according to its general secretary K.S. Shijukhan. He added that the child will be soon produced before the Thiruvananthapuram Child Welfare Committee for further steps to ensure the child’s protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/infant-received-at-ammathottil-in-capital/article36330499.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Draft voters’ lists of 32 local body wards out||The draft revised electoral rolls of 32 local body wards in 12 districts have been published ahead of the by-elections, the State Election Commission has said. The lists are available for scrutiny at the respective local body offices, and on www.lsgelection.kerala.gov.in. The final list will be published on September 30. The voters’ lists in the following wards have been revised: Aroor ward of the Alappuzha district panchayat, Sreekrishnapuram in Palakkad district panchayat, Nanmanda ward in Kozhikode district panchayat, Edacode in Chirayinkeezhu block panchayat, Pothencode in Pothencode block panchayat, Azheecode in Mathilakam block panchayat, and Chungamannam in Kuzhalmannam block panchayat. The lists in 20 grama panchayat wards and the following urban wards have been revised: Vettucaud in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and Gandhi Nagar in Kochi; and one municipality ward each in Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kasaragod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/draft-voters-lists-published/article36330339.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for assault||The Poonthura police on Monday arrested a man who was wanted for his role in manhandling a woman a day ago. The prime accused, identified as Sudheer (37) of Udaya Compound in Manacaud, was caught in connection with the incident that occurred around 9.30 a.m. on Sunday. Both Sudheer and the second accused, Noushad, who remained on the run, barged into their neighbour Amina’s (23) house and assaulted her in the presence of many other people. During the scuffle that was recorded by a CCTV camera, Sudheer could be seen barging into Amina’s compound by breaking open the gate. After pushing Amina on the floor, the accused dragged her by the hair before pushing her face against a wall. Amina had rented out a portion of her two-storied house for a canteen set up for the employees of a shop nearby. The accused duo had apparently objected to some of the workers taking selfies from the courtyard of the house. This enraged them and prompted them to vent their frustration on Amina.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-assault/article36330502.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM to inaugurate SASA building||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the building constructed for the State Academy on Statistical Administration (SASA) at Kaimanam on Tuesday at 12.15 p.m. The permanent building for SASA, a centre for excellence for research in official statistics and training to the personnel of the Department of Statistics, was constructed at a cost of Rs. 4.41 crore. General Education and Labour Minister V. Sivankutty will preside over the function. Union Minister of State for Statistics and Programme Implementation Rao Inderjit Singh will deliver the keynote address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-inaugurate-sasa-building/article36330506.ece
07 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Now, post-COVID clinics in all health centres||The government has issued orders directing that separate post-COVID clinics be set up in all healthcare facilities to manage the host of health issues being faced by COVID survivors. Post-COVID clinics have been opened from primary health centres upwards till Medical Colleges and private hospitals, Health Minister Veena George, said in a statement here. From 12 noon till 2 p.m. These clinics will function at PHCs, family health centres and community health centres on Thursdays, from 12 noon till 2 p.m.. The clinic will function in general hospital, district and taluk hospitals on the same day. In Medical Colleges and private hospitals, the clinics will function on specific days as decided by the administrators. Separate committees have been formed at the district and State-level for the management of post-COVID clinics. Private hospitals should designate a nodal officer for the same. All COVID patients will be given all information about the post-COVID clinics at the time of discharge from hospitals or other field hospitals by health workers . Special register will be maintained at all post-COVID clinics for patients. Health workers, ASHAs and palliative care workers should ensure that COVID survivors in their locality reach these clinics. The details of patients will be noted in the register, including the details of those who need to be referred to higher facilities In taluk and district hospitals, post-COVID clinics can be accessed through tele medicine facilities also. COVID survivors with persistent lung-related issues can avail themselves of of the pulmonary rehabilitation facilities also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-covid-clinics-in-all-health-centres/article36330286.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Temporary bridge at Vallakadavu soon||Transport Minister and Thiruvananthapuram MLA, Antony Raju has said that the temporary bridge at Vallakadavu will be built by October 15. He convened a meeting of officials of the Public Works and Revenue Departments, people’s representatives and members of the Vallakadavu Muslim Jama’ath here on Monday. The meeting decided to expedite steps for acquiring the land required to reconstruct the Vallakadavu bridge that linked the coastal belt with the city centre. The temporary bridge will enable motorists to travel until the construction of the main bridge is completed, the Minister said. Mr. Raju had visited the Vallakadavu bridge recently to assess the progress of the ongoing work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temporary-bridge-at-vallakadavu-soon/article36330507.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Veedoru Vidyalayam’ programme launched||Rakhi Ravikumar, the Vazhuthacaud ward councillor of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, on Monday formally launched the government’s ‘Veedoru Vidyalayam’ programme implemented by Cotton Hill Lower Primary School at the house of their Class III student Oliya M. Jahangir. The programme got under way with the councillor presenting Oliya with study materials aimed at enhancing learning environment at her home. Her grandmother Oleena Thampi is the daughter of the first Speaker R. Sankaranarayanan Thampi. ,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veedoru-vidyalayam-programme-launched/article36330508.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DYFI begins 5-day protest against Centre||The Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) on Monday began its five day-long relay protest against the Union Government raising issues of fuel price rise and joblessness. The protest is being held till September 10 in front of Central Government institutions in selected blocks across the State. In a statement, the DYFI said that the government has deceived the public by increasing fuel prices and forming a vaccine policy in favour of big corporates, at a time when the majority are facing the ravages of the COVID-19 pandemic. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member M.A.Baby inaugurated the relay sathyagraha in front of the Raj Bhavan on Monday, in the presence of DYFI State Secretary A.A.Rahim and other leaders. On September 10, a 10-minute long motor strike will be held across the State from 4 p.m to 4.10 p.m to protest the fuel price hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dyfi-begins-5-day-protest-against-centre/article36330283.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM launches youth cooperatives||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday launched youth cooperative societies to promote entrepreneurship as part of the State government’s 100-day action plan. As many as 27 co-operative societies were launched with young men and women between the ages of 18 and 45 as their members. Inaugurating the event through video conference, Mr.Vijayan said that the youth cooperative societies are part of various initiatives of the LDF government to fulfill its election promise of providing jobs to youths. “Kerala has had several successful experiments in the cooperative sector, that have been noted across the country. The youth cooperatives will become one such experiment. By revitalising the cooperative sector, we can achieve high growth in agriculture and other sectors. Since they work at the local level, these youth cooperatives will contribute to the all-round growth of the region,” he said. He said that it should be ensured in the by-law of the youth cooperatives that the a person who crosses the age of 45 ceases to be a member, so that the youthful character of the cooperatives are maintained. Cooperatives in the fisheries sector will be used to train people in deep sea fishing. Cooperatives of non-resident Keralites can be used to generate jobs for educated youth. The procurement of vegetables by providing a minimum support price is being carried out through cooperatives. This will be extended to coconut procurement too, said Mr.Vijayan. The State-level inauguration was organised at the launch of the Vattiyurkavu Youth Brigade Entrepreneurs' Cooperative Society, led by V.K.Prasanth, MLA. Minister for Cooperation V.N.Vasavan presided over the function, in the presence of Ministers V.Sivankutty, G.R.Anil and Antony Raju. Mr.Vasavan inaugurated the Vybe cooperative society's office. The cooperative, which began as a youth volunteer collective under the MLA, has now formed different groups to handle green initiatives, products, mobile-based service delivery, health initiatives, media, academics and IT. The sales of the products division's Vybe brand t-shirt was inaugurated at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-launches-youth-cooperatives/article36330465.ece
07 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Seven new ESI dispensaries to come up||The State government has received approval from the ESI Corporation to set up seven new dispensaries in the State. Chairing the regional board meeting of the ESI Corporation here on Monday, Labour Minister V.Sivankutty said the new dispensaries would come up at Balussery, Ranni, Koottanad, Venjaramoodu, Alathur, Thamarassery and Koothattukulam. The Koothattukulam dispensary would also have the services of three doctors while the others would have two doctors each. The meeting decided to expedite the repair of the buildings under the ESI Corporation that had been in disuse for many years and relocate 28 dispensaries from dilapidated buildings. The Minister mooted the idea of making ESI services online to overcome the challenges posed by the pandemic. He later distributed assistance to the families of eligible employees who had succumbed to COVID-19. Principal Secretary, Labour, Mini Antony, Regional Director, ESI, Mathews Mathew and Director of Insurance Medical Service Dr.S.Malini were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-esi-dispensaries-to-come-up-in-state/article36330298.ece
07 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sainik School gets new Principal||Col. Dhirendra Kumar has assumed charge as Principal of Sainik School Kazhakootam here. He took over the charge from officiating Principal, Lt. Col. Shelley K. Das. Col. Dhirendra Kumar is a Post Graduate and MPhil holder from Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. He has served at various Army establishments and training centres.He was awarded the Vice Chief of Army Staff Commendation Card in 2012 and again GOC-in-C Commendation Card in 2016. He has also served as Vice Principal in Sainik School, Balachadi for three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assumes-charge/article36330375.ece
07 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PSC exams postponed||The Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) has postponed to October two exams in view of the reporting of a Nipah infection in Kozhikode. The exam to the post of Assistant Professor (Arabic) scheduled on September 7 has been postponed to October 6, while the graduate-level common preliminary exams, slated on September 18 and 25, will be held on October 23 and 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-exams-postponed/article36330338.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alert in seven districts||Heavy rainfall is likely in one or two places in the State on Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather agency has put Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod on yellow alert on Tuesday. Fishermen have been warned that squally weather is likely along the Kerala, Karnataka coasts and the Lakshadweep till Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-districts-in-kerala-alerted/article36329745.ece
07 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New superintendent of MCH||A. Nizarudeen has been appointed the superintendent of the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College. Health Minister Veena George issued the appointment order on Monday, a pressnote said. Dr. Nizarudeen has been currently officiating as chief of the COVID-19 cell at the hospital and Professor of General Surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-superintendent-of-mch/article36330505.ece
07 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||30 prisoners test positive||Thirty inmates of Viyyur Central Prison have tested positive for COVID-19, as per an unofficial report. One has been admitted to Government MCH, Thrissur as his condition turned critical. Others are at the first-line treatment centre on the jail premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30-prisoners-test-positive/article36330331.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||HC ruling on Covishield 2nd dose||The court observed that ‘all those are not persons who reside and settle permanently abroad.’ Most of them are persons who have to come back to India soon after their assignment. If the government can permit persons who are intending to travel abroad to exercise a choice between early protection and better protection from COVID-19 infection, there is absolutely no reason why the same privilege shall not be extended to others who want early protection in connection with their employment and education. The court further observed that it was declared on the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare that the vaccination was voluntary and there was no compulsion on anyone to accept the same. If that be so, the requirement to administer two doses of vaccine and the time interval between the two doses for better protection from infection could only be considered as advisory. “In other words, when people have even the right to refuse to accept vaccine, there is absolutely no reason why the State should take a stand that they (petitioners) shall not be permitted to accept the second dose, if they choose to do so after four weeks in terms of the original protocol of the vaccine for their early protection, especially when they themselves are procuring the vaccine by spending money from their pockets.” The court pointed out the State government on its own, without the concurrence of the Centre, had relaxed the time interval between the two doses of Covishield vaccine for those who intend to go abroad for employment. These facts were not in dispute. In other words, the government had permitted all those classes of persons to exercise the choice between early protection and better protection from COVID-19 infection. The court, however, made clear that it had not considered the question whether a person was entitled to make a choice between early protection and better protection from COVID-19 infection in the matter of accepting the free vaccine provided by the government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-ruling-on-covishield-2nd-dose/article36330511.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Danger zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/danger-zone/article36330279.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festive colours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festive-colours/article36330363.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For smooth travel||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-smooth-travel/article36330463.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Burning issue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/burning-issue/article36330513.ece
07 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pilot project planned on sandalwood plantations||The Department of Forests proposes to launch a pilot project on growing Sreegandham (sandalwood) and red sanders in 10 acres each in Madakasira and Tanakallu mandals of Anantapur district in the current financial year as part of its long-term work plan. District Forest Officer Sandeep Krupakar Gundala told reporters here on Monday that plantation of various varieties suitable for the forest in this region would be grown in 300 acres to improve the total forest cover from the current 10.5% of the landmass of the district. The total forest area was only two lakh hectares, but the department was determined to improve the density of green cover, the DFO said. The crown density was just 0.4, which needs to be improved, he said. “The areas closer to Kolar and Chikballapur districts of Karnataka are suitable for sandalwood, and once trees existed, but today there are no trees and we want to revive those trees in the forest here. The greenery in the district was mostly in Revenue Department lands in Anantapur and a lot of species of animals and birds live there,” Mr. Sandeep said. In the 10-year plantation report obtained for the period 2010-2020, the green cover was 70% of the 5,679 hectares through 437 plantations. There are no restrictions in growing red sanders and sandalwood trees anywhere, but permissions for cutting sandalwood trees are essential, he pointed out. Some forest land of 250 acres under occupation has been identified and would be recovered soon, while in the last two years 750 acres had been secured, the DFO said. Overall, 30 cases were filed and earthmovers being used in illegal mining activities in forest land were confiscated, he informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pilot-project-planned-on-sandalwood-plantations/article36329915.ece
07 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-MLA alleges evasion of fee by layout developers||Former TDP MLA G. Suryanarayana has alleged that several housing plots were registered in private layouts in Dharmavaram and Bathalapalli mandals spread over 450 acres without paying the fee for the Anantapuramu–Hindupur Urban Development Authority (AHUDA). He alleged that the evasion happened with the support of YSRCP MLA Kethireddy Venkatarami Reddy. Mr. Suryanarayana, who is in the BJP now, released a letter he claimed to have written to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and alleged that the government had lost over Rs. 100 crore that should have been paid by the layout developers to AHUDA . None of those layouts had approvals except the one developed by the government, he alleged. Another layout in Mudigubba had been developed and plots registered to buyers without paying fees or getting approval. While in the layouts 43% of the land should be left free as common space, in the majority of layouts, 80% of the land had been divided into plots and sold, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-mla-alleges-evasion-of-fee-by-layout-developers/article36330450.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Classes 6-8 resume in Karnataka||Schools reopened for students of classes 6 to 8 in Karnataka on Monday with strict COVID-19 protocols and standard operating procedures (SOP). As per government directions, schools have been reopened in taluks where COVID-19 positivity rate is below 2%. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh said the government decided to reopen schools after approval from the State’s technical advisory committee on COVID-19. “The Department had an intention of reopening schools for some time now and teachers were also ready for it, but keeping in mind the health of the students along with education and concerns of the parents, we discussed with the technical advisory committee and after taking the opinion of expert paediatricians, we are reopening schools for classes 6, 7 and 8,” he told reporters. The Minister said many parents and students had urged him during his recent visits to several parts of the State to reopen schools. He said the entire government machinery and district administrations have been working together for the safe conduct of classes. It is mandatory for students to submit a consent letter from their parents to attend offline classes and these classes are not compulsory, as there is a provision of online classes also. The government has said offline classes for students of class 6-8 will be held on alternate days, each with 50% attendance. The weekends will be used for sanitizing and other COVID control measures. Junior classes In response to a question, the Minister said, after monitoring the offline classes, the government will take a decision on resuming classes 1 to 5, but did not specify any timeline. The government had already allowed the reopening of schools for students from classes 9 to 12 since August 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/classes-6-8-resume-in-karnataka/article36329871.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP gains in Karnataka municipal polls||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka received a shot in the arm in the elections to the three municipal corporations — it got a clear majority in Belagavi, emerged as the single largest party in Hubballi-Dharwad and finished a close second in Kalaburagi. In the Doddaballapur City Municipal Council (CMC) election in Bengaluru rural district, the BJP emerged as the single largest party while the Congress got absolute majority in the Tarikere Town Municipal Council in Chikkamagaluru district. Sample test: Bommai An elated Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who dubbed the election results a clean sweep in favour of his month-old government in the ‘sample test’, said the BJP would come to power in all the three municipal corporations. The elections took place on September 3 and the results were announced on Monday. According to the Karnataka State Election Commission officials, in the 58-seat Belagavi, the BJP won 35, the Congress 10, Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) one and 12 Independents. In the 82-seat Hubballi-Dharwad municipal corporation, the BJP won 39 seats, the Congress 33, the AIMIM 3, the JD(S) 1, Independents six.In the Kalaburagi municipal corporation, the elections took place for 55 seats, of which the Congress won 27, the BJP 23, the JD(S) 4 and Independent one seat. In the 31-seat Doddaballapura CMC in Bengaluru rural district city, the BJP won 12 seats, the Congress 9, the JD(S) 7 and three independents. In the Tarikere TMC in Chikkamagaluru, the Congress won 15 seats, Independents got seven and one to the BJP. BJP Mayors  Speaking to reporters, Mr. Bommai said, “Out of the three, we have got a clear majority in two municipal corporations and in the third also, we are in close race but we are going to make a majority there also.” He said all the three corporations would have BJP Mayors. Mr. Bommai congratulated ministers, BJP MLAs and leaders who toiled hard for the elections in Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-gains-in-karnataka-municipal-polls/article36329869.ece
07 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shift high-tension power lines from schools: court||The Karnataka High Court on Monday directed the electricity authorities to shift all high-tension electricity lines passing through school premises in the State. The court passed the order after perusing the report of the Tumakuru Deputy Commissioner which said that a 11 kV electricity line was “slightly shifted” towards the government school premises in Karikere village on August 15, 2021, where 16-year-old Chandan died of electrocution when the flagpole he was trying to erect touched the electricity line. Interim order A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order while hearing a PIL petition initiated suo motu by the court in 2019 following the electrocution of five boys at Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Pre-metric Boys Hostel at Bannikatti in Koppal district in August 2019, when a flagpole came in contact with live wires. The Bench said it appeared that “the Tumakuru Deputy Commissioner, in connivance with the school authorities, had tried to give a different colour to the incident” of electrocution after perusing the report, in which the DC had claimed in the report that the electrocution occurred when some boys “on their own” tried to erect the flagpole lying on the school premises. While declining to accept the claim of the DC that the boys tried to hoist flag “on their own” in the school premises, the Bench wondered how a high tension line could be “slightly shifted” towards the school. The Bench directed the electricity authorities in Tumakuru district to shift the lines from the school premises within 30 days. The Bench ordered for impleading the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation and all electricity supply companies (ESCOMs) in the State to the proceedings of the petition as the court was informed that ESCOMs were responsible for shifting electricity lines below 66KB and it was KPTCL’s task if the lines were 66 kV and above. ‘Pay Rs. 10 lakh’ Terming as “meagre” the payment of only Rs. 1 lakh compensation to the parents of Chandan, the Bench said the government will have to pay Rs. 10 lakh compensation as was paid in the Bagalkot incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shift-high-tension-power-lines-from-schools-court/article36329742.ece
07 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man injured in IED explosion in Telangana||A 30-year-old youth was injured after a pressure-activated improvised explosive device (IED), allegedly planted by Maoist rebels, abutting a roadside tree went off at Lenin Colony on the outskirts of Charla in Bhadrachalam Agency on Monday morning. The blast, that occurred along the route frequented by local residents, created a flutter in the border town of Charla. The injured youth was identified as Alem Brahma Naidu of Patha Charla. Mr. Naidu was returning home after attending nature’s call when he noticed a wall poster alongside a roadside tree. He inadvertently rode his bike to the site to read the wall poster, accidentally triggering the pressure IED blast, sources said. He suffered a bleeding injury under the impact of the explosion. Alerted by the locals, the police shifted the injured youth to the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-injured-in-ied-explosion-in-telangana/article36329746.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. makes it official: it’s workers’ right to sit||It might not have all the connotations of a Rosa Parks’ protest, but the Bill that the Tamil Nadu government introduced in the Assembly on Monday is revolutionary enough by recognising workers’ ‘right to sit’. Kerala is the only other State to have legislated on the ‘right to sit’, and that, in response to protests conducted by sections of the labour force. In Tamil Nadu, the government has taken a proactive step by introducing a piece of legislation that will provide a chair to each worker, and a whole lot of dignity, besides helping the employees avoid the discomfort and health issues arising from remaining on their feet throughout the day. Act to be amended The Bill, which will benefit thousands of employees of large and small establishments, especially those working at textile and jewellery showrooms, was introduced by Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan. It seeks to amend the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments Act, 1947, by adding a sub-section. The proposed Section 22-A reads, “The premises of every establishment shall have suitable seating arrangements for all employees so that they may take advantage of any opportunity to sit which may occur in the course of their work and thereby avoid the ‘on their toes’ situation throughout the working hours.” The subject was placed at a meeting of the State Labour Advisory Board on September 4, 2019, and was unanimously approved by the members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tamil-nadu-makes-it-official-its-workers-right-to-sit/article36330019.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IREDA to help Tangedco improve generation||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) signed a memorandum of understanding with the Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency (IREDA) on Monday. Under the pact, IREDA will help the energy utility come up with plans to improve generation and use new technologies. The MoU was signed in the presence of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat. According to an official press release, Tangedco plans to generate 25,000 MW of energy — 20,000 MW of solar energy, 3,000 MW from hydro-power plants and 2,000 MW of biogas energy over the next 10 years. The projects are estimated to cost Rs. 1,32,500 crore. Expenses to be cut The projects are meant to make the State self-sufficient in generation and cut the expenses of the State-owned power utility company on account of power purchases from private power producers. According to the memorandum of understanding IREDA is expected to give inputs on measures being used by renewable energy companies to Tangedco, besides services in market research, project plan enhancement, and oversight of agreements and implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ireda-to-help-tangedco-improve-generation/article36330007.ece
07 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fraudster who duped 20 women nabbed in Chittoor||The Chittoor sub-division police on Monday nabbed a 33-year-old man from Ongole district, wanted in several cyber crimes involving an amount of Rs. 4 crore, on the outskirts of Chittoor, and seized Rs. 1 lakh worth ganja, Rs. 50,000 in cash and two brand new mobile phones. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar and Deputy SP N. Sudhakar Reddy, who produced the accused Punnati Srinivas of Addanki before the media, said that he was involved in several cyber frauds since 2017. He duped about 20 women, luring them into marriage through matrimonial websites and dating apps. The accused was also involved in ganja smuggling. He procured stocks from Vizag and supplied them to agents in Bengaluru and Chennai. Mr. Sudhakar Reddy and circle inspector (Chittoor East) Balaiah were supervising the highway patrol at Murakambattu, when they spotted the accused moving suspiciously, waiting to board a bus towards Bengaluru. They took him into custody and found him in possession of 4 kg ganja. Preliminary investigation revealed that he was in remand in Charlapalle and Musheerabad jails in Hyderabad in recent years, for involvement in cyber crimes. The officials said Srinivas, who discontinued M.Tech at the Indian Institute of Technology (Kanpur), had worked with several software companies in Bengaluru and Chennai till 2017. Later, he started a fake software consultancy firm and collected lakhs of rupees from many youth with false job promises. He lured unmarried women IT professionals through popular matrimonial sites. Feigning love and proposing marriage with the potential targets, Srinivas tricked them into sending huge amounts to him online. In recent months, a woman IT professional from Narasaraopet in Guntur district had transferred Rs. 40 lakh to him. Another from Ongole gave him Rs. 7 lakh and a woman paediatrician from Madanapalle Rs. 1.4 lakh, the officials said. “Preliminary investigation showed that the accused might have collected Rs. 4 crore in four years. We are in the process of identifying more victims in Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and elsewhere,” Mr. Sudhakar Reddy said. To avoid detection of his whereabouts, Srinivas used to frequently change mobile SIM cards after procuring them clandestinely in the names of his relatives and acquaintances. A special party is probing the involvement of Srinivas in ganja smuggling and his contacts. A case was registered .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fraudster-who-duped-20-women-nabbed-in-chittoor/article36330452.ece
07 September 2021||CHITTOOR/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police keep watch to prevent public celebrations||Police officials on Monday intensified surveillance at public places in Anantapur and Chittoor districts to prevent people from erecting pandals or installing Ganesha idols against the orders of the State government. Chittoor Deputy Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy told mediapersons here on Monday that permission would not be granted to any individual or group to erect pandals. Appealing to the public to cooperate with them by celebrating the festival at home, the DSP said there should be no complacency in following COVID-19 norms. He said a series of meeting were also held with the municipal authorities to prevent erecting of pandals. Those who violate the restrictions would be booked under relevant sections, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-keep-watch-to-prevent-public-celebrations/article36329918.ece
07 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. taking steps to curb spread of seasonal diseases||Minister for Health and Family Planning Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas alias Nani has said that the State government is taking all measures to ensure that seasonal diseases are controlled. The Minister, along with Home Minister M. Sucharita, District Collector Vivek Yadav and other officials reviewed the situation at SR Sankaran Hall on Monday. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been particular that the efforts should be intensified to ensure that seasonal diseases are not spread and effective measures should be taken after coordinating with other departments. So far, we have recorded 276 dengue cases in Guntur district and 13 malaria cases and most of them are recorded in Guntur Municipal Corporation area. Sanitation drives should be done every day and it has to be ensured that there is no stagnant water in the canals,” said Mr. Srinivas. The Minister added that a door-to-door fever survey would be conducted in places where there is a high risk of dengue infections, and medical camps would be set up in such areas. He said that Elisa testing kits should be placed in areas where there is high spread of viral fevers. Ms. Sucharita said that people should immediately consult a doctor and get themselves tested in case they have high fevers. Mr. Vivek Yadav said that seasonal fevers are on the rise since the onset of the monsoon and hotspots have been identified where there are more cases. Joint Collector Dinesh Kumar said that municipalities should work in close coordination with the health department. “We have identified 23,000 suspect cases out of which 1,575 have been confirmed to be dengue positive. We will conduct a review in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday,” added the Minister. Tenali MLA A. Siva Kumar, Director of Health Geetha Prasadini, director Raghavendra Rao and AVVP commissioner Vinod Kumar. Joint Collector K. Sridhar Reddy and officials of various departments were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-taking-steps-to-curb-seasonal-diseases-spread/article36329922.ece
07 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to corner govt. on host of issues||TDP national president Nara Chandrababu Naidu on Monday convened a meeting with party leaders to chalk out a strategy for pressurising the State government on a range of issues. Withdrawal of G.O. 217, illegal bauxite mining in Visakha Agency, and the murder of a woman named Ramya in Guntur will be the three most important issues that the party has to focus on to up the ante against the government, Mr. Naidu is learnt to have said. It was decided to hold a protest meeting at Narsaraopet on September 9. Leaders expressed their reservations over the decision to impose restrictions on Vinakaya Chavithi celebrations and decided to hold protest meetings demanding that the restrictions be lifted. The TDP president added that pressure should be put on the government demanding scrapping of G.O. 217 and hand over ponds and reservoirs to fishing societies. Mr. Naidu decried the alleged bauxite mining in Visakha Agency and said that bauxite worth Rs. 15,000 crore has been mined illegally in the region. Lack of remunerative prices for paddy, pitiable condition of roads and the rise in taxes were discussed at the meeting. Mr. Naidu said that false cases have been registered against TDP leaders such as Chintamaneni Prabhakar and Diyya Ramakrishna, adding that 1,100 Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKS) have been built in schools without following due procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-to-corner-govt-on-host-of-issues/article36330454.ece
07 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curbs during festival as per Centre’s guidelines: Minister||Taking strong exception to the protests staged by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanding permission for Vinayaka Chavithi celebrations in public places, Minister for Endowments Vellampalli Srinivas said that the restrictions were imposed as per the guidelines issued by the Central government to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic. “The BJP is trying to play politics over the issue and instigate communal violence in the State for its vested interests,” the Minister told the media at the Chief Minister’s camp office at Tadepalle on Monday. He said the State government had put restrictions on mass gatherings and celebrations in public places as part of the preventive measures in view of the pandemic situation. “Instead of protesting against the State government, the BJP leaders should protest against the guidelines released by the Union Home Ministry and try to revise those guidelines,” said the Minister. There was a massive outcry against the BJP government for according permission to Kumbh Mela amid the pandemic. “The State government doesn’t want to repeat the same mistake,” he said. The Endowments Minister also questioned over the silence of the BJP leaders when the previous TDP government demolished 50 Hindu temples in Vijayawada and 30 people died in stampede during the Godavari Pushkaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curbs-during-festival-as-per-centres-guidelines-minister/article36330455.ece
07 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anti-mosquito drive launched in Guntur||The Guntur district administration launched a series of measures aimed at tackling the mosquito menace amidst a growing number of cases of dengue and vector-borne diseases. Collector Vivek Yadav and MLA (Guntur West) Maddali Giridhara Rao released Gambusia fish into the Nallacheruvu pond as part of an anti-malaria drive. Guntur district has recorded 276 dengue cases this year. With most parts of the district receiving intermittent rains over the last few weeks, seasonal diseases have reared their head again. Malaria, dengue, filaria, chikungunya and Japanese encephalitis are the most common vector-borne diseases which thrive in damp conditions prevalent during the monsoon. Mr. Yadav, who convened a meeting under National Vector-Borne Diseases Control Programme here, asked the medical and health department and municipalities to coordinate and control the spread of seasonal diseases. He also observed that the seasonal diseases have been prevalent in municipalities and expressed concern over the high number of confirmed malaria and dengue cases in Guntur Municipal Corporation limits. District Medical and Health Officer J. Yasmin said remedial measures such as fogging and anti-larval operations were being carried out. Blood samples were being collected all over the district and suspected samples were being sent for Elisa test for diagnosis of dengue at the Department of Microbiology, Guntur Medical College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anti-mosquito-drive-launched-in-guntur/article36329920.ece
07 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. slashing old-age pensions, says Lokesh||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh on Monday criticised Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, alleging that the government had been reducing the social security pensions to the poor. He said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised during his padayatra in the run-up to the 2019 elections to increase the pensions if the YSRCP voted to power. “The Chief Minister has reneged on his promise of Rs. 3,000 pension to elderly people. He had promised that 65 lakh people in the State would get pension, but the government has started cutting down the number,” said Mr. Lokesh. He alleged that the government had cut 2.30 lakh pensions and the elderly people had lost their only source of monthly income for living and medical expenses. “The Chief Minister owes an explanation as to why the pension amount has not been increased to Rs. 2,750 even after he has completed two years in office,” he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-slashing-old-age-pensions-says-lokesh/article36330453.ece
07 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel comprising sarpanches to identify issues in Polavaram-affected areas||East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran has constituted the Polavaram Project Monitoring Committee (PPMC) comprising all sarpanches of the panchayats affected by the irrigation project within the jurisdiction of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Chintoor and Rampachodavaram in East Godavari district. “The PPMC has been constituted to identify issues in the affected panchayats and address them. Every sarpanch will be part of the PPMC and they can raise the issues pertaining to the Resettlement and Rehabilitation,” the Collector told the media on Monday. The first meeting of the PPMC has been scheduled to be held on September 17. The ITDA Project Officers will also be members of the committee. “The maiden meeting of the PPMC will list out the issues so that those could be addressed on a war-footing,” said Mr. Hari Kiran. Quality control Referring to the construction of the R&R colonies in the East Godavari district, Mr. Hari Kiran said, “The State government has directed to rope in Joint Collectors (Housing and Development) to review the quality of work pertaining to the R&R Colonies which are being constructed by the agencies. The third-party check of the work will certainly guarantee quality.” Speaking on healthcare services in the Agency, Mr. Hari Kiran asserted that the doctors would be deployed on a term basis instead of deputing them for months to check the deaths owing to health complications including viral fevers. “It is a fact that no doctor prefers to be deployed in the Agency for months. Hence, deploying them for term period will ensure availability of the doctors,” added Mr. Hari Kiran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-comprising-sarpanches-to-identify-issues-in-polavaram-affected-areas/article36330457.ece
07 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP distributes commodities to children||East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu on Monday distributed commodities and nutritious food material to the 50 children, recovered from the COVID-19here. COVID Action Collab NGO, Peddapuram-based Santhivardhana Ministries, and the East Godavari police contributed for the material. The SP has asked the children to focus on their education and health. Additional SP Karanam Kumar, Santhivardhana Ministries Ministries founder R. Veerababu and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-distributes-commodities-to-children/article36330484.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allow Covishield second dose four weeks after first, says HC||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the Central government to make necessary provisions forthwith in the CoWIN portal to enable those who want to take the second dose of Covishield vaccine after four weeks in terms of the initial protocol, to schedule the second dose of Covishield in the portal. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar issued the directive while allowing a writ petition filed by Kitex Garments Limited and Kitex Childrenswear Limited of Kochi seeking a directive to the Centre to allow its workers to receive a second dose of the vaccine without completing the stipulated 84-day gap between the two doses. The court pointed out that the Centre had relaxed the time interval between the two doses of Covishield vaccine initially, for students who want to undertake foreign travel for the purpose of education, for those who have to take up jobs in foreign countries and for athletes, sportspersons and accompanying staff of Indian contingent attending the Olympic Games at Tokyo. In fact, the privilege was later extended to Central government officials mandated to attend official commitments abroad, those who have to travel abroad for medical treatment, and foreign nationals who have to return to their native countries. The court observed that ‘all those are not persons who reside and settle permanently abroad.’ Most of them are persons who have to come back to India soon after their assignment. If the government can permit persons who are intending to travel abroad to exercise a choice between early protection and better protection from COVID-19 infection, there is absolutely no reason why the same privilege shall not be extended to others who want early protection in connection with their employment and education. The court further observed that it was declared on the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare that the vaccination was voluntary and there was no compulsion on anyone to accept the same. If that be so, the requirement to administer two doses of vaccine and the time interval between the two doses for better protection from infection could only be considered as advisory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allow-covishield-second-dose-four-weeks-after-first-says-hc/article36329744.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paulo Coelho tweets a thanks for ‘Alchemist’||‘Alchemist,’ an autorickshaw in the coastal town of Cherai, near Kochi, named after The Alchemist , a popular novel by Paulo Coelho, is garnering great attention. The Brazilian author tweeted a thanks to the autorickshaw driver, an ardent admirer of his works, for the favour. The novelist’s tweet has been retweeted widely and K.A. Pradeep, the owner of the autorickshaw, is delighted by the turn of events. The vehicle he drives now is the third in the series of ‘Alchemists’ he has owned. He recalls that when he named an earlier vehicle ‘Alchemist’ in 2011, it drew some attention from the media.  The Alchemist, published in 1988, became hugely popular and was widely translated. Pradeep has read the novel twice, the first time around 10 years ago. He says Kolkata, where he worked for three years in a private company, fanned his love for books. He returned to Kerala 22 years ago and has been driving an autorickshaw since. Pradeep is an avid reader even during the difficult times imposed by COVID-19. His favourite Malayalam writer is VKN (Vadakkke Koottala Narayanankutty Nair), whose Pithamahan and Payyan Kathakal are always fresh in his mind. He likes to discuss books with those who hire his vehicle even for short trips. Among the topics of conversation with his patrons, many of whom are avid readers, are the novels of Tolstoy, D.H. Lawrence, Emile Zola, and Kafka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paulo-coelho-tweets-a-thanks-for-alchemist/article36329892.ece
07 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bomb threat to indigenous aircraft carrier||The police have registered cases under cyber terrorism after Cochin Shipyard received e-mails twice in the past 20 days, warning of bombs going off in the shipyard where the indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) that will be christened INS Vikrant and is undergoing sea trials, was built. Sources said the Ernakulam South Police Station has registered cases under Section 66 F (cyber terrorism, a charge that can attract punishment up to life imprisonment) of IT Act and Section 384 of IPC. Security tightened The police and the CISF have stepped up security of the shipyard and the waterbody in its vicinity following the bomb threats. The Navy had already stepped up its vigil following the current geopolitical situation in the country’s neighbourhood, Naval sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bomb-threat-to-indigenous-aircraft-carrier/article36329743.ece
07 September 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||After Nipah case, Kerala tracking fever deaths||The Health Department in Kerala is taking stock of all unnatural deaths, including those caused by fever, in Chathamangalam and nearby areas in Kozhikode district, to detect the source of the Nipah infection which claimed the life of 12-year-old Hashim on Sunday. Health Minister Veena George told presspersons on Monday that house-to-house surveillance would be intensified in nearby Kodiyathur grama panchayat and Mukkom municipality areas. Both field surveillance and fever surveillance would be done within a 3 km-radius of the boy’s house in Pazhoor. The details of recent fever deaths in the Chathamangalam grama panchayat limits were being compiled. Those with Nipah-like symptoms would be examined. COVID-19 vaccination was stopped in Kozhikode taluk for 48 hours. Those with fever-like symptoms, however, could undergo tests. Unusual season Asked about the occurrence of the infection in September unlike the previous instances in 2018 and 2019, when it broke out in May-June, the Minister said this aspect would be examined. Health experts said the infection was most likely to be reported between December and June, the mating season of fruit bats, thought to be the natural carriers of the virus. The Minister said the alleged lapses at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode in not diagnosing the infection would be looked into. Though the boy was admitted to the hospital on August 31 with severe symptoms and spent around 20 hours there, his condition was not properly diagnosed. The boy had fever since August 27 and was taken to three private hospitals before reaching the MCH. Hospital authorities claimed they tried to stabilise him. There was no ventilator available. A State-level Nipah control cell was set up at Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/after-nipah-case-kerala-tracking-fever-deaths/article36329737.ece
07 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four persons succumb to COVID in Prakasam||Six more persons succumbed to COVID-19 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh even as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in the last 24 hours in the region. The toll touched the 2,070-mark as four persons in Prakasam district and two in SPSR Nellore district died due to the pandemic. With this, the death toll rose to 1,058 in Prakasam district and 1,012 in SPSR Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. A sigh of relief The health professionals heaved a sigh of relief as the new infections which had been on the rise of late, came down by 100 in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Monday when compared to the previous day’s figures. The cumulative tally rose to over 2.75 lakh as 114 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 94 in Prakasam tested positive for the disease. As many as 251 persons in the region, including 150 in Prakasam district, were declared recovered. The number of active cases stood at 4,386 in the region, including 2,240 in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-persons-succumb-to-covid-in-prakasam/article36330435.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nearby districts should be on alert, says NCDC||In the wake of Nipah outbreak in Kozhikode district of Kerala, the Central team from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) that was sent here on September 5 has said in its first report that the nearby districts of Kannur, Malappuram and Wayanad need to be alerted. In its communication to the State, the Union Health Ministry said that the Central team, along with district surveillance officer and other officials, carried out field investigations. “Based on the first report submitted by the Central team, we have made a series of recommendations which has been shared with the State for further follow-up action,” said the Health Ministry. The team has recommended that currently both hospital-based and community-based surveillance needed to be strengthened, awareness needed to be created among the field formations for early detection of cases of acute encephalitis syndrome/ respiratory distress, and risk communicated to the public. The Ministry said Animal Health and Wild Life Department’s and other field officers may be initiated to trap and collect samples from fruit bats for virological studies and other associated measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nearby-districts-should-be-on-alert-says-ncdc/article36329872.ece
07 September 2021||NUZVID (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable held for ‘stealing’ Rs. 16 lakh from police station||The Nuzvid police on Monday arrested a constable, Janardhan on charge of committing a theft at the police station a few ago and recovered a part of the stolen money from him. The Station House Officer (SHO) of the Nuzvid Town police station registered a case after the staff noticed the theft and alerted the higher-ups. Investigation revealed about Rs. 16 lakh was missing from the police station. “As the station writer, Janardhan, was missing soon after the theft, and special teams were formed to trace him. The police took the accused into custody in Chennai and recovered Rs. 14 lakh from his possession on Monday,” said Krishna Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal. The constable-cum-station writer is being shifted to Nuzvid and further investigation is on, the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constable-held-for-stealing-rs-16-lakh-from-police-station/article36330460.ece
07 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam police crack dacoity case, recover Rs. 47 lakh||Prakasam police achieved a swift breakthrough in a dacoity case near Gudluru on the Chennai-Kolkata highway with the arrest of seven members of a gang on Monday. Police recovered Rs. 47 lakh in cash from the accused. Superintendent of Police Malika Garg told reporters here that the accused, who include a police constable and a scribe from neighbouring Kadapa district, were nabbed at Pamur junction on the Nellore-Badwel road by a special team constituted by her following a complaint lodged by a jewellery shop owner in Nellore. The complainant, N. Chiranjeevi, said in his complaint that he was robbed while travelling to Vijayawada to buy gold last Tuesday. A knife and two cars used by the accused for committing the offence were also seized. The gangsters had made away with Rs. 50 lakh in cash posing as police personnel after coming to know that he was carrying unaccounted money with him. After a lot of dilly-dallying, Mr. Chiranjeevi finally lodged a complaint with the Gudlur police only on Friday last. Gudlur police registered a case under Sections 120(B), 170, and 395 of the IPC. The SP formed three teams which achieved a breakthrough in the case after collecting relevant information from toll gates on the expressway. The accused were identified as T. Nagaraju (35), B. Srinivasulu (33), K. Sudhakar (38), B. Gopikrishna (22), P. Subbarayudu (38), D. Kalyan (36), and M. Naveen Prasad (43), all from Nellore and Kadapa districts. Giving further details of the case, the Superintendent of Police said accused no. 2 (A2) in the case, Srinivasulu, was working as a driver for Mr. Chiranjeevi. Srinivasulu conspired with his relative Nagaraju, who is the main accused in the case and who has three criminal cases pending against him in Nellore. Nagaraju conspired with a police constable, accused no. 3, in Kadapa district after coming to know that the jewellery shop owner was going to Vijayawada on that day to buy gold. They then tailed Mr. Chiranjeevi in two cars and overtook Mr. Chiranjeev’s car near Kavali. The three accused, posing as police personnel, intercepted his car on the pretext of vehicle checking at Shantinagar within Gudlur police station limits, snatched away his car key and asked him to come to the DSP’s office in Kandukur as he was carrying ‘unaccounted cash’. They then struck a deal with him and agreed to let him go free if he gave them Rs. 25 lakh in cash. When he was about to give the amount, they brandished a knife and threatened to eliminate him before decamping with Rs. 50 lakh in cash being carried by him. The SP declared rewards for the Kandukur division police for cracking the case quickly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-police-crack-dacoity-case-recover-rs-47-lakh/article36330437.ece
07 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AITAM students bag national award||Aditya Institute of Technology and Management (AITAM) Director V.V. Nageswara Rao on Monday said that the students with social responsibility and innovative ideas would shine in their career and become responsible citizens of the country. He congratulated the students' group which received Chhatra Vishwakarma Award from Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan in a function organised in New Delhi on Sunday night. Mr. Nageswara Rao said that the award was presented for their project on ‘Gender Responsive Mechanism to Combat Domestic Violence’. He said that the AICTE was encouraging the youngsters with these awards for the projects useful for the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aitam-students-bag-national-award/article36330440.ece
07 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man attempts to ‘end life’||A labourer on Monday reportedly attempted to end his life by jumping from atop Vishnu Nilayam. The worker was later identified as Uday and was rushed to the SVIMS super-specialty hospital in Tirupati. District CITU general secretary K. Murali alleged that Uday was detained by the local police in connection with a theft case at the guesthouse and that he was severely beaten up at the police station. Unable to bear the torture, Uday took the extreme step, Mr. Murali alleged, Persons in distress can dial ‘100’ for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-attempts-to-end-life/article36329923.ece
07 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD official inspects waste management plants||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy on Monday inspected the solid and liquid waste management plants at the hill town. Accompanied by a team of senior officials, Mr. Dharma Reddy visited the liquid waste management plants at Srivari Mettu, Kalyana Vedika, Paachi Kalva, Balaji Nagar and Annamaiah Bhavan and made suggestions for quick disposal of waste and instructed the officials to bring electrical motors at the plants back into use, divert the sewage water for gardening and grow saplings for hygienic surroundings. In course of his inspection of the solid waste management plants at Kakula konda, he directed the officials concerned to segregate the rotten waste and ensure their transportation to Tirupati without any delay. Later he also took stock of the operations at various dumping yards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-official-inspects-waste-management-plants/article36329924.ece
07 September 2021||TIRUPATI/ONGOLE/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP decries govt.’s ‘unilateral’ decision to ban festivities||As part of the State-wide call, the district leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a demonstration at the Sub-Collector’s office here on Monday, demanding that the State government accord permission for the community-level celebration of ‘Vinayaka Chaturthi’ by strictly adhering to the COVID-19 norms. The leaders decried the ‘unilateral’ decision taken by the government without consulting the elected representatives from the political spectrum. “This is the only festival that is celebrated at the community level for nine days by erecting pandals and installing Ganesh idols. It is unwarranted to totally ban such events citing the threat of COVID-19, when the government allowed buses, trains, gymnasiums and cinemas to function normally,” said party’s State official spokesperson Samanchi Srinivas. “Any Hindu festival can be conducted as a private affair, but the administrators know that it is not practically possible to conduct Vinayaka Chaturthi at home, as it ends with immersion of the idol in a water body,” party State secretary K. Uma said. Procession carried out In Ongole, BJP activists staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here and came in a procession carrying Ganesh idols to the Church Centre demanding that the State government relax the restrictions imposed to combat COVID-19 during the nine-day Ganesh Chavithi celebrations. In Chittoor, Bharatiya Janata Party activists submitted a memorandum to the Revenue Divisional Office demanding lifting of restrictions. In Anantapur, BJP State official media representative Duddakunta Venkatewara Reddy, along with ten other party members, sat on a hunger strike opposite the Municipal Corporation Building from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. protesting against the State government’s decision to disallow public celebrations of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-decries-govts-unilateral-decision-to-ban-festivities/article36329926.ece
07 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crypto miners set up rooftop solar units to cut power costs||Those mining cryptocurrency in India have just got smarter. In a bid to fight expensive power cost involved, most of miners are setting up solar rooftop power units and battery back-up in their residential facilities. There are also more enterprising ones who are evaluating cold countries nearby to install system infrastructure to save on heat issues and subsequent operating costs. Cryptocurrency is a virtual currency which uses blockchain technology for its existence and secure transactions online. The famous cryptocurrencies are Bitcoin, Ethereum, Lightcoin and Darkcoin and etc. Crypto-mining is earning cryptocurrency by solving cryptographic equations using high-end computers. The highly secured problem solving process consists of verifying data blocks and these transaction records are added to a public ledger using blockchain technology. Solving complex mathematical problems in a decentralised environment online ensures cyptocurrency to users. 48-year-old Ajay K. from Hyderabad, who was once an active stock market trader, has been into serious business of crypto-mining (Bitcoin and Ethereum) for the past couple of years. To cut costs on power, Mr. Ajay has set up a solar rooftop unit a year ago. “My 5 KVA solar rooftop power system with battery backup is saving over 60% of the cost. The air conditioning and mother-board with multiple graphic cards consume a lot of power. We are looking out for avenues to cut these costs,” said Mr. Ajay. The hardware infrastructure consumes high power, and it’s the major cost and a big challenge in crypto-mining. On an average, the power consumption for crypto-mining could be to the tune of Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 50,000 per month. While a basic cryptocurrency mining system starts at Rs. 50,000, the professional one with high-end motherboard and eight graphic cards costs about Rs. 4,00,000. Mr. Ajay is not alone in setting up rooftop solar plants. He has company from fraternity groups in WhatsApp and Telegram in India and abroad who have already set up solar power units. As per estimates, there are a few lakhs of crypto-miners in India while the Telugu States Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have a few thousands of them. Offshore offices The cost cutting is not just limited to solar power units. Better ideas are apparently evolving in the social media groups. There are smarter miners who want to set up shop abroad, especially in colder countries to save on power. “We have a group of like-minded people in our WhatsApp group who are aiming at setting up our systems in Ukraine and other cold countries nearby. We are most likely to do it shortly,” said Mr. Ajay. Equipment business Meanwhile, the crypto-mining equipment supply has emerged as a big business in India. The demand for equipment is growing multifold, according to Bhimavaram-based Krishnam Raju who caters to Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu markets. “The business is maturing fast. Now, the import time for customised motherboards and graphic cards from China and Singapore has reduced to seven days. The customs clearances are processed instantly. Earlier, the import used to take a month,” said Mr. Raju. The fast-emerging market segment also caters to those who do not believe in cryptocurrency but interested in lucrative equipment trade. “Like Warren Buffett, I am also a non-believer of cryptocurrency. But, the equipment trade works for me and I am happy doing it,” said Hyderabad-based businessman Anil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crypto-miners-set-up-rooftop-solar-units-to-cut-power-costs/article36330447.ece
07 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC tells govt. to minimise processes for YSR Cheyutha||A single-judge bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court comprising Justice B. Devanand suggested to Advocate-General (A-G) S. Sriram to advise the government officers concerned to minimise the processes during the implementation of the YSR Cheyutha scheme, during the hearing on a batch of contempt petitions related to it on Monday. The petitions were filed by 18 beneficiaries who alleged non-payment of dues under the scheme, which is meant to extend a financial assistance of Rs. 75,000 over a period of four years to women aged in the age group of 45 to 60 years belonging to the BC, SC, ST and minority categories. The A-G submitted that such policies were subject to the State’s economic capacity and the court’s role was limited to interventions in matters of discrimination among the beneficiaries or arbitrary implementation. He informed the court that the government’s view to spread the scheme over four instalments subject to yearly inclusion and exclusion on the basis of age or other parameters was an economic policy of the State aimed at furthering the interests of the largest number of potential beneficiaries. Extension of age limit The A-G maintained that extending the age limit beyond 60 years would be contrary to the scheme and that the systems of grievance resolution or delay in receipts could not be conflated to the entire scheme. He assured the court that necessary action would be taken to minimise the complicated processes. After finding that the beneficiaries had been paid, the court adjourned the matter by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-tells-govt-to-minimise-processes-for-ysr-cheyutha/article36330449.ece
07 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||94,516 cases of ID liquor making, smuggling booked last fiscal||The officials of Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) registered 94,516 cases against the illicitly distilled (ID) liquor manufacturers and non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) smugglers, and arrested 97,273 persons during the 2020-21 financial year. The SEB, which was created with the personnel of police and excise departments in May last year, has been conducting raids on the ID liquor manufacturing dens and cracking the whip on the NDPL smugglers across the State, said the officials at a coordination meeting held here on Monday. Special Chief Secretary (Revenue) Rajat Bhargava chaired the meeting and SEB Director P.H.D. Ramakrishna, Andhra Pradesh State Beverages Corporation Limited Managing Director D.Vasudeva Reddy, and Prohibition, Excise Additional Commissioner K.L. Bhaskar among other officials took part in it. Mr. Ramakrishna said that 59,873 cases were registered against the ID liquor makers and 46,872 persons were arrested, besides seizure of 6,540 vehicles used for transporting the contraband. Similarly, 34,643 cases were booked on charges of smuggling NDPL from the neighbouring States, and 50,401 persons were arrested. The police seized 18,744 vehicles, he said. Mr. Bhargava asked the SEB officials to act tough against the arrack manufacturers. About 5,000 personnel are participating in the SEB operations, the Special Chief Secretary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/94516-cases-of-id-liquor-making-smuggling-booked-last-fiscal/article36330535.ece
07 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman seeking Aadhaar for her children gets help at Spandana||A visit to the Spandana programme at Sub-Collector’s office helped a street-dweller get Aadhaar card for her children, to avail of benefits provided by the government. The woman, along with her two children, approached Sub-Collector G.S.S. Praveen Chand seeking an Aadhaar card and birth certificate for her children on Monday. The woman told officials that she did not have an Aadhaar and phone, making it difficult for the officials to proceed further in applying for one. However, a while later officials found that she has an Aadhaar but forgot the id number. Mr. Praveen Chand directed GGH officials to help the woman get birth certificates for children and Aadhaar cards based on them. Mr. Praveen Chand said that a house, under the housing scheme, will also be allocated to her after due process. A total of 40 grievances were received at the programme and 15 were related to revenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-seeking-aadhaar-for-her-children-gets-help-at-spandana/article36330538.ece
07 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vijayawada division transports parcels worth Rs. 12.31 crore this year’||The South Central Railway (SCR), Vijayawada division, has transported parcels worth about Rs. 12.31 crore during the current year, 58% higher when compared to the previous year. Of the total earnings, Tadepalligudem railway station has created an all time record during August by achieving Rs. 1.27 crore through freight loading, said Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Shivendra Mohan. During the current financial year, 34,567 tonnes of commodities were loaded from the division, of which 11,511 tonnes of fish have been transported from different stations. In August this year, seven Kisan Rails were operated from Tadepalligudem carrying 2,110 tonnes of onions, eggs, fish, poultry and other commodities to various destinations in the North East. The Business Development Unit (BDU) teams, which held meetings with exporters and farmers at the local level, have achieved success in earning good revenue through freight loading. The new initiatives, like Kisan Specials with 50 percent subsidy under Operation Green TOP to Total, has contributed to tremendous rise in parcel traffic. Operating of special trains led to diversification of the parcel commodity basket of the division, capturing new traffic and attracting the conventional road traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijayawada-division-transports-parcels-worth-rs-1231-crore-this-year/article36329912.ece
07 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahila Police being utilised by other depts.: DGP||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has requested Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das to issue instructions to other departments directing them not to utilise the services of Mahila Police, who were attached to the Police Department recently. Mr. Sawang, in a letter to Mr. Aditya Nath Das on Monday, said that many departments including the Revenue, Medical and Health, Municipal Administration, Panchayat Raj and other officials were using the services of the Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarshulu (Mahila Police), attached to the Police Department. In June this year, the State government issued orders merging around 15,000 Grama and Ward Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarshulu with the Police Department, but they were being engaged by other departments on other works without the consent of the police officers concerned, the Director General of Police said. Disha App The Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs), Circle Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors were allotting duties to the Mahila Police to explain on the need to download the Disha App, interacting with Mahitra Groups, enlightening women and girls on women safety measures being taken up by the government, the DGP said. As the heads of other departments were allotting duties for the Mahila Police, they could not concentrate on the task given to them by the local police officers, Mr. Sawang said and urged the Chief Secretary not to use the services of Mahila Police, without the consent of the local police officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahila-police-being-utilised-by-other-departments-dgp/article36330536.ece
07 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Complete works on Ambedkar park by April’||District Collector J. Nivas asked the officials of the Social Welfare department to speed up works of construction of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Memorial Park, featuring a 125 feet statue, and complete them by April next year. Mr. Nivas and officials from the Social Welfare department, the nodal agency for the project, inspected the Swarajya Maidan (PWD Grounds) on Monday. Mr. Nivas said the State government intends to inaugurate the park on April 14, 2022, the 131st birth anniversary of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar and that a plan of action for completion of the project should be taken up accordingly. He said all the buildings in the maidan land were vacated and irrigation quarters have been removed. Officials were asked to remove the remaining buildings and begin construction of the park and research centre as per the plan. Social Welfare department deputy director K. Saraswathi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-works-on-ambedkar-park-by-april/article36329913.ece
07 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Villages will get broadband services by next year: CS||Chief Secretary Adityanath Das has said that the new IT policy, which will be unveiled soon, will help provide broadband services to every village in the State. He said that the State had been making all efforts to provide broadband services to all villages by 2022 in line with the Centre’s National Broadband Mission. Mr. Das chaired the second State Broadband Committee meeting held at Secretariat on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, he said broadband plays a key role in the State’s land re-survey project. “The government is aiming at digitising every village in the State. Efforts are being made to ensure that clearances from the Forest Department are given at the earliest for extending broadband services in the tribal areas,” said Mr. Das. Department of Telecom DDGs G.V. Ram Krishna, G. Raghavendra Rao, IT principal secretary G. Jayalakshmi, Panchayat Raj commissioner Girija Shankar were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/villages-will-get-broadband-services-by-next-year-cs/article36330537.ece
07 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eligible scribes will get all govt. benefits: Sajjala||Adviser (Public Affairs) to the Government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said the government is committed to providing all schemes and subsidies to all eligible journalists . Speaking at a meeting organised by the A.P. Working Journalists’ Federation (APWJF) on Monday, he said the government was contemplating allocation of land to journalists along with government officers in the Middle Income Group (MIG) category and soon guidelines would be issued. He said there would be no further delays in issuance of accreditations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eligible-scribes-will-get-all-govt-benefits-sajjala/article36330448.ece
07 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New coronavirus variant detected in State, says expert||The scientists have discovered a new variant of coronavirus and it has already been detected in a few States, including Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The variant is one of the 13 sub-types of Delta Plus or B.1.617.2 and is identified as AY 12. Across India about 178 cases have been detected, including the very first one that was detected in Pauri Garhwal district in Uttarakhand reportedly on August 31, said Principal of Andhra Medical College and District COVID Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar. According to the latest reports, about 18 cases have been detected in Andhra Pradesh and around 15 in Telangana. Speaking about the variant, Dr. Sudhakar said it has one less mutation than the Delta variant. The spike protein has G142D mutation in the Delta and that is absent in AY12. However, he added that there is insufficient data available as of now and that is why it is too early to tell whether this variant has increased transmissibility or virulence. But it may be the driving force for the predicted third wave, Dr. Sudhakar said. It may be remembered that the Delta variant created a havoc during the second wave in India that affected the populace from March to June, including in Visakhapatnam. The second wave saw over 50,000 infections in the Visakhapatnam district within a short span of two to three months and over 500 officially accounted deaths. The medical fraternity believe that the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic has been partially due to non-compliance of appropriate behaviour. “But now it is time that we become doubly careful. The second wave is still on and the positivity rate continues to be around 2% to 3% and now we have a new variant of the same Delta Plus group. Strict adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour and vaccination hold the key at this crucial juncture. If we let our guard down at this point, then the third wave can be on us in no time,” said Dr. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-coronavirus-variant-detected-in-state-says-expert/article36330459.ece
07 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 held on charge of trying to sell land based on forged documents||The city police arrested two out of three accused for allegedly trying to sell land belonging to another person on the basis of forged documents. The police said that the third accused is in the USA and efforts are on to nab him. The arrested have been identified as Jarajapu Srinivasa Rao (51) of Wireless Colony, Alipuram, and Vasamsetti Jayasurya (51) of Kakinada. The third accused, who is in the USA, has been identified as B. Anandaraju of Nalgonda district in Telangana. Briefing the media here on Monday, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that one Tummala Krishna Chowdary, had 12.26 acres at Kommadi village under PM Palem Police station limits and the accused had hatched a plan to sell it without the knowledge of the owner by creating fake documents. Mr. Sinha said that Mr. Krishna Chowdary about 10 to 12 years ago had discussed with Jayasurya about his property and thereafter in 2012 had left for the USA and has been living there since. He said that Srinivasa Rao and Jayasurya contacted Anandaraju in the USA and hatched the plan. As per the plan, Anandaraju started to impersonate as Krishna Chowdary and was interacting with prospective buyers over video WhatsApp calls. The accused reportedly approached one realtor by name Sanapala Chandra Mouli and settled for a deal to the tune of Rs. 18.7 crore. Mr. Chandra Mouli approached Uppalapati Sukumara Varma of Kasyap Developers, who is the son of Yellamanchili MLA U.V. Ramanamurthy Raju (Kanabanu), and they decided to buy the land. Over a period of last one-and-a-half-year, they reportedly paid the accused about Rs. 5 crore, in phases and have been demanding registration of the property. Meanwhile, suspecting some dispute on the property, the prospective buyers published a paper notification a few days ago to find out the veracity of the property and its owner. Mr. Krishna Chowdary’s wife Tummala Lakshmi Surya Prasanna, who lives in the East Godavari district, saw the notification and approached us about 10 days ago, said Mr. Manish Kumar Sinha. “On investigation, we zeroed in on the accused, who by then not only opened a fake account in a private bank in the name of Krishna Chowdary using fabricated document but also obtained a fake GPA (general power of attorney) in their name by forging the signature of Mr. Krishna Chowdary,” he said. DCP (Zone-1) S. Gouthami and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-held-on-charge-of-trying-to-sell-land-with-forged-documents/article36330445.ece
07 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private school managements oppose new fee structure||The new fee structure announced by the State government has added to the woes of the private schools, which are already finding it difficult to run the institutions amidst the pandemic situation. With losses mounting and future appearing bleak, some of the schools have already closed down, while the others are managing the show with a glimmer of hope. Shocked by the new fee structure, the private school associations, moved the court and hope they would get a reprieve. On the other hand, the decision of the State government is being welcomed by parents. The funds being given by the State government to students in the name of ‘Amma Vodi’ scheme are going directly into the accounts of the mothers but in most cases, they are being spent on domestic needs instead of paying the fees, say private school managements. Some of the managements admit that the big schools are responsible for the present situation. They were charging exorbitant fees in the name of providing various facilities but are not even providing quality education. Parents seem to be content with the brand of the school rather the output, says a budget school correspondent, on condition of anonymity. He says that the funds under 'Amma Vodi' scheme should be directly credited to the school to ensure that the children continue their education. He, however, says that the school fee prescribed by the government would force us to hire teachers at low salaries and the impact would be on students. The mid-range schools would be the worst-affected as they are located in rented buildings in premium areas and have to pay high rents on buildings and higher salaries to teachers, says another educationist, who runs a school in the city. “I appreciate the decision of the government in improving amenities in government schools and providing the underprivileged sections with quality education. But, the existing government schools cannot accommodate all the children of small private schools, if they are closed,” he says. "The government has also fixed the budget allocation to be made by the schools under various heads like rent and salaries of teachers. Education, which has become the most neglected sector is one of the highest employers, with around eight lakh unemployed graduates working as teachers in private schools, which are playing a major role in the promotion of literacy,” says the AP Private Schools Association (APPSA) chairman K.S.N. Murthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pvt-school-managements-oppose-new-fee-structure/article36330532.ece
07 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP seeks permission for Ganesh pandals||A tense situation prevailed at the Collectorate for sometime on Monday as police personnel tried to prevent BJP activists, who tried to barge into the Collectorate building, demanding withdrawal of the orders issued by the State government against holding of Vinayaka Chaviti festival at public places. A large number of the party leaders and activists and representatives of other organisations like the Sadhu Parishad took out a rally from the Gandhi statue, near the GVMC, to the Collectorate and made their way into the Collectorate premises. The party leaders and workers entered into arguments with the police personnel and raised slogans against their high-handed behaviour as they were stopped from entering into the building. The policemen finally managed to push them back and out of the premises onto the Main Road, where they continued the protest. The protesters raised slogans like ‘Jai Shri Ram’, ‘Bharat Matha Ki Jai”. Women activists were seen picking up arguments with the policewomen and resisted their attempts to push them out of the premises. MLC P.V.N. Madhav, who participated in the protest, demanded that permission be given for organising the festival in the open, while insisting on the organisers to adhere to COVID-19 protocols and warned that the BJP would intensify the agitation all over the State, if the State government failed to accord permission. He alleged that the YSRCP government was showing discrimination against Hindus and wondered whether COVID-19 restrictions were applicable only to celebration of Vinayaka Chaviti festival and not to holding of birth and death anniversary events of leaders. He sought that the celebrations should be allowed on condition of following COVID-19 guidelines. Sadhu Parishad State president Srinivas Nanda Saraswathi, Viswa Hindu Parishad general secretary Subrahmanyam, BJP Parliament district president Medapati Raveendra, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) State president K. Surendra Mohan and Mahila Morcha president U. Sujata were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-seeks-permission-for-ganesh-pandals/article36330544.ece
07 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRM conducts ticket checking drive||An intensive ticket checking-cum-mass passenger counselling drive on COVID-19, trespassing, littering and footboard travel was conducted by Divisional Railway Manager of Waltair Anup Kumar Satpathy between Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram on Monday. Inspection was carried out in the compartments, pantry car, stations by the DRM, who interacted with passengers in trains and platforms to have a first-hand feedback on the amenities and facilities, being provided by the Division. The focus of the drive was to check ticketless travel in unreserved segments and irregular travel in reserved and AC classes. Passengers were advised to follow COVID-19 protocols including compulsory wearing of masks. Passengers' problems were heard, grievances redressed and suggestions invited. The ticket checking squad was lead by Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi and Senior Divisional Security Commissioner Ch.Raghuvir from Visakhapatnam to Vizianagaram. Speaking on the occasion, the DRM said that the main purpose of the trip, apart from gauging the extent of ticket less travelling now, was to gain first-hand knowledge about the problems faced by the passengers during this pandemic period, hear their grievances, listen to suggestions of the travelling public, apprise them of the difficulties and to sensitise the travellers on COVID-19 protocols. The team also highlighted the dangers of travelling on footboards and boarding/ deboarding from moving trains, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drm-conducts-ticket-checking-drive/article36330550.ece
07 September 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 54 new COVID cases||Meanwhile, the Viskhapatnam district recorded 54 new COVID -19 cases taking the cumulative tally to 1,55,857, as on Monday morning. No deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, keeping the death count to 1,075. About 80 people suffering from the virus infection were discharged and said to have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 1,53,704.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-54-new-covid-cases/article36330540.ece
07 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private schools in Steel Plant Township flouting fee orders: CPI(M)||CPI(M) leader B. Ganga Rao has alleged that the managements of private schools, located in the Steel Plant Township, were collecting hefty fees from students in violation of the orders of the State government. He submitted a memorandum to District Collector A. Mallikarjuna on Monday seeking his intervention in restraining the school managements from violating the orders of the State government. Mr. Ganga Rao, who is also 78th Ward Corporator, said that the Steel Township comes under the purview of the 78th ward in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). He noted that all these schools were allotted land by the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) management. One of the schools was even provided buildings by the VSP management. Power and water was being supplied by the VSP and the schools do not even have to pay property tax and water charges, he said. In spite of getting all these benefits from the VSP management, these schools were collecting high fees from the students, ignoring the ceiling on fees imposed by the State government recently. He also alleged that some of the schools have not even constituted parents committees, while others were not taking their opinions. He appealed to the Collector to order a probe into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/private-schools-in-steel-plant-township-flouting-fee-orders-cpim/article36330541.ece
07 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVEEP district committee constituted||The formation of Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) Core Committees at the State and district levels, as per the orders of the State government, has been approved by the Election Commission. A district-level core committee on SVEEP was constituted on the directions of the Chief Electoral Officer and E.O. Principal Secretary to the Government, to oversee and implement various activities. The SVEEP District Core Committee members are: Chairperson – A. Mallikarjuna (Collector and District Election Officer); Members: M.S. Mahesh (Assistant Director, Field Outreach Bureau, Ministry of I & B); V. Maniram, Deputy Director, I & PR Department, M.S. Mahesh, Head, Regional News Unit, AIR, Visakhapatnam; G. Maheswara Rao, District Youth Officer, NYK; PV Ramana Kumar, Program Officer, NSS and P.V.S.S. Prasad, Bureau Chief of RNU, AIR. The above committee shall ensure a holistic perspective in the formation of policies and playing an integral role in holding consultations during formation of SVEEP plan prior to elections , according to a statement issued here .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sveep-district-committee-constituted/article36330542.ece
07 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness camp on eye donation organised||An awareness camp on eye donation was organised by the Ophthalmology Department of GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) Hospital here on Monday. GIMSR Pro Vice-Chancellor C.V. Rao said that eye donation was the noblest contribution towards the welfare of humanity. He exhorted the participants to register themselves at the nearest registered eye bank for the donation. GIMSR Medical College Principal Jyothi Padmaja, GIMSR Hospital Medical Superintendent Dwarakanath, Deputy Superintendent Vijayakumar, senior ophthalmologists T.Jaya Raju and Veena Ben spoke on corneal blindness. Around 100 people pledged to donate their eyes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awareness-camp-on-eye-donation-organised/article36330545.ece
07 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Control room opened in view of heavy rain alert||The Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam, has forecast widespread rains with moderate to heavy rain at many places under the influence of the low pressure area over northwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal off south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has asked the public to remain alert in view of the weather forecast. He also advised fishermen against venturing into the sea. A control room has been opened with phone numbers to enable the public to inform the officials, if they encounter any problems in view of the heavy rains, to initiate relief measures. The control room phone nos. are: Visakhapatnam Collectorate: 1800-425-00002; 0891-2590100; 2590102; Paderu Sub Collector - 08935-250028; RDO Visakhapatnam - 0891-2562977; RDO Anakapalle - 08924-223316; RDO Narsipatnam - 08932-226433.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/control-room-opened-in-view-of-heavy-rain-alert/article36330548.ece
07 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Malla Vijay Prasad arrested by Odisha police||Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh Education and Welfare Infrastructure Development Corporation (APEWIDC) and senior leader of the YSR Congress Party Malla Vijay Prasad has been arrested by Odisha CID (crime wing), for his alleged involvement in chit fund cheating cases, here on Monday. The Odisha police had sought the assistance of local police for his custody and it is learnt that he was arrested and is being produced before the magistrate concerned. A case was booked against him by the Odisha police in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/malla-vijay-prasad-arrested-by-odisha-police/article36330539.ece
07 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Make arrangements for Inter exams’||Joint Collector P. Arun Babuh had directed the officials concerned to make all arrangements for the smooth conduct of the Intermediate Public Advanced Supplementary Examinations (I and II years) to be held from September15 to 23. At a review meeting here on Monday, the Joint Collector directed the officials to ensure compliance of COVID-19 guidelines. He directed the police to enforce 144 Section around all the exam centres in the district. He also asked them to contact the ITDA PO and make foolproof arrangements at the centres identified as 'problematic' in the Agency areas . He directed the DEO to ensure provision of basic amenities at the exam centres. The DM & HO should ensure availability of medicines and ANMs at the examination centres. He asked the RTC officials to operate special buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-arrangements-for-inter-exams/article36330546.ece
07 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP demands permission to set up Ganesh pandals||The Bharatiya Janata Party staged protests in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, demanding that the government allow establishment of pandals for Vinayaka Chavithi. BJP leaders Kusumanchi Subbarao, Reddi Pavani, Baggam Rajesh, Teegala Harinath and others staged a protest at the clock tower here. ‘Anti-Hindu policy.’ They said that the government had allowed movie theatres, shops and establishments but issued orders against Ganesh pandals. “The YSRCP government is adopting anti-Hindu policy. People will teach a lesson if it fails to give orders immediately allowing pandals in public places,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-demands-nod-for-ganesh-pandals/article36330441.ece
07 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Teach moral lessons to children’||Vasavi Club zonal chairman M. Ch.Gupta on Monday urged teachers to give top priority to moral education to ensure that children grow up to become upstanding citizens. Academic prowess alone does not ensure overall development of students, Mr. Gupta said. Vasavi Club and Vasavi Vanitha Club jointly felicitated teachers Atmakuri Padma, G. Nirmal and Pentapati Rajeswara Rao at a function organsed in connection with week-long celebrations of the club. Mr. Gupta urged the teachers to narrate moral stories incorporated in the Ramayana and Mahabharata. Vanitha Club president P.V.R. Kumari said that she had been conducting exclusive classes on Monday for children where she narrates moral stories in a short form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teach-moral-lessons-to-children/article36330444.ece
07 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Photographers seek government aid||Vizianagaram Photographers and Videographers’ Welfare Association president Kandi Srinivas Naidu and general secretary P. Aravind on Monday urged the State government to announce exclusive welfare measures for lensmen as they were reeling under a financial crisis caused by COVID-19. They said that the government had announced special financial package for all sections,including junior advocates, artisans and auto-rickshaw drivers, but ignored photographers and videographers. They also demanded action against a hotel management in Anantapur which had reportedly assaulted a photographer when he had gone there to cover a wedding. Association members D. Satish, B. Eswara Rao and others urged the government to ensure social respect for videographers and photographers and prevent recurrence of such attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/photographers-seek-govt-aid/article36330442.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID forces school owner to sell land, close institution||A private school named Sri Vijaya Vidyaniketan at Ullikallu village was closed down by its owner who was struggling to stay afloat after receiving no income through fees since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic in March, 2020. B. Obul Narayana Reddy and his wife Sunitha had set up the school in 2014, but were forced to shut shop after parents refused to pay fees ever since the outbreak of the first wave of the pandemic last year. To make matters worse, he had to sell 12 acres of his land in Gangadevipalli to repay the debt of Rs. 25 lakh he had incurred while running theschool and for acquiring two buses. “We had to pay Rs. 90,000 per year for leasing out the land and small sheds in it at Ullikallu village close to Nayanapalli on the Anantapur-Tadipatri Highway and pay the salaries of 12 teachers for a few months,” Mr. Narayana Reddy told The Hindu . With his debts mounting every passing day, Mr. Narayana Reddy said he defaulted on the EMIs for the two school buses, which the financier sold for a song even after 25 instalments being paid. Mr. Narayana Reddy, who holds an M.Sc in analytical chemistry, now works as headmaster of Netaji School at Narpala village for a paltry salary in order to support his family that includes a 9-month-old baby. He doubles up as a freelance BPO operator for a Hyderabad-based pharma company during nights, and sleeps for three to four hours a day. “Forty students are yet to pay large amounts of fees and have shifted to government schools without obtaining transfer certificates (TCs) as the government has allowed enrolment of students without a TC if they show an Aadhaar Card, which along with the Amma Vodi scheme has hit many private schools hard,” he said. With the government dividing the schooling into Classes 1 to 4; Classes 5 to 7 and 8 to 12 under different categories, private schools need to pay Rs. 30,000 for renewal of each category, which adds to the financial burden, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-forces-school-owner-to-sell-land-close-institution/article36329917.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gauri Lankesh remembered||Social activists led by the Organisation for Protecction of Democracy’s (OPDR) State vice-president Ch. Sudhakar on Monday urged people to come together and vote out the BJP-led Central government, accusing it of pursuing ‘fascist’ policies. Mr. Sudhakar paid floral tributes to social activist Gauri Lankesh on her fifth death anniversary. “It is high time that people take inspiration from the brave woman, a staunch secularist who was killed for fighting against right-wing extremism, and strive to uphold democratic values and ensure social justice to the depressed classes,” Mr. Sudhakar said. Farmers had taken the lead to bring together people from different walks of life including labourers, consumers, dalits, youth and women to spearhead a protracted struggle against the Centre demanding the abolition of the three farm laws,” said All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Prakasam district convener Ch. Ranga Rao while inaugurating the protest meeting in front of Prakasam Bhavan. Through her weekly called Gauri Lankesh Patrike, she fought for the rights of women and Dalits, recalled Bahujan Samaj Party leader M. Anji Babu. Poura Samajam president G. Narasimha Rao, Indian Labour Party leader Dasari Sundaram and Revolutionary Youth Federation of India State convener B. Subba Rao attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gauri-lankesh-remembered-on-fifth-death-anniversary/article36330439.ece
07 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Girl swept away in flood waters||A seven-year-old girl was killed in a rain-related incident in Palvancha town and normal life was paralysed as intermittent spells of heavy rain pounded many parts of the district leading to waterlogging on roads in Kothagudem, Palvancha and elsewhere in the district on Monday. A girl identified as Anjali of Jayamma Colony in Palvancha, while accompanying her mother and ten-year-old brother to a grocery shop near her house, accidentally fell into an overflowing drain and was swept away by a gush of storm water. Her brother also slipped into the drain but was pulled out swiftly by a passer-by, sources said. The panic stricken mother of Anjali along with some locals mounted an intensive search for her daughter amid heavy rain. Their frantic search ended on a tragic note with the recovery of the body of the girl at about 1 km away along the Rathi Cheruvu lake some time later. The heavy downpour in the wee hours of the day resulted in water stagnation at the railway under bridge in Kothagudem town bringing vehicular movement at the busy stretch of the main road to a halt. Earlier in the day, a TSRTC bus was stuck in the waterlogged road prompting the local authorities to rush in a rescue team to pull out the bus. The swollen Murrdeu stream flooded a low-level causeway near Palvancha cutting off the road link between several villages in Palvancha and Mulakalapalli mandals. Traffic movement between Padamati Narasapuram and Bethalapadu remained disrupted for several hours in the early hours of the day as a small stretch of the road was inundated by swollen Tummalavagu stream, sources added. Rain water flooded several streets and encircled houses located in low-lying areas in the district headquarters town of Kothagudem forcing people to either remain indoors or wade through knee-deep water in several localities in and around the coal town on Monday. Collector D Anudeep visited the rain affected areas in SCB Nagar in Kothagudem. He asked the Revenue and Municipal officials to shift the dwellers of the rain-hit areas to relief camps. He further directed the Irrigation Department officials to prepare an action plan to find a lasting solution to the recurring problem of waterlogging in several localities in Kothagudem municipal town limits. Meanwhile, heavy rains battered many parts of Khammam district in the last 24 hours causing waterlogging on several roads, paddy and chilli fields in Raghunadhapalem, Wyra, Sattupalli and various other mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/girl-swept-away-in-flood-waters/article36330265.ece
07 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Rain halts coal production||As heavy rains continued to lash the Kothagudem coal belt region, the overburden removal operations in the Opencast Projects (OCPs) of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) in Kothagudem area came to a virtual halt resulting in severe coal production loss due to extensive waterlogging on the premises of the OCPs. Sources said that the Gouthamkhani Opencast Project (GKOCP) area at Rudrampur near Kothagudem recorded a heavy rainfall of 88 mm on Monday. Heavy downpour pounded the JVR and Kistaram Opencast Projects in Sattupalli mandal in the last 24 hours hampering the overburden removal and coal production operations for the second day in a row, sources in SCCL said. Heavy rains inflicted a major production loss to the tune of 20,000 tonnes in all the three OCPs together in Kothagudem area during the three shifts in the last 24 hours, sources added. The daily stipulated coal output target for the coal mines in the Kothagudem area is 34,000 tonnes. High capacity motors are being operated round the clock to drain out stagnated water from the OCPs. With heavy rain forecast for the district in the next 24 hours, the coal production is likely to remain severely hit due to extensive waterlogging and slushy conditions in the OCPs for the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-halts-coal-production/article36330266.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Expedite approvals for DPRs of projects on Godavari’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has sought expeditious approval for the detailed project reports of four projects proposed by the State government on Godavari river. The projects – Sitarama with an allocation of 70 tmcft, Devadula LIS with barrage at Tupakulagudem (60 tmc), Mukteshwar LIS (4.5 tmc), Ramappa-Pakhal link (3 tmc), Modikunta Vagu (2.14 tmc) and Chowtupally Hanumantha Reddy LIS (0.8 tmc) - were taken up by the government out of the water allocations already approved by the Central Water Commission. These projects were taken up in lieu of Inchampally project which was allocated 85 tmc by the GWDT award and the inter-State agreement among Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. The Indirasagar and Rajivsagar projects were given in principle allocation of 16 tmc each. The Devadula LIS was allocated 38 tmc and all relevant clearances for the project were obtained. Thus a total of 155 tmc allocation was obtained from the CWC for these projects, the Chief Minister said. The Chief Minister sought to clarify to the Union Minister that the 11 projects mentioned as unapproved in Godavari basin through the recent gazette notification (July 15) were started before the formation of Telangana and were well within the 967.94 tmc share of the State. Of the allocation to the State, projects for 758.76 tmc were cleared by the CWC and water availability had been cleared by the Hydrology Directorate for another 148.82 tmc. The balance allocation of 60.26 tmc had been kept as a reserve for future projects, evaporation losses and other factors. In a memorandum submitted to Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat on Monday, he said a total 155 tmc allocation was obtained for the four projects. The new projects proposed by the State Government totalled to 140.44 tmc., leaving a balance of 14.56 tmc as reserve. “As these projects are taken up by Telangana State out of the water allocations already approved by the CWC, the DPRs of these projects may be expeditiously approved,” Mr. Rao said in the representation. The Chief Minister clarified that the one tmc/day for Kaleshwaram project was not an addition nor a new project. It had been taken up with the government funds to utilise the 240 tmc allocation made to Kaleshwaram by the CWC within a shorter time period. As such, it did not require any approval of the Centre, he said. Kandakurthy LIS is a minor scheme serving an ayacut of 3,300 acres and did not require any appraisal. The Ramappa-Pakhal link and the Tupakulagudema barrage which are part of the Devadula project do not require any new approval while the Gudem LIS is part of the approved Kaddam project constructed to serve tail-end areas and does not need any approval. The Kanthanapally project which was non-existent should also be dropped from the list of unapproved projects, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-approvals-for-dprs-of-projects-on-godavari/article36330263.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Intermediate Board releases tentative academic calendar for 2021-22||The Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education has released tentative academic calendar for students undergoing the two-year Intermediate course for the current academic year 2021-22. The calendar follows the government’s decision to conduct classes in physical mode from September 1 after conduct of online classes from July 1. Accordingly, the first term working days would be between September 1 and December 18 with October 13 to 16 being Dasara holidays. Half yearly examinations would be held from December 13 to 18 and this would be followed by the second term working days between December 20 and April 13. After three-day Sankranti holidays, pre-final examinations would be held from February 10 to 18 and practical exams are tentatively scheduled from February 23 to March 15. Theory examinations would be held between March 23 and April 12 and the last working day for the academic year would be April 13. Following summer vacation till May 31, the colleges would be reopened from June 1 for the next academic year. The board, in its schedule, said the probable working days for the institutions during the current academic year would be around 220 – 47 days of online classes and 173 days of physical attendance. It said admissions should be made in accordance with the schedule announced by the TSBIE and no college should employ marketing strategies like appointing public relations officers or any such personnel canvassing their case. No advertisements should be made through print or electronic media and principals of unaided junior colleges were instructed not to resort to issue of advertisements with inducements amounting to violation of Rule 7 of the Andhra Pradesh Public Examinations (Prevention of Malpractice & Unfair Practices) Rules 1997. The colleges were also warned that stringent steps/disciplinary action would be taken against the managements if they did not send qualified lecturers for spot valuation camps. The Board warned the private managements that stringent action including dis-affiliation would be initiated against them in case of any deviations from the orders issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/intermediate-board-releases-tentative-academic-calendar-for-2021-22/article36330227.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More showers in store today||Low pressure in the Bay of Bengal and the monsoon will ensure there is no let-up in the rains across Telangana at least for couple of more days with the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting heavy rains in many places. The city is in for two to three spells of thundershowers with a generally cloudy sky on Tuesday. Meanwhile, there was a steep fall in Monday’s day temperature at 25.1 degree C, a good six degrees below normal. This is likely to change with the day temperatures creeping up to 30 degrees C on Tuesday. Night temperature, however, is likely to remain constant at around 22 degree C. Telangana State Development Planning Society said during the last 24 hours, the highest rainfall of 93.5 mm was recorded at Medak. Heavy rainfall (64.5-115.5mm) was also received at few places over Kumuram-Bheem Asifabad and Sangareddy districts, moderate rainfall (15.6-64.4mm) at a few places except in Adilabad, Nirmal, Mancherial, Jagtial, Warangal Rural, Warangal Urban, Yadadri Bhuvanagiri, Nalgonda and Jogulamba Gadwal districts. Light rainfall (2.5-15.5mm) was received at many places across several parts of the State. The highest maximum temperature of 35 degrees C was recorded at Thallada (Khammam) and the lowest minimum temperature of 20.8 degrees C was recorded at Mujahidpur (Vikarabad). Temperatures are likely to remain in the 30 to 33 degrees range, while the minimum temperatures are likely to hover around the 20 to 23 degrees-mark. Within the GHMC area, the highest rainfall of 17.3 mm was recorded at Patancheruvu, highest maximum temperature of 29.1 degree C recorded at Viratnagar and lowest minimum temperature of 21.8 degree C at Jubilee Hills. Temperatures are expected to stay in the range of 29-31 degrees C, while the minimum temperatures will be around 21-23 degree C.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-showers-in-store-today/article36330245.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM seeks nod for southern part of expressway||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has requested the Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari to accord permission for the southern part of the proposed 340 km expressway, regional ring road, at an early date as it will enable seamless flow of traffic from north to south and east to west benefiting people of not only Telangana but also of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. The State gvernment had submitted alignment proposals and traffic data of Choutuppal-Shadnagar-Sangareddy section (182 km) along with necessary clarifications sought by the Union Ministry. The Chief Minister who is in New Delhi made this request when he called on Mr. Gadkari on Monday. He thanked the Union Minister for sanctioning the northern part of the expressway Sangareddy-Gajwel-Choutuppal (158 km) under the Bharatmala Pariyojana. The alignment of the expressway was proposed in 2018 and the government took up certain development works like Gajwel ring road and Baswapur reservoir as part of the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation scheme. He wanted the Minister to keep these developments in view and consider and accept the modifications to the National Highway Authority of India in the alignment from Gajwel to Yadadri suggested by the State government. The Chief Minister thanked the Union government for declaring 2,168 km of State roads as national highways and according in principle approval for upgradation of 3,306 km as national highways. Of the balance 1,138 km, four roads - Choutuppal-Amangal-Shadnagar-Kandi (part of regional ring road), Karimnagar-Sircilla-Kamareddy-Yellareddy-Pitlam, Kothakota-Gudur up to Mantralayam and Zaheerabad-Bidar- Deglur were important for the development of Telangana in general and tourism and inter-State connectivity in particular. The government has already submitted necessary proposals for upgradation of the four roads as national highways, he said requesting the Minister to notify the roads as national highways at the earliest. The Chief Minister also welcomed the Union ministry’s notification of new national highway (NH 167K) from Kalwakurthy to Nandyal via Kolhapur, Somasila and Karivena. The highway would open up backward areas in Nagarkurnool district in Telangana as well as Atmakur in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. With the proposed development to national highway standards, the distance between Hyderabad and Tirupati would reduce by 80 km. Mr. Rao wanted Mr Gadkari to ensure sanction of four laning of Hyderabad (ORR) – Kalwakurthy section on NH-765 keeping in view the present and future traffic requirements. CRIF funds    In a separate memorandum, the Chief Minister said the government has submitted proposals for development of State roads under the Central Road and Infrastructure Fund (CRIF) for an outlay of Rs. 744 crore to the Centre. The proposals were finalised duly considering VIP references received from the MPs as per their priority. The Union Ministry was however allocating only around Rs. 250 crore a year under CRIF, he said requesting Mr. Gadkari to sanction the pending CRIF proposals and increase allocation of funds under CRIF enabling completion of the proposed project within two financial years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-seeks-nod-for-southern-part-of-expressway/article36330260.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘B-Hub to help TS consolidate position in biopharma space’||A biopharma scale-up manufacturing facility with a built-up area of one lakh sqft and next generation laboratory space that the Telangana government is developing in Genome Valley, near Hyderabad, will help consolidate the State’s position in the biopharma space, Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has said. B-Hub, the facility, is being set up with an objective of providing impetus to the biopharmaceutical research and manufacturing in the country. It will address various challenges faced by biopharma companies and offer substantial benefits to the overall ecosystem. Key benefits would range from reduced time to market, process efficiency and scalability as well as in terms of monitoring compliance and genetic stability, a release from the Minister’s office said. In tweets complementing the release on Sunday, Mr.Rao said B-Hub will be first-of-its-kind, growth-phase centre and biopharma scale-up manufacturing facility in India. It will be operational in 15 months and help consolidate Telangana’s leadership position in biopharma space. With a built-up area of one lakh sqft, which is to be developed over two phases, the facility will compliment the extraordinary ecosystem at Genome Valley. Telangana government is developing the facility in partnership with the Centre’s Department of Biotechnology, Cytiva and Cerestra. The project is envisioned to be an accelerator for biopharma innovation featuring next gen lab suites, encouraging both startups and mid-sized companies to interact and collaborate through collective spaces and lead innovation, he tweeted. Seeking to highlight how biopharma scale-up manufacturing facility with turnkey laboratory space is a key requirement to facilitate growth of biosimilars in the life sciences industry, the Minister’s office said there is no such full-fledged infrastructure anywhere in the country at present. Establishment of an end-to-end biopharma upscale facility, including bioreactors and vessels which contain cell culture media to the filtration units and the downstream chromatography processes will provide a platform for startups, mid-sized and even large biopharma companies to carry out their pre-clinical validation in the proposed facility ahead of significant capital expenditure in the product, it said in the release.  B-Hub will be first-of-its-kind, growth-phase centre and biopharma scale-up manufacturing facility in India. K.T. Rama Rao, Industries & IT Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/b-hub-to-help-ts-consolidate-position-in-biopharma-space/article36330241.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy showers rob health teams of leave||With heavy rains lashing several parts of the State, Health department staff will not get any leave till the situation improves. This was one of the directions issued at a recent meeting held by senior Health officials. Requirements at rehabilitation camps and steps to be taken if any disease or its outbreak is reported were discussed at the meeting. Vulnerable five The Meteorological Centre in Hyderabad has issued a red alert and forecast heavy rainfall warning for five districts — Mulugu, Pedapalli, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Khammam, and Bhadradri-Kothagudem — for Monday. For the remaining districts, orange and yellow alerts have been issued. District-wise forecast of the rains were issued for Tuesday too. Given the possibility of water-borne diseases such as diarrhoea, and vector-borne diseases like dengue and malaria seeing a surge following heavy rains, health teams in all the districts are on their toes. Intensity of rains and chances of inundation are being regularly assessed in the districts falling under the red alert warning. As of Monday evening, the situation was normal in Mulugu. District Medical and Health Officer A. Appaiah said they will conduct medical camps at rehabilitation centres where people from inundated areas will be shifted. DMHOs of other districts were also instructed to announce a helpline number for people to report any disease outbreak. Apart from government hospitals, thousands of people visit private facilities for treatment. Hospitals alerted Deputy DMHO of Keesara division N. Narayana Rao said private hospitals managements have also been directed to convey information of patients suffering from dengue, malaria, diarrhoea, etc. This will help the health staff understand if there is an outbreak of any of the diseases in a particular locality. Health teams were directed to conduct tests and distribute medicines wherever cases are reported to assess the prevalence of a disease. Kamareddy DMHO P. Chandrasekhar said health emergencies cannot be predicted in such times, so they are on alert.  Private hospitals managements have been directed to convey information of patients suffering from dengue, malaria, diarrhoea, etc. N. Narayana Rao, DMHO, Keesara division||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-rain-forecast-in-telangana/article36329739.ece
07 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Surabhi Natakotsav’ held||Despite a lull during the pandemic, the iconic 136-year-old Surabhi Theatre successfully reinvented itself by transitioning into the digital space. An appeal was made to theatre lovers to support the family theatre group in sustaining their theatre activity. Meanwhile, with the pandemic restrictions easing everywhere, a three-day theatre fest ‘Surabhi Natakotsav’ was held in Nizamabad from September 3 to 5 under the aegis of Sripada Nataka Kala Parishat in association with Manjira Helping Hearts Foundation, Navatha and in collaboration with Rangasai Nataka Sangham of Visakhapatnam. During the three days, Surabhi’s three popular plays — Medaram Sammakka Saralamma , Sri Krishna Leelalu and Mayabazar were staged by Sri Sai Santoshi Natya Mandali, a unit of the Surabhi group after ensuring COVID safety measures. The plays showcased the special effects, a hallmark of the Surabhi group. On the second day of the drama festival, the chief guest mayor Neethu Kiran honoured well-known theatre personality Badamgir Sai with the title ‘Surabhi Nataka Ranga Sankshema Pennidhi’. D. Vittal Rao, district ZP Chairman was the chief guest on the last day of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/surabhi-natakotsav-held/article36330249.ece
07 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SP convinces tribals to get vaccinated||Tribals from remote hamlets in the Adilabad district who had shunned getting vaccinated for COVID-19 infection, have now come to the mainstream and got the vaccine administered. Some 115 tribals stood up in a queue and got their dose of vaccination done on Monday at 16 remote hamlets of Sirikonda mandal in Utnoor police sub-division. This was made possible due to the persistent efforts of District Superintendent of Police M. Rajesh Chandra who took a special interest and convinced the tribal elders to accept the live-saving COVID-19 vaccination. Tribals in those hamlets are in the habit of getting physical ailments treated by consuming ayurvedic potions or the bark of some trees. Mr. Rajesh urged the tribals not to take local medicines given by unqualified doctors. He explained to them that health inclusiveness by roping in all sections of society would stop the spread of the deadly virus. A mega health camp was also conducted by the police in association with the district health officials in which as many as 612 people participated and underwent the medical examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sp-convinces-tribals-to-get-vaccinated/article36330495.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Union agriculture ministry’s affidavit is funny, says HC||Telangana High Court on Monday described the counter affidavit filed by Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare in PIL petition relating to crop insurance as “funny”. A bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Vinod Kumar, hearing the plea seeking notification of crop insurance in Telangana State, said it was “amazed at this sort of counter affidavit.” The counter affidavit was filed by the ministry’s under secretary Vijay Soni. The petitioner Vissa Kiran Kumar expressed concern over the extensive crop damage due to incessant rains in Telangana in September and October of 2020. He wanted the Union government to extend compensation to all affected ryots in the form of input subsidy. He wanted the court to declare inaction of authorities over enumeration and assessment of crop damage as arbitrary and illegal. The under secretary, in his affidavit, stated that his ministry was mandated to coordinate relief measures required during drought, hailstorm, pest attack and frost/cold wave. “It is the Union Ministry of Home Affairs which is responsible to coordinate relief measures for heavy rains/floods,” the affidavit mentioned. Since the petitioner raised matters relating to rains and floods, the Agriculture Ministry had no role to play, the under secretary stated. “What kind of an affidavit is this?” the Acting Chief Justice asked Assistant Solicitor General Namavarapu Rajeshwar Rao, observing that crop insurance is also the responsibility of Agriculture Ministry. Expressing dissatisfaction over the stand taken in the affidavit, the bench remarked that both the ministries are trying to wash their hands off the issue. The Acting Chief Justice noted that the Agriculture Ministry official’s response is akin to the situation of an elephant and a visually challenged person accommodated in the same room. “It is like the visually challenged person is saying this is trunk and that is head by touching the elephant,” the Acting CJ said. When the bench wanted to know the response of State government in the matter, a government pleader attached to the Advocate General’s office sought some time and said the delay in furnishing details was due to his personal inconveniences. “We are not concerned with your personal inconveniences. There are several lawyers in AG’s office. What kind of silly excuses are being offered,” the bench observed. The matter was posted after two days for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/union-agriculture-ministrys-affidavit-is-funny-says-hc/article36330267.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Give Rs. 10 lakh aid to all SC, ST, BC, minority families: Cong.||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has organised ‘Dalit-Girijan Atmagaurava’ rallies at several places across the State on Monday demanding implementation of Dalit Bandhu scheme to every dalit family, and not just in Huzurabad constituency where by-election is due. In Warangal, TPCC working president T. Jayaprakash Reddy and M. Mahesh Kumar Goud, DCC president Nayini Rajender Reddy, former MP S. Rajaiah, former legislators Dommati Sambaiah and V. Narender Reddy and others garlanded a statue of B.R. Ambedkar before starting the rally. Speaking at the rally, Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy alleged that a few officers in every district are targeting the Congress activists and once the party comes to power, it would not spare them. He asked the party activists to keep in mind the names of officials who are troubling them stating that TRS would not remain in power forever. At a meeting of the Dalit-Girijan Atmagaurava Dandora coordinators of Hyderabad and Secunderabad constituencies held here, another TPCC working president J. Geetha Reddy, senior vice president G. Niranjan and others demanded that the Bandhu scheme be implemented for ever to SC, ST, BC and minority poor families in the State and not use it only to win a by-election. Senior vice president of TPCC and former MP Mallu Ravi, two other former MPs V. Hanumantha Rao, G.V. Harsha Kumar (AP), TJS president M. Kodandaram, CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy, TPCC Dalit Congress chairman Preetham and others, at a round-table meeting held here, demanded that the government install B.R. Ambedkar statue at Panjagutta, lying in the police station there for three years. At the Dalit Dandora Satyagraha Deeksha, also held in the city, Ms. Geetha Reddy, Mr. Ravi and others alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar RRao is an enemy of dalits and not their well-wisher. They alleged that Mr. Rao signed his first file on changing the name of Ambedkar Pranahitha-Chevella project after taking over CM.  Speaking at Atmagaurava Dandora meet held at Raikal in Jagityal district, MLC T. Jeevan Reddy and TPCC campaign committee chairman Madhu Yaskhi alleged that Mr. Rao is benefiting politically by pitting one community against another and had the TRS government implemented sub-plan properly, every dalit family would have benefited by at least Rs. 60 lakh each during the last seven years. Mr. Jeevan Reddy alleged that Mr. Rao is keeping silent while Andhra Pradesh is tapping huge water from Srisailam. People fought for statehood to Telangana not for sheep, buffalo, fine rice in hostels or tap water but for employment and better future of youth and children, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/give-rs-10-lakh-aid-to-all-scs-sts-bcs-minorities/article36330254.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records 301 new coronavirus cases||Telangana added 301 more cases to its COVID-19 tally on Monday, putting the overall total at 6,59,844. While 67720 samples were examined, results of 1,400 persons were awaited. The new infections included 70 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, 31 from Karimnagar and 22 from Warangal Urban. No case was recorded in Wanaparthy, and only one each was detected in Narayanpet and Medak districts. Two more patients succumbed to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 3,886. Of the total cases, 5,505 were active as of Monday evening. The daily caseload in the beginning of August was around 600, which dropped to 350-odd by the month-end. This month, the number of daily cases is staying around 300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-records-301-new-coronavirus-cases/article36330247.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR dividing serving, retired police officials: Bandi||BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of trying to “drive a wedge” between the serving police officers and the retired officers by keeping the latter to his left and right in various capacities. “The next government is going to be surely ours, where we will ensure the police personnel too are treated with respect and dignity. We will solve all their service grievances,” he promised, at a public meeting at Mominpet village on Monday. Vowing to continue his ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ till there is a political change in Telangana, Mr. Sanjay Kumar who on the 10th day of the ‘mahapadayatra’ cut a 100 kilo cake brought out the activists of the party youth wing to commemorate completion of 100 km amid bursting of crackers and release of balloons. During his walk, which entered into Sangareddy district from Vikarabad, he interacted with the roadside dwellers and listened to their nomadic lifestyles deprived of any kind of social or welfare benefits from the government. “We hail from Palamur and depend on repairing gas stoves. We have no money, food to eat, no shelter to live by, our children do not go to schools. We would have died of hunger if we lived in our native place,” they said. Moved by their plight, the BJP leader provided some financial assistance and told them that his current programme was meant to understand the peoples’ problems to take it up with the government. He was shocked to learn none of them had taken the COVID vaccine and urged them to take it as it is being freely provided by the Modi government to every citizen. Later, he also talked to the labour involved in planting saplings and said their issues will be taken up in right earnest if his party comes to power. His march is aimed at overthrowing the ‘family dominated, corrupt and dictatorial rule of Mr. Rao.’ Meanwhile, the Praja Sangrama Padayatra by Bharatiya Janata Party State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar entered Sangareddy district at Gum City in Sadashivapet mandal from Vikarabad district. Hundreds of party and affiliated organisation workers came to Gum City and welcomed the party president. Those who welcomed Mr. Sanjay Kumar were party district unit president Narender Reddy, Sangareddy constituency incharge Rajeswara Rao Deshpande, former MLA Nandeeswar Goud among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-dividing-serving-retired-police-officials-bandi/article36330258.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RGIA gets award for energy efficiency||Hyderabad International Airport clinched the prestigious awards of CII ‘National Energy Leader’ and ‘Excellent Energy Efficient Unit’ at the 22nd National Award Ceremony for ‘Excellence in Energy Management’ organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) – Godrej Green Business Centre (GBC) during the 20th edition of ‘Energy Efficiency Summit”, Virtual Conference & Exposition on Energy Efficiency held recently. GHIAL has been recognised with ‘National Energy Leader’ and ‘Excellent Energy Efficient Unit’ accolades for the 3rd and 5th years in a row, respectively. GHIAL’s Head – Engineering and Technical Services Prasanna Kumar Potdar and Head PTB Engineering Vijay Rathod, digitally received the awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rgia-gets-award-for-energy-efficiency/article36330224.ece
07 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Debit card fraudsters of ‘Mewat Gang’ held||A gang of three inter-State debit card fraudsters was busted by the Hyderabad police here on Monday. The Task Force team of the south zone, which apprehended the accused, seized 23 debit cards of different banks, and Rs. 2.11 lakh from their possession. The accused are Mohd Iqbal (27), a businessman from Chandan Hola, South Delhi, Ansari (31), a driver from Sultanpur, Haryana and Mohd Salam (31), a businessman from Sakras in Mewat of Haryana. The police also seized a pen camera, two electronic objects utilised for interrupting the ATM and three mobile phones. Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said they are known as Mewat Gang. Initially, they choose unmanned ATM centres. “Generally, two persons enter the ATM centre. One operates the machine normally by using a debit card while drawing cash from the ATM, the second person manipulates the ATM machine to create technical error with the available tools and takes out the cash from the dispenser,” he said. Later, they spend some time near the ATM and act as if cash is not dispensed and lodge a complaint (through toll-free number) stating that they were unable to withdraw the cash from the ATM and their transaction failed. “As per the Banking Ombudsman guidelines, the concerned bank has to pay back the amount to the customer as he is the victim in a failed transaction. Taking this technicality as an advantage, the accused committed several such offences by using several debit cards and claimed the money from the banks,” Mr. Kumar said. Acting on a tip-off, a team led by Gummi Chakravarthy, DCP (Task Force), apprehended the accused and they were handed over to Nallakunta police for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/debit-card-fraudsters-of-mewat-gang-held/article36330232.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Venkaiah releases book on COVID-19 protocol||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu released AIG Hospitals’ book on ‘COVID-19 Protocol and Guidelines’ at his residence here. The book is expected to serve as a guide to the medical fraternity for bringing in evidence-based medicine for management of COVID-19. Hospitals chairman D. Nageshwar Reddy said the book is an attempt to put forward the science and experience from their tertiary care centre into a form that is easily consumable by physicians across the country. “The AIG COVID-19 algorithm is the result of relentless hours spent by more than 25 of our clinicians while treating over than 25,000 COVID-19 patients both in out-patient and in-patient setting. We will be distributing one lakh copies of this book free of cost of doctors across India,” Dr Nageshwar Reddy said. Digital copy of the book can be downloaded from aighospitals.com. Director of the hospitals G.V. Rao was also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/venkaiah-releases-book-on-covid-19-protocol/article36330239.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Facility planned near city for ayurvedic medicines||New Delhi-based Jivika Ayursciences plans to set up a manufacturing facility for ayurvedic medicines and supplements near Hyderabad with an investment of Rs. 120 crore. “We should be operational in seven months from now,” CEO L.Mani Varghese said on the likely time-frame for commissioning of the plant. Genome Valley, near Hyderabad, is where the facility is proposed to come on about 3.5 acres to be allotted by the State government. Organic plantation Besides the manufacturing facility, which is to be developed over three phases, the company intends to have plantation to grow organic herbs in Telangana. About 200 acres are required for the purpose, he said, adding sourcing the requirement through contract farming is also an option under consideration. 30 products by Oct. Jivika Ayursciences, whose existing manufacturing facility is in Karnal, Haryana, plans to launch its first set of 30 ayurvedic healthcare products in the country by October, he said in an interaction on Monday. The company in a release said the proposed plant would have production facilities for Ayurvedic medicines, herbal supplements and herbal extracts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/facility-planned-near-city-for-ayurvedic-medicines/article36330243.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||T-Hub onboards nine service providers||T-Hub on Monday said it has partnered with nine more companies to help its startups grow. Paytm, RBL Bank, Miro, Cometchat, NYBACS, ABSOL, Oscar Global, Umasankar and Associates and Flexibees are the companies it has onboarded as premium partners. Making this announcement, T-Hub in a release said the new partners will be providing its startups with an array of services to improve their efficiency and adapt to changes brought on by the post-pandemic era. The partnership benefits are open to all the startups associated with T-Hub and its various programmes such as community, corporate innovation, Lab32, T-Angel, international programmes as well as the AIC T-Hub Foundation programme. CEO Ravi Narayan said “collaborating with some of the leading service providers allows us to serve the startups more effectively. It eases the pressure on important business aspects like hiring, tech advancement, accounting, legal and taxation among others.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/t-hub-onboards-nine-service-providers/article36330250.ece
07 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held, 37.98 kg of stolen silver recovered||With the arrest of two inter-State offenders, the Mancherial police of Ramagundam Commissionerate claims to have cracked the burglary case in which 49 kgs of silver ornaments worth Rs. 20 lakh was stolen from a jewellery shop in the town on the night of August 22. They recovered 37.98 kgs of silver bars from the arrested accused, Anil alias Anil Das (22), a tea stall owner from Jojawar village in Pali district of Rajasthan and Prem Parvaj alias Arjun Soni (32), a private employee from Karansinghchali of Pali district. Assistant Commissioner of Police, Mancherial, Akhil Mahajan said that on the intervening night of August 22 and August 23, the duo gained entry into Sri Vasavi Jewellery by making a hole in the rear wall and then opened the inside shutter. “They slashed the CCTV cables and decamped with 49 kgs of silver and the digital video recorded (DVR) from the shop,” Mr Mahajan said, adding that they also tried to open the gold ornaments locker but in vain. Based on the complaint lodged by the shop owner, Kande Vishwanatham, a case was registered and a special team was formed to nab the accused persons. He said that both, Anil and Prem, had criminal backgrounds and met befriended in the prison in Rajasthan. After releasing from jail, about four months ago, they went to Mancherial with an intention to commit theft in a major jewellery shop to ‘settle their lives.’ “They took a room on rent in the town and did reconnaissance of Sri Vasavi jewellery shop and its premises and decided to commit the offence,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-theft-at-jewellery-shop-3798-kg-silver-recovered/article36330231.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre’s help sought in 6-laning of Hyd-Vij section||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has sought Union Road Transport and Highways Ministry’s intervention in taking up six-laning of the Hyderabad-Vijayawada section of NH 65, an important corridor which is a vital link between the capitals of two Telugu States. In a memorandum submitted to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, the Chief Minister said the Hyderabad-Vijayawada section of NH65 was four-laned in 2012 under BOT. According to the agreement with the concessionaire GMR Hyd-Vij Expressways Ltd., six-laning of the corridor was to be completed by April 2024. The Chief Minister said it was however learnt that the concessionaire had raised a dispute and is not showing any inclination to take up the six-laning. He said the present traffic on the highway was more than 40,000 passenger car units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centres-help-sought-in-6-laning-of-hyd-vij-section/article36330261.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI loan processing facility in Gadwal||State Bank of India has set up a Retail Asset Credit Centre (RACC) in Gadwal. Credit related works of 10 branches connected with the new RACC will be completed efficiently resulting in enhanced customer service, SBI MD (Retail and Digital Banking) Challa Srinivasulu Setty said on Monday. The RACC is a loan processing facility whose purpose is to simplify the loan disbursement process and reduce the time of loan clearance, he explained. He also attended the flag-off of SBI Sanjeevani in Peddapothulupadu village, Manopad mandal of Gadwal district. The ‘Clinic on Wheels’ will cover 20 villages in the mandal benefiting nearly 10,000 households.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbi-loan-processing-facility-in-gadwal/article36330222.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Incubator at ISB receives Rs. 5 crore grant||The DLabs Incubator of the Indian School of Business (ISB) has received Rs. 5 crore grant under the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme from the Centre’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). The DLabs Incubator Association will facilitate allotment of the seed funds, under the scheme, to eligible early-stage startups. The funds will be used for financial assistance to startups for proof of concept, prototype development, product trials, market-entry and commercialisation, ISB said in a release on Monday. The scheme seeks to enable startups graduate to a level where they will be able to raise investments from angel investors and venture capitalists or seek loans from commercial banks or financial institutions. Faculty director at ISB DLabs Bhagwan Chowdhry said “many good ideas don’t see the light of the day because the startups could not get early-stage funding. This grant will help us fix it”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/incubator-at-isb-receives-rs-5-crore-grant/article36330242.ece
07 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pastor held on dowry harassment, rape charges||A church pastor was arrested by the Medipally police on Monday on charge of repeatedly sexually assaulting a 24-year-old woman on the promise of marriage and later refusing to tie the knot on flimsy grounds. The victim, who earlier worked as a staff nurse at a private hospital at Uppal, learnt that the pastor Sadu Chinna Venkateshwarlu (35) from Laxmi Nagar Colony, Boduppal, was married twice and lodged a complaint. The accused pastor first got married to one Sandhya in 2010. Due to illness Sandhya passed away and again in 2015, he got married to Rebecca (36). “She was blessed with a boy and was living with her parents due to marital disputes,” police said. Meanwhile, the victim got acquainted with the accused at the church. “Venkateshwarlu used to take the woman to various places in the guise of prayers and in January last, he took her to an isolated place near Shamshabad where he forced himself on her for the first time,” police said. On September 3, Venkateshwarlu’s wife Rebecca lodged a complaint against him stating that he was harassing her, both physically and mentally, for additional dowry. Based on her complaint, a case was registered and the next day, another woman, approached police stating that the pastor raped her repeatedly on the promise of marriage. He was arrested and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pastor-held-on-dowry-harassment-rape-charges/article36330234.ece
07 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Vacant space in BSNL offices available for rent||Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) has put up flexi boards inviting applications from interest parties, especially government offices, banks, private organisations and retail outlets to take on lease vacant premises of its offices in Sangareddy, Patancheru, Siddipet, Medak, Bollaram, Zaheerabad, Jogipet, Sadashivapet, Gajwel, Ramayampet, Dubbak, Narayankhed, Narsapur and Gummadidala. “Many of the employees took voluntary retirement and use of space was reduced due to technical advancements. As large space is vacant, our higher authorities have decided to use it to generate some revenue,” said a source. Interested parties can contact on 9490675533/ 9441244244. Confirming the offer, BSNL General Manager Kondaiah said complete details will be furnished tomorrow (Monday). However, sources in the department said that this was in no way connected to monetisation of government assets and the policy of offering vacant space for lease came into force almost a year ago. “Some RTC officials visited the vacant buildings in the bypass road. Similarly, officials of a bank also visited it. However, no deals have been finalised,” said the source, adding that vacant space in Mahabubnagar district is also available for lease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bsnl-to-let-out-its-vacant-office-space/article36330252.ece
07 September 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Shopkeeper held for killing elderly man||The NRI Coastal police on Monday arrested Mohan Chaudhary (33), a shopkeeper, for killing Shamakant Tukaram Naik (80), a resident of Ulwe, for allegedly making obscene remarks about his wife. The decomposed body was found in a water body at Sector 19 in Ulwe on Saturday, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/shopkeeper-held-for-killing-elderly-man/article36330120.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||Many struggling to get papers for relief||Many people complained that they are still facing difficulties to acquire a ‘surviving member certificate (SMC)’ that is needed to apply for compensations given to people, if a family member has died of COVID-19. Meanwhile, officials said that they are “working overtime” to help citizens get the certificate and even taking them to offices to get an affidavit that is needed to apply for the certificate. Mandatory documents The SMC is one of the mandatory documents to be submitted online to apply for a compensation of Rs. 50,000, if a family member has died due to COVID-19. It is also needed to apply for a monthly assistance of Rs. 2,500 to certain categories of people, who have lost a family member to COVID-19. A person has to first apply online for the SMC and then physically go and submit affidavits to the Tahsildar office. The Tahsildar office issues the SMC after verification. The SMC states who all are survived by the deceased. To get it, all children of the deceased person have to submit their identity proofs and affidavits. “My grandmother had four children — my dad and three of my aunts. On August 24, we submitted the affidavits and Aadhaar cards of all four at the Tahsildar office. On August 29, I got a message on the portal that it has been rejected. No one told us anything,” said Himanshu, whose grandmother Rashmi Devi, 84, died due to COVID-19. “Then I went to the Tahsildar office and found out that it was rejected as my aunt had her husband’s name in the Aadhaar card and not her father’s name. They have asked us to get her father’s name in the Aadhaar card. We have not applied after it,” he said. He said that he had to make three visits to the Tahsildar office, but in vain. A government official said that they are doing everything possible for help people get the certificate and the scheme is being monitored at the “highest level”. Topmost priority scheme “If the deceased’s spouse is alive, we have to give the compensation to the spouse. But if the spouse is not alive, then we have to give the money equally to all the children. So, to know who all the children are, we need them to submit an affidavit and then issue the SMC based on it,” a District Magistrate said. “In our district, we have told people where to go to make the affidavits and even taking them to the vendor to get the affidavit to apply for the SMC. This scheme is our topmost priority at this point,” the DM said. On August 25, Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam had said that people are facing issues while applying for the compensation and a “major problem” is the issuance of SMC. “These certificates are not issued on time, which is creating pendency in approving these cases. As directed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the application process should be hassle-free,” he had said. Kunal Malik, 24, said his grandfather Bhim Sen Sethi, 83, died of COVID-19 and they had applied for the SMC about a month ago, but they are yet to get it. “We had submitted the documents near the SDM office, but don’t know what happened after it. We called the office once, but they said they are very busy. The government should be helping us, right? I doubt whether we will get the compensation,” Mr. Malik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/many-struggling-to-get-papers-for-relief/article36330107.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. yet to announce date for next COVID serological survey||The Delhi government is yet to begin or announce dates for the next serological survey, despite the last such survey recommending a fresh survey in June or early July. Also, Central government officials had last month said in a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting chaired by the Lt. Governor to do a sero survey among children to know their exposure. The result of the last survey was also not made public by the government. During the DDMA meeting on August 6, multiple experts had recommended for a sero survey. Children exposure NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul said that during the meeting that there is a “need for high quality sero survey”. “National Centre for Disease Control director Sujit Kumar Singh agreed with Dr. V.K. Paul and observed that students could not be kept away from the schools. Health advisory such as temperature screening etc. may also be issued and sero survey among children may also be conducted to know their exposure. He advised forming of an expert group in this regard,” a document said. In June, the team which did the sixth serological survey had also recommended next such survey in June end or July first week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-yet-to-announce-date-for-next-covid-serological-survey/article36330110.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC declines to hear plea seeking potable water, sewage lines||The Delhi High Court has declined to entertain a petition seeking various amenities such as potable water, sewage lines and plantations of trees in a locality here, saying such grievances have to be first raised before the authorities concerned. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh told the petitioner, a resident of Gautampuri, Phase-2 in Badarpur, to give a representation to the authorities with his grievances. “Needless to state that if and when such a representation is preferred by the petitioner, the authorities concerned shall look into the issues highlighted and grievances ventilated, in accordance with law and government policies,” the High Court stated in order. The court was of the view that the platform of a public interest litigation cannot be used to seek information from the authorities and that if the petitioner wanted details of utilisation of development funds allotted for the locality, the remedy under the Right to Information Act, 2005, was available to him. “Petitioner has approached this court without even preferring a single representation before the concerned authorities to ventilate the grievances. It would be appropriate if the petitioner first approaches the authorities tasked with the functions, whose inactions are complained of. Hence, we see no reason to entertain this petition at this stage,” it added. The petition claimed that there was scarcity of water in the area, which needed to be resolved at the earliest in order to save people from “roam(ing) the streets in search of water”. The plea also submitted that the area faced the problem of open defecation, dilapidated roads and encroachment in parks and sought reservation of seats for children from weaker sections in the area in all the private schools. The plea sought for removal of illegal occupiers to give the children there an opportunity to “live their childhood and get a clean and tidy environment”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-declines-to-hear-plea-seeking-potable-water-sewage-lines/article36330102.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||Inmate death: inquiry points to negligence||A departmental inquiry into the death of Tihar jail inmate Ankit Gujjar has found “negligence” on the part of certain prison staffers, officials said on Monday. The inquiry was conducted by the DIG Prisons. A senior jail official confirmed the development, saying negligence has been found on the part of the prison staffers in the death of Gujjar. The report has been submitted to the Director General (Prisons). DG (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said, “Appropriate departmental action will be taken against them [staffers].” Gujjar was found dead inside his cell in Tihar jail while two of his former cellmates, who were lodged in an adjacent lockup, were found injured on August 4. In a petition filed through advocates Mehmood Pracha and Shariq Nisar, the family has alleged that Gujjar was being harassed by jail officials as he was “unable to meet their regularly increasing demands for money” and was murdered “as a part of pre-planned conspiracy”. The Delhi High Court had observed that the nature of injuries sustained by inmate Gujjar clearly show that it was a case of custodial violence. The initial police investigation had found that security personnel allegedly assaulted Gujjar after the gangster slapped the deputy superintendent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/inmate-death-inquiry-points-to-negligence/article36330113.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘No ex parte injunction needed in Gahlot case’||The Delhi High Court on Monday refused to interfere with its earlier order declining to direct the removal of alleged defamatory statements made by BJP MLA Vijender Gupta against Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on purported irregularities in procurement of 1,000 low-floor DTC buses. The High Court was hearing an appeal filed by Mr. Gahlot against the HC’s single-judge Bench order of August 27, refusing to pass direction in his civil defamation suit. ‘Don’t be so sensitive’ Mr. Gupta’s counsel Ranjit Kumar assured a Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh that till September 20, the next date of hearing before the single-judge Bench, no tweet or press statement will be issued by the BJP leader on the issue. The High Court, during the hearing, remarked, in politics, you [Gahlot] don’t have to be so sensitive”. Senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing Mr. Gahlot, argued that the approach of single judge was erroneous and that personal allegations of scam were made against the AAP leader by Mr. Gupta. On August 27, the single-judge Bench had said, “... in the present case, prima facie, no personal allegations appear to have been specifically made against the plaintiff [Mr. Gahlot] except to the extent of saying that the entire transaction appears to be a scam. At this stage, therefore, no ex parte injunction is called for”. It had granted 30 days to the BJP leader to respond to the suit as well as the application for an interim order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-ex-parte-injunction-needed-in-gahlot-case/article36330103.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||Will always fight for traders’ rights: Gupta||State BJP president Adesh Gupta, addressing representatives of various traders’ organisations at the party office here on Monday, said the BJP was the largest political party in the world, thanks to a “very big contribution” from the traders’ class. Every trader associated with the party keeps the interest of the nation above everything else. They had also helped the needy during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The BJP has always and will always stand with the traders community and keep fighting for their rights for which it is committed,” Mr. Gupta said. “During both the COVID-19 waves, it was the trading community which bore the brunt of electricity’s fixed charges,” he said. The BJP had raised this issue during the first wave, but Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Mr. Gupta alleged, only “partially resolved” the issue. “It is indicative of the fact that the Kejriwal government doesn’t care for the interests of the traders. It is therefore, imperative for traders to understand as to who is with them and who is against,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-always-fight-for-traders-rights-gupta/article36330105.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||Capital reports zero COVID-19 deaths again||The Capital reported no new COVID-19 death in 24 hours for the sixth consecutive day and the total number of deaths stood at 25,082, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Also, 32 new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,37,991. A total of 54,611 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.06%. Of the total cases, 14,12,542 people have recovered and there are only 367 active cases. The COVID-19 vaccine stock of the city on Monday morning would last for eight days, as per another bulletin. A total of 1,41,557 vaccinations were administered in the city on Friday and a total of 1,39,27,245 doses have been given till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/capital-reports-zero-covid-19-deaths-again/article36330108.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two men arrested for killing man in Rohini||Two persons have been arrested and two minors apprehended for allegedly shooting a man dead in Rohini’s Kanjhawala, the police said on Monday. DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said the accused have been identified as Aman Dabas (27) and Rahul (23). On August 30, a firing incident was reported. The victim Sagar told the police that when he was standing near his house when four persons came on two bikes and fired at him. He died during treatment on September 5. During the probe, CCTV footage was obtained and analysed in which Rahul and Aman were identified. It was further revealed that they were regularly in touch with a bad character of the area identified as Mohit alias Chachad and Mohit alias Golu, both in jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-men-arrested-for-killing-man-in-rohini/article36330117.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||Plea against prohibition on cross-gender massage||The Delhi High Court on Monday posted the hearing on a plea challenging Delhi government’s guidelines banning cross-gender massage services for September 20. Justice Rekha Palli, who orally observed that the ban was a policy decision of the government, asked the petitioner — Association of Wellness Ayurveda & Spa — to submit a list of its members and the action taken by authorities pursuant to the guidelines. The association claimed that two spas have been closed down last month for engaging in cross-gender massage and others are being “threatened by the officials on the basis of the new guidelines”. “Every industry, workplace and businesses have some bad apples but that doesn’t mean that every spa centre across the State is running a prostitution and human trafficking racket,” the plea stated. The association stated that cross-gender treatment has been “part of the traditional massage practices” and assuming prostitution to be only in the “heterosexual domain” is illogical. It highlighted that there are several places where men and women work together, like gyms and yoga centres, and singling out spas was not reasonable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/plea-against-prohibition-on-cross-gender-massage/article36330104.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||Over 100 dengue cases this year||At least 124 cases of dengue have been reported in the national capital this year, according to a civic report released on Monday. However, no deaths have been reported due to dengue in the city till now. The number of dengue cases for January 1-September 4 period is also the highest this year since 2018 when the count had stood at 137 in the same duration. Seventy-two cases were reported in August, according to the report, which is about 58% of the total reported cases. No cases have been recorded in the first four days of September. Cases of vector-borne diseases may stretch till mid-December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-100-dengue-cases-this-year/article36330112.ece
07 September 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records 5,988 recoveries, 3,626 new cases||Amid worrying signs of a spike, Maharashtra reported a robust 5,988 recoveries on Monday against a surge of 3,626 COVID-19 cases as the active case tally dipped below the 50,000-mark to reach 47,695. The State reported its lowest fatality surge in more than 45 days, reporting 37 deaths to take the total toll to 1,37,811. The case fatality rate remains at 2.12%. However, the low case surge must be viewed in the context of lower samples tested — less than 1.50 lakh as compared with the daily average of over 2.10 lakh. Total cases have reached 64,89,800, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 63,00,755, with the recovery rate rising incrementally to 97.09%. “Of a total of 5,49,99,475 laboratory samples tested thus far, 64,89,800 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 11.8%) have returned positive, with more than 1.45 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported nearly 750 new cases, taking its total case tally to 11,24,538, while two deaths pushed the total toll over 18,740. As per district authorities, the active case tally has exceeded 9,300. Mumbai reported 383 new cases to take its tally to 7,46,341, while the active case tally rose to 4,003. Five deaths took the city’s death toll to 15,993.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-5988-recoveries-3626-new-cases/article36330121.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Welcome surprise||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/welcome-surprise/article36330119.ece
07 September 2021||Kabul,||War is over, it’s time for peace: Taliban||The Taliban on Monday called on former members of the Afghan forces to integrate with the new hardline rulers. “The Afghan forces who were trained in the past 20 years will be asked to rejoin the security departments alongside Taliban members,” spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told a press conference in the capital Kabul. The spokesman added that any insurgency against their rule would be “hit hard”, after earlier saying they had captured the Panjshir Valley — the last pocket of resistance. “The Islamic Emirate is very sensitive about insurgencies. Anyone who tries to start an insurgency will be hit hard. We will not allow another,” Mujahid said. “Anyone who picks up arms and start another resistance, without any doubts, will be our enemy. The war has ended, the country is getting out of the crisis. It is now time for peace and reconstruction. We need the people to support us.” Three weeks after seizing power but with no government so far announced, the spokesman said an “interim” system would first be announced to allow for changes. “Final decisions have been taken, we are now working on the technical issues,” he said. “We will announce the new government as soon as the technical issues are resolved.” Women's freedoms in Afghanistan were sharply curtailed under the Taliban's 1996-2001 rule. This time, women will be allowed to attend university as long as classes are segregated by sex or at least divided by a curtain, the Taliban's education authority said in a lengthy document issued on Sunday. But female students must wear an abaya (robe) and niqab (face-veil), as opposed to the even more conservative burqa mandatory under the previous Taliban regime. However, some universities in Kabul remained closed on Monday and those that did open saw a drastic fall in the number of students — some who complied with the new rules, and others who resisted. Afghans are also facing a host of other challenges, including looming financial and humanitarian crises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/war-is-over-its-time-for-peace-taliban/article36329685.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||What is the ‘food emergency’ in Sri Lanka?||On August 30, 2021, Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, using powers vested in the country’s Public Security Ordinance, declared Emergency regulations pertaining to the distribution of essential food items. The regulations sought to empower authorities to provide essential food items at a “concessionary rate” to the public by purchasing stocks of essential food items, including paddy, rice and sugar, at government-guaranteed prices, and prevent market irregularities and hoarding. President Rajapaksa has appointed Major General N.D.S.P. Niwunhella as the Commissioner General of Essential Services. In the week since the regulations were promulgated, several questions have risen on their legal ambit, and their likely impact on the country’s larger economic crisis persisting for two years now. Is there a precedent? According to Austin Fernando, a retired civil servant who served as Commissioner General of Essential Services in the 1980s, the post came into prominence after the 1983 ‘Black July’ riots to ensure that affected families — Tamils who were targeted and attacked — had food supplies and other essentials; to facilitate their movement and return to their homes. “I held the post from 1986 to 1988 and was also tasked to look after the requirements of thousands of displaced in the North and East affected by the conflict,” he told The Hindu . What is the criticism? Criticism of the Emergency regulations has largely been over the government’s legal choices, and their political implications. In a commentary on the regulations published in Sri Lankan media, senior constitutional lawyer, and former parliamentarian Jayampathy Wickramaratne argued that the government — with a comfortable parliamentary majority — “had all the time in the world” to bring in any legislation needed to deal with the crisis but opted not to do so. “The danger is that given the present government’s propensity to stifle dissent, emergency regulations would be used to curb protests and other democratic action”, he wrote in The Island newspaper. Is there a food shortage? There is fear of one. The possibility has grabbed international headlines, with the government’s drastic measures against hoarding, triggering speculation over food security in Sri Lanka that is home to 21 million people. Fuelling the speculation are different factors, including the country’s known reliance on imports for essentials — such as petroleum, sugar, dairy products, wheat, medical supplies — its fast-dwindling foreign reserves, from $7.5 billion in November 2019 to $2.8 billion in July 2021, and the daunting foreign debt repayment schedule in the coming years. The pandemic’s lethal blow since early 2020, to all major sources of foreign exchange earnings — exports, worker remittances and tourism — has further compounded the economic stress. Sri Lanka’s economy contracted by 3.6 % last year. According to the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, the Sri Lankan rupee depreciated by 10.1% against the dollar this year. It hovered around 200 against a dollar last week. The fear of a possible food shortage also stems from the Rajapaksa administration’s decision in April to ban import of chemical fertilizers and adopting an “organic only” approach. Meanwhile, many, especially daily-wage earners, and low-income families, are complaining about being unable to afford, and in many cases access, essentials such as milk, sugar, and rice during the current lockdown, imposed on August 20 following a rapid surge in daily Covid-19 cases and fatalities, and extended twice since. Prices of essential commodities — including rice, dhal, bread, sugar, vegetables, fish — have risen several times during the pandemic, and more rapidly in recent weeks. What’s govt.’s response? The government has denied reports of a food shortage. In a statement responding to international media reports, the Department of Government Information accused traders of creating an “artificial shortage”. With the recent Emergency regulations, the government has “dealt with the situation,” it said. Few outside the government think so. “These Emergency regulations are not sustainable,” said K. Amirthalingam, Professor of Economics at the University of Colombo. “Sri Lanka does not have a universal public distribution system or ration cards that can ensure essential goods reach all consumers. The current regulations do not address our fundamental economic problem, and instead pose the risk of creating black markets,” he told The Hindu . In his view, the recent measures, coupled with the government’s move last year to restrict import of non-essential goods, are taking Sri Lanka back in time. “After four decades since our economy was liberalised, we are going back to 1970s,” he said, referring to the time when then Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike promoted import substitution, a policy that her critics associate with food shortage and long queues of people waiting outside shops to buy essentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/what-is-the-food-emergency-in-sri-lanka/article36329678.ece
07 September 2021||Tripoli,||Muammar Qadhafi’s son Saadi released from prison||Saadi Qadhafi, a son of Libya’s late dictator Muammar Qadhafi who was overthrown and killed in a 2011 uprising, has been freed from jail, said the interim government. Mr. Saadi — the strongman’s third son, now aged 47 — was known for his playboy lifestyle and briefly played as a professional footballer in Italy. “Saadi Muammar Qadhafi has been freed from prison,” following on from a court ruling several years ago, a Justice Ministry source said late on Sunday in comments confirmed by the Government of National Unity. Several media reports suggested Mr. Saadi had already taken a flight to Turkey. The Turkish Foreign Ministry, however, said on Monday it had no information about Mr. Saadi’s possible arrival in Istanbul. Libya’s Presidential Council on Monday also announced the release of several other prisoners, including Qadhafi’s former Cabinet and intelligence chief, Ahmad Ramadan, who was nicknamed “Black Box” for being the keeper of the dictator’s secrets. Mr. Saadi fled to Niger following the 2011 NATO-backed uprising, but was extradited to Libya in 2014. He was held in a Tripoli prison, accused of crimes committed against protesters and of the 2005 killing of Libyan football coach Bashir al-Rayani. In April 2018, the court of appeal acquitted him of Rayani’s murder. Since the 2011 uprising, Libya has sunk into chaos, with an array of rulers and militias vying for power. A 2020 ceasefire ended the factional fighting and paved the way for peace talks and the formation of a transitional government this March, ahead of elections set for December. But preparations are marred by disputes over when to hold elections, what elections to hold and on what constitutional grounds. Mr. Saadi was the third son of the flamboyant colonel who took power after a bloodless coup in 1969. For 42 years, the self-styled “Leader of the Revolution” ruled his “Jamahiriya”, or “state of the masses” with an iron grip, though not necessarily a coherent direction. He was accused of using the country’s oil wealth to fund and arm rebel groups across Africa and beyond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/muammar-qadhafis-son-saadi-released-from-prison/article36329682.ece
07 September 2021||Jerusalem,||Six Palestinians escape from Gilboa jail in Israel||Six Palestinians broke out of an Israeli prison on Monday through a tunnel dug beneath a sink, triggering a massive manhunt for the group that includes a prominent ex-militant. The Israel Prison Service said an alert was sounded around 3 a.m. (0000 GMT) by locals who spotted “suspicious figures” outside the Gilboa prison in the country’s north. The group includes Zakaria Zubeidi, a former militant leader from the flashpoint city of Jenin in the occupied West Bank, the IPS confirmed in a statement. In footage that recalled the iconic 1994 prison escape film The Shawshank Redemption , the service released a video which showed agents inspecting a narrow tunnel beneath a sink and another showing a hole just outside the prison walls. Gilboa — which opened in 2004 during the second Palestinian intifada, or uprising — is a high security site where hundreds of Palestinians are detained. The prison service said all those held at Gilboa over “security offences” are being relocated in case additional escape tunnels have been dug beneath the facility. Police, the army and agents from Israel’s Shin Bet internal security agency joined the search, which included aerial surveillance vehicles, officials said. Sniffer dogs were deployed and checkpoints set up in the area surrounding Gilboa. The Army had in particular deployed heavily at a crossing point from Israel to Jenin governorate, checking identities of all Palestinian workers seeking to cross, an AFP reporter said. The Army said its forces were “prepared and deployed” in the West Bank as part of the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/six-palestinians-escape-from-gilboa-jail-in-israel/article36329683.ece
07 September 2021||Jalalabad,||Provincial Governor vows to fight Islamic State||As a Taliban commander, he spent years battling the former Afghan government. Now, with his hardline movement back in power, Mullah Neda Mohammad vows to continue fighting against rival jihadists, the Islamic State (IS) group. Following the Taliban’s victory in August, Mohammad took over as governor of Nangarhar province, home to the IS Afghanistan-Pakistan chapter’s stronghold. “We are searching for individuals who are hiding,” Mohammad said, claiming his forces have arrested 70 to 80 IS members since they took control of Nangarhar’s provincial capital Jalalabad, the country’s fifth biggest city. IS have been responsible for some of the deadliest attacks in Afghanistan of recent years, massacring civilians at mosques, shrines, public squares and even hospitals. The group claimed responsibility for a devastating suicide bombing near Kabul airport on August 26 that killed more than 100 Afghans and 13 U.S. soldiers. It was the deadliest attack against American forces in Afghanistan since 2011. After the blast, the U.S. military said it had carried out a drone strike against an IS “planner” in the Nangarhar province. Still, Mohammad says he does not believe IS poses a great a threat as they did in Iraq and Syria. “Here they have suffered many casualties in northern and eastern Afghanistan,” he said in Jalalabad, at the governor’s palace, now decked with Taliban flags. With the Taliban in power, “there will be no reason for (IS) to be here”, he said. “We don’t consider IS as a threat.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/provincial-governor-vows-to-fight-islamic-state/article36329686.ece
07 September 2021||Athens,||Greece creates a Ministry to deal with climate crisis||Greece’s center-right government has created a new Ministry to address the impact of climate change and named former European Union commissioner Christos Stylianides as Minister. Mr. Stylianides, 63, who served as commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management between 2014 and 2019, was appointed in the wake of wildfires that burned more than 1,000 square km of forest on the island of Evia and in southern Greece. Intense heat waves in southern Europe in July and August — described in Greece at the worst in decades — fuelled deadly wildfires in Turkey as well and blazes in Italy, France, and Balkan countries. The appointment was announced on Monday after a previous candidate, former armed forces chief and Defence Minister Evangelos Apostolakis, withdrew, citing the lack of promised cross-party consensus for the new post. As Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, Mr. Stylianides will head firefighting, disaster relief and policies to adapt to rising temperatures resulting from climate change. “I have accepted (the position) with the full awareness of the challenges and expectations that come with it. The consequences of climate change have overtaken us, and we must accelerate major change without delay,” Mr. Stylianides said. “Disaster prevention and preparedness is the most effective weapon we have.” A former Greek Air Force chief, Gen. Evangelos Tournas, was named as Deputy Minister. Before serving as commissioner, Mr. Stylianides was the European Union’s head coordinator for the bloc's response to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. Mr. Stylianides, who is a Cypriot national, will be awarded Greek citizenship before being sworn in Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/greece-creates-a-ministry-to-deal-with-climate-crisis/article36329679.ece
07 September 2021||CONAKRY,||Guinea’s new junta leaders tighten grip||Guinea’s new military leaders sought to tighten their grip on power after overthrowing President Alpha Conde, warning local officials that refusing to appear at a meeting convened on Monday would be considered an act of rebellion against the junta. After putting the West African nation back under military rule for the first time in over a decade, the junta said Guinea’s Governors were to be replaced by regional commanders. A nightly curfew was put in place, and the country’s Constitution and National Assembly were both dissolved. The junta refused to issue a timeline for releasing Mr. Conde, saying the 83-year-old still had access to medical care. The West African regional bloc ECOWAS has called for his immediate release and threatened to impose sanctions if the demand was not met. Mr. Conde’s removal by force on Sunday came after the President sought a controversial third term in office last year, saying the term limits did not apply to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/guineas-new-junta-leaders-tighten-grip/article36329680.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Spirit of federalism lies in consultation||Recently, various State governments raised concerns about Central unilateralism in the enactment of critical laws on subjects in the Concurrent List of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan stated that it is not in the essence of federalism for the Union government to legislate unilaterally, avoiding discussions with the States on the subjects in the Concurrent List. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin raised the issue by calling on other Chief Ministers against the Union government usurping powers under the State and Concurrent Lists. The Kerala Legislative Assembly unanimously passed a resolution against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, while the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly passed a resolution against the controversial farm laws. The States and the Legislative Assemblies standing up for their rights assumes significance in the wake of the Union government introducing a number of laws without taking the States into confidence, thereby undermining the federal principles. Around a year back, Parliament passed the farm laws without consulting the States. The laws, essentially related to Entry 14 (agriculture clause) belonging to the State List, were purportedly passed by Parliament citing Entry 33 (trade and commerce clause) in the Concurrent List. According to various decisions of the Supreme Court, beginning from the State of Bombay vs F.N. Balsara case, if an enactment falls within one of the matters assigned to the State List and reconciliation is not possible with any entry in the Concurrent or Union List after employing the doctrine of “pith and substance”, the legislative domain of the State Legislature must prevail. The farm laws were passed by Parliament even as it does not have legislative competence to deal with agriculture. The lack of consultation in a matter that intrinsically deals with millions of farmers also led to massive protests that, incidentally, still continue in streets across India. ‘Redundancy of local laws’ When the Major Ports Authorities Act, 2021, was passed by Parliament earlier this year, even the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled State government in Goa objected to the law, stating that it would lead to the redundancy of the local laws, including the Goa Town and Country Planning Act, the Goa Municipalities Act, the Goa Panchayat Raj Act, the Goa Land Development and Building Construction Regulations, 2010, and the Goa Land Revenue Code. When it comes to non-major ports, the field for legislation is located in Entry 31 of the Concurrent List. According to the Indian Ports Act, 1908, which presently governs the field related to non-major ports, the power to regulate and control the minor ports remained with the State governments. However, the new draft Indian Ports Bill, 2021, proposes to change the status quo by transferring the powers related to planning, developing and regulating the non-major ports to the Maritime State Development Council (MSDC), which is overwhelmingly controlled by the Union government. Coastal States like Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have objected to the Bill that proposes to seize the power of the State government with respect to non-major ports. Various States like West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have also come forward against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The field related to electricity is traceable to Entry 38 of the Concurrent List. The power to regulate the sector was vested with the State Electricity Regulatory Commissions (SERCs), which were ostensibly manned by individuals appointed by the State government. However, the proposed amendment seeks to change the regulatory regime from head-to-toe with the establishment of a National Selection Committee, dominated by members nominated by the Union government that will make appointments to the SERCs. Further, the amendment proposes the establishment of a Centrally-appointed Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority (ECEA) as the sole authority having jurisdiction over matters regarding the performance of obligations under a contract related to the sale, purchase or transmission of electricity. In effect, the power to regulate the electricity sector would be taken away from the State government. This is apart from other proposed changes, including changing the licensing regime to facilitate private sector entry without State government approval. Cause of concern The Union government increasingly extending its hands on subjects in the Concurrent List is a cause of grave concern as the balance of the Constitution is now turned on its head. The model envisioned in the Government of India Act, 1935, was adopted by the framers of the Constitution and certain subjects were put in the Concurrent List by giving the Union and the State Legislatures concurrent powers regarding them. The fields in the Concurrent List were to be of common interest to the Union and the States, and the power to legislate on these subjects to be shared with the Union so that there would be uniformity in law across the country. However, one of the worst fears of Constituent Assembly member K.T.M. Ahmad Ibrahim Sahib Bahadur has now come true, with subjects in the Concurrent List being transferred to the Union List over a period of time due to the Union government’s high-handedness. The Sarkaria Commission Report had specifically recommended that there should be a “coordination of policy and action in all areas of concurrent or overlapping jurisdiction through a process of mutual consultation and cooperation is, therefore, a prerequisite of smooth and harmonious working of the dual system”. It was further recommended that the Union government, while exercising powers under the Concurrent List, limit itself to the purpose of ensuring uniformity in basic issues of national policy and not more. The National Commission to Review the Working of the Constitution (NCRWC), or the Venkatachaliah Commission, had recommended that individual and collective consultation with the States should be undertaken through the Inter-State Council established under Article 263 of the Constitution. As the Supreme Court itself had held in the S.R. Bommai vs Union of India case, the States are not mere appendages of the Union. The Union government should ensure that the power of the States is not trampled with. The intention of the framers of the Constitution is to ensure that public welfare is subserved and the key to that lies in listening to stakeholders. The essence of cooperative federalism lies in consultation and dialogue, and unilateral legislation without taking the States into confidence will lead to more protests on the streets. Mukund P. Unny is an advocate practising in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/spirit-of-federalism-lies-in-consultation/article36329672.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The long and the short of the NMP||In the Budget for 2021-22, the Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, had announced the Government’s decision to monetise operating public infrastructure assets, declaring this as an important financing option for constructing new infrastructure. She announced that a “National Monetization Pipeline” (NMP) would be launched to achieve this objective (https://bit.ly/38KdR7s). Just months later, the NMP was unveiled, which shows that the Government intends to raise Rs. 6-lakh crore over the next four years by monetising several “core assets”. The term asset monetisation is not new in this government’s lexicon. It has been used during the proposed disinvestment of Air India and other public sector enterprises. Thus, asset monetisation is de facto “privatisation” of government-owned assets by another name. Trying to make a distinction One possible reason for the change in the terminology is the strong political undertones associated with the term “privatisation”. A two-volume NITI Aayog report (https://bit.ly/3h7gFQt), which serves as the “asset monetisation guidebook”, explains that the NMP will help in “evolving a common framework for monetisation of core assets” and this will help draw a distinction from privatisation. But is there a functional distinction between asset monetisation and privatisation? The NITI Aayog report describes asset monetisation as “transfer of performing assets … to unlock ‘idle’ capital and reinvesting it in other assets or projects that deliver improved or additional benefits”. In our  view, asset monetisation raises three sets of questions. First, are the assets identified for monetisation “idle” or “performing”? Surely, they cannot be both. Second, can the country’s ordinary citizens expect to receive the purported “additional benefits”? And, finally, could the Government have looked for other avenues for mobilising resources, rather than selling tax-payers’ assets? The Government has identified “performing assets” to transfer to private entities and these are both strategic and significant. These include over 26,700 kilometres of highways, 400 railway stations, 90 passenger trains, 4 hill railways, including the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway. Moreover, existing public sector infrastructure in telecoms, power transmission and distribution and petroleum, petroleum products and natural gas pipelines are included in the NMP. If such assets were not offered, would the private sector be interested in acquiring rights over them? Some data Under the NMP, the Government intends to lease or divest its rights over these assets via long-term leases against a consideration that can be upfront and/or periodic payments. Thus, expected financial flows from leasing or divesting the Government’s share in these entities would be a major benefit for the central government, which is in the throes of a fiscal crisis. At the end of 2020-21, the central government’s debt to GDP ratio had exceeded 60%, increasing from 48.6% a year before. Current expectations are that in 2021-22, this figure will be close to 62%. Given this situation, the NMP is being projected as the ability of the Government to raise resources and to work its way out of the fiscal logjam. Significant impact The most surprising aspect of the Finance Minister’s announcement regarding the NMP is that the Government has avoided mentioning the consequences of asset monetisation on the ordinary citizens of the country. To understand this issue, two obvious dimensions need to be considered. First, the assets that are being offered for leasing or divestment have all been created through substantial contribution by the tax-paying public, who have stakes in their operation and management. Second, these assets have, until now, been managed by the Government and its agencies, which operate in public interest and are not driven by the profit-making considerations. Therefore, charges borne by the public for using these assets have remained reasonable. With private companies getting the sole responsibility of running all these assets, from highways and railways to all the major utilities such as power, telecom and gas, the citizens of this country would be double-taxed. First, they paid taxes to create the assets, and would now pay higher user charges. The reason for this is simple. Unlike the public sector entities, private companies are mandated, and quite justifiably so, to maximise their profits and to increase the returns enjoyed by the shareholders. In other words, it is not social benefit, but higher private returns that drives the corporates. Therefore, as the Government prepares to transfer “performing assets” to the private companies, it has the responsibility to ensure that user charges do not price the consumers out of the market. This critical dimension has not clearly been spelt out even in the NITI report. It is evident that consumers’ interest can be protected only if the Government can curb profit-maximising tendencies of the companies through regulators. In the past episodes of privatisation of utilities, instead of effective regulation, there have been instances of regulatory capture instead, resulting in the exploitation of consumers. Take for example the privatisation of the power distribution system in the country’s capital. The then Congress government privatised power distribution, and this resulted in a steep increase in power charges that not only threatened to price out the poorer sections but adversely affected the middle class as well. Providing cheaper power was one of the main election promises of the Aam Aadmi Party, which was fulfilled by providing subsidised power to the consumer. But little does the capital’s electorate realise that the Government is providing subsidies from the taxes it collects. This implies that the city’s taxpayers are either paying higher taxes and/or foregoing public services for “benefiting” from “cheaper” power charges, while the companies are continuing to earn their promised profits. Tapping the tax route Finally, since the proposed asset monetisation has resulted from the resource crunch faced by the Government, a pertinent question is whether there were other avenues that it could have been tapped for plugging the resource gap. One possibility was to increase the tax revenue, for at 17.4% in 2019-20, India’s tax to GDP ratio was relatively low, as compared to most advanced nations. Improvements in tax compliance and plugging loopholes have long been emphasised as the surest way to improve tax revenue, but little has been done, as the following example shows. Since 2005-06, the Government has been providing data on the profits declared and taxes paid by companies that file their returns electronically. This data reveals that in 2005-06, 40% of these companies had declared that they were not earning any profits, and this figure had increased to over 51% in 2018-19. Further, the share of the reporting companies earning profits of Rs. 1 crore or less was 55% in 2005-06; this figure had declined to 43% in 2018-19. These numbers lend themselves to only one conclusion. India’s large companies have been exploiting the loopholes for reporting lower profits and to escape the tax net. But why have successive governments been so indulgent? On public sector efficiency According to NITI Aayog, the “strategic objective of the Asset Monetisation programme is to unlock the value of investments in public sector assets by tapping private sector capital and efficiencies”. The NITI Aayog objective assumes that public sector enterprises are inefficient, which is contrary to the reality. In 2018-19, while 28% of these enterprises were loss-making (https://bit.ly/3jLPHQ7), the corresponding figure for large companies was 51%. Is it realistic to assume that the asset monetisation programme would deliver efficiencies? Biswajit Dhar is Professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-long-and-the-short-of-the-nmp/article36329665.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A Taliban-led Afghanistan and the Chinese conundrum||Recent weeks have been unsettling for the people in Afghanistan. A devastating bomb blast, on August 26, outside Kabul airport, killed many people, soldiers and civilians. Not the first of its kind, the region has seen umpteen number of bomb blasts, including the one at the Gwadar, just a few days earlier, targeting Chinese nationals. For an economy driven by the opium trade and ruled by tribal leaders, the new normal is bound to be governed by instability, fighting groups, and thereafter, boom, gloom, and doom. After the long war, the spoils In fact, the United States did the smart thing by leaving Afghanistan. The Afghan occupation was costing it more than what it was getting in return. An estimate by Brown University, U.S. (https://bit.ly/3n5cPLJ), suggests that since 2001, the U.S. has spent $2.26 trillion, out of which $1.53 trillion  was spent on defence. The Afghan economy did not flourish, with 90% of its population still living below poverty line, with less than $2 a day. The only thing that the economy can still brag about is its ability to produce opium and mercenaries. But then Afghanistan has a few other things that are valuable — rare-earth metals and huge deposits of copper. The Chinese in particular will be happy about it as they have the technology to excavate them. In fact, the return of the Taliban is seen as a victory of Chinese diplomacy and a debacle for the United States; comparable to the U.S.’s symbolic evacuation of Saigon, in 1975, at the end of the Vietnam war. Indeed, China (also, Russia) have kept their embassies running in Kabul while the western embassies have disappeared. Moreover, China is engaging with the Taliban, with an eye to complete the new Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) investment. And a Chinese presence in Afghanistan with an all-weather ally Pakistan may sound ominous for India. Crucial link in the BRI Afghanistan is indeed vital for the BRI. Without counting on Afghanistan, the bulk of Chinese investment in the China-Pakistan corridor will be at risk. Considering the heavy infrastructure investment sunk in the BRI, only many years of successful operation could repay it. In such a project, spending is easy, but getting back the money is extremely hard. The amount of trade that should flow through the new Silk Road should be massive and long term. Otherwise, it will cost money and effort. In fact, the Chinese successfully implemented this investment strategy, and it worked well in the context of Southeast Asia and Africa. First, the cost of production being lower in Southeast Asia meant Chinese firms could gain by shifting their production bases outside China. Second, investing in these regions meant access to bigger markets for Chinese firms and more uniform regional development. For instance, the relatively underdeveloped Kunming region in Yunnan province became a commercial hub. Third, Chinese firms could evade protectionist measures targeted at their exports when they began exporting from Southeast Asian countries instead. Fourth, investing in Africa and Asia has also reduced some of China’s energy requirements, enabling Beijing to access cheaper foreign energy (oil and power) and minerals. Chinese firms have also constructed hydropower plants and a thermal power station in Myanmar. China has also invested in power transmission and copper processing activities in Vietnam. The Chinese want to mimic the same strategies in the case of Afghanistan and Pakistan. Success in these two countries would imply that China will be able to bring together a large part of the Indian Ocean littoral and Eurasia through high speed rail lines, pipelines, and maritime linkages. The idea of connecting to the rest of the world stems from China’s aspiration to get out of manufacturing, go up the global value chains, and start focusing on product designing and innovation. According to the government of China, the development of the BRI would impact 4.4 billion people and generate trade worth $2.5 trillion within a decade. The shadow of terror But here is the flip side. Afghanistan and Pakistan are not comparable to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). The recent suicide attacks in Kabul and Gwadar are a pointer and may even indicate the resurgence of terrorist groups such as al Qaeda, Daesh, and the Islamic State. No businesses can flourish in the presence of terrorism, especially when the Taliban are known to have a soft corner for the East Turkestan Islamic Movement — a militant group active in the Uighur province of China. No matter how much the Chinese leadership has a desire for inclusive and peaceful development in Afghanistan, in reality, things stand out in stark contrast. Even considering Pakistan, a country relatively better off than Afghanistan, the Chinese are facing problems. Pakistan is unable to repay a China-funded energy project, built under the BRI. The economy of Pakistan faltered because of dynastic politics and corruption. To top it off, there is an excessive dependence of the political class on the military. Business decisions are not economically driven but are motivated by vested interests with the army calling the shots. There are good reasons to believe that the return of the Taliban in Kabul will spell gloom and doom for the Chinese. The Taliban ruling groups are far from united, making it impossible to make any reliable domestic and international policy predictions. The dependence on opium export makes Afghanistan vulnerable to world mafias and corruption. All this implies that its undemocratic rulers are not comparable to China-like autocracies, with an inherent stable character. Embargoes, rebellions, factional wars, will be the likely events in Taliban-controlled Afghanistan. These issues will spread to Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Turkey, and other essential rings in the BRI chain. Sanctions as disruptor Additionally, the Taliban are among the world’s least acceptable ruling elite for the western countries. The enormous markets controlled by the western powers are the most lucrative for China. Hence, the next decade will likely show a sequence of BRI trade flow stop-and-go following likely European and American decisions to block or sanction trade from Afghanistan. Given the unfriendly relations between the U.S. and China, any excuse will basically be picked up and used by the White House to stop trade along the BRI. Hence, the cash flow into the BRI will constantly face a risk of interruption. The financial market will incorporate this expectation and make the funding of the remaining parts of the BRI more expensive and restricted. In a game of chess, the U.S. move of vacating Afghanistan may in fact prove costly for China. Nilanjan Banik is with the School of Management, Mahindra University, Hyderabad. Guido Cozzi is with the Institute of Economics, University of St. Gallen, St. Gallen, Switzerland||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-taliban-led-afghanistan-and-the-chinese-conundrum/article36329668.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A prescription for Kerala||Kerala is in the news, but for bad reasons. The COVID-19 caseload is increasing. The test positivity rate (TPR) and the cumulative death count show no respite. The cumulative deaths due to the virus as on August 24 in the State is only 19,757, compared to its neighbours — Tamil Nadu (34,761) and Karnataka (37,184). But, when adjusted for the total population, deaths per million is high in Kerala. Increased attention to vaccination coverage, and inadequate home quarantine and isolation measures may be the reasons. All these indicators are in spite of its excellent case containment measures and its low case fatality rate (CFR) during the first wave in 2020 through its strong public health system and community-involved disease surveillance measures. The methods adopted by Kerala are globally well-established measures and as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Union government. The State should assert this and ignore Opposition parties making it an opportunity for political mileage. The State is going through a surge due to the mutant Delta variant and the “don’t care” attitude of the public. COVID-appropriate behaviour and vaccination are key to containing the pandemic. The State must hold on to aggressive testing, genomic mapping, monitoring the TPR and the CFR for new infections, and conducting sero-surveys for assessing past infections or community transmission. It should continue uploading the data daily and holding briefings weekly, if not daily, by the Chief Minister and the Health Minister for better transparency. The State also has to admit certain policy errors, including loosening their guard during the Assembly election and festivals. Alter testing strategy Kerala’s testing strategy is more dependent on the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), which comprises 60% of the testing, than the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test. This was a critical observation made by a team sent by the Union government. This has to be so because the capacity for RT-PCR testing is only 75,000 per day in the State and 1,65,273 samples were tested on August 25 itself. But, if a RAT is negative, the mandatory RT-PCR test for confirmation is not strictly followed. Moreover, a number of false negatives escape the net. Most of the RT-PCR testing is done for certification to resume duty and for travel purposes rather than case detection. An ideal scenario would be to strictly stop RATs like in Tamil Nadu. In this case, the State would need to rope in more testing centres with adequate equipment for RT-PCR testing. Capacity-building of these new labs in the private or government sector is an urgent requirement. Authorities may also request the neighbouring States to lend their lab equipment on a returnable basis. The time has come for the fire brigade to pay equal attention to saving lives and minimising casualties, while also dousing the fire. The State has to carefully divide the staff and resources for both contact tracing, testing and vaccination. Vaccination is gaining momentum after the initial supply concerns were sorted out. Kerala has achieved around 75% coverage of the first dose of the vaccine and 28% coverage of both doses. This vaccination spree did have a deleterious effect in case detection and containment. What is needed now is to entrust the vaccination responsibility to the Junior Public Health Nurses (JPHNs), health supervisors and staff nurses, and a few doctors. Accredited social health activists (ASHAs), field supervisors, Rapid Response Teams and doctors should focus on screening symptomatic patients, sample collection, contact tracing and active surveillance. Telephonic follow-ups practised during the first wave is disappearing. With vaccination getting all the attention, ignoring contact tracing is not wise. It is also high time to revert to institutional instead of domiciliary quarantine and the doubtfully-effective lockdowns and night curfews. A surge may happen soon with mutant variants overwhelming the health system. Mobilising extra intensive care unit (ICU) and COVID-19 hospital staff, and putting them on a “reserve list” is necessary. Having a floating assembly of equipment like ventilators and oxygen cylinders, which can be moved to any hospital in any district within 24 hours, should also be prepared. Skill upgradation and honing case management efficiency in COVID-19 hospitals and district headquarter hospitals must also continue. Liquified medical oxygen production units and carriers should also be ready. Israel is facing a surge in cases and scientists there have found a new sublineage of the Delta variant known as the AY.12 lineage. For now, what is happening in Kerala and not happening in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are epidemiological mysteries. We may get the answers someday. Dr. K.R. Antony is a paediatrician, public health consultant and independent monitor, National Health Mission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-prescription-for-kerala/article36329674.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Social media cannot replace proper news journalism||In the last hundred years, the national Indian media — traditional and now “new” media — has grown exponentially in number and influence. This year, as we mark the centenary of journalism education in India, never before has the need for journalism education been as pressing as it is now, with new threats of disinformation emerging and with the COVID-19 crisis revealing that information is actually a lifesaver. In India, the discipline of “Journalism Education” was introduced by British activist Annie Besant in the 1920s, when she launched a course on journalism at the National University at Adyar, Madras. There are now about 900 Indian colleges and institutes offering mass communication and journalism programmes. In the last two decades, we have witnessed a boom in commercial media and numerous digital journalism platforms have emerged, which has also opened avenues for citizen journalism. All these factors have only compounded the need for certificated courses in journalism. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization’s (UNESCO) mandate upholds freedom of the press and the free flow of information. The challenge is to ensure that this flow includes high quality information. Hence, the long-standing work of UNESCO to strengthen journalism education. We believe that professional news media act as guardians of the public interest. Citizens cannot exercise and enjoy their citizenship in the absence of crucial information, which well-trained journalists are better placed to provide. Professional journalistic standards are essential to bring out the potential of media systems to foster democracy, dialogue and development. We see, however, that recent trends have placed journalism under fire. A range of factors are transforming the communications landscape, raising questions about the quality, impact and credibility of journalism. In this context, UNESCO set up the Global Initiative for Excellence in Journalism Education in 2014 to leverage lessons learned during our support to African schools of journalism, and apply them in the wider context of our support for journalism education globally. This included supporting the development of “new literacies” in response to the challenges of a fast-changing world. We assembled experts to develop syllabi on issues such as climate change, data journalism, science journalism, etc. Our most recent publication was a handbook, Journalism, ‘Fake News’ and Disinformation , which is an issue that we have all become familiar with. All this pushes in favour of a reinforcement of journalism education. Many stakeholders must join hands and accelerate efforts. This includes media houses and media training institutions, governments and other partners. It is evident that many of the schools that UNESCO supported over the years have become stronger and acquired a greater capacity to be a strategic part of a global network of journalism schools of excellence. We have come a long way as far as strengthening the values of global journalism education is concerned, but a lot still needs to be done. We must address in particular quality issues and the exploitation of students by some educational institutions. The objective should be to constantly improve the quality of media training, while ensuring access to everyone. The other pressing concern relates to the dynamic nature of the communication and information technologies that are reshaping the media landscape. Social media cannot replace the production of proper news journalism, even if they compete very seriously for time and advertising. In this regard, we see the implementation of the National Education Policy, 2020, as an opportunity. It encourages us to make media education holistic, multidisciplinary and inclusive of the latest technological advancements. We must certainly evolve our teaching techniques keeping in view these challenges. Eric Falt is the Director and Representative of the UNESCO New Delhi Cluster Office covering Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/social-media-cannot-replace-proper-news-journalism/article36329669.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||From fighters to rulers||After postponing the announcement twice, Taliban spokesmen have said that they expect to have a new government in Afghanistan this week. There has been some speculation over the delay, more than three weeks after Taliban gunmen walked into Kabul and President Ashraf Ghani fled. While some have said the Taliban were waiting to take control of the last hold-out province of Panjshir, and others even suggested there was some symbolism attached to timing it with the 20th anniversary of 9/11, the real reason appears to be differences within various Taliban factions over the government’s structure and composition. In particular, the differences between the Taliban leadership in Helmand, Kandahar, and the political office in Doha, seen as the more “moderate” face, as well as between the “original” Afghan Taliban leadership and the Pakistan-based Haqqani network, a designated terror entity. The jockeying is reportedly over cabinet portfolios, the appointment of governors in the 34 provinces, control of the cities and the possibility of including non-Taliban Afghan leaders. Reports of the differences have escalated and the appearance in Kabul of the Pakistan ISI chief, Lt. Gen. Faiz Hameed, is believed to have been an attempt to smooth over the cracks in government formation. At the base of the differences is the tussle between the Taliban’s push to consolidate their takeover of Afghanistan and implement an Islamist agenda, and the desire to receive recognition from the international community and its continued financial support. The outcome holds the key not only to the future of Afghanistan but also to New Delhi’s engagement with the new regime. Any government that gives the Haqqani group key positions will make it difficult for India to have a role in either diplomacy or development projects in Afghanistan, given previous terror attacks. Any overt role for Pakistan, as well as China, will also raise red flags for New Delhi. The Modi government has announced that it is now engaging the Taliban, with the first publicly acknowledged meeting in Doha last week; the MEA says it conveyed concerns on the safety of Indians in Afghanistan and ensuring Afghan soil is not used for attacks in India. Any engagement with the Taliban beyond this is contingent on the composition of the new power structure and how much the new government in Afghanistan is amenable to international expectations of it, in terms of representation, rights, and in allowing UN agencies to monitor development. To this end, India must use its voice on the international stage forcefully. This includes blocking any move at the UNGA and UNSC to recognise the new regime, and stopping the delisting or exemptions to Taliban leaders at the 1988 sanctions committee, which India chairs, until the Taliban regime shows a willingness to comply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/from-fighters-to-rulers/article36329660.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Transition incomplete||The release of al-Saadi Qadhafi, son of former Libyan dictator Muammar Qadhafi, from prison comes at a time when the unity government in Tripoli is trying to disarm militias, mobilise state institutions and organise elections to end the ongoing conflict. Mr. Saadi’s brother, Seif al-Islam, seen as the heir apparent of Qadhafi before his regime was toppled in 2011 by a NATO invasion, had indicated in July that he would contest in the scheduled December elections for President. Mr. Saadi had been accused of crimes committed against protesters in 2011, and the authorities decided to free him reportedly after talks with tribal elders who were backing the Qadhafi family. “We cannot move forward without achieving reconciliation,” Prime Minister-designate Abdul Hamid Dbeibah wrote on Twitter. The oil-rich North African country has seen little peace since Qadhafi’s demise. NATO had helped different militia groups with air power to defeat his forces back then. But once the regime fell, they began fighting one another. Libya had established a transition government, but it failed to mobilise authority across the country. Soon there were two governments — in Tripoli, the capital, and Tobruk in the east. The Tripoli government, in which the Libyan arm of the Muslim Brotherhood was a part, was backed by Qatar and Turkey, while the Tobruk government, projecting itself as a counterweight to Islamist militancy in the country, was supported by the UAE and Egypt. Libya slid into chaos. In 2019, Khalifa Haftar, the renegade General propping up the Tobruk government with his militia, started a military campaign to take over Tripoli. He promised to take the whole country under his leadership and establish a stable government. But the Tripoli government, with assistance from Turkey, fought off his forces, which led both factions to accept a UN-mediated ceasefire last year. In March this year, they agreed to install a unity government in Tripoli, which would hold elections and ensure the country’s transition from the civil war. Six months later, there are no healthy signs of such a peaceful transition. All parties had initially agreed to hold elections in December, but have not reached an agreement yet on the constitutional frameworks to do so. A more pressing problem is the frequent fighting between the militias despite the ceasefire. The government has not been able to integrate the militias into the national army. In the east, Mr. Haftar’s troops remain a parallel institution. Libyan authorities do not have any other option but to bring together all factions, including the rump of the old regime, to build a stable state free of civil strife. But any attempt to ensure a peaceful transition would depend on the readiness of the country’s new elite to set aside their factionalism and join hands to rebuild the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/transition-incomplete/article36329661.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengal Council||The discussion on the Women Franchise resolution was resumed at the Bengal Council today. The debate which lasted a little over two hours was practically one-sided. Of the 12 speakers today, only one supported and the rest opposed the motion. They opposed the resolution mainly on the ground that the proposal was premature , inexpedient, impractical and its utility not proved. All the amendments having been withdrawn, the original motion was put to the vote and negatived, 37 voting for and 56 against it. The Bengal Legislative Council also resolved to send to the Viceroy a deputation consisting of the Finance Member, one Minister and two official members to present the financial difficulties of Bengal and claim Special Finance help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bengal-council/article36329675.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Lucknow floods||More than 25,000 people have been affected by the unprecedented floods in Lucknow in which at least 20,000 people have been moved to safer places in the joint rescue and evacuation operations by the civil and army authorities, an official spokesman of the Uttar Pradesh Government said to-day. The spokesman told newsmen that the level of river Gomti was still rising and authorities were taking all steps to meet the situation. Shortly before midnight to-day, the level was 112.23 metres, 1.70 metres more than the danger mark of 110.53 metres, which the river had crossed yesterday. Arrangements were under way to evacuate residents from 91 more mohallas. So far, 58 mohallas had been cleared. The official spokesman said rivers Ghaghra, Tons, Sarju, Gomti, Ganga and Saraini were reported to be constantly threatening Barabanki, Azamgarh, Bahraich, Gonda, Lucknow, Jaunpur, Sultanpur, Varanasi and Sitapur districts. In all, 27331 villages in 50 districts had been affected by the floods and heavy rains. Besides the 20,000 people shifted to safer places, more than 2,000 cattle have been removed to dry places. At least 14 evacuation camps have been opened. Besides accommodating the evacuees in public buildings like schools and colleges, arrangements for providing rations, kerosene and firewood had been made. With the 11 more fresh cases of deaths reported from various districts of the State, the death toll has risen to 237 according to the latest official flood bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lucknow-floods/article36329676.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Council to mull capacity-based GST on sectors seeing evasion||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council is likely to consider a ministerial group’s report on introducing a differentiated regime for sectors where tax evasion is very high, such as brick kilns, sand mining, and gutkha and pan masala production, even as experts have urged caution about such carve-outs. The Council, which will meet physically, for the first time since the pandemic’s onset, on September 17 in Lucknow, had earlier constituted a Group of Ministers (GoM) to consider demands of some States to tax these products based on production capacity rather than output and introduce Special Composition schemes. Tax evasion is high in these sectors — for instance, Rs. 830 crore of evasion was detected at a single pan masala unit earlier this year. The 7-member GoM, convened by Odisha Finance Minister Niranjan Pujari, is tasked with examining the feasibility of a capacity-based tax regime and other alternatives to plug tax leakages. “The biggest risk of extending a capacity-based or composition scheme to such sectors is twofold — it goes against the very edifice of GST as one of the objectives was to ensure buoyancy in revenues with increase in sales volumes,” Atul Gupta, senior director at Deloitte India, said, adding it could open the floodgates for such demands from other sectors, like textiles. “It will not be easy to implement... and it may not even yield the desired result of curbing evasion, the main reason for which is extremely high tax rates,” said Rajat Bose, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co. Such a levy “ gives the wrong signal to an honest taxpayer by conceding that Revenue authorities are not competent to check evasion and... puts a premium on tax evasion,” Mr. Gupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/council-to-mull-capacity-based-gst-on-sectors-seeing-evasion/article36329933.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Second wave’s easing, vaccinations spell hope’||The tapering of the second wave coupled with an aggressive vaccination drive has brightened the near-term prospects for the economy, Sundaram Finance Ltd. (SFL) chairman S. Viji said on Monday. Addressing the AGM, Mr. Viji said that the adverse economic impact of the second wave may be limited to the first quarter of FY22. On the global chip shortage, he said pandemic-driven lockdowns in East Asia compounded the challenge. “This, coupled with relatively high input prices of fuel and commodities, presents the risk of a dampener to the upcoming festival season,” he cautioned. MD Rajiv Lochan said infrastructure, rural and farm sectors were witnessing unprecedented investments following the government’s push and SFL expected it to lead to growth opportunities in construction-equipment and tractor segments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/second-waves-easing-vaccinations-spell-hope/article36329929.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Murugappa turnover rises 9.5% to Rs. 41,713 cr.||The turnover of the Murugappa Group rose 9.5% to Rs. 41,713 crore in FY21 while net profit surged by almost 53% to Rs. 4,500 crore. Profit after tax, excluding profit from stake sale in group firms, grew by 26% to Rs. 3,713 crore, the group said. EID Parry accounted for Rs. 4,400 crore in net sales, Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Rs. 4,388 crore, Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Rs. 9,584 crore, Tube Investments of India Rs. 5,827 crore, Coromandel International Rs. 14,145 crore, Carborundum Universal Rs. 2,604 crore and other businesses Rs. 765 crore, according to a statement. The aggregate capital expenditure on expansion, modernisation, debottlenecking and digitalisation infrastructure, excluding M&As, reduced from Rs. 1,009 crore to Rs. 445 crore following challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Free cash flow Manufacturing entities generated a free cash flow of Rs. 5,059 crore (Rs. 1,903 crore). These entities reduced loan outstanding of Rs. 2,148 crore, leading to an improvement in total debt equity from 0.47 times as on March 31, 2020, to 0.20 times as on March 31, 2021, the group said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/murugappa-turnover-rises-95-to-rs-41713-cr/article36329930.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Tower firms face big hit if Vodafone Idea folds up’||Vodafone Idea’s financial troubles have wide-ranging implications for the telecom industry with the mobile tower sector faced with the prospect of substantial tenancy losses if the beleaguered operator is forced to shut down operations, ratings agency ICRA warned in a note on Monday. “VIL has been under financial stress as reflected by mounting losses and burgeoning debt levels, which is likely to impact its financial lenders as well as Government, apart from having a bearing on its employees, its subscribers and associated industries, most prominently towers,” ICRA said. It added that in case of a VIL exit, tower firms might see about 1,80,000 tenancies falling vacant. Of these, only 40-50% were expected to be regained by the tower companies as tenancies over a period of 18-24 months, the agency said. There are about 5.5 lakh towers and each tower can have multiple tenancies. Stressing that government support was ‘critical’, ICRA urged an extension of moratorium on spectrum dues beyond FY2022 as a relief measure that would aid both, the industry and VIL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tower-firms-face-big-hit-if-vodafone-idea-folds-up/article36329936.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||NMDC cuts ore prices by Rs. 1,000/tonne||Mining major NMDC has reduced prices of iron ore Lump and Fines by Rs. 1,000 a tonne, respectively. Effective September 4, the new prices are Rs. 6,150 per tonne for Lump Ore and Rs. 5,160 for the same quantity of Fines, the company said in a filing on Monday. This is the third month in a row the country’s largest iron ore producer has reduced the prices. In July, NMDC had reduced the prices by Rs. 200 per tonne, for both Lump and Fines. The next month it slashed the price of Lump by Rs. 300 a tonne to Rs. 7,150 and that of Fines by Rs. 200 to Rs. 6,160.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-cuts-ore-prices-by-rs-1000tonne/article36329931.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. must constitute GST tribunal: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said the government had no option but to constitute the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Appellate Tribunal. The tribunal has not been constituted even four years after the central GST law was passed in 2016. “You have to constitute a Tribunal,” a Special Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana told the government. The court was hearing a petition by advocate Amit Sahni. He said Section 109 of the GST Act mandates the constitution of the Tribunal. He added, “citizen aggrieved ... are constrained to approach respective High Court” and the same was overburdening the work of the High Courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-must-constitute-gst-tribunal-sc/article36329937.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,||TMB files DRHP for Rs. 1,000 cr. IPO||The 100-year-old Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Ltd. has filed a Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP) with markets regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to raise funds through an initial public offering (IPO). According to the DRHP, the bank would issue up to 1,58,40,000 equity shares of face value of Rs. 10 each. The share sale is expected to raise up to Rs. 1,000 crore from the primary market. The offer will comprise fresh issue of 1,58,27,495 equity shares and existing shareholders will offload 12,505 equity shares through offer-for-sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tmb-files-drhp-for-rs-1000-cr-ipo/article36329938.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maruti vehicles get pricier by up to Rs. 21,000||Maruti Suzuki India on Monday announced a 1.9% increase in prices of almost its entire range of vehicles. “The company announced a price change for select models owing to increase in various input costs,” Maruti Suzuki said in a filing with the exchange. “The weighted average price increase in ex-showroom prices (Delhi) across select models is 1.9%,” the company added. The move would result in an increase of about Rs. 4,000-Rs. 21,000 depending on the model. This is the company’s fourth price rise this year due to increase in input costs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-vehicles-get-pricier-by-up-to-rs-21000/article36329934.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Hetero’s copy of COVID-19 drug Tocilizumab gets EUA from DCGI||Hetero’s generic version of Tocilizumab has received emergency use authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/heteros-copy-of-covid-19-drug-tocilizumab-gets-eua-from-dcgi/article36329952.ece
07 September 2021||Tokyo,||Indian para-athletes conjure an incredible and inspiring show||Inspirational, incredible and indomitable. India’s paralympians managed to be all these and much more in an epoch-making campaign at the Tokyo Games where an unparalleled 19 medals, including five gold, helped them sign off 24th in the overall tally — the highest ever. The tally also included eight silver and six bronze medals but most importantly, it was a performance during which history was scripted almost everyday with the contingent living up to the ‘Spirit in Motion’ motto of the Games. Even on the last day of competitions, the medal rush did not stop and Krishna Nagar won a gold after Noida’s District Magistrate Suhas Yathiraj signed off his brilliant run with a silver to complete a remarkable badminton show. Icing on the cake The duo’s performance was like icing on the cake for the contingent which found new heroes, celebrated some established ones and brought para-sports firmly into spotlight in India. In all, 54 came to Tokyo and 17 of them left with medals around their necks. It was an improved performance no doubt but calling it just improvement would be an understatement given that India’s overall Games haul was a mere 12 before this edition. To put things in perspective, at the 2016 Rio Games, India had 19 athletes across five disciplines with four returning with medals in the end. “Phenomenal Rise of Indian Paralympians! A New Era has Begun,” said sports minister Anurag Thakur. Several firsts There were several firsts to celebrate and the euphoria lasted the entire duration of the Games. Two athletes, shooters Avani Lekhara and Singhraj Adana, finished on podium twice, creating their own legacies in their debut Paralympics. The 19-year-old Lekhara became the first Indian woman to win a Games gold (10m air rifle) and later added a bronze in 50m rifle 3 positions to ensure that her name would now be part of every India-centric Paralympic quiz. It was an inspiring show by the teenager who was paralysed waist down after being injured in a car accident in 2012. And to think of it, all her father had hoped to achieve by taking her to the shooting range was for Lekhara to get over the anger she had internalised after the accident which left her wheelchair-bound. She was fittingly India’s flag-bearer at the closing ceremony, an honour that she had earned with a stupendous performance. The 39-year-old Adana, on the other hand, was a late bloomer after taking a liking to the pistol while dropping his nephew to the range. His right hand impaired, Adana knocked off a 10m air pistol bronze and 50m pistol silver to ensure that India had more than one double-medallist in the same Games for the first time ever. Medals in archery There was the first medal in archery through Harvinder Singh (bronze), impaired after wrong medication for dengue, the first medal in table tennis by waist-down paralysed Bhavinben Patel (silver) and also a remarkable two gold medals in badminton through short of stature Nagar and a polio-stricken Pramod Bhagat. Another shooting star was Manish Narwal, all of 19, already a world champion and now a Paralympic champion as well. Narwal’s right hand is impaired and he originally wanted to be a footballer but fate had other plans for the Lionel Messi fan. Not to mention the legends — Devendra Jhajharia (javelin throw) and Mariyappan Thangavelu (high jump). The two long-time flag-bearers of Indian para-sports, who won gold medals in 2016 Rio, and finished on podium again, this time with silver medals, cementing their place among all-time greats of Indian sports. Bigger than their medals were the circumstances they beat like every athlete that they competed against. So if Lekhara found her strength with a rifle in her hand after a car accident, Jhajharia, at 40 and with an arm lost to electrocution as a child, showed what longevity truly means in sport. Nearly half (8) of India’s haul this time came from the track-and-field arena with javelin thrower Sumit Antil shining the brightest with a gold en route which he shattered his own world record five times over. Antil was pursuing a career in wrestling before a bike accident led to the amputation of his left leg, changing the course of his life forever. At 18, Praveen Kumar became India’s youngest medallist with a silver in high jump which came with an Asian record for the debutant, whose left leg is impaired. Another shinning star was Sundar Singh Gurjar, who finished behind Jhajharia in javelin throw. In fact, all of them, even the ones who didn’t win a medal, are a personification of fortitude, having braved and beaten circumstances that were difficult at best and improbable at worst.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-para-athletes-conjure-an-incredible-and-inspiring-show/article36329657.ece
07 September 2021||CHENNAI,||A positive atmosphere: Anand||Led by five-time World champion Viswanathan Anand, the Indian chess team appeared in high spirits ahead of the second World online chess Olympiad here. The Olympiad will be held from September 8 to 15. Winner of the last online edition, the 12-member Indian side (barring P. Harikrishna, who is in Prague, K. Humpy, and D. Harika (who are in their respective cities, Vijayawada and Hyderabad) has been put up in a city hotel and will play the tournament from the hotel. “I found it difficult playing at home last time. This time we are all together on the same floor [of the hotel] and the atmosphere is very positive,” said Anand, at a press conference here on Monday. Strong teams On India’s chances in Group-B, with countries such as France, Belarus, Moldova, Slovenia, Egypt, Sweden and Hungary, China and Azerbaijan in the fray, Anand said: “It is better if we do not let expectations get ahead of us. All teams are strong. We have to be on guard,” he said. There are forty teams in the Top Division and the top two teams from four groups will make it to the play-off stage (quarterfinals). Humpy, India’s top woman player, said after having won the tournament (along with Russia) last time, “there are a lot of expectations from us. We have to start from the beginning and enjoy the game. I am sure we will achieve success.” According to All India Chess Federation (AICF) secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan, there were quite a few internet issues in the first online World Olympiad last year. “This time, Microsense being the best in the business is providing the facilities. Internet will not be an issue here,” he said. AICF president Sanjay Kapoor said he is determined to “change the profile of chess through our various programs. COVID-19 came in between, but nothing can stop us,” he said. Microsense managing director S. Kailasanathan said: “Hopefully things would turn out to be the best for us.”  The Indian team: Viswanathan Anand, Vidit Gujarati, P. Harikrishna, B. Adhiban, Nihal Sarin, K. Humpy, D. Harika, Tania Sachdev, Bhakti Kulkarni, R. Vaishali, R. Praggnandhaa & Savitha Shri .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-positive-atmosphere-anand/article36329940.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Experience with reversing the ball did the trick: Bumrah||In a Test that witnessed many notable performances, it was Jasprit Bumrah’s inspired spell after lunch on the final day that swung the contest India’s way. At the post-match conference, skipper Virat Kohli praised the pace spearhead. “As soon as the ball started reversing a bit, Jasprit said ‘just give me the ball’. He bowled a six-over spell and got us two breakthroughs which completely shifted the momentum to our side,” said Kohli. Speaking about that decision and his spell, Bumrah said, “Obviously it was very important to create pressure. I went up and told him that I think we should start well and try to create pressure. “We needed to start really well because if suddenly you give a lot of runs, the momentum goes away and you come under pressure. You wouldn’t want to be playing catch up then,” said Bumrah. About bowling on a flat pitch with little assistance for the bowlers, Bumrah explained, “The ball was reversing a little bit but not like how it does in India. So we thought that since we have bowled a lot with the reversing ball, we have to try out that option and it worked in our favour.” Workload Commenting on his workload, the 27-year-old said, “When you are playing a Test, you don’t realise what has been done before, or how many overs you have bowled, because the important thing is to do the job for the team. “I work really hard on my fitness because I want to play cricket for a long period of time. “That is why I work hard in the gym, work hard with my diet, and everything I can try and control. “Keeping that in mind, I know I have got the ammunition in me... whenever I have to push, I can push for the team. That was the thing I was focusing on and not on the workload.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/experience-with-reversing-the-ball-did-the-trick-bumrah/article36329893.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||TT robot facilitated by SAI made the difference: Bhavina||When the COVID-19 pandemic derailed her preparations for the Paralympics, table tennis player Bhavina Patel found a perfect practice partner in a robot provided by the Sports Authority of India, an assistance which she feels, made all the difference in her historic silver-winning show in Tokyo. She credited her success to the TT Robot (Butterfly - Amicus Prime, which cost Rs. 2,73,500) and an Ottobock Wheelchair (costing Rs. 2,84,707). “I got a robot through SAI TOPS (Target Olympic Podium Scheme). It has many advanced features like you can get strokes from different angles. ‘Good variations’ “So, I got good variations from it in my game. It improved my game a lot. Besides, the TOPS gave us other equipment like racquets,” Bhavina told PTI in an interview after returning from Tokyo. Made in Hungary, Amicus Prime claims to be the best ping pong robot available with 21 pre-saved drills and ball frequency of up to 120 per minute. “During the pandemic time (lockdown), my husband arranged a table for me at home only. That time my coach got me a second hand robot with which I used to practice but after that I got the SAI robot in February-March 2020,” she said. She also spoke in detail about the huge difference the robot made in enhancing her game. “My strokes got stronger after playing with the robot. I used to play 5000 balls in a day with the robot. The ball control and placements increased a lot, spin control, cut control also enhanced. All these differences came because of that robot,” she elaborated. Bhavina also credited her family, especially her husband Nikunj Patel, a former junior level cricketer for Gujarat. “...he backed me to the hilt, pushed me saying ‘you can do this and you have to do his because after seeing you many athletes will come forward, you have to become their inspiration’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tt-robot-facilitated-by-sai-made-the-difference-bhavina/article36329648.ece
07 September 2021||Kathmandu,||Team still has a lot to prove: Stimac||The Indian football team’s head coach Igor Stimac feels the side “has a lot to prove and many points to improve on” despite heading back home unbeaten in the two international friendlies against Nepal. After a 1-1 draw in the first friendly, India notched up 2-1 win in the second game against Nepal on Sunday thanks to second-half strikes by Farukh Choudhary and skipper Sunil Chhetri. Need to congratulate  “We need to congratulate the players on their attitude and their willingness to go and win the game,” Stimac said at the post-match press conference. “I especially need to appreciate my players because they were much more patient, waiting for the first goal, to open up the Nepali defence, and as you know, when that happens, everything is much easier. “But I think India still has a lot to prove and many points to improve on,” he added. Stimac felt that both sides put up better performances in the second match. “I think it was a good game of football that all the fans could enjoy. This second game was much better than the previous one. Rising confidence “After we scored the first goal, we started rising with confidence and playing as we need to play. I think overall India were the better of the two sides over the two games, and deservedly are going forward with a win,” he said. Commenting on the hosts’ performance Stimac said: “Nepal played well, they improved a lot. I can see how much it means to the team when it has two months of preparation.”  I think it was a good game of football that all the fans could enjoy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-still-has-a-lot-to-prove-stimac/article36329650.ece
07 September 2021||ROME,||Shubhankar finishes tied 12th||India’s Shubhankar Sharma reserved his best for the final round as he turned in a sizzling five-under 66 to sign off tied 12th at the DS Automobiles Italian Open golf. On fire Starting the final day with a bogey, Shubhankar was on fire from the fifth. He had seven birdies in the next holes from fifth to 13th and looked set for a top-10 finish. But back-to-back bogeys on the 14th and 15th set him back before he finished with a birdie on the 18th for 66. At 8-under, Shubhankar finished five shots off the winner, Nicolai Hojgaard. Nicolai held off a strong pack to claim his maiden European Tour title with a one shot victory. His twin brother Rasmus finished 18th. The Danish 20-year-olds became the first brothers to win back-to-back events on the European Tour after Rasmus Hojgaard won last week’s Omega European Masters in Switzerland. Nicolai came into the final round with a one shot lead and had found himself two clear on the back nine before back-to-back bogeys at the 14th and 15th wiped out his advantage and left him level with Tommy Fleetwood and Adrian Meronk going down the last. He arrived at the 18th tee knowing he needed a closing birdie to win, and he did just that — holing from three feet to finish the tournament on 13 under par and clinch his maiden victory at this level, with Rasmus joining him on the green to celebrate. Meronk and Fleetwood finished in a share of second place on 12 under just one shot behind Højgaard after posting rounds of 66 and 71 respectively.  Nicolai and his twin Rasmus became the first brothers to win back-to-back events on the European Tour||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shubhankar-finishes-tied-12th/article36329653.ece
07 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Time to focus on winning Asian Games’||India men’s hockey team skipper Manpreet Singh said it’s time to stop basking in the glory of their historic bronze medal at the Tokyo Games and start focussing on qualifying for the Paris Olympics by winning next year’s Asian Games. The Indian team has been showered with accolades since returning home following a bronze-medal winning feat at Tokyo, a medal that broke India’s 41-year-old jinx at the Olympics. Busy calendar It’s been a month since the Indian men’s team beat Germany 5-4 in the third place play off and Manpreet said it’s time to start planning for a busy 2022 calendar. “I think these past few weeks have been great with people showering us with all their love and praises. Now, I feel it’s time we rest our bodies and mind,” the India skipper said in a release issued by Hockey India. “We have enjoyed all the felicitations, the honour and accolades we received has been overwhelming but now we must start thinking about how to better ourselves for the 2022 calendar.” With the all-important Asian Games scheduled to be held in Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China from September 10 to 25 next year, the team’s top priority will be to qualify for the Paris Olympics by winning the gold at the continental tournament. “Last time, we ended up with a bronze and lost out on winning the automatic qualification. “We were lucky to have the FIH Olympic qualifying matches in India. But we can’t depend on the same again,” he said. “The best would be for us to qualify by winning the Asian Games, so it gives us the right amount of time to prepare for 2024 Olympics.” While the men’s team won the bronze, the women’s side also finished at a creditable fourth place at Tokyo and Manpreet believes their Olympic performance will only increase the popularity of the sport. New beginning “I truly feel this is a new beginning for Indian hockey. With the women’s team too doing so well at the Olympics, hockey is witnessing the same kind of support it once had. “I was told many people from different professions woke up early to see our matches just like they would back in the glory days when Indian hockey fans would stay glued to the radio to hear the commentary. “I feel this fanbase we have earned after the Olympics is great for the sport in general and now it is on us to give these fans bigger and better feats to ensure their supports continues and the popularity of hockey grows further.” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/time-to-focus-on-winning-asian-games/article36329655.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||UEFA concerned over FIFA’s push for biennial World Cups||UEFA president Aleksander Ceferin has “grave concerns” about FIFA’s plans to stage World Cups every two years and is astonished by the lack of consultation by Gianni Infantino’s governing body, according to correspondence obtained by The Associated Press on Friday. Responding to a letter from Football Supporters Europe executive director Ronan Evain, Ceferin backed the group’s “extremely valid and important” concerns about the potential damage caused to domestic and regional competitions from doubling the frequency of World Cups. New rift The push by Infantino to transform the international calendar so every year would feature a men’s or women’s World Cup is opening up a new rift with UEFA at a time when the financial impact of the pandemic is being felt across global football. “UEFA and its national associations also have serious reservations and grave concerns surrounding reports of FIFA’s plans,” Ceferin wrote to Evain in the letter seen by the AP. The plans first surfaced in May when Saudi Arabia’s national federation nominally proposed at the congress in May for FIFA to explore biennial men’s and women’s World Cups — despite not having a women’s team to compete in international events. The Saudis have emerged as one of the closest allies of Infantino, who has made at least two visits this year to see Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. While FIFA says it is in a consultation phase still, Infantino has been deploying Arsene Wenger to push the case. The former Arsenal manager is now chief of global football development at FIFA, advancing views at odds with those from his previous career. Changing view While Arsenal manager, Wenger complained about the African Cup of Nations being held every two years — especially as it disrupted the European season. “For years now, we have asked them to organize this cup at least every four years and during the summer,” Wenger said in 2005. “But it’s still every two years and during the winter. I don’t know why.” In 2012, Wenger reiterated: “I would rather plan without an African Nations Cup every two years.” Wenger has been making the case in the media, but Ceferin claims not to have had the same presentations from FIFA. “Considering the major impact this reform may have on the whole organisation of football,” Ceferin wrote, “there is widespread astonishment that FIFA appears to be launching a PR campaign to push its proposal whilst any such proposals haven’t been presented to confederations, national associations, leagues, clubs, players, coaches, clubs and all the football community. “As one concrete example amongst so many, it is imperative to highlight the concerns shared across the footballing world regarding the impact a biennial FIFA World Cup would have on the international match calendar and, prominently in this context, on women’s football.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uefa-concerned-over-fifas-push-for-biennial-world-cups/article36329659.ece
07 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Good start by JFC, Bengaluru United||ISL outfit Jamshedpur FC began its Durand Cup campaign on a winning note, downing I-League side Sudeva Delhi FC by a solitary goal in a Group B match at the Mohun Bagan ground on Monday. Second division side FC Bengaluru United won its Group A contest, beating 10-man CRPF 1-0 at the Kalyani Stadium. Jamshedpur went ahead in the 34th minute through Tata Football Academy graduate, Lalruatmawia. The Steelmen held on to the slender lead for the rest of the encounter as Sudeva failed to convert its chances. Subho Paul, the FC Bayern Munich under-19 world squad player in the Sudeva ranks, squandered a fine opportunity to equalise when his attempt from the penalty spot in the 61st minute was saved by Jamshedpur goalkeeper Vishal Yadav. Spanish striker Pedro Manzi found the target in the 63rd minute to secure full points for Bengaluru United. CRPF was reduced to 10 men in the 72nd minute when goalkeeper Moses Antony was sent off for handling the ball outside the box.  The results: Group A: FC Bengaluru United 1 (Pedro Manzi 63) bt CRPF 0.   Group B: Jamshedpur FC 1 (Lalruatmawia 34) bt Sudeva Delhi FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-start-by-jfc-bengaluru-united/article36329941.ece
07 September 2021||GREATER NOIDA,||It’s Abhishek vs Velavan in final||Fourth seed Abhishek Pradhan subdued the top seed Abhishek Agarwal 11-7, 9-11, 11-4, 10-12, 11-5 in the men’s semifinals of the HCL PSA Challenger squash tournament at the Shiv Nadar University on Monday. It will be a repeat of the Chennai event, as Abhishek will take on third seed Velavan Senthilkumar in the final. Velavan maintained his undefeated streak in the last two tournaments with a straight-game victory over Rahul Baitha. In the women’s section, top seed Sunayna Kuruvilla was stretched to five games by third seed Urwashi Joshi, who recovered from the brink of defeat in the third game to prolong her fight. Sunayna prevailed 11-9, 11-9, 11-13, 7-11, 11-8. In the final, Sunayna will face the second seed and the champion of the last event in Chennai, Tanvi Khanna. In their thriller last meeting, Tanvi had tamed Sunayna 15-13 in the fifth game in the Chennai final last month. Tanvi conserved her energy for the final, as she eased past Anjali Semwal in straight games in the semifinals.  The results (semifinals):   Men: Abhishek Pradhan bt Abhishek Agarwal 11-7, 9-11, 11-4, 10-12, 11-5; Velavan Senthilkumar bt Rahul Baitha 11-4, 11-8, 11-8.   Women: Sunayna Kuruvilla bt Urwashi Joshi 11-9, 11-9, 11-13, 7-11, 11-8; Tanvi Khanna bt Anjali Semwal 11-8, 11-5, 11-5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-abhishek-vs-velavan/article36329947.ece
07 September 2021||Mumbai,||Shastri, Arun, Sridhar to miss decider||Head coach Ravi Shastri, bowling coach B. Arun and fielding coach R. Sridhar were confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 after returning positive RT-PCR tests on Monday. Physiotherapist Nitin Patel tested negative. All four support staff members had been in isolation after Shastri’s lateral flow test had returned positive on Saturday — the other three were deemed close contacts of the head coach. The development has put the last Test of the series, scheduled to start in Manchester on Friday, in slight doubt, with both the ECB and BCCI, as well as the team managements, treading cautiously.  The Hindu has learnt that with the three coaches starting to develop mild symptoms, all of India’s squad members underwent a lateral flow test and the RT-PCR test before the start of the last day’s play at the Oval. Just like on day 4, India was allowed to take the field on Monday only after everyone cleared the lateral flow test. The India camp fears that the number of those infected could increase in the coming days — especially given that at least one of the coaching staff members had used the recovery table in the dressing room on the third day before it was used by the players.  Meanwhile, Rohit Sharma and Cheteshwar Pujara were off the field after undergoing scans on the “left knee” and “left ankle”, respectively, according to the team management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shastri-arun-sridhar-to-miss-decider/article36329873.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Missile man reaches a milestone||As Jasprit Bumrah reached wicket No. 100, in only his 24th Test, it was time to travel back to the start of an incredible journey. Six five-wicket innings hauls and a strike-rate of 50.90 (before the ongoing Test) underline the 27-year-old spearhead’s potency. Sometimes you’ve got to be present at the spot to comprehend the significance of a decision. Ahead of the India-South Africa Test at Cape Town, the first Test of the 2018 series, the chatter was about the inclusion of Bumrah in the eleven. There were forceful points made either way. “He has not played enough First Class cricket. How will he bowl long spells,” asked some. There were others, including the Indian team-management, who were willing to back Bumrah for his sheer explosiveness; ambling across to the crease and unleashing thunderbolts. Here was a bowler who had an unusual action. And the batsmen were picking him late. Unique bowler Indeed, he was a unique bowler. Despite the load-up being far and away from the body, his arm was so high and upright at the point of release. He could be used judiciously, in short bursts, in Tests. The decision was made. Bumrah made his Test debut at Cape Town. And his three for 39 in the second innings encapsulated his qualities as a bowler. Crucially, he added additional dimension to the attack with his freakish pace and unsettling bounce. Along with Mohammed Shami he brought in velocity and craft to the Indian bowling. Bumrah was striking the batsmen on the body, on the knuckles and the helmet with his nasty bounce from a good length and just short of it. He was softening up the opposition. By the time the year 2018 ended with the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne, Bumrah had a whopping 48 wickets to his name. India made history by triumphing twice in Test series Down Under and pace legend Glenn McGrath marvelled at how Bumrah’s pace did not drop even when he ran in late for his final spell. The fiery Bumrah brings in the X-factor with him. And he’s as dangerous as they come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bumrah-has-burst-through-the-test-scene-and-how/article36329874.ece
07 September 2021||New York,||Teens Alcaraz and Fernandez continue to cause a flutter||Spanish 18-year-old Carlos Alcaraz, who upset Greek third seed Stefanos Tsitsipas, reached his first Slam quarterfinal by downing 141st-ranked German qualifier Peter Gojowczyk 5-7, 6-1, 5-7, 6-2, 6-0. Alcaraz, ranked 55th, is the youngest US Open men’s quarterfinalist since Brazilian Thomaz Koch in 1963. The Spaniard will face Canadian 12th seed Felix Auger-Aliassime, who beat American Frances Tiafoe 4-6, 6-2, 7-6(8), 6-4. Canadian teen Leylah Fernandez followed her shock upset of 2020 US Open winner Naomi Osaka by defeating German 16th seed and three-time Grand Slam champion Angelique Kerber 4-6, 7-6(5), 6-2. “That’s going to be a very tough match,” Fernandez said. Second seed Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus eliminated Belgian 15th seed Elise Mertens 6-4, 6-1. Sabalenka will next face Czech eighth seed Barbora Krejcikova, who beat Garbine Muguruza 6-3, 7-6(4). Switzerland’s Belinda Bencic, the Olympic gold medallist, defeated Iga Swiatek 7-6(12), 6-3 to make the last eight for the third time. Russian second seed Daniil Medvedev defeated Daniel Evans 6-3, 6-4, 6-3, making his fourth trip to the last eight in the past five Grand Slams as he chases his first Slam title. Medvedev next faces 117th-ranked Botic Van de Zandschulp, who outlasted Argentine 11th seed Diego Schwartzman 6-3, 6-4, 5-7, 5-7, 6-1 in four hours and 20 minutes. Alexander Zverev made it to the quarterfinals with his 15th straight victory. The No. 4 seed from Germany beat 13th-seeded Jannik Sinner 6-4, 6-4, 7-6(7). Zverev started his winning streak at the Olympics, where he beat Novak Djokovic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/teens-alcaraz-fernandez-continue-to-cause-a-flutter/article36329879.ece
07 September 2021||Sao Paulo,||Brazil-Argentina clash suspended||Luis Enrique shook up his team and got the result he wanted as Spain beat Georgia 4-0 in World Cup qualifiers. The game against the modest rival had become an almost must-win affair for Spain after its disappointing loss at Sweden on Thursday that cost it first place in Europe’s Group B. The victory in Badajoz on Sunday left Spain with 10 points in the group. Sweden has nine, but also has two more games to play. The cheers of the Wembley crowd made clear the affection for Bukayo Saka the moment the England lineup was announced. There were even louder roars to come when the birthday boy headed in the final goal in a 4-0 win over Andorra.  England has a five-point lead in Group I over Wednesday’s next opponent, Poland, which routed San Marino 7-1. Robert Lewandowski scored twice in the opening 21 minutes. There was also a hat trick from Adam Buksa, with two of his goals coming at the end in stoppage time. Romelu Lukaku celebrated his 100th international with a goal as Belgium opened up a six-point lead after a 3-0 win against the Czech Republic. Gareth Bale earlier scored a hat trick — including two penalties and a last-minute winner — as Wales beat Belarus 3-2 in Europe’s Group E on Sunday. Belgium leads the group with 13 points. The Czechs are second with seven, a point ahead of third-place Wales which has played two fewer games.  The results: Group B: Spain 4 (Gaya 14, Soler 25, Torres 41, Sarabia 63) bt Georgia 0; Kosovo 1 (Muriqi 90+2) drew with Greece 1 (Douvikas 45+2).   Group C: Bulgaria 1 (Chochev 82) bt Lithuania 0; Switzerland 0 drew with Italy 0.   Group E: Belarus 2 (Lisakovich 29-pen, Sedko 31) lost to Wales 3 (Bale 6-pen, 69-pen, 90+3); Belgium 3 (Lukaku 8, E. Hazard 41, Saelemaekers 65) bt Czech Republic 0.   Group I: Albania 1 (Broja 87) bt Hungary 0; England 4 (Lingard 18, 78, Kane 72-pen, Saka 85) bt Andorra 0; San Marino 1 (Nanni 48) lost to Poland 7 (Lewandowski 5, 21, Swiderski 16, Linetty 44, Buksa 67, 90+2, 90+4).   Group J: Iceland 2 (Bjarnason 78, Gudjohnsen 84) drew with North Macedonia 2 (Velkovski 12, Alioski 54); Romania 2 (Tosca 11, Manea 18) bt Liechtenstein 0; Germany 6 (Gnabry 6, 15, Reus 35, Werner 45, Hofmann 52, Adeyemi 90+1) bt Armenia 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spain-runs-riot-against-georgia/article36329882.ece
07 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Rich tributes paid to Olympian Hakim||Rich tributes were paid to Olympian and former Indian football coach S.S. Hakim who passed away recently, at a condolence meeting at the Telangana Olympic Bhavan. D.M.K. Afzal, Asian Games gold medal winning team member, said he was privileged to be associated with such a highly respected player and a coach like Hakim. “He belonged to an era where the sport was played with sheer passion. Donning the country’s colours was deemed to be the highest honour and privilege,” Afzal said. Sports Authority of Telangana State chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy recalled the contribution of Hakim, son of the great football coach S.A. Rahim during whose tenure the golden era was witnessed, as a player and an administrator. “He was not only a wonderful player but also a very outspoken personality. “He never feared to find fault with the system if anything went wrong,” Reddy said. Prof. K. Ranga Rao, senior official, Athletics Federation of India and also one of the founder members of the then AP Football Association, said Hakim was always approachable for any suggestions and was passionate in reviving the past glory of the game in Telangana. Former international Aleem Khan and Telangana Olympic Association secretary K. Jagdishwar Reddy were among those who also spoke. Hakim’s family members were assured support of any kind from the authorities.  Hakim’s family members were assured support of any kind from the authorities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rich-tributes-paid-to-olympian-hakim/article36330220.ece
07 September 2021||Los Angeles,||United States held to a draw again||The United States was held to a second consecutive draw in CONCACAF qualifiers for the 2022 World Cup on Sunday as Alphonso Davies helped Canada grab a 1-1 draw in Nashville. Coach Gregg Berhalter’s US side was forced to settle for a 0-0 draw against El Salvador on Thursday.  It was a frustrating night for the US, who had dropped Juventus’s Weston McKennie shortly before the game started for a breach of team Covid-19 protocols.  The results: At Kingston: Jamaica 0 Panama 3 (Andrade Cedeno 14, Blackburn 39, Waterman 81).   At San Jose: Costa Rica 0 Mexico 1 (Pineda 45+1-pen).   At San Salvador: El Salvador 0 Honduras 0.   At Nashville: United States 1 (Aaronson 55) Canada 1 (Larin 62) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-states-held-to-a-draw-again/article36330302.ece
07 September 2021||Hyderabad:,||Moonlight Ruby claims Hyperion Plate||Mr. Jatin L. Trivedi’s Moonlight Ruby (Neeraj up) claimed the Hyperion Plate, the main event of Monday’s (Sept. 6) races. The winner is trained by Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  1. SILVER PHANTOM PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): JEAN LAFETTE (R. Ajinkya) 1, Burano (Ashad Asbar) 2, Bandit King (A.A. Vikrant) 3 and Miss Little Angel (Trevor) 4. 1, Nk and Nk. 1m 14. 64s. Rs. 60 (w), 15, 14 and 72 (p). SHP: 41, THP: 145, FP: 311, Q: 127, Tanala: 14,410. Favourite: Galwan. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  2. HELEN OF TROY PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): WATCH MY STRIDE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Trump Star (Ajeeth Kumar) 2, Hard To Toss (Deepak Singh) 3 and Sea Wolf (B. Nikhil) 4. 2-3/4, 1/2 and 2. 1m 14. 46s. Rs. 32 (w) 14, 17 and 20 (p). SHP: 41, THP: 61, FP: 227, Q: 139, Tanala: 1,808. Favourite: Ashwa Raudee. Owners: Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  3. HYPERION PLATE (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): MOONLIGHT RUBY (Neeraj) 1, Able Love (B. Nikhil) 2, Zamazenta (C. Umesh) 3 and Zeus (Trevor) 4. 1, 1/2 and 3-1/2. 1m 28. 76s. Rs. 64 (w), 16, 14 and 67 (p). SHP: 43, THP: 117, FP: 263, Q: 82, Tanala: 9,358. Favourite: Zeus. Owner: Mr. Jatin L. Trivedi. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  4. HILL FORT PLATE (Div.I) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): STAR BABE (Rohit Kumar) 1, Sheldon (Trevor) 2, Big Day (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Red River (R.S. Jodha) 4. Not run: Silver Set. 1, 1 and 2. 1m 15. 76s. Rs. 22 (w), 11, 13 and 35 (p). SHP: 45, THP: 72, FP: 85, Q: 46, Tanala: 576. Favourite: Star Babe. Owner: Mr. Ch. Naga Nancharayya. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  5. HIDDEN BLOOM PLATE (1,600m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat.III): MORINGA (Trevor) 1, N R I Touch (Akshay Kumar) 2, Grand Finale (A.A. Vikrant 3 and Forever Bond (R. Laxmikanth) 4. Not run: Flying Jet. 2-3/4, 5-1/4 and 1-1/2. 1m 41. 76s. Rs. 22 (w), 12, 14 and 18 (p). SHP: 42, THP: 48, FP: 91, Q: 53, Tanala: 280. Favourite: Moringa. Owners: Mr. Champaklal Zaveri, Mrs. Bindu C. Zaveri rep. Zaveri Stud Farm Private Limited, Miss. Harsha N. Desai & Miss. Niti N. Desai. Trainer: L.V.R Deshmukh.  6. HILL FORT PLATE (Div.II) (1,200m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III): TOP IN CLASS (Akshay Kumar) 1, Flamingo Fame (Trevor) 2, California Beauty (G. Naresh) 3 and Ice Berry (C.P. Bopanna) 4. 1-1/2, 1/2 and 2-1/4. 1m 15. 94s. Rs. 34 (w), 17, 12 and 24 (p). SHP: 46, THP: 64, FP: 102, Q: 38, Tanala: 360. Favourite: Flamingo Fame. Owners: Mr. Mirza Ayub Baig, Mr. Sudheer Reddy, Mr. Mohammed Abdul Wajid Khan & Mr. Satyanarayana Reddy Pannala. Trainer: S.S.F. Hassan. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 10,326 (39 tkts.), 30% 825 (209 tkts.). Treble: (i) 2,088 (19 tkts.), (ii) 284 (321 tkts.). Mini Jackpot: 2,652 (34 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/moonlight-ruby-claims-hyperion-plate/article36329945.ece
07 September 2021||Dubai,||Bumrah nominated for ICC monthly award||India pace spearhead Jasprit Bumrah was on Monday nominated for the ICC ‘Player-of-the-Month’ award for August, following his brilliant performances with both the bat and ball in the ongoing Test series against England. Besides Bumrah, the others in the men’s category included England Test skipper Joe Root and Pakistan pacer Shaheen Afridi, the ICC announced. The nominees among the women were Thailand’s Nattaya Boochatham, and the Ireland duo of Gaby Lewis and Eimear Richardson. Bumrah, who has been exceptional against England, took nine wickets in the first Test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bumrah-nominated-for-icc-award/article36329875.ece
07 September 2021||Sao Paulo,||Brazil-Argentina clash suspended amidst drama||On a day overshadowed by the shocking suspension of the superclasico between Brazil and Argentina because of breaches of COVID-19 restrictions, Uruguay and Colombia added key points in South American qualifying for the World Cup. The Uruguayans thrashed Bolivia 4-2 at home to move into fourth place with 12 points after eight matches. Colombia had a 1-1 draw at Paraguay. It was Colombia’s third consecutive draw, but enough for Reinaldo Rueda’s lineup to stop Paraguay moving into fifth spot in the standings. The top four teams in South American qualifiers get direct spots at next year’s World Cup in Qatar, and the fifth-placed team will go into an intercontinental playoff. FIFA will decide the future of the qualifier between competition-leading Brazil and second-place Argentina. Their match was stopped after 7 minutes with a 0-0 score when local health authorities walked onto the field in a bid to remove three England-based Argentina players who they believe should have been in quarantine rather than playing in Sao Paulo. Brazil leads the pack with 21 points from seven matches, followed by Argentina with 15. Also on Sunday, Ecuador was held to a 0-0 draw by Chile. Peru beat Venezuela 1-0 with a goal by Christian Cueva in the 35th from the edge of the box.  The results: Brazil v Argentina suspended, Ecuador 0 drew with Chile 0; Paraguay 1 (Sanabria 40) drew with Colombia 1 (Cuadrado 53-pen); Uruguay 4 (De Arrascaeta 15, 67-pen, Valverde 31, Alvarez Martinez 47) bt Bolivia 2 (Martins 59, 84-pen); Peru 1 (Cueva 35) bt Venezuela 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brazil-argentina-clash-suspended-amidst-drama/article36329881.ece
07 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengal T20 Challenge from today||The Anustup Majumdar-led Kanchenjunga Warriors will take on the Sudip Chatterjee-led Barrackpore Bashers in the first match of the Bengal T20 Challenge, starting at the Eden Gardens on Tuesday. The first match, beginning at 4.30 p.m., will be followed by the duel between Durgapur Dazzlers and Krishnanagar Challengers at 8 p.m. The matches will be played at 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. from Wednesday till the league phase. The tournament will be streamed live on the Fancode app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengal-t20-challenge-from-today/article36330430.ece
07 September 2021||Atlanta,||Cantlay delivers another clutch moment||Patrick Cantlay was on the verge of losing his two-shot lead on one hole, with nothing less than the FedEx Cup, the $15 million prize and his newfound reputation as “Patty Ice” on the line. He was clutch as ever in his biggest moment Sunday in the Tour Championship. Cantlay made a nervy 6-foot bogey putt on the 17th hole to stay one shot ahead of Jon Rahm going to the par-5 18th hole at East Lake. Then, he hit his longest drive of the week — 361 yards down the middle — with Rahm already in the fairway. The final shot was a 6-iron from 218 yards to 12 feet — the closest of anyone all day — that all but clinched the one-shot victory, the FedEx Cup and perhaps even PGA Tour player of the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cantlay-delivers-another-clutch-moment/article36329651.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Indrajith’s double ton helps Rovers gain five points||B. Indrajith produced a brilliant counter-attacking 218 off just 168 balls (16x4, 10x6) to help Jolly Rovers take the first innings lead against UFCC (T. Nagar) on the final day of the second-round of the TNCA first division here on Monday. Rovers was in a spot of bother at 52/3 chasing 193 before Indrajith and R. Sonu Yadav (50) stitched together a 172-run partnership for the fourth wicket. At CPT-IP, the second day’s play between India Pistons and Globe Trotters was called off at lunch without a ball being bowled due to wet ground conditions.  The scores: Grand Slam 321/9 in 90 overs (S. Radhakrishnan 46, Bhargav Merai 119, Adithya Ganesh 51, Abhishek Tanwar 66, W. Antony Dhas 5/73) drew with Nelson 176/4 in 44.1 overs (Shoaib Mohd. Khan 106 n.o., Sumant Jain 41). Points: Nelson 1 (6); Grand Slam 1 (2). ( Note: As the first innings was unfinished, both team gets a point each).   India Pistons 220/2 in 61.5 overs (Himanshu Rana 138 n.o., S. Guru Raghavendran 47 n.o.) vs Globe Trotters.   Pistons 1 (2); Trotters 1 (2).   IOB 148 drew with Vijay 224/4 in 69.1 overs (S. Lokeshwar 58, V. Ganga Sridhar Raju 81).   Vijay 5 (10); IOB 1 (2).   MRC-A 260 in 84.4 overs (B. Anirudh Sitaram 81, R. Sanjay Yadav 46, G. Kishoor 5/67) drew with Swaraj 254 in 79.2 overs (R.S. Mokit Hariharan 96).   MRC-A 5 (6); Swaraj 1 (2).   UFCC (T Nagar) 193 drew with Jolly Rovers 362/6 in 66 overs (B. Indrajith 218, R. Sonu Yadav 50).   Rovers 5 (10); UFCC 1 (6).   Young Stars 285 in 90 overs (Wilkins Victor 101, Vignesh S. Iyer 72) drew with Madras CC 170 in 61.1 overs (Ashwin Venkatraman 42, Naushad Shafi Shaikh 56, S. Mohan Prasath 4/61). Young Stars 5 (6); Madras CC 1 (6) .    Anupama Ramachandran moved into the round of 16 in the St. Gobain-S.A. Faheem Memorial all-India 6-red snooker tournament here on Monday.  The results:   Anupama (SSA) bt Shoaib (QBC) 4-2; Keerthana (Kar) bt Sasi (CZ) 4-1; Varsha (Kar) bt Dinesh (Coimb) 4-2; Daksh Reddy (MCC) bt Venkatesan (RSPB) 4-3.   Rakesh (SSA) bt Harish (SSA) 4-2; George Fernandez (SSA) bt Rafath Habib (RSPB) 5-0; Saleem (SSA) bt Loganathan (TNBSA) 5-0, Shrikrishna (PSPB) bt Hassa (TNBSA) 5-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indrajiths-double-ton-helps-rovers-gain-five-points/article36330005.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Harshdeep Hans stars for Jai Maa Ambey||Harshdeep Hans (4/20) scripted Jai Maa Ambey Academy’s 138-run victory over DC. Raghav Academy in the 15th Hari Chand memorial (u-17) tournament here.  The scores:   Jai Maa Ambey Academy 227 in 45 overs (Akash 46, Riyan Alam 31, Saurav Godiyal 3/41) bt D. C. Raghav Academy 89 in 25 overs (Garvit Grover 48, Harshdeep Hans 4/20).      Harshit Aneja’s unbeaten 78 set the tone for S.B. Youth’s eight-wicket victory over West Delhi Academy in the Sonex (u-15) tournament.  The scores:   West Delhi Academy 115 in 32 overs (Gaurav Sharma 52, Aman Goswami 4/19) lost to S.B. Youth 118/2 in 21 overs (Harshit Aneja 78 n.o.t out, Priyanshu Chahal 30).      Arnav Bugga’s all-round effort (4/19 and 53) helped Lal Bahadur Shastri Club beat Yug Cricket Academy by five wickets in the Push Academy (u-13) league. In the other matches, Yuzi Chahal Academy, Ravinder Fagna and Push Dahiya Academy emerged victorious.   The scores:   Yug Cricket Academy 184 in 39.1 overs (R.D. Singh 63, Arnav Bugga 4/19) lost to Lal Bahadur Shastri Club 185/5 in 36.5 overs (Arnav Bugga 53, Sartaj Yadav 33).   Yuzi Chahal Academy 362 in 39.1 overs (Aayush Bhardwaj 158 n.o., Tanmay Singh 48, Raunak Ghosh 6/40) bt Push Tulip 72/9 in 24.3 overs (Kishan Bhandari 6/3).   Ravinder Fagna 209/4 in 40 overs (Sameer Khan 98, Harsh Kumar Singh 51 n.o.) bt Mahesh Cricket Academy 126 in 35.4 overs (Chander Chauhan 60, Mohammad Shanib 3/26).   Push Dahiya 246/4 in 40 overs (Rounak Modi 94 n.o., Rivaan Veer Bhayana 55) bt Maple Cricket Coaching 83 in 29.1 overs (Aryan Gogu 33, Akshat Parashar 4/13).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harshdeep-hans-stars-for-jai-maa-ambey/article36330069.ece
07 September 2021||Alappuzha:,||Second win for BK 55 CC||BK 55 CC, Thalassery, defeated Masters CC, Thiruvananthapuram, by five wickets to record its second successive win in the Byju’s KCA Club Championship at the SD College ground on Monday. Vineeth Manoharan scored a half-century (54) to anchor the chase as BK 55 CC overhauled a target of 127 with seven balls to spare. In another match, Tripunithura CC defeated Ernakulam CC by 52 runs by the VJD method. Chasing 181 for a win, ECC was 97/7 in 15.1 overs when rain stopped play.  The scores: Masters CC, Thiruvananthapuram, 126/9 in 20 overs (J.Ananthakrishnan 39, Sijomon Joseph 32, Akhil Anil 3/18) lost to BK 55, Thalassery, 130/5 in 18.5 overs (Vinoop Manoharan 54, M.N. Neeraj 32).   Tripunithura CC, Ernakulam, 180/4 in 20 overs (M.S. Akhil 77 no, Abdul Basith 54) bt Ernakulam CC, Ernakulam, 97/7 in 15.1 overs (C.H. Abhiram 40).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/second-win-for-bk-55-cc/article36330303.ece
07 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||AP handball team||The Andhra Pradesh girls team to take part in the 44th junior Nationals to be held in Uttar Pradesh from Sept. 8 to 12 was named.  The team: D. Swathi, D. Rakhi, Durga Rani, Shilarbhi, U. Tulasi, K. Salomi, K. Rupa, D. Indira, G. Manasa, Sk. Nagurbhi, K. Namratha, P. Durga Devi, N. Naga Prasanna, Manasa, J. Sailaja, A. Rohini. Coach: K. Naga Raju; Assistant coach: B. Sri Harshavardhan; Manager: A. Jhansi Rani .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ap-handball-team/article36330434.ece
07 September 2021||ISLAMABAD,||Misbah and Waqar resign||Misbah-ul-Haq and Waqar Younis have quit their coaching roles with Pakistan a month before the T20 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates. The Pakistan Cricket Board said on Monday that it had appointed former Test players Saqlain Mushtaq and Abdul Razzaq as interim coaches for the home limited-overs series against New Zealand that starts this month, and for the two T20Is against England in October. Head coach Misbah cited long periods spent in a bio-secure bubble during matches as the reason, while Waqar preferred to leave as they had both joined at the same time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/misbah-and-waqar-resign/article36329949.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Nammazhvar’s influence||Nammazhvar is special among the Azhvars, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Nammazhvar authored four works. His Thiruviruttam with hundred verses gives us the essence of the Rg Veda; Thiruvasiriyam gives the essence of the Yajur Veda. Peria Thiruvandadi gives the essence of the Atharva Veda. Thiruvaimozhi gives the essence of the Sama Veda. His works are not translations of the Vedas into Tamil. What he gives us through his works is what we need to attain moksha. Vedas tell us what yagas we have to perform to obtain wealth, what yagas we should perform to have longevity and so on. But these are worldly matters, and are not about reaching the feet of the Lord. So Nammazhvar does not dwell on these portions of the Vedas, but only talks of Vedanta in his works. He says in Thiruvaimozhi, that the Lord gave mati (jnana) and got rid of mayarvu (ajnana). This jnana culminated in bhakti. In Vedartha Sangraha, Ramanujacharya shows that the highest state of jnana is bhakti. Nammazhvar says that if you assert that God exists, He exists. If you say that He does not exist, He still exists! If you say there is no pot, it means that there is perhaps no pot at some place, or that the potter has run out of pots to sell. It does not mean pots do not exist at all. You cannot talk about something that does not exist. So, what happens if someone asks, “So would I be right if I said rabbits have horns?” The answer would be that while the claim itself is absurd, the fact remains that the words used to make the claim refer to existing objects. There are rabbits in the world, and horns exist too. It is just that there is no interrelation between the two. Nammazhvar’s verses were a great influence on Ramanujacharya, when he explained the philosophy of Visishtadvaita.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/nammazhvars-influence/article36329724.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 10:23 IST,||Sudoku — September 7, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-7-2021/article36331363.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Maya in the Himalayas||Filmmaker Sanal Kumar Sasidharan is on cloud nine after his movie, Kayattam, won the first ‘Disruptor in Cinema’ award at the Indian Film Festival of Melbourne. “It comes as a shot in the arm,” he says. “We had to take many risks to shoot Kayattam the way I had conceptualised it. However, because of the pandemic, we were unable to screen it in theatres or promote it the way we would have liked to. This award is definitely a morale booster and an honour.” Both the jury and viewers were impressed by the way the film — nominated for the Kim Ji-seok Award at 2020’s Busan Film Festival and screened in the Malayalam Cinema Today section of the International Film Festival of Kerala — moves away from a conventional narrative to explore philosophical aspects of the quest for happiness and identity in a surrealistic manner. The ‘smart’ choice A seamless fusion of fantasy and fact, Kayattam, s tarring Manju Warrier (as Maya), was shot completely on an iPhone XS Max. And with the pristine wilderness of the Himalayas as its backdrop, it explores the male gaze, voyeurism, identity, and ego through a group of strangers trekking in the snow-covered mountains. As the trip progresses, the trekkers’ personalities unravel, their insecurities surface, and their egos take a beating. Sasidharan says the theme demanded a location like the Himalayas, but the terrain also made it difficult to shoot with a large team. “The weather kept changing every hour. Rain and snow would be followed by weak sunshine. Our location was so remote that we had to trek for an hour with our equipment to reach the place,” he recalls. “Since we have the technology to shoot with minimal equipment, we decided to tap its potential and work with an iPhone. Our cinematographer, Chandru Selvaraj, did a great job in framing the story,” he says. They used a video camera stabiliser cage filmmaking rig to shoot. “Even in inclement weather, we were able to capture panoramic shots and close-ups with the phone. Most smartphones have an inbuilt stabiliser and it is possible to attach mics to it. Many films are shot with phones and I am happy with the way Kayattam shaped up,” he says. Behind the illusion This is Sasidharan’s third film to be shot in the Himalayas. “ Kayattam explores the philosophical theme of m aya [illusion] and b rahmam [divine power]. It is a sort of extension of my first film [ Oraalppokkam , whose heroine was also named Maya] to understand the mysticism of ‘ m aya ’ and what we think is reality,” he says, adding that the film could be seen as the journey of life — when people meet as strangers and then find themselves in different kinds of relationships on their search for identity and happiness. “It assumes significance because of the violent times we live in, when every event is viewed through a narrow perspective of selfish interests. We experience happiness, and unhappiness, when we fail to understand that what is happening is m aya .” Not one to believe in bound scripts — he has often talked about having just an outline ready, with perhaps 15 pages in all — he prefers to let a film flow with the situation and the location. It was the same with Kayattam . When the cast and crew were marooned in a remote village after a landslip, cinematographer Selvaraj was able to capture the destructive face of nature and its aftermath. Interestingly, the team also developed a new language, A’hr Samsa — to ‘vocalise’ subtext in the film that could be unfathomable. “I made it to convey the idea of a group of people who had moved beyond the emotions of joy and sorrow. They travelled without any kind of baggage, emotional or physical,” he says. The song ‘ Isthko ’, composed by Sasidharan in A’hr Samsa and sung by Warrier, was released recently. Into the forest Currently, Sasidharan is working on new scripts and the post production of his Tovino Thomas-starrer, Vazhakku . Co-produced by Thomas, the film — co-starring Kani Kusurthi and Sudev Nair — explores once again the theme of an individual and his interactions with the world. “Tovino and I have been speaking for some time and he was keen on working with me. That is how we got together for Vazhakku , which was shot in a forest,” Sasidharan concludes.  Even in inclement weather, we were able to capture panoramic shots and close-ups with the phone Sanal Kumar Sasidharan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/maya-in-the-himalayas/article36330344.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Kashish 2021: At South Asia’s biggest LGBTQ film festival||Mohini: Men in Sarees is one of the 200-plus films screened at the 12th edition of the Kashish Film Festival, dedicated to LGBTQIA+-themed films from across the globe. It is also one of two films I watched where the mythological figure of Mohini is invoked — the other being Tales of Another Radha , which focusses on the philosophy of the Bauls, a musical and religious nomadic group from Bengal. Mohini is the feminine avatar of Lord Vishnu, which makes her an important and oft-invoked symbol in the LGBTQIA+ canon. So while the windows into queer cultures in Mexico, the U.K. and Argentina were quite interesting, it’s the Indian contingent that I had my eye on. Sudipto Kundu’s Tales of Another Radha is about how the Bauls of Bengal view Radha and Krishna. We are shown how certain statues show the two locked in an embrace, with an ‘Om’ between them — and made in such a way that Radha has certain traditionally masculine attributes while Krishna has some feminine ones. The Sikh stereotype Of course, as fascinating and instructive as these gender-fluid traditions are, there are important films that choose to focus on the very real, and quite horrific instances of discrimination and violence (both physical and mental) visited upon LGBTQIA+ communities. For example, Sukhdeep Singh’s documentary Sab Rab De Bande is about the Sikh LGBTQIA+ community and it has more than a few heartbreaking testimonies. Sikh men, of course, are traditionally not allowed to cut their hair; in orthodox homes this is a huge no-no. In Sab Rab De Bande , we meet Ritika Shergill, a Sikh trans woman, who had to trick her parents into letting her cut and style her hair. And even after she underwent hormone therapy and a sex reassignment operation, she was lured under false pretences by her parents into a de-addiction centre, where she was locked in with 70-odd cis men. The films at Kashish, therefore, remind us that broad-strokes assessments of queer cultures can miss out on some crucial nuances, things that have to be heard from the horse’s mouth, so to speak.  The Kashish Mumbai International Queer Film Festival concluded on September 5. mumbaiqueerfest.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kashish-2021-at-south-asias-biggest-lgbtq-film-festival/article36330347.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||For these students, the entrepreneurship journey begins with Rs. 1K||As a part of a pilot project of the Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum introduced by the Delhi government, 41 students studying at the Delhi government’s School of Excellence in Khichripur were given Rs. 1,000 each as seed money and asked to start business ventures of their own. On Monday, the 41 students — who were divided into nine groups — presented the success of their nine business endeavours that had managed to make a profit over the past few months. Some business models were based on talents or hobbies that the students possessed while were profit making enterprises, which were born out of a need that arose during the pandemic. Rs. 2,000 seed money Judging from the skills developed by the students by creating real-life ventures, the Delhi government is set to extend the pilot programme titled Business Blasters from September 7 to every government school where every child studying in Class XI and XII will be given seed money of Rs. 2,000 and will be mentored towards developing an “entrepreneurship mindset”. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the purpose of the programme was to create job providers and not job seekers. He said the pilot project has shown how the children by investing their seed money pick up skills that will help them in life and that they will never have to stand in line for a job. “About 3.5 lakh children will be involved in this project. The purpose is to inculcate the belief in children that whatever work they do, they should do it with an entrepreneurial mindset. Students will be prepared to invest, get rid of their fear of starting a business and earn profit. Most importantly, even if they do not make profit, then they should learn to face their failures,” Mr. Sisodia said. He added that in the last 5-6 years, the infrastructure of Delhi government schools has improved and teachers have been trained but the real achievement would be when these students emerge with an entrepreneurial mindset after completing education. Sharing their experiences, students said the project had taught them that giving up was not an option. Students said they did not need an out of the box idea to start a successful business but could instead go with a simple idea. Aryan Kharbanda, who was a part of a group of five students who started Ionalts — a digital pooling solution — said they invested their seed money of Rs. 5000 to purchase subscriptions to various OTT platforms and some special educational platforms and then rented them out to others at lower prices. “The high cost of monthly subscription of OTT platforms and in specific educational platforms, many can’t afford the subscription. The project provides it at a lower cost so that everyone can enjoy the content and learn,” the students said. ‘Profit of over Rs. 20,000’ Students who came up with another business plan — Divine Creations — said they had turned their investment of Rs. 2000 into a profit of Rs. 24,750 by selling handmade paintings depicting the cultural diversity of India. Another venture Mobisite started selling refurbished mobile phones to those who could not afford new phones and converted their seed money of Rs. 8000 into a profit of Rs. 21,960.   Purpose of the programme was to create job providers and not job seekers. About 3.5 lakh children will be involved in this project. The purpose is to inculcate the belief in children that whatever work they do, they should do it with an entrepreneurial mindset Manish Sisodia Deputy CM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/for-these-business-blasters-the-growth-curve-began-from-rs-1000/article36330095.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNU starts phased reopening of campus||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar on Monday said since the university has students from across the country, and many of them might be living in areas where COVID-19 is still prevalent, it was not advisable to let a large number of people inside the campus. The university started a phased reopening of the campus from Monday, allowing on campus final-year PhD research scholars who have to submit their thesis by the end of this year. Students have been demanding a complete reopening of the university as the Delhi government has allowed educational institutions to open. The JNUSU has given a call for an indefinite sit-in at the Dean of Students office and has appealed to the student community to participate in the protest. They have sought immediate allotment of hostels, the meaningful phase-wise opening of the campus, universal vaccination and improvement in hostel and health infrastructure. In a Facebook Live interaction with JNU student, Professor R.P. Singh, Rector 3 of the university, said COVID monitoring committee of the university will be discussing opening up of the campus for terminal year students of Masters courses who have to complete their studies, especially those who need to access labs for practicals or who have to submit their dissertations. JNU said registration for the monsoon semester will start from September 20 and end on October 3, while the classes will begin from October 4. The university also plans to conduct its convocation at the end of the month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-starts-phased-reopening-of-campus/article36330097.ece
07 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Farmers’ rally refreshed memories of riot-ridden rule’||The show of strength by farmers in Muzaffarnagar on September 5 refreshed memories of the riot-ridden rule of the Congress and the Samajwadi Party, said Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, referring to the deadly communal violence that shook the western Uttar Pradesh district eight years ago (2013). While the Congress-led UPA was ruling at the Centre, Akhilesh Yadav was the Chief Minister when violence broke out in Muzaffarnagar and nearby districts, polarising communities along religious lines and causing displacement of thousands of residents, mostly Muslims. Ms. Mayawati, however, said the slogans of “Hindu-Muslim brotherhood” for “communal harmony” raised from the platform of the gathering — a reference to chants of Allah-hu-Akbar and Har Har Mahadev raised by Rakesh Tikait — had shown that the “political fields sown with hate” by the BJP had started to slip away. ‘Will help heal wounds’ She tweeted, “This will definitely provide a little help in healing the deep wounds of the horrific riots that happened under the SP government in 2013 but will also make many others uncomfortable”. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring States on Sunday gathered in Muzaffarnagar for the Kisan Mahapanchayat and vowed to continue their stir till the three agriculture laws were scrapped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-rally-refreshed-memories-of-riot-ridden-rule/article36330079.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Metro saw 23 lakh passenger journeys daily in Aug.’||The average number of passenger journeys on the Delhi Metro network in August has increased to around 23.36 lakh following a relaxation in guidelines that permitted a 100% seating capacity inside coaches. The number of people penalised for not following COVID-19 protocol also saw a spike with over 13,000 commuters being fined by the flying squads. Due to lockdown In the past 18 months, services on the Delhi Metro were disrupted at least twice with passenger operations being first suspended on March 22 last year due to the COVID-induced nationwide lockdown. Services resumed on September 7 last year before being disrupted again in May this year due to the second wave of the pandemic. According to relevant guidelines, travel was permitted with alternate seating and standing with social distancing in place. Following a phased resumption of services, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation had also deployed flying squads across the network to ensure relevant COVID protocols. “The flying squads were deployed across the network to randomly check inside trains for any kind of violations and counsel people to refrain from doing so for their own and everyone’s safety,” said a DMRC official. A fine of Rs. 200 is imposed on commuters who are found to be flouting norms, said DMRC. The highest ridership that the Delhi Metro saw, since the first lockdown, was in March this year when over 26.81 lakh passenger journeys were recorded. According to data provided by the DMRC, the number of fines imposed in March this year was 7,058. Between September 2020 and March this year, the Delhi Metro network saw a gradual increase in the number of passenger journeys recorded, from around 12.25 lakh in October last year to 25.55 lakh passenger journeys in February this year. However, with the onset of the second wave and before services got suspended on May 10 this year, the Delhi Metro network saw around 14.07 lakh passenger journeys in the month of April. Despite the dip in the number of passenger journeys, around 8,735 commuters were fined by the flying squads in April this year as compared to the 2,823 fines imposed in February when the passenger journeys were comparatively higher. In the Delhi Metro network, which spans over approximately 391 km, currently standing travel continues to be prohibited. However, according to government guidelines, 100% seating capacity is permitted and passengers can be seated next to each other. According to officials, this has lowered the carrying capacity of each metro coach from 300 passengers per coach to 50 passengers per coach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/metro-saw-23-lakh-passenger-journeys-daily-in-aug/article36330091.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Neighbours arrested for killing man over ‘keeping pigs as pets’||A 35-year-old man was shot dead and his friend injured in Shahdara’s GTB Enclave on Sunday night, the police said on Monday. Two of the victim’s neighbours — Rocky and Vicky — have been arrested in connection with the case, they said. DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said the deceased has been identified as Vikas from Khera Village. His cousin Suresh is said to be critical. Ongoing tussle Victims’relatives — Sandeep Chandoliya — and Vicky have been at loggerheads for many years. Mr. Chandoliya pets a pig to which Vicky’s family has objected. “Chandoliya family has always reared pigs because it's a tradition for them. Vicky’s family asked Chandoliyas to stop petting pigs,” the DCP said. In April last year, the two families quarrelled over the matter and leveled allegations of physically hurting each other. A case was registered and members of both sides were arrested and subsequently released on bail. In October last year, Vicky’s family lodged a complaint on the matter with the municipal corporation and ensured Chandoliyas didn’t pet a pig, the police said. Next, the police said the two families thereon continued with their fights. In April this year, they quarreled again and legal action was taken against both sides. The two families continued to verbally trigger each other after that, police said. On Sunday night, the two sides fought again at 11 p.m. and the accused committed the crime using a countrymade pistol, Mr. Sathiyasundaram said. While Vikas sustained a gunshot in his shoulder, Suresh got injured in the abdomen. Vikas was declared dead and Suresh is undergoing treatment. A case on charges of murder and an attempt to murder was registered based on a complaint by Mr. Chandoliya. Vicky used to work with a bank as a cheque collection agent till May this year but is currently unemployed. Rocky runs an eatery stall outside GTB Hospital. Vikas was a sanitation worker at a city hospital and injured Suresh is a bad character in the area, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/neighbours-arrested-for-killing-man-over-keeping-pigs-as-pets/article36330098.ece
07 September 2021||New DELHI,||North-east riots case: Umar Khalid withdraws bail plea, files fresh one||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid — arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots case — has withdrawn his bail application and filed a fresh one after the Delhi Police objected to its maintainability. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat asked the police to respond to the fresh bail application and posted the matter for further hearing on September 8. Mr. Khalid’s fresh application was filed after Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, representing the police, submitted that the court hearing the plea is a special court designated under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and therefore exercises all powers that are before the Court of Magistrate within the rigours of section 437 of CrPC. Senior advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Mr. Khalid, argued that the application seeking bail under section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been substituted with the one under section 437 as the police objected to it. Mr. Prasad objected to the fresh plea that purportedly accused the prosecution of adopting “dilatory tactic”. “In the interim application you have filed, you have made certain allegations that the objections taken by the prosecution are dilatory tactics. Therefore, to paint the prosecution by saying that it is dilatory tactics is not fair,” the prosecutor said. Mr. Khalid, arrested on September 13, 2020, is facing charges under the UAPAfor allegedly being one of the ‘masterminds’ and one of the main conspirators as well as instigators behind the riots that happened in north-east Delhi last year. Last week, Mr. Khalid had contended that the charge sheet against him contain hyperbolic allegations without any factual basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/north-east-riots-case-umar-khalid-withdraws-bail-plea-files-fresh-one/article36330086.ece
07 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Shillong groups hold ‘knife surrender’ rally||The knives were literally out for Conrad K. Sangma’s National People’s Party-led coalition government in Meghalaya on Monday evening. An umbrella body of civil society groups in State capital Shillong took out a ‘knife surrender’ rally to protest the government’s failure in suspending senior police officers responsible for the killing of former extremist leader Cheristerfield Thangkhiew in an alleged fake encounter on August 13. The umbrella body is called Ka Sur Ki Nong Mawlai. Its constituents are from the large Mawlai area of Shillong where Thangkhiew was killed. The knives surrendered to the local authorities were symbolic of the sharp weapon the police claimed Thangkhiew had used in attacking them. By this action, they wanted to call the alleged bluff of the police. Police version The police had said they shot Thangkhiew at his residence in self-defence as he had pulled out a knife and attempted to attack the personnel. Local groups have since been demanding action against the senior police officers, including two Superintendents of Police, but the government ordered a judicial probe instead. The protestors said the rally was also against the show-cause notice served by the administration of the East Khasi Hills district on six leaders of the umbrella body for holding public gatherings in violation of COVID-19 protocols. On the day of Thangkhiew’s funeral (August 15), parts of Shillong witnessed sporadic incidents of violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shillong-groups-hold-knife-surrender-rally/article36330077.ece
07 September 2021||New DELHI,||Umar Khalid withdraws bail plea, files fresh one||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid — arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots case — has withdrawn his bail application and filed a fresh one after the Delhi Police objected to its maintainability. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat asked the police to respond to the fresh bail application and posted the matter for further hearing on September 8. Mr. Khalid’s fresh application was filed after Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, representing the police, submitted that the court hearing the plea is a special court designated under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and therefore exercises all powers that are before the Court of Magistrate within the rigours of Section 437 of CrPC. Senior advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Mr. Khalid, said Section 439 of the CrPC has been substituted with Section 437.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/umar-khalid-withdraws-bail-plea-files-fresh-one/article36330414.ece
07 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Cong. forms panel for paper mill workers||The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee on Monday constituted a panel to look into the matters of the employees of two mills of the Hindustan Paper Corporation Limited (HPCL) closed since October 2015. The panel, headed by Lok Sabha Member Pradyut Bordoloi, was formed following an eviction notice served by the HPCL’s liquidator to the occupants of the residential quarters of the two mills – one in Morigaon district’s Jagiroad and the other in Haikandi district’s Panchgram. “The panel members had an interaction with the representatives of the Nagaon Paper Mill (Jagiroad) employees and took note of their long-standing problems and the government’s failure to honour its commitment to revive the mills,” State Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said. The Congress alluded to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s repeated election promises to rejuvenate the paper mills, which were instead intended to be auctioned off. No bidder turned up for the auction in June. “The notice by Kuldeep Verma, the liquidator, is ridiculous, preposterous and devoid of any compassionate reasoning,” Mr. Bordoloi said. The Joint Action Committee of Recognised Unions also termed the eviction notice illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-cong-forms-panel-for-paper-mill-workers/article36330082.ece
07 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU practical classes for final-year students to start from September 15||The Delhi University on Monday said laboratory and practical classes for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students will be permitted in the offline mode from September 15 with a maximum 50% working capacity of classrooms or laboratories. DU Registrar Vikas Gupta said a principle of rotation will be followed and only a limited number of experiments, exercises or practicals, that are considered essential for the semester, will be selected. The varsity also said that physical presence will be left optional for students to decide. “Since the physical entry of students is voluntary, attendance shall not be compulsory. Final-year students may also be allowed to join for academic consultation and placement purposes as per the decision of the head of the institution. However, it should be ensured that students npt more than 50% of the seating capacity, should be present any point,” the statement read. The university reopened libraries from Monday and said in situations where the seating arrangements were not adequate, issuing of books to students will continue on a “regular basis”. “The colleges, departments or centers ma also consider giving prior date-time-slot appointments to the students before allowing them to visit the library in order to avoid overcrowding,” the notification said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-practical-classes-for-final-year-students-to-start-from-september-15/article36330092.ece
07 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha govt. to spend Rs. 100 cr. on ‘iconic’ school||The Odisha government plans to set up an ‘iconic’ school at an investment of Rs. 100 crore. The proposed school, according to the government, is likely to help create role models in varied fields with students expected to crack all-India examinations. It will have a total of 1,000 students — 500 each in Classes 11 and 12. Meritorious students drawn from all corners of the State will get an opportunity to study in it, which will be set up on 25 acres on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. The school will have features such as language laboratory, smart classes, mathematics and high-technology computer application centre. Qualified resource persons will impart education. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik laid the foundation stone for the school on Sunday. “This iconic school will become a milestone in school education in the State,” he said. Vision document Also, Odisha Adarsh Vidyalayas (OAV), which have been set up at block headquarters to provide free quality education in English to students, are set to be reinvented. Each one will prepare a 10-year vision document or a road map highlighting what it will achieve in 10 years. According to the new strategy, all OAVs will be green campuses and comply with net zero emission standards by 2025.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-govt-to-spend-rs-100-cr-on-iconic-school/article36330081.ece
07 September 2021||new delhi,||HC tells govt. to take steps for hybrid hearings||The High Court on Monday made it clear to the Delhi government that if the proposal to set up infrastructure for hybrid hearings in trial courts and quasi-judicial bodies is turned down on grounds of expenditure, then it will examine expenses incurred by it on subsidies and public advertisements since April 2020. While directing the Delhi government to take expeditious steps to provide proper infrastructure for the purpose, the HC said it was mindful that the authorities incur huge money on subsidies and advertisements. It said the pandemic was not yet over and there was a need to adopt technology as access to justice cannot be denied to citizens and expenditure incurred on the project should be considered as essential. ‘Absolutely essential’ “We don’t want it to shuttle like a shuttle cock. We need the system. Courts are not able to cope. Don’t consider it as a wasteful exercise. The pandemic is not yet over, you prioritise the expenditure. This is not wasteful or entertainment expenditure. It is not for luxury, it is absolutely essential. We have to adopt this technology,” a Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said. The High Court was hearing two pleas seeking hybrid hearings in district courts in view of the COVID-19 threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-tells-govt-to-take-steps-for-hybrid-hearings/article36330087.ece
07 September 2021||September 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to the base||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/back-to-base/article36330100.ece
07 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Plantation drive to mark Pilot’s birthday||In a massive show of strength, supporters of former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot undertook a tree plantation drive in all the 200 Assembly constituencies of Rajasthan on Monday on the eve of his birthday. Mr. Pilot, born in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur town in 1977, will turn 44 on Tuesday. On the occasion, a target was set to plant at least 10 lakh saplings across the State in two days. Mr. Pilot’s loyalists claimed that this would be a “new record” for the State, where 6.11 lakh saplings were planted by a team of volunteers in Dungarpur district in 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plantation-drive-to-mark-pilots-birthday/article36330076.ece
