08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC agrees to adjourn hearing of pleas for Pegasus case probe||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to the Central government’s request to adjourn the hearing of petitions for an independent probe into allegations of the government using Israeli-based Pegasus spyware to snoop on citizens. A three-judge Bench, headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, pushed the hearing to September 13 after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said he could not meet with officials to discuss the issue. He indicated that the government may file an affidavit in the case, and he needed time to meet the officials concerned. In August, the government filed a two-page affidavit denying “all and any allegations”. “Haven’t you already filed an affidavit?” the CJI referred to the August affidavit. Mr. Mehta submitted that the court had left it open for the government to file another, detailed affidavit, if necessary. The court issued pre-admission in the case on August 17. In fact, on that day, the government argued against a public hearing of the case, citing national security concerns. It asked the court, instead, to allow it to form an independent committee of experts to look into Pegasus snooping reports. New committee “As a responsible government, we are submitting that we will form a committee of neutral experts, whose report will be placed before the Supreme Court… I repeat, it is not my case that I will not divulge anything. All will be revealed before the committee… Let me do that before a committee… Permit us to form a committee… We will place its report before the Supreme Court itself,” Mr. Mehta had told the court. The court had, however, made it clear that there was no question of compromising on national security. “We are not going to ask you to divulge anything that will harm the defence of the nation… We are extremely reluctant to say anything on that. But the question here is that there are some persons of eminence who have come here, saying there has been interception of their phones… That can be done, but with the permission of the competent authority… What is the problem if that competent authority filed an affidavit before us? In the affidavit, we don’t want a single word on any aspect that relates to the security of the nation... All we are saying is that we are issuing simple notice… Let the competent authority say to what extent what information can be disclosed,” Justice Surya Kant had explained. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for petitioners and veteran journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, had said, “The security of the State is as important to the citizen as it is to the State”. He expressed his dissatisfaction with the government’s two-page affidavit in August. For one, he said it was filed by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and not the MHA, which authorised surveillance under the law. Second, the affidavit skipped the part on whether the government or its agencies used Pegasus at all. Third, he said, if the government did not get the time to study the petitions and reply to them, then the court should give them the time. Fourth, he countered that the affidavit did not even say whether the “facts and contentions” in the pleas were right or wrong. “Finally, and most importantly, we do not want a government who might have used Pegasus to form a committee of experts to inquire into the issue. As far as I am concerned, the issue is simple. If the government says they have used the Pegasus, there is no need for a committee. If the government says they have not used the Pegasus, then too, there is no need for a committee.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-agrees-to-centres-plea-to-adjourn-pegasus-hearing/article36351960.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,||HC sets aside order permitting 16-year-old girl to write NEET||A Division Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday set aside an order passed by a single judge of the court permitting a 16-year-old girl to appear for National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) scheduled to be held on Sunday though the minimum age for writing the test, meant to gain admission in medical colleges, is 17 years. Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and Krishnan Ramasamy held that courts could not interfere in criteria prescribed by the National Medical Commission (NMC) and National Testing Agency (NTA) and order relaxations. They agreed with senior counsel G. Rajagopalan, representing NTA, that a certain level of maturity was required to join medical courses. However, penning a few additional paragraphs to the main verdict authored by Justice Sathyanarayana, Justice Ramasamy expressed serious concern over the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) having allowed the girl to write Plus Two examination but the NTA and NMC refusing to permit her to appear for NEET-2021. The judge wrote that allowing a student to clear Plus Two examinations in a particular year but denying her the opportunity to write NEET scheduled immediately thereafter would directly hit the doctrine of legitimate expectation and also amount to denial of the right to equality guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution. He pointed out that the student, SP. Shree Harini, of Kumbakonam was born on May 4, 2005. She was given double promotion by letting her join Class IX directly, without studying Class VIII, after completing her Class VII. Though CBSE regulations require a candidate to have completed 14 years of age to write Class X, no objection was raised for her to writing the Class X and XII exams. “Therefore, when she has been permitted by CBSE to complete her 12th board examination even before the age 16, I feel that there may be no justification on the part of the 3rd respondent (NMC) to reject her request for age relaxation… Having regard to the above, I am of the view that the NMC has to look at the concern of such students and come up with some solution,” the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-sets-aside-order-permitting-16-year-old-girl-to-write-neet/article36352399.ece
08 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Alert sounded against Nipah||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has issued an alert and advisory on Nipah virus in view of the infection and a death reported in Kozhikode in neighbouring Kerala. Dr. Rajendra has appealed to the people in the district to be on the alert as many from Kerala travelled to Dakshina Kannada to go to health facilities and educational institutions. The Deputy Commissioner has in a statement said that the infection spread from animals to human beings and then, it spread among people. The common symptoms are fever, headache, cough, sore throat and difficulty in breathing. Dr. Rajendra said that people will have to wash their hands frequently using soap. One should keep away from bats and pigs and should not eat such fruits bitten by birds and animals. One should not come in contact with the body fluids of the infected person, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alert-sounded-against-nipah/article36352404.ece
08 September 2021||Kabul,||Mullah Akhund to head interim Taliban govt.||The Taliban announced the top members of their government on Tuesday, in a move that will cement their power over Afghanistan and set the tone of their new rule, nearly a month after they took control of Kabul. On Tuesday evening, chief spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told a press conference that the new government would be an interim one, and that Taliban veteran Mullah Mohammad Hassan Akhund would serve as its acting Prime Minister. Mullah Akhund had served as Deputy Foreign Minister under the earlier Taliban regime, and is on a UN blacklist. Mujahid also said that Taliban co-founder Abdul Ghani Baradar would be the deputy leader. Previously, he had served as the head of his movement’s political office, overseeing the signing in 2020 of the U.S. withdrawal agreement. Mullah Yaqoob, the son of Taliban founder and late supreme leader Mullah Omar, was named Defence Minister, while the position of Interior Minister was given to Sirajuddin Haqqani, the leader of the feared Haqqani network, who also doubled up as a Taliban deputy leader. “The Cabinet is not complete, it is just acting,” Mujahid said. “We will try to take people from other parts of the country.” It was not clear what role in the government would be played by Mullah Haibatullah Akhundzada, the reclusive Taliban leader, who has not been seen or heard in public since the collapse of the Western-backed government and the seizure of Kabul last month. Multiple challenges Following their 20-year insurgency, the Taliban now face the task of ruling Afghanistan, which is wracked with economic woes and security challenges — including from the Islamic State group's local chapter. Scattered protests in recent days have indicated that some Afghans are sceptical of the Taliban’s capacity to translate their promise of a more moderate rule into reality. The appointment of a group of established figures from different elements of the hardline Islamist movement gave no indication of any concession towards the protests. The Taliban have repeatedly sought to reassure Afghans and foreign countries that they will not return to the brutality of their last reign two decades ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mullah-akhund-to-head-interim-taliban-govt/article36351952.ece
08 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||ULFA (I) favours Assam CM as mediator for possible talks||The outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent) or ULFA (I) favours Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma as the mediator for possible peace talks with the Central government. ULFA (I) had declared a three-month ceasefire in May. It was extended by another three months. ‘Seen Sarma’s intent’ “We won’t mind if the government of India appoints him [Sarma] as the mediator. He is capable, knows our history and we have seen his intent for resolving the conflict,” the outfit’s chief, Paresh Baruah, told a local news channel. He said any “Indian” [person beyond Assam or the Northeast] appointed as a mediator would not know “our history” and 42 years of struggle for the sovereignty of Assam. ‘Doors open’ Baruah, who reconstituted the outfit a few days ago to appoint himself as the chairman, said ULFA (I) had always kept its “doors open”. “Former Chief Ministers Hiteswar Saikia, Prafulla Kumar Mahanta and Tarun Gogoi made some efforts but they did not work out. The government later divided us,” he said. This was in reference to August 2012 split in the outfit into the pro-talks group led by ULFA chairman Arabinda Rajkhowa and the anti-talks group that Baruah headed. The latter was later called ULFA (I). Baruah is said to be based on the Myanmar-China border while most members of his outfit are sheltered in the camps of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Khaplant-Yung Aung) in Myanmar’s Sagaing Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ulfa-i-favours-assam-cm-as-mediator-for-possible-talks/article36352127.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Defer travel to Kerala till October-end, says Karnataka||The Karnataka government has urged people to defer their plans to visit Kerala till October-end, if there is no emergency, in the light of the COVID-19 situation in the neighbouring State. In an advisory issued on Tuesday, it specifically also asked educational institutions and business establishments to instruct theirstudents and employees to defer travel between the two States till the end of October. “This is in order to avoid a third wave of COVID-19 in Karnataka in the larger interest of public health,” it stated. According to the advisory, despite special measures such as seeking negative RT-PCR reports and repeat testing for COVID-19 among those returning from Kerala, a considerably high number of cases is being reported, especially in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. There have been cluster breakouts in some nursing colleges elsewhere too, with students with a travel history to Kerala. Colleges worried However, educational institutions, many of which have opened only recently, are worried about the implications of this advisory. Colleges authorities The Hindu spoke to said they would counsel students and convince them to not travel for the time being. Jayakar Shetty, Vice-Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, said that most of the students of medical, dental, nursing, and other allied health courses had returned to their colleges in Karnataka already. “If any students have not returned, we will ask colleges to make alternative arrangements so that the students’ learning is not affected,” he said. Many people currently in Kerala, who were contemplating returning to Bengaluru as offices have opened, have now decided to postpone their plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/defer-travel-to-kerala-till-october-end-says-karnataka/article36352000.ece
08 September 2021||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI),||Woman washed away in stream, eight rescued||Road connectivity to many villages in the Agency area in West Godavari district has been cut off with many streams overflowing following incessant rains in the last week. The district received an average rainfall of 2,369.2 mm till Tuesday morning. The highest rainfall of 140.4 mm was recorded in Velerupadu mandal, followed by 125 mm in Kukunur, 104 in Chintalapudi, 90.8 in T. Narsapuram, 85.2 mm in Jeelugumilli, 80.8 in Buttaigudem, 76.6 in Koyyalagudem and 70.8 mm in Jangareddugudem mandals. More than 50 mm rainfall was recorded in Iragavaram, Lingapalem, Gopalapuram, Mogaltur, Tallapudi, Deverapalli and other mandals in the district. Ch. Manisha Varma (22), of Hanmakonda in Telangana, was washed away in a stream in Buttaigudem mandal, while three others managed to escape from the flood. Her body was retrieved on Tuesday, the police said. All the four persons came to have darshan in Gubbala Mangamma temple and were washed away while crossing the stream, said K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer O. Anand. In Agency area, Gundeti Vaagu, Pedda Vaagu, Jelleru Vaagu, Pala Vaagu, Konda Vaage and other streams were in spate for the last two days. Road connectivity has been cut off to many tribal habitations in Velerupadu, Kukunur, Buttaigudem, Jeelugumilli and other mandals. “At Bhadrachalam, the flow in Godavari is about 5.5 lakh cusecs, and it is expected to rise to 8 lakh cusecs in the next 48 hours. As there is an alert on heavy rains in the upstream areas in Maharashtra and Telangana, we requested the tribal people not to venture into the river and cross overflowing streams,” Mr. Anand said. According to the Irrigation authorities, discharge from Polavaram project was 3.92 lakh cusecs by 9 p.m. on Tuesday. Water level at upstream of the cofferdam was 30.20 metres, the officials said. Polavaram DSP K. Latha Kumari said that Velerupadu SI Sadiq and a team of villagers rescued five persons and 2,000 heads of sheep from an overflowing rivulet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-washed-away-in-stream-eight-rescued/article36351953.ece
08 September 2021||GUNTUR,||Implement NEP in letter and spirit: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials of the Education Department to implement the National Education Policy 2020 in letter and spirit across the State. During a review meeting on Nadu-Nedu (schools) and NEP, Mr. Jagan said each school should have subject-wise teachers from Class 3 onwards. The Chief Minister instructed the authorities to improve the quality of textbooks and told them to focus on CBSE affiliation for all types of schools along with ICSE affiliation. The officials informed that initially 1,000 schools were being affiliated with CBSE. Reviewing Nadu-Nedu, the Chief Minister directed the officials to immediately start the tender process for the second phase of Nadu-Nedu works. In the second phase, 12,663 schools would be revamped at a cost of Rs. 4,535.74 crore, where 18,498 additional classrooms would be constructed. Similarly, in the third phase 24,900 schools would be renovated at an estimated cost of Rs. 7,821 crore. The officials informed that currently engineers who would be taking up Nadu-Nedu works were undergoing training at village secretariats and soon training for parents’ committees would also start before initiating phase-2 works. The Chief Minister said special attention should be paid to the maintenance of schools and toilets, else they were likely to go back to the previous state. He suggested keeping a contingency fund in every school for any emergency repair works and directed the authorities to prepare an SOP in this regard. Vidya Kanuka Further, reviewing Jagananna Vidya Kanuka, Mr. Jagan instructed the officials to provide kits by the time the next academic year started and told them to ensure that items of good quality were being given. He told them to include sports shoes and sports dress in the kit from the coming year. Officials informed that Vidya Kanuka kits had been distributed 100% and that they were charting out the distribution of sanitary napkins to the girl students under Swecha programme, which is likely to be launched in October. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, Women and Child Welfare Minister Taneti Vanitha, Principal Secretary of School Education Buditi Rajasekhar, Women and Child Welfare Secretary A.R. Anuradha, Finance Secretary N. Gulzar, School Education Commissioner Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadradu, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan State Project Director Vetriselvi, School Education Adviser A Murali, School Education Director (SCERT) B. Pratap Reddy and other senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/implement-nep-in-letter-and-spirit-jagan/article36351955.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 vaccine doses cross 70 crore, says Health Ministry||The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 70 crore mark on Tuesday. The last 10 crore doses were given in just 13 days, the fastest so far, the Union Health Ministry said. Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya on Twitter congratulated all the health workers and public for the “momentous achievement”. Numbers improve The seven-day average number of doses administered daily has been consistently improving since August-end. The average daily doses have improved from around 50 lakh in mid-August to 83 lakh at the end of September first week. To fully vaccinate all adults by 2021, over 1 crore vaccinations have to be done every day in the remaining days. So far, this mark has been crossed on three days — August 27 (1.07 crore), August 31 (1.35 crore) and September 6 (1.15 crore). On Tuesday, as of 7 p.m., 72,40,929 doses have been administered. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16, with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years and those aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then expanded the drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. As on Tuesday, 56.6% of the Indian adult population has been vaccinated with at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Also, 17.4% of the adult population has been vaccinated with both doses. ( With inputs from PTI )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-vaccine-doses-cross-70-crore/article36351962.ece
08 September 2021||Belagavi,||Ganesh Mandal Unions oppose restrictions on public festivities||Members of the Sarvajanik Ganesh Mandal Unions opposed the State government’s rules limiting public Ganesh festivals to three days. At a meeting in Belagavi on Tuesday, the members strongly opposed the rules and demanded that the State government change the rules to allow the celebrations for 10 days. Union president Vijay Jadhav told Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath that the rules are clearly anti-Hindu and cannot be respected or followed by any mandal. “Belagavi is among the towns in the country that celebrated the earliest public Ganesh festivals. Bal Gangadhar Tilak came to Belagavi in 1906 for a public Ganesh festival. This cannot be shortened,’’ he said. Leader of the Shahapur Union Netaji Jadhav said that the mandals have not organised public celebrations for two years, due to the COVID restrictions. “But now, the COVID-19 cases have fallen and there is no need to continue the restrictions,’’ he said. He asked why the government is allowing city corporation elections to be held while the festivals are facing restrictions. He also demanded that the festivals should be allowed to be celebrated for 10 days. Mr. Hiremath said that he will send a report of the meeting to the State government, with the demand of the mandals seeking relaxation of the restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ganesh-mandal-unions-oppose-restrictions-on-public-festivities/article36352223.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Government withdraws Sunday lockdown, night curfew||A COVID-19 review meeting chaired by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided to withdraw the pandemic-impelled Sunday lockdown and night curfew in the State (10 a.m. to 6 p.m.). Meanwhile, the Karnataka government has urged the public to defer their plans to visit Kerala till October-end, if there is no emergency, in the light of the COVID-19 situation in the neighbouring State. From October 4, colleges can admit final year graduate and postgraduate students. However, the faculty, students and staff should have received at least one dose of the vaccine. Mr. Vijayan urged the General and Higher Education Departments to expedite the double vaccination of teachers and staff. He hinted that the State could expect more sectors to open up. Mr. Vijayan said COVID-19 hospitalisations had plateaued, and an estimated three crore people have received at least one dose of vaccine. The vaccination drive has picked up again. The mask and physical distancing mandate would continue, while in-person dining remained banned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/government-withdraws-sunday-lockdown-night-curfew/article36352325.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Transformer monitoring system soon||Challenges faced while rectifying defects in electric transformers in remote locations and congested areas will soon be a thing of the past, as Tangedco is planning to install a transformer monitoring system. Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji announced in the Assembly that the system would be installed in transformers at a total cost of Rs. 1,270 crore. The system will help keep a check on temperature, oil and electricity levels in the transformers.  “With the help of Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Advantages (SCADA), data received from the transformer will be monitored by officials concerned, and the transformer can be monitored in real time,” Mr. Senthilbalaji said. The transformer monitoring system will help avoid commercial losses, electricity theft and issues in transformers, he said. Smart meters The Minister said electric meters installed in consumers’ residences would soon be replaced with smart meters. With smart meters, consumers will be able to monitor their usage of electricity, at any time, and pay their electricity bills on time, he said. “Consumers will be able to monitor their usage through their mobile phones. Through the recharge option, consumers can avoid disconnection,” he said. Tangedco will set up a high-voltage distribution system by installing 900 feeders at a total cost of Rs. 5,050 crore in three years, he said. It would install 159 new sub stations at Rs. 1,979 crore, he said. Additional transformers will be set up at Rs. 679 crore in various locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/transformer-monitoring-system-soon/article36352058.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Danish Energy Minister to meet Chief Minister today||Denmark’s Minister for Climate, Energy and Utilities Dan Jannik Jørgensen  will meet Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday to discuss various projects in the wind energy sector. The Minister has come to Chennai with a 50-member delegation from Denmark. This is the largest business delegation to have come here since the COVID-19 outbreak. Among the key proposals that would be discussed is the setting up of an Energy Island in the Gulf of Mannar with the potential to generate 4 gigawatt to 10 gigawatt of electricity. “The proposal is ready, and if the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister responds favourably, we can start work and bring in our technology experts,” said Freddy Svane, Ambassador at the Royal Danish Embassy, New Delhi. He indicated that the project will entail huge investments to the tune of $5 billion to $10 billion. It is part of the Green Strategic Partnership that was signed between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen during a virtual summit on September 28, 2020. The Energy Island or the first Offshore Floating Wind Park will cater to India's energy needs and create many jobs in the State, the Ambassador said. He had visited Chennai in March and held preliminary discussions with key officials of the State government. During that time, he evaluated various options, including the creation of a Centre of Excellence for offshore wind energy in Chennai, envisioning an Energy Island – an offshore wind farm in the Gulf of Mannar, and an immediate action plan for climate change by the Tamil Nadu government. The Minister and the Ambassador indicated that more Danish investments would flow into Tamil Nadu. The value of Danish investments into Tamil Nadu from January 2003 to January 2021 is estimated to be $751.72 million.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/danish-energy-minister-to-meet-chief-minister-today/article36352090.ece
08 September 2021||Tirumala,||TTD to issue Sarva Darshan tokens||The Tirumala Tirupati Devastaanams has resolved to issue Slotted Sarva Darshan (SSD) tokens from Wednesday (September 8). The intention behind the decision was to enable common pilgrims also have the darshan of Lord Venkateswara. About 2,000 tokens would be made available every day on an experimental basis at the Srinivasam Complex in adherence to COVID-19 restrictions. The issuance of the Sarva Darshan tokens was temporarily suspended owing to the steep increase in the positive cases during the second wave of the pandemic a couple of months back. Special entry tickets At present, the TTD is providing around 7,000 online tokens of Rs. 300 special entry darshan tickets. The TTD also made it clear that for the time being it had confined the issuance of SSD tokens to the people hailing from Chittoor district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ttd-to-issue-sarva-darshan-tokens/article36351970.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cairn sees end to tax dispute with India||The U.K.-based Cairn Energy is working with the Government of India to expedite “documentation and payment of refund” of $1.06 billion of retrospective taxes at the centre of its high-stake dispute with India that it expects to be resolved in the “near term”. In its half-yearly report released on Tuesday, Cairn said it plans to return $700 million to the shareholders through special dividends and buybacks, out of the expected tax refund from the government. “Progress in resolving our Indian tax issue and active portfolio management leave Cairn well-positioned to deliver growth from a sustainable business, focused on generating further value and returns for shareholders,” said Simon Thomson, chief executive of Cairn Energy PLC. Amendment to I-T laws The government recently amended the income tax laws to scrap the retrospective tax provisions introduced in 2012-13, under which Cairn was taxed in 2014 for a corporate restructuring undertaken in 2006-07. The tax department subsequently froze the firm’s shares as part of the proceedings and sold them off to recover the claimed tax dues. The company’s disclosure on Tuesday indicates it is positively examining the provisions of the Centre’s amendments to the problematic tax law. The changes propose to refund the taxes levied retrospectively if the affected taxpayers drop all pending litigation and forego any interest and damages claims. The government had issued draft rules to implement the amended law and the final rules are awaited soon, as the consultation period on the draft rules ended last week. The rules include a requirement by the affected party to ‘indemnify, defend and hold harmless’ the government of all costs and expenses, if a separate interested party such as shareholders, beneficial owners, officers of the firm, brings, files or maintains any claim over the matter, after the dispute is resolved. Cairn said it was ‘working with Government of India to expedite documentation and payment of refund’. If the refund came through, it proposed to give its shareholders $ $500 million as a ‘special return’ and deploy up to $200 million for a share buyback programme. The balance of around $300 million, would bolster its net cash position to ‘pursue value accretive expansion and diversification,’ it said. Tribunal verdict An international arbitration tribunal, scrutinising the tax dispute, last year ruled in Cairn’s favour and awarded $1.2 billion in damages to the company. While the government has filed an appeal against the verdict, Cairn has filed lawsuits in several overseas jurisdictions to enforce the tribunal’s award. In France, the company secured a court’s permission to freeze at least 20 Indian properties in Paris. In the U.S., it is pressing for securing Air India’s assets by arguing that the national carrier is the ‘alter ego’ of the government in an ongoing legal process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cairn-sees-end-to-tax-dispute-with-india/article36351961.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||7.38 lakh doses on a day||Kerala achieved two major milestones in COVID-19 vaccination on Tuesday when it managed to administer 7.38 lakh doses on a single day: the highest single-day vaccination achieved so far and simultaneously crossing the three crore mark when it comes to the total vaccine doses administered in the State. The State has now administered 3,03,22,694 doses of vaccines, of which 2,19,86,464 have been delivered as first doses and 83,36,230 as second doses. On Tuesday alone, 7,37,940 people received the vaccine. The State has now vaccinated 76.61% of those above 18 years with the first dose, while 29.05% of the same group have received both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/738-lakh-doses-on-a-day/article36352484.ece
08 September 2021||Kalaburagi,||Will ‘kingmaker’ JD(S) lean towards BJP?||Who will wield power in the Kalaburagi City Corporation remained uncertain a day after results of the civic polls were declared, with “kingmaker” JD(S) not spelling out its plans on which side it will lean. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, however, exuded confidence that the regional party will side with them. But JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda was non-committal. Of the 55 seats, Congress won 27, BJP 23, JD(S) four, and Independent one in the results declared on Monday. To cross the magic figure of 32 in the mayoral polls, both Congress and BJP will need at least three more votes after including the votes of ex-officio members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-kingmaker-jds-lean-towards-bjp/article36351999.ece
08 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Missing in AAP’s Punjab campaign: a local leader||As the Aam Aadmi Party prepares to battle it out in the coming Punjab Assembly election, finding a local leader with a State-wide appeal in order to pose a challenge to heavyweights such as Parkash Singh Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal and Congress leader Amarinder Singh seems to be a big challenge for it. In June last, AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal declared in Amritsar that a member of the Sikh community would be the party’s CM ‘face’ in Punjab. However, with polls due early next year, the anxiety among the party cadre is growing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/missing-in-aaps-punjab-campaign-a-local-leader/article36352130.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD:,||KTR hits out at opponents||TRS would give a fitting reply, as ‘tit for tat’, to the so called national parties every time their leaders make allegations and indulge in misinformation campaign against the State government, working president of the party K. T. Rama Rao has said. Taking a dig, particularly at Congress, he said some leaders who lived as second grade citizens in combined AP and also those learning politics, were talking nonsense.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ktr-hits-out-at-opponents/article36352246.ece
08 September 2021||new delhi,||No Congress candidate in Bhabanipur||The Congress high command has decided not to field any candidate against West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the upcoming Assembly bypoll, party leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said on Tuesday. Ms. Banerjee, who narrowly lost to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram in electins earlier this year, will be contesting from Bhabanipur to re-enter the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-congress-candidate-in-bhabanipur/article36352348.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Help desk for vaccination certificates||The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine has decided to establish help desks at the State and Health Unit District-levels to sort out issues related to COVID-19 vaccination certificates. In a communication to Deputy Directors of Health Services and city medical officer, Greater Chennai Corporation, the directorate said they were receiving queries from beneficiaries regarding vaccination certificates. The help desk, with designated officials, will sort out issues in the certificates including, non issuance, certificate correction (which is beyond the individual’s purview), merging of certificates and other related issues. Beneficiaries are encouraged to use the self-correction utility of Co-WIN first. If the issue is not resolved, they can approach the district help desk or DDHS office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/help-desk-for-issues-in-vaccination-certificates/article36352088.ece
08 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||EAPCET (Engineering) results today||Education Minister A. Suresh will release the results of EAPCET- 2021 Engineering stream on August 8 (Wednesday), according to a statement released by the AP State Council for Higher Education (APSCHE). Sources in the Education Department said that the government had decided to released the results of the MPC stream first to avoid any delay in counselling for the engineering seats. A total of 1,66,460 students from across the State took the common entrance test. The State government is likely to start the first phase of counselling from September 18, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eapcet-engineering-results-today/article36351958.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Field work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/field-work/article36352003.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Citizens exhort DU to reinstate English syllabus||Over 1,100 writers, civil society members and academicians have written to Delhi University urging it to reinstate texts written by Mahasweta Devi, Bama and Sukirtharini in the English (Honours) syllabus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/citizens-exhort-du-to-reinstate-english-syllabus/article36352129.ece
08 September 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal contests HC order on Suvendu||The West Bengal government filed an appeal before a Division Bench of Justice Subrata Talukdar of the Calcutta High Court against an order by a single judge Bench on Monday which granted relief to Suvendu Adhikari by stopping coercive action against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-contests-hc-order-on-suvendu/article36352350.ece
08 September 2021||Mumbai,||Bailable warrant against ex-Mumbai police chief||A bailable warrant was on Tuesday issued against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh by Justice (retired) K.U. Chandiwal, who is probing a March 20 letter written by him, levelling corruption charges against Anil Deshmukh, former Maharashtra Home Minister, to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bailable-warrant-against-ex-mumbai-police-chief/article36352424.ece
08 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Spike in chikungunya, dengue cases in Gujarat||Several Gujarat towns are witnessing a surge in cases of mosquito-borne dengue and chikungunya with reports of more than 30% of OPD cases in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spike-in-chikungunya-dengue-cases-in-gujarat/article36352425.ece
08 September 2021||Pune,||Heavy rains claim six lives in Maharashtra||At least six people were swept away by floodwaters in Maharashtra as heavy rains pounded Gondia and Yavatmal districts of Vidarbha and several parts of Marathwada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rains-claim-six-lives-in-maharashtra/article36352426.ece
08 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Weekend curbs continue||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has continued weekend restrictions on the visit of devotees to Sri Manjunatha Temple at Dharmasthala and Sri Subrahmanya Temple at Kukke Surbahmanya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-curbs-continue/article36352403.ece
08 September 2021||BELAGAVI,||Tension in Belagavi||There was tension in Belagavi on Tuesday after a youth organisation put up a board renaming a prominent traffic circle. Passers-by alerted the police who rushed to the spot and removed the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tension-in-belagavi/article36352225.ece
08 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmers lay siege to Karnal mini-Secretariat||Hordes of farmers, led by the central leadership of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav and Gurnam Singh Charuni, laid siege to the mini-Secretariat in Karnal on Tuesday evening. The sit-in followed failed talks between the farmer leaders and the district administration over the brutal baton charge on farmers a week ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-lay-siege-to-karnal-mini-secretariat/article36352442.ece
08 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Missing in AAP’s Punjab campaign: a local leader||As the Aam Aadmi Party prepares to battle it out in the coming Punjab Assembly election, finding a local leader with a State-wide appeal, who can pose a challenge to heavyweights like Parkash Singh Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal or Congress leader Amarinder Singh, seems to be a big challenge for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/missing-in-aaps-punjab-campaign-a-local-leader/article36352443.ece
08 September 2021||MYSURU,||Gold harvest by farmer’s daughter||Chaitra Narayan Hegde, the top medalist at the 101st convocation of the University of Mysore, has plans to carry out research in medicinal chemistry. She bagged 20 gold medals and four cash prizes in M.Sc. Chemistry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gold-harvest-by-farmers-daughter/article36352429.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI/ Ghaziabad,||RSS wing seeks guaranteed crop prices||The current minimum support price (MSP) system is a sham which benefits farmers only in the two States of Punjab and Haryana, said Bharatiya Kisan Sangh general secretary Badrinarayan Chaudhary on Tuesday. The RSS-affiliated farmers union announced that it will hold a symbolic dharna in 500 district headquarter towns on Wednesday, to demand that a law be enacted to guarantee remunerative prices to all farmers, with such prices set according to different agro-climatic zones. The BKS, however, said it would not ally with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform for unions protesting against the three farm reform laws, which is also calling for a law to guarantee MSP for all farm produce. Although the BKS said the SKM was responsible for politicising the protest, it also blamed the BJP-led government for its role in prolonging the agitation. “Though many of [the unions’] demands are unreasonable, the government must also take a sympathetic view of the farmers,” Mr. Chaudhary said at a press conference. In a memorandum to the Prime Minister on August 11, the BKS said the main reason for the anger and unrest among the farmers across the country is that they are not getting the cost-based remunerative price for their produce. “We have not received any response, so now we will hold a nationwide agitation to demand for a new law,” said the BKS leader. He pointed out that MSP rates were not keeping up with the surge in input costs, and were also only available to a small fraction of farmers mostly in Punjab and Haryana. Mr. Chaudhary added that it was ridiculous that the MSP for a crop was the same for farmers in Punjab who got free water and electricity and for those in Rajasthan where such inputs were expensive. “The remunerative prices should be set keeping in mind the input costs in 15 different agro-climatic zones, and no one, whether government or private trader, should be allowed to buy crops at a lower rate,” he said. Nominal show The BKS only expects a nominal show of 200 farmers at the protest site in Jantar Mantar, as well as small groups at various district headquarters. “Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, we want to follow distancing norms, so we will not gather huge crowds. It will be a symbolic dharna,” said Harpal Singh Dagar, Delhi state president of the BKS. “We will submit a memorandum to District Magistrates across western U.P. and Uttarakhand demanding guaranteed remunerative prices for crops,” said Sohanpal, organisation secretary of BKS, West U.P. and Uttarakhand. “Irrespective of the government in power, we have been asking for guaranteed remunerative prices for more than four decades as this would safeguard the farmers from inflation in diesel, electricity, and urea prices. We expect the government to pay 15% more than the input cost,” he said. This, Mr Sohanpal said, could be done by either bringing a separate law or making necessary changes in the three farm laws passed last year which have sparked widespread protests. “Why should the farmer get the minimum price for his effort,” he said, adding at present farmers are making a loss as MSP doesn’t always match the inflation. SKM leaders however, have dismissed the BKS protest as an attempt to divert attention from their demands and undercut their larger agitation. However, Mr. Chaudhary said a dharna of nine months could only be sustained because it represented the interests of rich farmers and had become politicised. “We represent the 85% of farmers who are small and marginal and cannot leave their fields to sit on dharna for days on end,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-wing-seeks-guaranteed-prices-for-crops/article36351864.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||CIA chief, top Russian official in Delhi||India is in “close contact” with both Moscow and Washington over developments in Afghanistan, official sources said, with two high-level intelligence delegations to Delhi this week.  The Hindu has learnt that an American delegation of intelligence and security officials, led by the chief of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), William Burns, is visiting the region including India and Pakistan, and held consultations with National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval on Tuesday to discuss a number of issues arising from the Afghanistan evacuation effort and Taliban government formation. On Wednesday, the Russian Secretary of the Security Council, General Nikolay Patrushev, will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Doval and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, the Ministry of External Affairs announced. The MEA and the U.S. Embassy declined to confirm or deny the visit of Mr. Burns, when asked for a response by The Hindu.  The separate meetings with U.S. and Russian officials in South Block come as the Taliban announced an acting or interim government led by Mohammad Hasan Akhund, and Abdul Ghani Baradar as Deputy Prime Minister. They are also significant given upcoming summits that Mr. Modi will attend of the SCO and Quad formations, where Russia and the U.S. play leading roles respectively, and both are expected to focus on the future course in Afghanistan. The visit of General Patrushev, the highest-ranking Russian security official who has been Security Council Secretary since 2008, and headed the Russian intelligence agency FSB earlier, follows a call between Mr. Modi and President Putin on August 24 to discuss the developments in Afghanistan days after the Taliban claimed control of Kabul. A diplomatic source said General Patrushev’s meetings would give India and Russia a chance to “exchange perspectives” on the changing situation in Afghanistan. Amid divisions The visits are also significant as they come at a time of growing differences between the U.S. and Russian positions on Afghanistan despite more than two years of coordinating at the “Troika-plus” mechanism that included China and Pakistan. Last week, Russia accused U.S.-led western countries of rushing through UN Security Council resolution 2593 that India presided over, and of not paying due attention to its concerns on the Islamic State (IS based in Iraq and Syria) and the “Eastern Turkistan Islamic Movement” (ETIM), which Russia and China said are threats to Central Asian security. Russia is also one of six countries maintaining their embassies in Kabul, indicating they are more open to engaging formally with the Taliban government, whereas the U.S. and allies have moved their embassies to Doha. Taking a different tack on evacuations, the U.S. has flown out more than 1,20,000 people, mainly Afghans, and is still attempting to help more to leave, and needs secure holding areas in other countries while they process their papers to the U.S. According to sources, Mr. Burns also discussed the possibility of bringing some evacuees to India. India has been conservative in its evacuation efforts thus far, bringing out a total of 565 people, including 112 Afghan nationals on special military flights, and has not issued more than a few dozen special “e-visas” for thousands of Afghans who have applied . Mr. Burns is one of a number of U.S. military and security officials who have visited New Delhi in the last few months. He had visited Kabul on August 23 and met with Taliban deputy leader Abdul Ghani Baradar, according to a report in the Washington Post , which was not denied.  (with inputs from Devesh K. Pandey)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cia-chief-top-russian-official-in-delhi/article36351941.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM urges private sector to help improve quality in govt. schools||The private sector must come forward and contribute to increasing the quality of education in government schools, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday, while launching a portal to coordinate private contributions for school development. Addressing the inauguration of a 10-day Shikshak Parv, Mr. Modi praised teachers for using online teaching and assessment methods to promote learning during the COVID crisis, despite recent surveys showing that many students in rural India had no access to digital education during the pandemic. Talking books project He rolled out five initiatives on Tuesday as part of the implementation of the National Education Policy, including a 10,000-word dictionary for Indian Sign Language and a talking books project for visually challenged students. A teacher training programme for early childhood education, a standards setting authority for the Central Board of Secondary Education and the Vidyanjali 2.0 portal to facilitate private donors, corporate social responsibility contributions and volunteering activities are part of the initiatives. The Prime Minister emphasised that the transformation of the education sector is “not just policy-based but also participation based”, and noted that the NEP had involved consultations with academics, teachers and other stakeholders at every level. “Now we have to take this participation to a new level, we also have to involve society in it,” he said. “In this society, our private sector has to come forward and contribute to increasing the quality of education in government schools.” Mr. Modi praised teachers for their efforts during the pandemic. “In this corona period, all of you have shown the power of our education system. The challenges were many but you all resolved them swiftly. Online classes, group video calls, online projects, online exams, many such words were not even heard before. But our teachers, parents and our youth have easily made them a part of daily life.” However, a recent report on the impact of school closures in 15 States by a team headed by economist Jean Dreze noted that only 8% of rural students and 24% of urban students had regular access to digital education during the pandemic. Among rural students, 37% had stopped studying altogether. Another survey from the Annual Status of Education Report in rural Karnataka found that primary and elementary students have suffered a year of learning losses in foundational literacy and numeracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-urges-private-sector-to-help-improve-quality-in-govt-schools/article36351897.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||More delays on Data Protection Bill||The Joint Parliamentary Committee on the contentious Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 has called a meeting on September 15 and 16 to finalise its long-pending report. The panel finalised the draft report last year but it was not circulated among the members. The agenda papers circulated ahead of the latest meeting brings the panel back to square one: instead of the finalised report, it reopens the consultations. Five members, including the Chairperson of the Joint Committee on Personal Data Protection Bill, Meenakshi Lekhi, were inducted into the Council of Ministers in July. Following this, P.P. Chaudhary, who for over a year in 2016-17 served as the Minister of State for Electronics and Information & Technology, took over as the Chairman. He has proposed a few additional changes, including expanding the scope of the Data Protection Authority to cover personal as well as non-personal data that could lead the already contentious law into more muddy waters. While the Bill seeks to set up a body for governance of personal data, the government, in September 2019, set up a new committee to recommend a framework to regulate non-personal data. The Bill seeks to regulate the use of individual data by the government and private companies and a Data Protection Authority has been envisaged for ensuring the compliance of the law. The proposed Act states that among other things, the authority will take “prompt and appropriate action in response to personal data breach in accordance with the provisions of this Act”. The committee has recommended that the word “personal” be omitted “to enlarge the ambit of the authority to look into data breach”. Similarly, Mr. Chaudhary has recommended the removal of “personal” from another clause, wherein the authority needs to specify codes of practice for appropriate action to be taken by the data processor in response to a data breach. Key suggestions made by members in the past consultations too have been ignored. Ten of the 30 members of the panel had moved amendments against the provision in the legislation giving power to the Central government to exempt any government agency from application of the Act. The panel, which has BJP members in majority, has, according to the sources, not included the suggestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-delays-on-data-protection-bill/article36351874.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel report on farm laws not yet out||Almost six months after the Supreme Court-appointed committee on the farm reform laws submitted its report to the top court in a sealed cover, two of the panel’s members are asking why it has not yet been made public. “The report has addressed all apprehensions of the farmers. The committee was confident that the recommendations will pave the way for resolving the ongoing farmers’ agitation,” said one of the members, Anil Ghanwat, in a letter to the Chief Justice of India that was posted on September 1 and emailed on September 6. “As a member of the committee, especially representing the farmers’ community, I am pained that the issue raised by the farmers is not yet resolved and the agitation is continuing. I feel the report has not been given any attention by the hon’ble Supreme Court,” added Mr. Ghanwat, who heads the Shetkari Sanghatana farmers group. He urged the SC to release the report in the public domain and forward it to the Government of India for implementation to aid in a “peaceful resolution of the stalemate to the farmers’ satisfaction at the earliest”. He would not share any information about the recommendations made in the report. The committee was set up by the Supreme Court on January 12 in response to a public interest litigation petition filed by some farm groups, at a time when the unions demanding the repeal of three agricultural reform laws were still holding a series of talks with government Ministers. By the time the committee finished its consultations and submitted its report on March 19, the talks had broken down into a stalemate that continues to this day. Long meetings “For two months, we worked in a hectic manner, holding meetings for 10-12 hours each day, meeting so many different stakeholders from farmers’ groups, government and industry all across the country. But now the report is just sitting gathering dust in its sealed cover,” said Pramod Kumar Joshi, the South Asia director of the International Food Policy Research Institute, who was also a member of the committee. He told The Hindu that even if the committee’s recommendations were not fully accepted, it would at least contribute to the debate and help to bring the parties back to the negotiating table. The third member of the panel, agricultural economist Ashok Gulati, said he respected Mr. Ghanwat’s feelings, but he himself felt that it was up to the SC “to see how they want to make use of it, how and when they want to share it with the farmers and the government. Making it public is its prerogative.” The implementation of the three laws were suspended by the top court until the committee’s recommendations could be perused, but the Central government, which refused to repeal the laws, has also taken no further action to ensure implementation. “The government is also a party in the case, so they could also appeal to the SC to expedite the hearing, but they have not done so,” Mr. Ghanwat told The Hindu . “I myself am a farmer leader, so I am hurt to see farmers sitting on the road for such a long time in sun and rain with no attempt being made to resolve their issues,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-report-on-farm-laws-not-yet-out/article36351866.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||Panchjanya is heralding a crusade, says Vaidya||A day after Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ‘prachar pramukh’ Sunil Ambekar distanced the organisation from an associated magazine Panchjanya and its September 5 edition cover story slamming IT company Infosys, joint general secretary of the RSS Manmohan Vaidya on Monday termed the magazine a herald of ‘ dharma Yudh ’  (crusade for right principles). Mr. Vaidya was speaking at the inauguration of the magazine’s new office at Mayur Vihar here.  “Panchjanya dharma yudh ka shankh naad hai. Aur dharma yudh main do paksha honge, jo dharma ke paksha main nahin hain aise bhi Shrestha logon par baan chalaane padenge [ Panchjanya heralds the dharma yudh , which has two sides. You can have good people on the wrong side, and you will have to shoot your arrows aimed at them too],” he said. The nationalist viewpoint was gaining ground over forces inimical to India, but the war would go on for a long time [ yeh ek lambi ladai hai ] .  The speech was livestreamed on Panchajanya’s Facebook page and later put out as a recording too. Charge against Infosys Mr. Ambekar, after a furore over the cover story that alleged that the Infosys Trust was funding forces inimical to India, and its mess of India’s income tax portal had reduced the trust between people and the government, had tweeted: “As an Indian company, Infosys has made seminal contribution in progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys, but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects individual opinion of the author.” He added, “ Panchjanya is not the mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article should not be linked with the RSS.” At the inauguration ceremony, former BJP general secretary Ram Madhav, Chetan Arora (‘sah vibhag karyawah’ for Delhi), and Adesh Gupta (Delhi BJP chief), were also present. Both Panchjanya and Organiser are published by Bharat Prakashan and are considered mouthpieces of the RSS, although it is denied by the organisation. Both magazines reflect the ideological concerns of the ‘sangh parivar’. “There are nine publications started by ‘swayamsewaks’ but are not formally a part of the RSS,” said a senior member of the RSS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panchjanya-is-heralding-a-crusade-says-vaidya/article36351886.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Survey details ‘catastrophic’ impact of school closure||The prolonged closure of primary and upper primary schools since the onset of the pandemic has led to “catastrophic consequences” for school students, particularly in rural India, says an emergency report. Based on the School Children’s Online and Offline Learning (SCHOOL) survey conducted by researchers, who worked in coordination with eminent economist Jean Dreze, the ‘Emergency Report on School Education’ says that only 8% of school students in rural India have been able to access online education, while at least 37% have stopped studying altogether. “The SCHOOL survey makes it clear that the reach of online education is very limited: the proportion of schoolchildren who were studying online “regularly” was just 24% and 8% in urban and rural areas respectively. One reason for this is that many sample households (about half in rural areas) have no smartphone,” found the survey that was conducted by around 100 volunteers across India. The report covered 1,362 sample households spread across 15 States, including Assam, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. The survey also found that the Dalit and Adivasi children were at a greater disadvantage as a mere 5% of the children from these groups had access to online classes. According to the findings, access to online education among students in those houses with smartphones is also handicapped by the fact that the smartphones are mainly used by the working adults who are not always able to share the gadgets with the children at home. No access to teachers Another casualty of the prolonged closure of schools has been the relation between the teachers and students in both urban and rural sectors, with 51% of the respondents in the urban areas and 58% in rural India saying that they had not met teachers during the month preceding the survey. Researchers also found that there have been many teachers who went out of their comfort zones to help students during the 17-month-long closure of schools. In addition to education, the closure affected the level of nutrition among the children in rural schools where the midday meals have been stopped. “Midday meals have been discontinued in all the sample States with the closure of schools. Among parents with a child enrolled in a government school, about 80% reported receiving some food (mainly rice or wheat) during the preceding 3 months as a substitute for their child’s midday meals,” stated the report. Most parents surveyed have supported reopening of the schools at the earliest. Ten percent of the parents in urban areas had some hesitation in sending their children to school but, overall, 97% of parents supported reopening of schools. The report said the prolonged school lockdown, one of the longest in the world, has led to a “colossal disaster”. “It will take years of patient work to repair this damage. Reopening schools is just the first step, still being debated. In fact, even preparations for that first step (such as repairing school buildings, issuing safety guidelines, training teachers, enrolment drives) are virtually invisible in many States,” said the researchers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/survey-details-catastrophic-impact-of-school-closure/article36351905.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Air quality improved in 2020: Minister||Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said on Tuesday the number of cities with “improved air quality” had increased to 104 in 2020 from 86 in 2018 and attributed this to policies of the government. He was speaking at a public function to mark the International Day of Clean Air For Blue Skies. However, the Environment Ministry’s own stand, on record in Parliament, has been that reduction in air pollution in 2020 was primarily due to the lockdown. To a question in the Lok Sabha on February 12, it said the COVID-19 related lockdown had resulted in a “temporary improvement” of air quality in many cities due to closure of industries, fewer vehicles plying, drop in construction activities and absence of human activities. “However, the improvement in air quality due to widespread restrictions on operation of major activities was an extraordinary situation and, once normality is attained, pollution levels trend is observed in business-as-usual scenario,” the response noted. On trends in air pollution, the same response cited data from the Central Pollution Control Board that showed 23 cities marking a “decreasing trend”, 239 cities a “fluctuating trend” and 38 cities an “increasing trend” in PM 10 levels. In the case of PM2.5 levels, 11 cities showed decreasing trend, 79 cities a fluctuating trend and 9 cities an increasing trend when pollution levels from 2015-2019 were averaged. PM refers to particulate matter. Mr. Yadav also “virtually inaugurated” a smog tower at Anand Vihar, Delhi, and said it would supplement the air quality improvement efforts. A smog tower is designed as a large/medium scale air purifier to reduce pollution, usually by forcing the air through filters. So far, Rs. 375.44 crore has been released to 114 cities during FY 2019-20 & 2020-21 under the city action plan. Further, Rs. 4,400 cores have been released to 42 cities with million-plus population, the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-quality-improved-in-2020-minister/article36351892.ece
08 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Warrants issued in Pehlu Khan case||The Rajasthan High Court has issued bailable warrants against six persons who were acquitted by a sessions court in Alwar in the 2017 Pehlu Khan lynching case. It admitted for hearing an appeal against the acquittal filed by Khan’s son Irshad. The Alwar court acquitted the six accused on August 14, 2019, giving them the benefit of the doubt on the basis of the police probe, which the court said had “serious shortcomings”. Those let off by the court were Vipin Yadav, Kalu Ram, Dayanand, Ravindra Kumar, Yogesh Kumar and Bheem Rathi. The government filed an appeal in the High Court against the trial court verdict after a special investigation team pointed out loopholes in the probe conducted earlier by four investigating officers. Irshad’s plea has been clubbed with the government’s appeal. A Division Bench comprising Justice Goverdhan Bardhar and Justice Vijay Bishnoi issued the bailable warrants in the sum of Rs. 10,000 returnable within eight weeks, on Monday. Khan, 55, a dairy farmer from Haryana, was waylaid by a mob of cow vigilantes on the Jaipur-Delhi National Highway on April 1, 2017, and killed on the suspicion that he was smuggling cows. The incident, which was caught on camera, had sparked nationwide outrage. Two other accused, who were minors at the time of the incident, were convicted by Alwar’s Juvenile Justice Board in March 2020 and sent to a special home for three years, while a third, also a minor, is absconding. The appeal submitted that there were injured eyewitnesses who had specifically taken the names of the accused, while the trial court discarded their “credible testimony”. It said Khan sustained a number of injuries, of which he died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/warrants-issued-in-pehlu-khan-case/article36351870.ece
08 September 2021||Patna,||BJP MLAs protest against namaz room in Assembly||Protesting over the allotment of a separate room to offer namaz (prayer) in the Jharkhand Assembly, the Opposition BJP legislators on Tuesday chanted ‘Jai Sri Ram’ slogans and recited the ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ inside and outside the House. As soon as the Assembly proceedings began, the BJP legislators trooped into the well of the House. Despite repeated requests by Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato to allow proceedings to take place, the disruptions continued during Question Hour, which led to an adjournment till 12.30 p.m. “No disrespect of the chair will be tolerated. This pains me. If you are angry, you may beat me up but please don’t disrupt the House proceedings,” Mr. Mahato told the protesting MLAs. “The chair is not a subject of mockery. Even yesterday you behaved badly.”  But the BJP MLAs said, “The Speaker is supreme in the Assembly but it hurts when we see his behaviour is not impartial in the House.” Mr. Mahato also asked the BJP MLAs to respect the ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ and not to use it for “political gains”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mlas-protest-against-namaz-room-in-assembly/article36351877.ece
08 September 2021||Srinagar,||Massarat to be Geelani’s successor||Incarcerated chairman of the Muslim League, Massarat Alam Bhat, was on Tuesday named the successor to Syed Ali Shah Geelani, who died on September 1, as the new chairman of the separatist amalgam, the All Parties Hurriyat Conference or Tehreek e Hurriyat. “After the demise of our lifetime chairman Geelani and our senior leader Muhammad Ashraf Sehrai, the All Parties Hurriyat Conference has suffered an irreparable loss. Considering the challenges and the great role of the Hurriyat leadership, Massarat Alam Bhat has been elected as the next chairman of the Hurriyat,” a spokesman said in a statement issued in Srinagar. ‘Worst situation’ The spokesman said a consultative exercise was conducted by members of the Hurriyat’s executive council “using different mediums to avoid arrests or any counter strategy by India”. He described the situation in Jammu & Kashmir as “the worst” and as “oppression in full swing”. “Especially,” the spokesman added, “the oppression of those people who are demanding the right to self-determination. Senior leadership is either detained or arrested.” Apart from Bhat’s ascension, Shabir Ahmad Shah and Ghulam Ahmed Gulzar were elected as vice chairmen, and Molvi Bashir Ahmed Irfani was elected general secretary of the Hurriyat Conference. “This interim arrangement will continue till holding of elections as per the Hurriyat’s constitution, as and when the situation improves,” the spokesman said. Bhat’s background Sources said the decisions were taken by Kashmir-based leaders in consultation with leaders based in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). Bhat, 50, comes from a middle-class family and studied in Kashmir’s oldest, leading Christian missionary school Tyndale Biscoe, and then the Sri Pratap College, also in Srinagar. He was first arrested in 1990 for being a “sympathiser” of the armed struggle and remained behind bars under the Public Safety Act till 1996. Bhat shot into limelight for playing a pivotal role in organising the street agitations of 2008, 2009 and 2010. The Jammu & Kashmir administration in 2014, during a court hearing, described Bhat as one “who has anti-India sentiment in his blood and is to be detained to stop recurrence of 2008, 2009 and 2010-like street agitation”. Like Geelani, Bhat is also a proponent of merging Jammu & Kashmir with Pakistan. At present, he is lodged in the Tihar Jail in New Delhi. He has spent over two decades in jails since 1990. He was last arrested on April 17, 2015 after his supporters raised pro-Pakistan slogans and unfurled Pakistani flags in Srinagar during a welcome rally organised for Geelani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/massarat-to-be-geelanis-successor/article36351884.ece
08 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Varanasi mosque case: HC order expected tomorrow||The Allahabad High Court is expected to deliver its order on Thursday on a petition challenging the decision of a Varanasi court, which in April directed the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to conduct a comprehensive physical survey of the Gyanvapi mosque compound adjacent to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Uttar Pradesh. The lower court had directed the ASI to find out whether the mosque was a “superimposition, alteration or addition or there is structural overlapping of any kind, with or over, any other religious structure”. Senior civil judge of a fast track court Ashutosh Tiwari had directed the Director General of ASI to constitute a five-member committee of experts, two of whom should preferably belong to the minority community. The committee would “trace as to whether any Hindu temple ever existed before the mosque in question was built or superimposed or added upon at the disputed site,” the judge had said in his order. The order came on a petition demanding the restoration of the land on which the Gyanvapi Mosque stands to Hindus. The petition claimed that Mughal emperor Aurangzeb had pulled down parts of the old Kashi Vishwanath Temple to build the mosque. The managing committee of the Gyanvapi Mosque in Varanasi, Anjuman Intezamia Masjid, and the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board then moved the Allahabad High Court to restrain the proceedings of the local court. The two bodies filed applications in the High Court in which they had challenged the maintainability of a civil suit pending before the Varanasi district court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-order-soon-on-varanasi-mosque-case/article36351893.ece
08 September 2021||Lucknow,||Mayawati promises to work for Brahmins||Amid a display of Hindu symbolism, which included chanting of Vedic hymns by priests, blowing of conch shells, raising slogans in praise of Lord Ram and Lord Shiva, and an idol of Lord Ganesha and a trident placed on stage, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Tuesday promised the dominant Brahmin community that she would work to protect its interests and provide security, if she was voted to power for the fifth time in Uttar Pradesh. If the BSP formed the government in 2022, the Brahmin community would have “no room for any disappointment”, Ms. Mayawati said, reiterating that she would no longer build memorials, parks or statues dedicated to OBC (Other Backward Class) and Dalit icons but was willing to suitably honour the religious and social icons of other communities, if they desired so. Addressing a meeting held here for the “ prabudh varg ” (intellectual class) but aimed at wooing the Brahmin community, Ms. Mayawati also promised them that her government would conduct a high-level probe into all cases where Brahmins were victims of “narrow-minded, casteist and politically vindictive” action. Strict action would be taken against the officials found guilty and the victims would be compensated for their financial loss. In return, Ms. Mayawati sought the community’s “support for the BSP with honesty and loyalty”. Often accused by the BJP of catering to just Dalits and that too the Jatav sub-caste, Ms. Mayawati said, “Our party is not of any particular caste or religion but is a party of sarv samaj (entire society).”  Our party is not of any particular caste or religion but is a party of ‘Sarv Samaj’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mayawati-promises-to-work-for-brahmins/article36351879.ece
08 September 2021||Srinagar,||Premium domestic tourists flock to Kashmir||The prolonged COVID-19 pandemic may have spelt doom for the tourism and hospitality sector at large, but Kashmir has bucked the trend. The Valley has emerged as the most sought- after destination in 2021 for premium domestic tourists accustomed to jaunts abroad, resulting in a major bump in business for luxury hotels and golf courses. A similar trend is emerging in Meghalaya, the second northeastern State after Sikkim to open for tourists, where high-end hotels are doing better than low-end and budget properties. Tourist footfall in Kashmir Valley destinations, such as Gulmarg, Pahalgam and Sonamarg, during July-August numbered around one lakh, according to official figures from the J&K Tourism Department. Around 76,880 tourists visited in the winter season, between January and March 2021. “Following the second wave of the pandemic, the tourism sector has been able to make a recovery in Kashmir. Tourists were not able to go abroad, especially Europe, so what better destination than Kashmir! We received around 1 lakh tourists in July-August and are hopeful of footfall going up in the coming months,” said Sarmad Hafeez, Tourism Secretary, J&K. The government’s decision to increase direct flights from cities such as Hyderabad and Mumbai, and setting up night landing infrastructure at the Srinagar airport has further spurred the numbers. “Most high-end hotels have above 70% occupancy, unlike budget hotels where occupancy is on the lower side. We fear there could be a drastic fall in travellers once overseas flights restart,” said Farooq Khutoo, president of the Travel Agents Association of Kashmir. Echoes in Shillong In Meghalaya, the Federation of Shillong Hotels says the occupancy rate of lower-end hotels in the Meghalaya capital and elsewhere in the State has been less than 5%, while that of higher-end hotels is 20%-25%. “Lower-end and budget tourists have perhaps not recovered from the impact of COVID-19 lockdowns or restrictions, while the higher-end tourists have been raring to break free of home confinement,” said Parambir Singh Sehdave, president of the Federation. ( With inputs from Rahul Karmakar in Guwahati )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/premium-domestic-tourists-flock-to-kashmir/article36351949.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Mullah Akhund to head interim Taliban govt.||Taliban co-founder Abdul Ghani Baradar would be the deputy leader. Previously, he had served as the head of the political office, overseeing the signing of the U.S. withdrawal agreement. Mullah Yaqoob, the son of Taliban founder and late supreme leader Mullah Omar, was named Defence Minister. “The Cabinet is not complete, it is just acting,” Mujahid said. “We will try to take people from other parts of the country.” Shortly after the announcement of the new line-up, Hibatullah Akhundzada, the secretive supreme leader of the Taliban, told the newly appointed government to uphold sharia law, in his first message since the hard-line movement swept to power. “I assure all the countrymen that the figures will work hard towards upholding Islamic rules and sharia law in the country,” Akhundzada, who has never been seen in public, said in a statement released in English. He told Afghans that the new leadership would ensure “lasting peace, prosperity and development”, adding that “people should not try to leave the country”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mullah-akhund-to-head-interim-taliban-govt/article36351938.ece
08 September 2021||Mumbai,||Rona Wilson gets bail||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Tuesday granted 14 days bail to activist Rona Wilson to complete his father’s last rites. Mr. Wilson, accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence case, was arrested on March 6, 2018, and is currently lodged at Taloja Central Jail. He will be released on a personal bond of Rs. 50,000 with one or two sureties. Special Judge D.E. Kothalikar directed Mr. Wilson to be released from September 13 to 27 to go home in Kerala and attend a Mass for his father on September 16. Mr. Wilson’s father passed away on August 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rona-wilson-gets-bail/article36351867.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,||The Hindu Group wins silver awards at IAA event||The Hindu Group recently won two silver awards at the 11th edition of the Olive Crown Awards 2021 organised by the India chapter of the International Advertising Association (IAA).  The Hindu ’s campaign for World Wildlife Day (March 3, 2020) and World Environment Day (June 5, 2020) won silver awards in Press (Services) and Press (Corporate) categories, respectively. The awards were presented as an acknowledgement of the remarkable work of individuals and brands who drove the message of sustainability or ‘green advertising’. The IAA is an integrated advertising trade association with membership representing advertising agencies and the media. The advertisements, conceived by Ogilvy, were a part of The Hindu Group’s print-led initiative — “Care. Community. Conversation”. Crafted with long-format copy, the campaign focused on significant causes such as environmental conservation and mental health. The first advertisement published for World Wildlife Day carried a communication with a tinge of sarcasm where sea turtle was introduced as the dumbest creature on the planet. The other advertisement was published to observe World Environment Day right after the horrific incident of a pregnant elephant killed using a pineapple laced with firecrackers. It highlighted the cruelty unleashed on nature and animals and urged people to create a better world. Accepting the award, Suresh Balakrishna, Chief Revenue Officer, The Hindu Group, said, “I am extremely happy and grateful to receive this award. As a media organisation, we have always lent our voice to responsible societal and environmental concerns. It has been a fulfilling initiative and we feel motivated to continue our good work and make the world a better place to live in.” Senior marketing, media, and advertising professionals in India participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-hindu-group-wins-silver-awards-at-iaa-event/article36351868.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||SC agrees to govt. plea to adjourn Pegasus hearing||“The report of experts will be placed before the Supreme Court… I repeat, it is not my case that I will not divulge anything. All will be revealed before the committee… Let me do that before a committee… Permit us to form a committee… We will place its report before the Supreme Court itself,” Mr. Mehta had said. The court had, however, made it clear that there was no question of compromising on national security. “ The question here is that there are some persons of eminence who have come here, saying there has been interception of their phones… That can be done, but with the permission of the competent authority… What is the problem if that competent authority filed an affidavit before us? In the affidavit, we don’t want a single word on any aspect that relates to the security of the nation,” Justice Surya Kant had explained. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for petitioners and veteran journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, had said, “The security of the State is as important to the citizen as it is to the State”. He expressed his dissatisfaction with the government’s two-page affidavit in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-agrees-to-govt-plea-to-adjourn-pegasus-hearing/article36351939.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Cairn sees end to tax dispute with India||The changes propose to refund the taxes levied retrospectively if the affected taxpayers drop all pending litigation and forego any interest and damages claims. The government had issued draft rules to implement the amended law and the final rules are awaited soon, as the consultation period on the draft rules ended last week. The rules include a requirement by the affected party to ‘indemnify, defend and hold harmless’ the government of all costs and expenses, if a separate interested party such as shareholders, beneficial owners, officers of the firm, brings, files or maintains any claim over the matter, after the dispute is resolved. Cairn said it was ‘working with Government of India to expedite documentation and payment of refund’. If the refund came through, it proposed to give its shareholders $ $500 million as a ‘special return’ and deploy up to $200 million for a share buyback programme. The balance of around $300 million, would bolster its net cash position to ‘pursue value accretive expansion and diversification,’ it said. Tribunal verdict An international arbitration tribunal, scrutinising the tax dispute, last year ruled in Cairn’s favour and awarded $1.2 billion in damages to the company. While the government has filed an appeal against the verdict, Cairn has filed lawsuits in several overseas jurisdictions to enforce the tribunal’s award. In France, the company secured a court’s permission to freeze at least 20 Indian properties in Paris. In the U.S., it is pressing for securing Air India’s assets by arguing that the national carrier is the ‘alter ego’ of the government in an ongoing legal process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cairn-sees-end-to-tax-dispute-with-india/article36351872.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 vaccine doses cross 70 crore mark||The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 70 crore mark on Tuesday. The last 10 crore doses were given in just 13 days, the fastest so far, the Union Health Ministry said. Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya on Twitter congratulated all the health workers and public for the “momentous achievement”. Numbers improve The seven-day average number of doses administered daily has been consistently improving since August-end. The average daily doses have improved from around 50 lakh in mid-August to 83 lakh at the end of September first week. Adults vaccinated To fully vaccinate all adults by 2021, over 1 crore vaccinations have to be done every day in the remaining days. So far, this mark has been crossed on three days — August 27 (1.07 crore), August 31 (1.35 crore) and September 6 (1.15 crore). On Tuesday, as of 7 p.m., 72,40,929 doses have been administered. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16, with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. Next phase The next phase commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years and those aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then expanded the drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. As on Tuesday, 56.6% of the Indian adult population has been vaccinated with at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Also, 17.4% of the adult population has been vaccinated with both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-vaccine-doses-cross-70-crore-mark/article36351876.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||21.02 lakh unorganised workers registered so far||Since its launch on August 26, the government’s e-Shram portal registered 21 lakh unorganised sector workers as of Tuesday, according to data on the Labour and Employment Ministry’s portal. Labour and Employment Minister Bhupender Yadav told The Hindu that the progress had been satisfactory and the Ministry would boost the capacities of the portal. Mr. Yadav said he, along with the Minister of State, would visit the 20 deputy chief labour commissioner offices in the country to interact with the stakeholders. Chandan Kumar of the Working Peoples Charter, a network of organisations working with unorganised workers, said the organisations helping the workers register on the portal had a mixed response. The process was going well, but some people experienced technical issues, which need to be rectified by the National Informatics Centre, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2102-lakh-unorganised-workers-registered-so-far/article36351907.ece
08 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmers lay siege to govt. building||Tens of thousands of farmers, led by the central leadership of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav and Gurnam Singh Charuni, laid siege to the mini-Secretariat at Karnal on Tuesday evening. The sit-in followed after the talks between the farmer leaders and the district administration over the brutal police baton-charge of farmers a week ago broke down. Mr. Yadav, talking to the media, saidthetalks failed after the administration refused to agree to the farmers’ minimum demand for an inquiry against IAS officer Ayush Sinha for ordering the police to “crack the heads” of farmers, and suspend him pending an inquiry. The other demands included compensation to the injured farmers and a government job to the next of the kin of farmer Sushil Kajal, who died during the lathicharge, said Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All-India Kisan Sabha, Harayana, who was part of the 15-member delegation that held talks with the administration. As the two-hour-long talks failed, the farmers, who had gathered in huge numbers at the grain market marched to the mini-Secretariat housing offices of the district administration. They broke through barricades and ignored water cannons to enter the premises. At the time of going to press, the sit-in was continuing. Cong. challenge Amid the protests, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said, “Modi ji , Khattar sahib , if the government can go to Doha and talk to Taliban, why can’t it talk to our annadatas who are peacefully protesting for the 10 months on the borders of Delhi?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-lay-siege-to-karnal-mini-secretariat/article36351862.ece
08 September 2021||Srinagar,||Under house arrest, says Mehbooba||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday claimed that she had been put under house arrest in Srinagar, a day after she alleged that the police had shown disrespect to the body of Syed Ali Shah Geelani. “GOI [Government of India] expresses concern for the rights of Afghan people but wilfully denies the same to Kashmiris. I’ve been placed under house arrest today because according to administration the situation is far from normal in Kashmir. This exposes their fake claims of normalcy,” she said in a tweet. The former Chief Minister after a party meeting in Srinagar alleged ‘maltreatment’ of the body of Geelani on September 2. Meanwhile, mobile Internet was restored in Srinagar and Budgam districts on Tuesday, six days after Geelani’s death. Train services also resumed. CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami on Tuesday said the Ladakh administration’s recent order is “validation and vindication of the essence of Article 35A in ensuring constitutional guarantees to people of J&K and Ladakh”. “Permanent Residence Certificate issued by the erstwhile State of J&K under Article 35A has now become the sole basis for defining permanent resident of UT Ladakh which is validation and vindication of the essence of Article 35A in ensuring constitutional guarantees to people of J&K and Ladakh which [Article 370] was arbitrarily made inoperative,” Mr. Tarigami, also spokesman of the Gupkar alliance, said. The Ladakh administration recently passed an order to issue Resident Certificates to only locals for filling the non-gazetted posts in the UT, unlike the domicile laws passed for J&K earlier. Mr. Tarigami said by scrapping the Article 370 and bifurcating the State into two UTs, not only has the BJP government undermined the basic structure of the Constitution but also the relationship between Jammu & Kashmir and the Union itself. “The only way to put it back on track is by immediately restoring democracy along with full autonomy and statehood to the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-am-under-house-arrest-says-mehbooba/article36351881.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||We won’t contest against Mamata: Cong.||The Congress high command has decided not to field any candidate against West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the upcoming byelection, party leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said on Tuesday. Ms. Banerjee, who narrowly lost to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram in the election earlier this year, will contest from Bhabanipur as the Trinamool Congress candidate to re-enter the Assembly. Sharing agreement “Our high command doesn’t want to field any candidate in Bhabanipur from where the Chief Minister is contesting. As the president of the State unit, we have decided not to field anyone,” Mr. Chowdhury told reporters in Kolkata. As part of the seat sharing agreement between the Left parties and the Congress, the Bhabanipur seat was under the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-wont-contest-against-mamata-cong/article36351942.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||Interim bail for nearly 100 convicts||The Supreme Court has in a single stroke granted ad interim bail to nearly 100 convicts who have served more than 20 years in jail. The convicts are all lodged in jails in Uttar Pradesh. Most of them are serving their sentences in the Agra Central Jail. “Since the petitioners have been in jail for over 20 years, they shall be released on ad interim bail subject to the terms and conditions to be imposed by the trial court to its satisfaction,” a Bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and J.K. Maheshwari ordered. Advocate Rishi Malhotra, for the convicts, said they were entitled to premature release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/interim-bail-for-nearly-100-convicts/article36351946.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Piyush Goyal is Sherpa for G20 summit||The government has appointed Union Minister for Commerce & Industry Piyush Goyal as Sherpa for the G20 meet, replacing former Union Minister Suresh Prabhu. The development comes a little over a month before the next summit scheduled at the end of October in Rome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/piyush-goyal-is-sherpa-for-g20-summit/article36351947.ece
08 September 2021||Srinagar,||J&K portal on property disputes||J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday launched an online portal for time-bound redressal of grievances related to Kashmiri migrants’ immovable properties in the Union Territory (UT). “This initiative will put an end to the plight of the migrants including Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims, who have been suffering since the 1990s. It is the responsibility of the present to rectify the mistakes of the past,” L-G Sinha said. An official said an application filed on the portal will be disposed of in a fixed timeframe under the Public Services Guarantee Act, 2011, by the revenue authorities. The competent authority has been directed to undertake survey and field verification of migrant properties and update all registers within a period of 15 days and submit a compliance report to the Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-portal-on-property-disputes/article36351882.ece
08 September 2021||Mumbai,||PNB case: Court cancels warrants against Nirav Modi's brother-in-law||A PMLA court in Mumbai on Tuesday cancelled all outstanding non-bailable warrants against fugitive businessman Nirav Modi's brother-in law Maiank Mehta, who has turned approver in the $2 billion PNB fraud case. Mr. Mehta, on Tuesday, appeared before Special Judge V.C. Barde and sought the cancellation of warrants issued against him, which was allowed by court.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pnb-case-court-cancels-warrants-against-nirav-modis-brother-in-law/article36352352.ece
08 September 2021||Guwahati,||2 northeast parties unite against Hindutva agenda, CAA||Two regional parties in the Northeast have come together to combat the “divisive Hindutva agenda” of the BJP and the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Assam Jatiya Parishad and The Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance also pledged to undertake an initiative for a regional political movement by uniting all the regional parties of the Northeast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-northeast-parties-unite-against-hindutva-agenda-caa/article36352445.ece
08 September 2021||Raipur,||Chhattisgarh CM’s father arrested for ‘derogatory’ remarks against community||The Raipur police have arrested Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel’s father — Nand Kumar Baghel — in Delhi in a case registered against him for allegedly making derogatory remarks against a community, an official said on Tuesday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chhattisgarh-cms-father-arrested-for-derogatory-remarks-against-community/article36351943.ece
08 September 2021||Lucknow,||Jailed former MP from U.P. joins AIMIM||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday welcomed jailed former MP from Prayagraj, Atiq Ahmad, and his family into the party. He said his goal was to serve as an “independent Muslim voice” in Uttar Pradesh, where he is on a three-day tour. Mr. Ahmad is a former MP with the Samajwadi Party from Phulpur. He faces several criminal charges and has been designated a gangster by the Yogi Adityanath government. Several properties linked to him have been demolished and people close to him booked. ‘Love for country’ Mr. Ahmad’s wife, Shaista Parveen, who addressed a press conference along with Mr. Owaisi here, read out a message by her husband on why he was joining the AIMIM. Mr. Ahmad said he had considered Mr. Owaisi’s love for the country, minorities and Dalits and his “faith in the Constitution”. Mr. Owaisi defended Mr. Ahmad, saying the latter had not been convicted in any case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jailed-former-mp-from-up-joins-aimim/article36351887.ece
08 September 2021||Kolkata,||W.B. contests order on Suvendu||The West Bengal government filed an appeal before a Division Bench of Justice Subrata Talukdar of the Calcutta High Court against an order by a single judge Bench on Monday that granted relief to Suvendu Adhikari. The Monday order of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha said no coercive action should be taken without permission. This Bench stayed three of the five police complaints against the BJP leader. In two other cases, the police can question him but cannot take coercive against him. “ Prima facie , there appears to be an attempt at implicating and victimising him in criminal cases and mala fides, malice and collateral purpose in registering the FIRs against the petitioner and his associates,” Justice Mantha said in the order. The State BJP leadership has said the cases against Mr. Adhikari are a result of the summons issued by Central agencies to Trinamool Congress leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wb-contests-order-on-suvendu/article36351888.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||Panel meeting to reclaim political legacy of Cong.||The Congress panel to plan 75 years of India’s Independence on Tuesday discussed ways to highlight the history of the freedom movement that is tied to the legacy of the party. The 11-member panel, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and tasked to plan year-long celebrations, held its first meeting in which it was decided to form two sub-committees that will plan and coordinate programmes at the district and State levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-meeting-to-reclaim-political-legacy-of-cong/article36351894.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||Railways to run 261 Ganapati special trains||The Indian Railways announced on Tuesday that it will run 261 ‘Ganapati Special Trains’ till September 20. They will be fully reserved trains with special fare. The Railways stated that the trains were being run for the convenience of passengers during the Ganapati Festival and to clear the extra rush. Of these Central Railway will run 201 trains, Western Railway 42 trains and Konkan Railways 18 trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-to-run-261-ganapati-special-trains/article36351898.ece
08 September 2021||Patna,||Tej Pratap Yadav floats parallel students’ organisation||Sidelined in the Rashtriya Janata Dal founded and headed by Lalu Prasad, his elder son Tej Pratap Yadav has floated a new students’ body with the ostensible aim of strengthening the parent organisation. Mr. Yadav launched the Chhatra Janshakti Parishad two days ago and claimed that it was not meant to pose any challenge to the Chhatra RJD, the party’s official student wing, but would work towards “mobilising youth at the village level”.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tej-pratap-yadav-floats-parallel-students-organisation/article36351900.ece
08 September 2021||Mumbai,||Bailable warrant issued against ex-Mumbai police chief||A bailable warrant was on Tuesday issued against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh by Justice (retired) K.U. Chandiwal, who is probing a March 20 letter written by him to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, alleging corruption by Anil Deshmukh, former Maharashtra Home Minister. Justice Chandiwal also directed Mr. Singh to furnish Rs. 50,000 at the time of its execution. The Chandiwal Inquiry Committee imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 in June and Rs. 25,000 twice last month on Mr. Sing for repeatedly not appearing before it. The government appointed the probe panel on March 30. The letter mentioned several instances where Mr. Deshmukh directed now dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to collect Rs. 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants. On April 5, the Bombay High Court directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry against Mr. Deshmukh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bailable-warrant-issued-against-ex-mumbai-police-chief/article36351908.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||Postpone NEET, says Rahul Gandhi||The Congress on Tuesday argued for the postponement of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for aspiring medical students. “GOI is blind to students’ distress. Postpone #NEET exam. Let them have a fair chance,” former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted, a day after the Supreme Court declined to intervene in the examination process. A group of students had moved the court for directions to delay the exam. The National Testing Agency will be conducting the NEET for 2021 in pen and paper mode on September 12 for admissions to MBBS, BDS, BAMS and other allied courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/postpone-neet-says-rahul-gandhi/article36351895.ece
08 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha Assembly passes Bill capping reservation of seats at 50%||The Odisha Assembly on Tuesday passed the Odisha Municipal Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to cap reservation at 50%, a move that has paved the way for conducting elections to urban local bodies in the State. While elections to urban local bodies are long overdue, the tenure of the present three-tier panchayati raj institutions is coming to an end early next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-assembly-passes-bill-capping-reservation-of-seats-at-50/article36351889.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations only for three days in Bengaluru||As a precautionary measure against public gatherings, the State government has decided to cut short Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the city. Public celebrations in Bengaluru have been restricted to three days, contrary to the five days allowed in the guidelines that the State government had only recently issued. Only one public pandal will be allowed per ward in the city. A decision to this effect was taken after Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta and Police Commissioner Kamal Pant held a joint meeting on Tuesday. “Last year too we had allowed public festivities only for three days which we are continuing with. With the Assembly session coming up, the police have information about a few protests as well. We have taken this call to restrict crowding,” said Mr. Gupta. Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Monday said if there were demands, the civic body would consider making an exception to the one pandal per ward rule. However, Mr. Gupta said the State government guidelines only allowed for one pandal per ward and there would be no relaxation to the rule. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) notified city specific guidelines on Tuesday. The city police and BBMP officials will finalise the venue of public celebration of the festival in each ward by Thursday based on applications made, the guidelines said. All cultural programmes, use of loudspeakers, and DJ sets are banned at pandals. Organisers cannot hold any processions while bringing the idol to the venue or while immersing it. Idols installed in public cannot be taller than 4 feet. The rules state that idols cannot be made of plaster of Paris. They can be immersed in mobile immersion tanks or at specified artificial ponds that will be created for the purpose. At public pandals, all organisers have to carry a negative RT-PCR test report and vaccination certificates. Organisers have also been directed to conduct vaccination camps at the pandals in collaboration with health officials of the civic body. Only 20 persons can be inside the pandal at any time. All pandals will have Home Guards and marshals to ensure there is no crowding and that COVID-19 appropriate behaviour is maintained at all times. Violators will be penalised. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said a curfew from 9 p.m. will be in force, so all public celebrations will have to follow the deadline. BBMP ward officials have been tasked with sanitising the premises of all public pandals and temples where idols have been installed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-only-for-three-days-in-bengaluru/article36351910.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Luxury cruises from city may soon become a reality||Short holidays are the in-thing these days. And just imagine if you can hop onto a passenger ship and reach Puducherry or Karaikal by sea from Chennai! A trip along the coast, watching the land go by, waving to fishing boats and trying out delectable food on board a cruise liner. This could very well become a reality in about six months to a year. Two operators have shown interest in operating passenger ferry services from Chennai port to destinations including Puducherry, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Karaikal. Port Trust Chairman P. Ravindran said the Chennai Port Trust had called for an Expressions of Interest (EoIs) last month following which they had received these responses. “We will scrutinise the EoIs and permit a qualified operator to run the service. Also, ports in Puducherry and Cuddalore are in the process of creating facilities mainly to handle cargo, which can also be used for passenger services,” he said. Chennai port is not looking to earn revenue from this exercise, but aims to facilitate passenger movement at sea. “We would provide berthing and other facilities. The port already provides several concessions to international cruise liners and those from the Andamans. This is in accordance to the directions of the Ministry of Shipping,” Mr. Ravindran said. Chennai port has a dedicated cruise facilitation centre to handle cruise and passenger vessels, and has a considerable market share in cruise traffic. Presently, it handles seven to eight international cruise calls and around 30 passenger vessel calls to Port Blair in a year. Its cruise terminal has passenger lifts, escalators, baggage scanners, CCTV cameras, a public address system, immigration/e-landing counters, duty free shops, cafeteria and ATMs. The passenger ferry service operator can own or lease the ferries/vessels. The port trust would provide facilities, including berths, pilotage and terminals, for efficient implementation of the services. The port shall have the right to collect vessel related charges for providing the infrastructure. However, it would not invest or contribute anything towards the project except the provision of existing infrastructure and facilities. The operator would have to design, build, implement, operate and maintain the project facilities and would be required support facilities like baggage handling, ticket counters and also obtain all necessary clearances for commissioning the project. Tourism experts said Jalesh Cruises from Mumbai port and Louis Cruises from Kochi were popular, but had to be stopped due to the pandemic. “Now is the right time to renew this industry from Chennai as it is one of the most sought after and exciting segments in the tourism sector. Cruise tourism combines elements of exotic hotels, exquisite food and beverage, sightseeing, entertainment, travel and shopping all at one place and as a value-for-money option,” said Anand, a city-based tour operator. M.K. Ajit Kumar, founding member, South India MICE Association, said a cruise option between Chennai and Puducherry was sure to attract thousands of leisure visitors not only from Tamil Nadu, but also from all over the country at a time when people are looking at different travel opportunities after being stuck in their homes due to the pandemic. The meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE) segment, is another way for the cruise industry to benefit. “If there are cruise ships with conference halls, a day conference could be conducted and delegates could later alight at the destination for sightseeing. All facilities are put together as a package in a cruise,” Mr. Ajit Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/luxury-cruises-from-city-may-soon-become-a-reality/article36352075.ece
08 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin announces Rs. 5,000 as aid for Vinayaka idol makers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who reiterated the government’s decision to ban celebrations of Vinayaka Chaturthi in public places in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, announced Rs. 5,000 as financial assistance for artisans making Vinayaka idols. Responding to BJP floor leader Nainar Nagendran, the Chief Minister said since the ban on public celebrations of Vinayaka Chaturthi had affected 3,000 artisans who made statues during the festival season, the government would give them Rs. 5,000 each. A helping hand “This is in addition to the Rs. 5,000 given to 12,000 potters who could not earn livelihood during the rainy season,” he said. Pointing out that disease-control measures were in place only on the directions of the Union Home Ministry, Mr. Stalin said relaxations by the Kerala government during Bakrid and Onam had resulted in a steep increase in daily COVID-19 infections there. “Even in Tamil Nadu, the infection rate is not completely under control. It is on a roller-coaster ride. One day there are 50 more cases, and the next day, the count comes down. That is why we have banned all religious festivals till September 15,” he said. The Chief Minister said people could celebrate the festival in their houses, and they should not misunderstand the government’s objective.  This assistance is in addition to the Rs. 5,000 given to 12,000 potters who could not earn a livelihood during the rainy season M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-announces-rs-5000-as-aid-for-vinayaka-idol-makers/article36352062.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu records 1,544 new COVID-19 cases and 19 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 1,544 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. As fluctuations in daily cases continued in parts of the State, Chennai saw a marginal rise in cases with 194 persons testing positive for COVID-19 as opposed to 169 the previous day, while Thanjavur’s daily caseload dropped from 104 to 53. Coimbatore continued to top the table with 217 cases. A total of 224 persons were discharged on Tuesday and the district had 2,191 active cases. The Health Department said that two more persons from Coimbatore district died of COVID-19 on Saturday and Sunday. A day after its daily count dropped below 100, Erode reported 115 cases, taking the total cases to 99,197. While 104 persons were discharged, 1,246 persons continue to be under treatment. A day after a Class XI student of K.V.K. Government Boys Higher Secondary School at Punjai Puliyampatti tested positive for COVID-19, teachers and other students of the school were tested and the results returned negative on Tuesday. The boy came to the school on September 1 after which he developed fever. His mother also tested positive. Both were admitted to the hospital. Health officials disinfected the school premises and swab samples were lifted from 27 students of his class and four teachers. Disinfectants were sprayed in the classrooms on Tuesday and the school continued to function. Chief Educational Officer M. Ramakrishnan said a junior assistant, who was on leave, and a girl student who did not attend the classes after the school was reopened also tested positive. Tiruppur district reported 70 fresh COVID-19 cases, which raised the tally so far in the district to 90,900 cases. The toll went up to 934 after the Health Department reported one death on Tuesday. Salem saw 57 new cases and one death and Namakkal reported 65 cases and two deaths. Krishnagiri recorded 14 new cases that raised the tally so far to 42,198. Dharmapuri recorded 22 fresh cases. The tally so far in the district is 27,003. There were 112 cases in Chengalpattu, 69 in Tiruvallur and 56 in Tiruchi. Eight districts had fewer than 10 cases each, with Ramanathapuram accounting for the least number of cases with three. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 26,25,778. Another 19 persons — five in private and 14 in government hospitals — succumbed to the infection. This took the toll to 35,055. As many as 25 districts did not report fatalities due to COVID-19. With 1,576 persons discharged after treatment, a total number of recoveries so far stood at 25,74,518. There were 16,205 active cases in the State. This included 2,191 active cases in Coimbatore, 1,816 in Chennai, 1,246 in Erode and 1,100 in Chengalpattu. As many as 1,55,210 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total sample count stood at 4,34,28,075. Two private laboratories — Iris Laboratories, Chennai and Lifeline Laboratory, Krishnagiri — were approved for COVID-19 testing recently. Presently, there were 69 testing facilities in the government and 223 laboratories in the private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-1544-fresh-covid-19-infections-19-deaths/article36352093.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Excessive screen time delays children’s development, says study||Too much exposure to television or mobile phone screens for children below the age of five could be detrimental to their development, a study by Chennai-based researchers has found. The study assessed the performance of the children and their understanding of commands from their mothers, and found that children who had been exposed to several hours of television or mobile phone screens exhibited an inability to comprehend what they were being told. Samya Varadarajan, the lead author of Prevalence of excessive screen time and its association with developmental delay in children aged <5 years: A population-based cross-sectional study in India, which was published recently in the journal PLOS One, said the study tried to understand the association between excessive screen time and developmental delay in children below five years of age. The study was done in 2019, but Dr. Varadarajan, an assistant professor of community medicine at Sri Ramachandra University, said it could be extrapolated to the current scenario, where children are forced to rely on online classes during the pandemic. As much as 70% of the 718 children aged six months to five years, who were studied, had been exposed to excessive screen time, the study found. Exposed early to screens Most children had been introduced to screens as early as when they were six months of age, and a majority of the children had been exposed to television screens before they turned a year old. Excessive screen time (ST) results in a delay in development of expressive and receptive language. Children learn to express themselves by imitating their parents or caregivers. By the age of three, they start speaking a lot of words. But those exposed to too much ST are unable to do so.  Eight parameters “We have taken eight parameters to understand the development of the child. We say there is a developmental delay when the child is unable to understand what the mother is saying. When the mother says ‘Come here and sit down’, she is issuing two commands. But the child manages to understand just one command. That is a developmental delay,” Dr. Varadarajan explained. The study found that children exposed to ST tried to imitate the slang they picked up from watching television. They used inappropriate words and were unable to understand simple commands. Two times more “For a child who has normal ST versus a child who has excessive ST, the odds of developmental delay are two times more,” Dr. Varadarajan said. Though the study was done before the COVID-19 pandemic, she said the results would only be starker now. “We can extrapolate it to the current scenario, but the World Health Organisation guideline allows an hour of viewing educational content online,” she noted. Schools could have online classes, but for children below the age of five, it should be more activity-based instead of having them watch the screen, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/excessive-screen-time-delays-childrens-development-says-study/article36352472.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1 crore more doses of COVID-19 vaccines sought||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian has sought an additional allocation of one crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines from the Union Health Ministry forthe mega vaccination camp planned to be heldin Tamil Nadu from September 12. In a letter to Union Health Minister Mansukh L. Mandaviya, Mr. Subramanian requested additional doses of one crore COVID-19 vccines for Tamil Nadu along with an equal number of 0.5 ml Auto Disable (AD) syringes or one ml/two ml syringes for the proposed mega camp. This is in addition to the already-committed 1.04 crore vaccine doses for government COVID-19 vaccination centres, he said. He pointed out that as a next step to increase the COVID-19 vaccination drive in the State, it was decided to conduct the mega camp on a weekly basis, starting from September 12. This was to cover the left-out unvaccinated eligible population aged above 18 years in the State without diluting the daily vaccination drive. The Government of India, till September 5, has supplied 3,31,84,824 doses of COVID-19 vaccines and 1,83,95,400 (0.5 ml) AD syringes to the State, he pointed out. The State has about 6.06 crore eligible population aged above 18 years to be covered with two doses of the vaccines. Till September 5, the State has covered 2.63 crore beneficiaries with the first dose, while 68.91 lakh beneficiaries were vaccinated with both doses in government vaccination centres, he stated. The State is administering about 5 lakh doses per day for the last seven days. Considering the current pace of vaccination, current supplies were adequate for only three to four days, making it difficult to plan to cover the eligible left-out population, he said. The Minister noted that the remaining 3.44 crore persons needed to be vaccinated with the first dose and about 18.99 lakh persons were due for the second dose as on September 5. This was already represented to the Union Health Minister during the recent meeting in New Dehi on September 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1-cr-more-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-sought/article36352080.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Banana leaves likely to be used to package food||The Greater Chennai Corporation is likely to order restaurants and eateries to use banana leaves instead of plastic for packaging food, based on recommendations by private conservancy operators. The number of food business operators using plastic packaging is estimated to be 20,000. The civic body had sought suggestions from private conservancy operators to improve solid waste management and prevent plastic pollution. They suggested various measures to improve source segregation and reduce waste in landfills. Best practices Upon studying the models of solid waste management in cities such as Tokyo and Dubai, a private conservancy operator suggested using better technology, implementing stringent policies and raising awareness among citizens to reduce landfill tonnage to 20%, similar to that of Tokyo. While Dubai has reduced the quantity of waste in landfills to 30%, in Chennai it is still at 85%. The Corporation is planning to launch a campaign to promote source segregation in households and commercial establishments. Former Corporation floor leader V. Sukumar Babu said at least 150 commercial outlets were using plastic packaging materials to sell food in each of the wards. “The Corporation should raise awareness about using banana leaves as packaging material in eateries. Residents will support the move, but the eatery staff may need proper orientation from the Health Department. The Corporation should resume training sessions for food handlers to improve public health,” he said. Some suggestions by private conservancy operators, like micro-composting meat waste, are unlikely to be implemented as residents have protested against the move due to the stench it creates. Proposals for incinerators in each zone will not be accepted due to air pollution. Imposition of penalties on households that fail to segregate waste will not be implemented since the Corporation plans to incentivise source segregation, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banana-leaves-likely-to-be-used-to-package-food/article36352068.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Debate on the relevance of Kallar reclamation and Adi-Dravidar schools||A debate on the continued relevance of Kallar reclamation schools and Adi-Dravidar welfare schools, vestiges of the British raj, is under way. Both types of institutions have been in existence for over a 100 years. While the first category was established to constructively engage the children of, what were once called, criminal tribes, the second became possible, thanks to initiatives by leaders of the Scheduled Castes, such as Ayotheedoss Pandithar. The schools were founded when the communities had little access to formal education. Kallar reclamation schools are located in Madurai, Dindigul and Theni districts, where Piramalai Kallars are predominantly concentrated. Piramalai Kallars form part of 68 denotified communities (DNCs) that include Maravars and Vettuva Gounders. Adi-Dravidar welfare schools are situated across the State. As many as 76 castes have been enumerated as SCs. Both categories of institutions admit students from other communities too. Kallar reclamation schools come under the jurisdiction of the Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Minority Welfare Department, and the latter under the Adi-Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department. The question being raised in certain quarters is whether these schools should remain in their present form. One of the reasons being cited is that the strength of students is on the decline. Besides, in the last 30 years, the number of private schools and their student strength have gone up sharply. The idea of integrating Kallar reclamation schools and Adi-Dravidar welfare schools with those being run by the School Education Department has been exercising policy makers at different points of time. Thanga Tamilselvan, the DMK’s Theni (north) district secretary, and Dindigul C. Sreenivasan, former Forests Minister, feel strongly that the need for Kallar reclamation schools still exists, as the institutions are doing “exemplary service” to the community. However, there is scope for improving the working of the schools. ‘Protecting identity’ V. Selvam, president of the Chennaivazh Piraimalai Kallar Nala Vazhvu Sangam, calls for the adequate utilisation of funds earmarked for the schools. An official, familiar with issues of the schools, says the community demands retention for “protecting its identity.” P. Sivakami, a former civil servant, opposes any move to disturb the present arrangement concerning Adi Dravidar welfare schools and says that there are several questions to be answered by those who favour the change. “Does the term mainstreaming mean only this? Has the purpose behind the formation of the schools been fully served? Has untouchability been eradicated? Has the distribution of land [among SCs] been completed?” he asks. The former civil servant demands that Adi-Dravidar welfare schools be run on the lines of the School Education Department, be it in terms of deployment of resources or the provision of opportunities for job promotion for teachers and other staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/debate-on-the-relevance-of-kallar-reclamation-and-adi-dravidar-schools/article36352052.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students from Adi-Dravidar schools worst hit by COVID-19||A field study conducted by two NGOs has found students from Adi-Dravidar and Tribal Welfare (ADTW) Department-run schools to be the worst affected in terms of education, during the COVID-19 pandemic. The study, done by the Centre for Child Rights and Development (CCRD) and the Resource Organisation for Development and Transformative Studies (ROOTS), involved field visits to 11 ADTW-run schools in Vellore, Ranipet and Tiruvannamalai districts, apart from consultations with staff from the department-run schools in the State. According to the study, roughly 70% students from the schools were not continuing their education regularly since the pandemic began. They neither had access to internet-enabled mobile phones for online classes nor to educational programmes telecast through the government-run Kalvi TV, the study said. Importantly, the study said there were no mechanisms in place to be in touch with students who left the department-run hostels when pandemic began. The study said staff from the schools did not seem to know what happened to a majority of the students. The team found poor infrastructure, lack of adequate safety mechanisms and encroachments in many of the schools. The infrastructure was particularly poor in schools in Melkavanur in Vellore district and Karai in Ranipet district, the study said. While the overall number of students studying in the roughly 1,135 schools run by the department declined between 2016-17 and 2019-20, the study pointed out that the decline was observed only in primary schools. In middle, high and higher-secondary schools, the enrolment increased. Citing poor infrastructure and mushrooming of private schools as key reasons for the decline in enrolment in primary schools, the study stressed the need to strengthen infrastructure to attract more students. Highlighting that the schools for Adi-Dravidars began functioning a century ago, the study said there was a need to strengthen them. Key recommendations included reconstructing dilapidated buildings, improving classroom infrastructure, ensuring internet connections and smart classroom facilities, removing encroachments from school campuses, and increasing the money sanctioned for food in hostels. The report said there was a need for full allocation of the money reserved under the Scheduled Castes Sub-Plan to the ADTW Department, and to ensure its effective utilisation. The study said schoolteachers often came under the supervision of revenue officials, who it said were inefficient in understanding issues related to schools. It stressed the need to appoint special education officers. It said village-level committees should be formed for supervising the schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-from-adi-dravidar-schools-worst-hit-by-covid-19/article36352060.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Statues of Tagore, Kalam, others to come up in Chennai||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Swaminathan announced on Tuesday that statues of Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore, former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam and former Finance Minister V.R. Nedunchezhian would come up in Chennai. The statue of Tagore will come up on the campus of Queen Mary’s College, of Kalam in Anna Univerity and that of Nedunchezhian in front of the State guest house in Chepauk. Replying to the debate on the demand for grants for his Department, the Minister said statues of Veerapandiya Kattabomman and Marudu Brothers would be erected on the campus of Gandhi Mandapam in Guindy. He said a statue of Anjalai Ammal, described as the “Jhansi Rani of south India” by Mahatma Gandhi, will be installed in Cuddalore. A statue of linguistic martyr Keezhapazhuvur Chinnasamy will come up in Keezhapazhuvur. Mr. Swaminathan said the government would also install a statue of social reformer Moovalur Ramamirtham Ammaiyar in Mayiladuthurai. A statue of Muthulakshmi Reddy will be erected in Pudukottai, and that of Mu. Varadharajan in Ranipet. He said the government would create an audio-visual exhibition to commemorate freedom fighters on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of Indpendence, at the Panajalamkurichi Fort. The memorial of Rajaji, Kamaraj and M. Bhaktavatsalam in Gandhi Mandapam will be renovated at a cost of Rs. 3.38 crore. Mr. Swaminathan also announced statues, memorials and halls to commemorate freedom fighters from the Kongu region. Besides announcing a welfare board for journalists, he said the amount being given to families of journalists in case of their death, would be increased to Rs. 5 lakh from Rs. 3 lakh. The government will also offer financial assistance to young journalists to join institutions such as the Indian Institute of Mass Communication and the Asian College of Journalism. A journalist highlighting issues of the subaltern and social development will be awarded the Kalaignar Ezhuthukol Prize. It will include Rs. 5 lakh and a certificate.  The memorial of Rajaji, Kamaraj and M. Bhaktavatsalam in Gandhi Mandapam will be renovated at a cost of Rs. 3.38 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/statues-of-tagore-kalam-others-to-be-erected-in-city/article36352078.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Metro finalises more contracts for phase II project||As construction of the phase II project gets under way in some stretches, Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has finalised contracts to begin work in other stretches. With three stretches running between Madhavaram and Shollinganallur, Light House and Poonamallee and Madhavaram and SIPCOT, the project will pass through all major areas of the city, boasting a total network length of 118.9 km. To start construction between Madhavaram and Shollinganallur, CMRL had floated tenders a few months back, and finalised a contractor for the stretch between Puzhuthivakkam and Shollinganallur. According to sources in CMRL, Hindustan Construction Company and KEC International Limited bid as a joint venture and emerged as the lowest bidder to construct the 11.6-km stretch from Puzhuthivakkam to Shollinganallur. This will have the following stations: Madipakkam, Keelkattalai, Echangadu, Kovilambakkam, Vellakkal, Medavakkam Koot Road, Kamaraj Garden Street, Medavakkam Junction, Perumbakkam, Global Hospital and Elcot. Sources said the contract could be awarded shortly, and the firm would be given a few weeks to mobilise resources and manpower, and start construction. In addition, Larsen and Toubro emerged as the sole bidder for contracts for two stretches — Madhavaram to CMBT and CMBT to Puzhuthivakkam. “It is not clear whether the contract will be awarded or not because of there being only one bidder. A decision will be taken in the coming week,” a source said. Meanwhile, pile work has been going on in the stretch from Poonamallee to Porur and Porur to Power House, which have been given priority and are scheduled to be completed first. These stretches will be open for passengers after five years. In the stretch between Madhavaram and SIPCOT, contracts have been awarded to two firms — Larsen and Toubro and Tata Projects — for building the underground stretch. Preliminary work has started in many locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-rail-finalises-more-contracts-for-phase-ii-project/article36352069.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Solar power parks in all districts||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) will set up solar power parks in every district, based on their commercial viability, Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji announced in the Assembly on Tuesday. In view of the increasing demand for power, the solar power parks, with a capacity of 4,000 MW, will be installed based on their commercial viability in districts that are not within municipal corporation and municipality limits, the Minister said. “To avoid purchasing power from private players at higher prices, solar power parks will be set up to produce 20,000 MW in 10 years,” he said. To benefit farmers Mr. Senthilbalaji said one lakh new agriculture service connections would be provided to benefit farmers across the State. Eleven new hydroelectric projects will be launched in various districts, based on feasibility studies, to increase power capacity by 7,500 MW, he said. Tangedco will take steps to reexamine the possibility of installing stage-II and stage-III of the Udangudi Thermal Power Project, which have not been established long since they were announced, the Minister said. Tangedco will procure power through short-term agreements to provide uninterrupted power supply in the evenings and during the summer, between October 2021 and May 22, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solar-power-parks-in-all-districts/article36352059.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination camp to be held on the lines of IPPI model||Tamil Nadu’s plan to hold a ‘Mega Camp on COVID-19 Vaccination’ will be based on the Intensified Pulse Polio Immunisation (IPPI) model. Under this, the State has 40,399 regular booths and 2,652 additional booths, taking the total number of booths to 43,051. The Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine has told Deputy Directors of Health Services that COVID-19 vaccination should be conducted in the fixed booths already selected for IPPI. Fixed booths should be established in the same places where they were set up during the last IPPI campaign on January 31, 2021. On following the IPPI model, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, said it was reachable by the system and the locations were known to the general public. According to a circular issued by the directorate, the mid-year estimated population (2021) of the State was 7.77 crore. The eligible population — those aged above 18 years — was 6.06 crore. Till September 5, a total of 3,31,84,824 beneficiaries were vaccinated in government COVID-19 vaccination centres — 2,62,93,892 with the first dose and 68,90,932 fully vaccinated. The mega camp planned to be held on September 12 was to cover all left out unvaccinated eligible population in the State. It aims to cover 10% of the target beneficiaries (3,62,03,388 — those who are yet to get the first dose and those are due to receive the second dose as on September 5) across the State — 36,20,343. The directorate said that all DDHS should conduct the camp as per IPPI model in the already identified fixed booths and include all departments in the State. High risk focus Special focus should be given to residents of high risk areas such as hilly areas and hard to reach areas, areas bordering Kerala and other inter-State borders. For instance, Chennai has a total of 1,367 regular booths for the IPPI campaign. The city’s mid-year population of people aged 18 years was 58,10,713. Of this, 29,04,807 people were yet to get the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine. As many as 3,47,148 were due to get their first dose as on September 5. Of the targeted 32,51,955 beneficiaries, the camp aims to reach out to 10% of them — 3,25,196 in Chennai. These booths would function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. and would have a minimum of four personnel to manage — one vaccinator, one person for data entry and two mobilisers (anganwadi workers). The vaccinator should be the village health nurse/urban health nurse/staff nurse/auxiliary nurse midwife. Like during the IPPI, all other government departments, NGOs, and NSS and NCC volunteers would be roped in.  Camp planned on September 12 is to cover all left out unvaccinated eligible population in the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-based-on-ippi-model-to-be-held/article36352081.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister launches conservancy operations||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited the Ripon Buildings on Tuesday and launched compactors and battery-operated vehicles for conservancy operations. The compactors and battery-operated vehicles will be used for clearing garbage in Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar and Anna Nagar. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Stalin said his election as the Mayor of Chennai in 1996 was an opportunity to serve the people of the city instead of focusing on the ceremonial aspects of the post. Pointing to the changes made during his tenure as Mayor, he said former Chief Minister Karunanidhi refused the demands of DMK leaders to make him a Cabinet Minister in 1996, and instead gave him the opportunity to run for Mayor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-launches-conservancy-operations/article36352077.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lhasa Apso to undergo cataract surgery at Madras Veterinary College||Dinesh Shah found something strange in the behaviour of eight-year-old Sweetie, a female Lhasa Apso dog, whenever he placed a piece of sweet before her. The dog, which used to devour sweets, looked unexcited. It was not just sweets; Sweetie looked away whenever food was offered to her. When Mr. Shah took her to Mumbai, Chaudhry, a veterinarian, found that the dog had developed a cataract. A blood test indicated that she was suffering from diabetes. “He recommended that I take the dog to Chennai which, he thought, was the Mecca of veterinary medical science. So, I have brought her here,” said Mr. Shah, who came to Chennai by car all the way from Gujarat. Nine dogs Mr. Shah, who has 9 dogs, has rented a room at Periamet, and will stay here till the treatment is over for Sweetie. “We have to bring the sugar level under control. The dog is regularly given insulin shots, and the sugar levels are expected to become normal in a week. After that, the ophthalmology unit will perform the [cataract] surgery,” said M. Balagangadhara Thilagar, assistant professor, Department of Clinical Medicine, Madras Veterinary College. Dogs suffering from diabetes will drink more water and pass urine frequently. “Development of cataract shows that Sweetie is in an advanced stage of diabetes. Dogs with diabetes also suffer from skin problems,” Dr. Thilagar said. Veterinarians are monitoring the glucose level of Sweetie in the critical care unit at the college. Mr. Shah said he was fully satisfied with the treatment, and the dog was showing signs of improvement. P. Sathiyamoorthy, Director of Clinics, said the arrival of Sweetie and the treatment offered to her were proof of the availability of modern facilities and excellent treatment at the Madras Veterinary College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lhasa-apso-to-undergo-cataract-surgery-at-madras-veterinary-college/article36352083.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram MP Ravikumar tells HC he is a member of the DMK||After Erode Member of Parliament A. Ganesamoorthy denied being a member of the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK), Villupuram MP D. Ravikumar has now told the Madras High Court that he belongs to the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and not Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) as claimed by a public interest litigant. In a counter affidavit, Mr. Ravikumar said: “The petitioner has… made averments on false assumption that a candidate of VCK has been wrongly elected as a candidate of DMK. It is factually incorrect. I am a member of DMK party and my name is borne on the rolls of the DMK party on the date of filing nomination by me on March 25, 2019.” He went on to state that the PIL petitioner, M.L. Ravi of Desiya Makkal Sakthi Katchi, ought to have filed only an election petition if he had any grievance regarding the nomination, and not a writ petition “by assuming and presuming that there is occurrence of misuse of law, illegality, fraud and cheating committed in the general election of 2019.” The PIL petition was filed in 2019 and the litigant wanted the results of the poll in as many as five Parliamentary constituencies to be declared illegal on the ground that five members of different political parties had contested there on reserved election symbols belonging to the DMK and the AIADMK, the two principal parties in the State. During admission, the court ordered notices to the Election Commission as well as the DMK and the AIADMK. Notices were also ordered to Perambalur MP T.R. Paarivendhar, Namakkal MP A.K.P. Chinnaraj, Mr. Ganesamoorthy, Mr. Ravikumar (all four had contested on the DMK symbol) and Puthiya Tamilagam leader K. Krishnasamy, who contested on the AIADMK’s symbol in Tenkasi (reserved) constituency but lost the election. Mr. Ganesamoorthy was the first to file a counter affidavit in November 2019. Then, he claimed to have relieved himself of the membership of the MDMK and become a member of the DMK before contesting the Parliamentary election. Therefore, he could not be accused of having contested the poll under a symbol belonging to another political party, his affidavit read. Now, in his counter affidavit, Mr. Ravikumar too took a similar stand and contended that if the litigant was of the view that the four MPs and the candidate who lost were criminally liable, then such an issue could be decided only after conducting a thorough trial on examination and cross-examination of witnesses, which could not be done under the writ jurisdiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-ravikumar-tells-hc-he-is-a-member-of-the-dmk/article36352087.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Missing coal: govt. to act based on panel’s report||The Tamil Nadu government will take action based on the report that will be submitted by a committee probing the issue of missing coal, amounting to about 2.38 lakh tonnes, from the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited’s (Tangedco’s) north Chennai power plant, Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji informed the Assembly on Tuesday. Though a preliminary report has been submitted to the State government in this regard, a detailed report is expected from the committee, he said. Taking a swipe at the erstwhile AIADMK regime, the Minister said though the previous government had said that a committee had already been constituted, the panel was set up only a few days before the counting of votes for the 2021 Assembly poll. Earlier in the day, legislators from the ruling DMK and the principal opposition, AIADMK, engaged in a heated debate, blaming each other of having caused a loss to the State exchequer by the “mismanagement” of the State’s electricity sector. While DMK MLA I. Paranthamen (Egmore) cited reports of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) to contend that the AIADMK regime had mismanaged the sector, former Minister and AIADMK legislator P. Thangamani (Kumarapalayam) countered his statement and said there were some other CAG reports that pointed out “mismanagement” during the earlier DMK government too. To Mr. Balaji’s contention that the earlier DMK governments had purchased power at higher prices from private players only for short terms, unlike the AIADMK regimes, the Leader of the Opposition and AIADMK floor leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the DMK government too had in the past purchased power at higher prices for extended durations. Mr. Thangamani also said one should be surprised only if a CAG report heaped praise on the performance of a government. He said the CAG report was based on assumptions. To support his argument, he pointed out the delay in execution of nuclear power plants in Kudankulam. “It became a reality 16 years after the MoU was signed. Everything gets delayed before resolving issues associated with a project,” he said. Mr. Thangamani said whether it was Tangedco or the Transport Department, they were being run to serve the people, and were not driven by profit making. He also said it was not possible for a State to reach a power surplus position with just its own generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-coal-govt-to-act-based-on-panels-report/article36352054.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No plan to introduce online liquor sale: govt.||There is no plan to introduce the online sale of liquor, the Tamil Nadu government has clarified in the Assembly. “There is no such plan to introduce the online sale of liquor in the State,” Minister V. Senthilbalaji said during his reply to the debate on the demand for grants for his Prohibition and Excise Department in the House. Earlier in the day, AIADMK legislator and former Minister for Prohibition and Excise P. Thangamani (Kumarapalayam) referred to speculation about the government commencing the online sale of liquor. Against the move The Minister had opposed such a move. If liquor is sold online, and if the person who placed the order is not at home, it will be embarassing for women when the delivery man arrives, Mr. Thangamani had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-plan-to-introduce-online-liquor-sale-govt/article36352055.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Barbers in temples to get Rs. 5,000 a month||Barbers engaged in tonsuring the heads of devotees in temples will get an incentive of Rs. 5,000 a month, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu announced in the Assembly on Tuesday. Responding to DMK member A.P. Nandakumar, who raised apprehensions about the barbers, as the government had announced that no fee would be charged for tonsuring in temples, the Minister said 1,749 barbers in various temples would get Rs. 5,000, in addition to their regular payment of Rs. 30 a tonsure.  “They complained that they could not get the tips offered by the devotees. When we brought it to the notice of the Chief Minister, he asked us to consider paying them some incentive,” Mr. Sekarbabu said. It will involve an expenditure of Rs. 10.30 crore per year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/barbers-in-temples-to-get-rs-5000-a-month/article36352063.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||G.O. issued for 25% increase in seats||The Higher Education Department has issued an order permitting government arts and science colleges to increase their intake by 25% this year. The decision followed a representation from the Director of Collegiate Education that during the academic year 2021-2022 more candidates had applied for admission. The government, in an order, said that the colleges could increase their intake by 25% depending on the demand for the courses. For science programmes, the colleges may increase the intake based on the laboratory facilities the institution is able to provide, the G.O. said. Last year, the government permitted the colleges to increase intake by 20% following a similar request from government colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/go-issued-for-25-increase-in-seats/article36352094.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel seeks prioritised vaccination in poll-bound districts||The Tamil Nadu State Election Commission has requested the State Health and Family Welfare Department to prioritise COVID-19 vaccination in the nine newly carved out districts that are set to witness rural local body polls soon. A meeting was held between the State Election Commission officials and officials of the Health Department, including Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Election preparedness Health Department officials made a presentation to the SEC on election preparedness, booth arrangements, and necessary steps to be taken for COVID-19 appropriate behaviour at the polling booths and on the requirement of materials such as sanitisers, gloves, PPE kits, and thermal scanners, among a total of 13 items during the conduct of the polls. Sources in the Health Department said prioritising vaccination in these districts as sought by the SEC was possible, and every effort would be made to increase vaccination as it would only lead to containment of the spread of COVID-19 and keep the people safe. On Monday, the SEC held a meeting with recognised political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-poll-panel-seeks-prioritised-vaccination-in-poll-bound-districts/article36352085.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1 held under POCSO Act||The Sembium all-women police have arrested a 29-year-old man for sexually assaulting a 5-year-old girl, and have detained him under the POCSO Act on Tuesday. The police said a case had been filed at the Sembium station by the victim’s parents against one R. Vignesh for sexually assaulting their daughter. After investigation, Vignesh was arrested. Later, the accused was produced before a judicial magistrate, and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1-held-under-pocso-act/article36352470.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man electrocuted in Chennai||A 37-year-old man was electrocuted on Monday night in Purasawalkam when he accidentally stepped on a damaged underground power cable submerged in stagnant rainwater.  An official at the Kilpauk police station said Krishnaiah, a resident of Purasawalkam, was working as a security guard in an apartment in Kilpauk. The victim was electrocuted after he stepped on a damaged power cable submerged in rainwater on Gangadeeswarar Koil Street while on his way home from work. Though the police alerted the Tangedco officials to switch off the power supply, Krishnaiah could not be saved. The police later sent the body to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital for post-mortem examination. They have filed a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-year-old-electrocuted-in-purasawalkam/article36352071.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MMA gets new office-bearers||The Madras Management Association (MMA) has unanimously elected C.V. Subba Rao, managing director of Sanmar Shipping Ltd., as its president. Suresh Raman, vice-president and head, Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., Chennai, was unanimously elected as senior vice-president earlier this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mma-gets-new-office-bearers/article36352084.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||International award for documentary||Vedic-GPS , a documentary film that was commissioned by the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, New Delhi, bagged the Best Research-based Documentary award at the First Hermetic International Film Festival, Venice, held recently. According to a press release, the 50-minute documentary was produced under the banner of Krishnaswamy Associates (P) Ltd, Chennai, and directed by Latha Krishna. The film explores vedic astrology through the voices of some of the practitioners, including Pandit Sanjay Rath, Gayatri Devi Vasudev, Sarbani Rath, Rajesh Chaudhary and Raman Suprajarama. Finding answers “It is an attempt to find answers for some of the pertinent questions like what do the ancient Indian texts say? And how scientific are they?” the release said. Latha Krishna’s documentary has taken shape with Sankara Bhagavadpada, a nuclear physicist and vedic astrologer, as the consultant and Mohana Krishnaswamy as the executive producer. To view the film visit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RgJwBy6In5Q||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/documentary-film-bags-international-award/article36352070.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister challenges AIADMK MLA to a debate||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Tuesday challenged AIADMK legislator N. Thalavai Sundaram in the Assembly for a debate on the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). Mr. Subramanian’s challenge followed contentions by Mr. Sundaram (Kanniyakumari) that the AIADMK government was not responsible for allowing NEET into the State. Mr. Sundaram said the DMK government often said NEET was allowed into Tamil Nadu not during the Chief Ministership of late DMK leader M. Karunanidhi or late AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa, but when former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was heading the government. He said this was not true. Mr. Sundaram challenged the narrative of the DMK government, which Mr. Subramanian strongly opposed. “You did not inform us that the Union government had returned Tamil Nadu’s request to exempt it from NEET...” Mr. Subramanian said. He said he was willing to have a debate on the subject in the House on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-challenges-aiadmk-mla/article36352056.ece
08 September 2021||Chennai:,TAMIL NADU||DMK ‘Mupperum Vizha’ on Sept. 15||The DMK will hold its “Mupperum Vizha - 2021” on September 15, at 5 p.m. at Kalaignar Arangam. The event will be held via video conferencing, a party release said. The party has asked district functionaries to make arrangements to enable cadres to watch proceedings live.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mupperum-vizha-on-sept-15/article36352091.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AXL/Briefly||SBI Chennai circle, under the aegis of the SBI Foundation, donated 50,000 surgical masks and 500 l of hand sanitiser to the police. The items were handed over to Additional Commissioner J. Loganathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/axlbriefly/article36352066.ece
08 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation yet to acquire land for Sathyamangalam Road widening project||Months after receiving money for the Sathyamangalam Road expansion project, the Coimbatore Corporation’s delay in kick starting the work has irked people. The Housing and Urban Development Department issued Government Order 32 on February 02, 2021 approving the Corporation’s demand for Rs. 38.64 crore to be paid as compensation for acquiring land for widening the Velan Theatre-Surya Hospital stretch of the Road. The Corporation had moved the Department because it wanted the money from the Infrastructure Development Fund maintained by the Coimbatore Local Planning Authority. The Authority, which gets around Rs. 1.50 crore a year for the Fund from the building approval that the Corporation gives, comes under the Department. After getting the money, the Corporation had done very little, complains consumer activist and Road Safety Committee member K. Kathirmathiyon. The Department’s Order clearly shows that it is the Corporation that wanted the money for widening the Sathyamangalam Road. Therefore, for the Corporation to demand the money and remain idle after getting it is not right. The Corporation had on October 12, 2020 passed a resolution in the Council in this regard. The Corporation’s October Council resolution identifies 73,250 sq.ft. land to be acquired from 151 land owners for a guideline value of Rs. 17.17 crore and compensation of Rs. 38.64 crore. The resolution recalls the Corporation of having mooted the proposal way back in 2013 and following it up with another resolution in December 2015 to demand money from the Local Planning Authority for compensating the land owners. ‘Lackadaisical approach’ Former Mayor and Ganapathy resident P. Rajkumar says the Corporation’s lackadaisical approach needs to be condemned because the Ganapathy stretch of the Sathyamangalam Road has seen heavy traffic congestion after traffic diversion on Mettupalayam Road. Had the Corporation acted in time to widen the Sathyamangalam Road things would have been better now. After removing encroachments on the Road during his mayorship, the Corporation had done very little to address the issue. The Corporation should stop focussing only on Smart Cities projects and also pay attention to projects such as these, he adds. Mr. Kathirmathiyon says it is quite unfortunate that every time the Corporation requires a nudge to act on projects like these where public interest is involved. Officials in the Corporation say the civic body is working to arrive at the compensation to be paid to land owners and hopes to start the process soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-yet-to-acquire-land-for-sathyamangalam-road-widening-project/article36352109.ece
08 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CII to focus on developing electronics industry in Coimbatore||With increasing use of smart devices, the demand for electronic products has shot up and Coimbatore is a potential centre for the development of this industry, according to the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Coimbatore. Arjun Prakash, chairman of CII Coimbatore, told press persons on Tuesday that Tamil Nadu was looking at $ 40 billion worth electronics manufacturing in the State by 2025 and Coimbatore should capture at least 30 % of it. Hence, the CII Coimbatore had formed an electronics task force and was working towards inviting investments in the sector. It was looking at developing the ecosystem here for the growth of the industry. “In the next two to three years, we want to bring in one or two players and put in an ecosystem,” he said. The large industries abroad were looking at availability of land at low prices and air connectivity as most exports were by air. The CII was reaching out to industries abroad and highlighting the potential of Coimbatore. The task force was also exploring how the local industries could get into the electronics sector. J. Balamurugan, former chairman of CII Coimbatore, said that over 95 % of the electronics requirements were now imported by India. However, there was severe shortage worldwide and the manufacturers were asking for at least 52 weeks for delivery. Many countries gave concessions for the electronics sector as initial viability of the industry required support. “We are reaching out to the government too,” he said. Advantage According to S. Prashanth, vice chairman of CII Coimbatore, the district has an advantage with the presence of large number of educational institutions. Hence, it can look at designing the chips too. The traditional industries here - textiles, pumps, or automobiles - will require different kinds of chips in the future as smart solutions are part of every product. The electronics industry will have market potential in the local industries. M. Ramesh, former chairman of CII Coimbatore, said the CII was talking to big players abroad to assess their requirements to invest here. If one or two major investments took off, the entire eco system could be developed.  Tamil Nadu is looking at $ 40 billion worth electronics manufacturing in the State by 2025 Arjun Prakash Chairman, CII Coimbatore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-to-focus-on-developing-electronics-industry-in-coimbatore/article36352103.ece
08 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||People advised to celebrate Vinayaka Chaturthi at home||Coimbatore district administration has asked people to celebrate Vinayaka Chaturthi at home. A release issued at the end of a meeting Collector G.S. Sameeran held with senior police officers and his subordinate officers said that following instruction from the State Government and given the COVID-19 situation, the administration would not permit installation of Vinayaka statues or celebration in public places. As the ban on celebration covered taking idols in procession and immersing them in water bodies, the administration has advised people to celebrate the festival at home. The administration would permit celebration at home and then immersing idols in nearby water bodies. This permission to immerse idols was only for individuals and not organisations, the release clarified and added that members of the public could place Vinayaka idols near temples. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department would make arrangements for collecting and immersing those idols. The permission to individuals was subject to COVID-19 safety protocol in force, the release said and asked people to wear mask and maintain physical distancing while shopping before the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-advised-to-celebrate-vinayaka-chaturthi-at-home/article36352107.ece
08 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camp for cattle begins at MTR||The Forest Department, in association with the Department of Animal Husbandry, began on Monday a drive to vaccinate cattle against foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) in the Masinagudi division of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris. Around 4,500 cattle including cows, bulls and goats reared in 16 villages within the Masinagudi division will be covered in the drive, said Masinagudi forest range officer N. Mariappan. “We are planning to cover around five villages a day and focus on the villages with high cattle population,” he said. The team of veterinarians and officials from both the departments participated in this initiative, which was expected to conclude on Friday, he said. Apart from vaccination, the team would also attend to other health complaints of the cattle such as intestinal worms and fever, according to Mr. Mariappan. P. Arunkumar, Deputy Director of MTR (Masinagudi division), said the drive against FMD was usually conducted twice a year for cattle. “We want to prevent a disease spread from cattle to the wildlife [in MTR],” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-for-cattle-begins-at-mtr/article36352115.ece
08 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tea Board disburses assistance to beneficiaries||The Tea Board India, Coonoor, has disbursed a total of Rs. 6.71 crore to 1,307 beneficiaries under two tranches since April this year under various schemes. A press release from the Board said it gave Rs. 5.33 crore to 1,120 beneficiaries recently under the second tranche. It distributed Rs. 1.37 crore between April and June this year to 187 beneficiaries in the first tranche. Subsidies to tea growers The Board gives subsidies to the tea growers to enhance the production, productivity, and quality of made tea. It encourages production of Orthodox teas to ensure remunerative prices to growers for quality tea production. Apart from these, it gives educational stipend and Nehru Award to the wards of the plantation workers, and financial assistance to persons with disabilities working in plantations for treatment of cancer, heart, and kidney problems. It gives financial assistance to the small tea growers’ Self-Help Groups to upgrade their common facility centre. Under the second tranche, it disbursed Rs. 1.81 crore assistance under Plantation Development Scheme (big growers) to 13 beneficiaries, Rs. 1.39 crore to 630 beneficiaries under the Plantation Development Scheme (small growers), and Rs. 7.47 lakh to three beneficiaries under the Plantation Development Scheme (Idukki Special Package). The Board also gave Rs. 1.2 crore as incentive for Orthodox tea production to nine beneficiaries, Rs. 85.78 lakh to 465 wards under Human Resource Development. During the current financial year, up to now, a total amount of Rs. 671.51 lakh has been disbursed to 1,307 beneficiaries. The subsidy amount has been directly remitted to the respective beneficiary’s bank account, and SMS has also been sent to the concerned beneficiary, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-board-disburses-assistance-to-beneficiaries/article36352104.ece
08 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP opposes move to shift organic certification headquarters||Members of the BJP’s State Agriculture Wing on Tuesday submitted a petition to District Collector G.S. Sameeran condemning the proposed shifting of the headquarters of Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department (TNOCD) from Coimbatore to Chennai. State president of the Agriculture Wing G.K. Nagaraj told mediapersons the proposed shifting would adversely impact the organic farmers of the Kongu region. The BJP would organise a demonstration on September 21 here demanding that the State government withdraw the proposal, he said. The petition said that the announcement for the shifting of TNOCD’s headquarters was made recently in the Legislative Assembly by Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare M.R.K. Panneerselvam. Over 2,000 organic farmers in Coimbatore district and farmers from the Nilgiris, Tiruppur and Erode districts had received their certificates from the headquarters on Thadagam Road, it claimed. Shifting the headquarters to Chennai would cause logistical difficulties and might dampen organic farming in Kongu region, the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-opposes-move-to-shift-organic-certification-headquarters/article36352116.ece
08 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Application invited for fellowship||PSG - STEP (Science and Technology Entrepreneurial Park) has invited applications for SPARSH social innovators fellowship. According to a press release, PSG-STEP is one of the SPARSH (Social Innovation programme) centres of Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) for the theme ‘Waste to Value’. Five fellows identified in Tamil Nadu will be designated as SPARSH Social Innovators/ SPARSH Fellows and they will get a fellowship of Rs. 50,000 a month for 18 months. They will also get Rs. 5 lakh one-time payment during the course of the fellowship if their proof of concept is selected. Under ‘Waste to Value’, the candidates identified should implement novel, efficient, cost-effective and environment-friendly interventions/technologies for sustainable management of waste and its conversion to valuable products. Indian undergraduate, postgraduate, or doctorate candidates below 35 years can apply. They should be from any of the following disciplines: life sciences, agriculture, engineering, medicine or human biology. The last date for receipt of applications is September 30 and details are available on www.birac.nic.in  The press release added that SIIP (Social Innovation Immersion Program), a component of SPARSH scheme, is BIRAC’s social Innovation fellowship/award program to create a pool of biotech “Social Innovators” who are able to identify the needs and gaps within communities and bridge the gaps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/application-invited-for-fellowship/article36352113.ece
08 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police launch probe into death of woman||Coimbatore City Police have launched an investigation into the death of a woman aged between 40 and 50 whose body was found run over by vehicles on Avinashi Road, in Coimbatore, on Monday. The police are yet to trace the identity of the semi-clad woman whose face was disfigured. Visuals from a surveillance camera of a shop at Chinniyampalayam showed the body being dragged for a few metres on the wet road after a multi utility vehicle (MUV) passed the section of Avinashi Road at 5.44 a.m. However, it was not clear whether the woman was dragged on the road after being hit by the MUV or the body was dropped from the vehicle, said a police officer. T. Jayachandran, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), said that a case of unnatural death has been registered in connection with the incident. “Two special teams have been formed to check whether it was an accident or the body was dumped from a vehicle. We are also checking details of missing women from Coimbatore and nearby places,” he said. Another police officer said the model of MUV has been identified. However, its registration number is yet to be traced. The surveillance camera visuals showed an auto rickshaw passing through the road immediately after the MUV. The police were trying to find its driver as auto rickshaws are normally operated within a locality. The police believe that the auto rickshaw driver could provide some inputs about the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-launch-probe-into-death-of-woman/article36352112.ece
08 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Congress petitions Corpn. against Suez project||The Tamil Nadu Congress Committee on Tuesday opposed Suez India Pvt. Ltd. executing the 24x7 drinking water supply improvement project in the city. In a petition to the Corporation Commissioner, TNCC working president Mayura S. Jayakumar said the handing over of the project to Suez was against public interest, and was tantamount to privatising water supply. ‘Vested interest’ It was unheard of in recent history that a government body had given contract to a private company for 26 years, which was a very long time, Mr. Jayakumar said. That there was a vested interest in handing over the project to the company became evident when Corporation officials preferred complaints with the police against persons who protested against the contract, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-petitions-corpn-against-suez-project/article36352110.ece
08 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder||The Saibaba Colony police arrested a 52-year-old man on charges of murdering a Tirunelveli native, allegedly after sodomizing him, recently. The arrested has been identified as R. Mani alias Joseph (52), a resident of Saravana Nagar at Edayarpalayam. The police said that Mani murdered Bakyaraj (40), a native of Cheranmadevi in Tirunelveli district, who had been working in a tea stall on Thadagam Road. Bakyaraj was found unconscious near Thadagam road on August 29. He was initially admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. His family members shifted him to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital where he died on September 3. During investigation, the Saibaba Colony police found a CCTV visual that showed a man dragging Bakyaraj in front of a bakery. The police found that the perpetrator sodomized Bakyaraj, who was under the influence of alcohol. The man left the place after hitting Bakyaraj’s head on the ground with force. The Saibaba Colony police registered a case of unnatural death and started the search for the unknown perpetrator. A police officer said that Mani was arrested after identifying him as the perpetrator through various evidences. He was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder/article36352119.ece
08 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Chain snatchers target young man||Motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched the gold chain of a 27-year-old man when he was riding his two-wheeler near Gandhipuram late on Monday. The police said that the 2.5 sovereign chain belonging to T. Jayachandran, a resident of Rangan Street at Kattoor, was snatched by two men on Dr. Nanjappa Road. The incident happened around 10 p.m. on Monday when Jayachandran, employee of an e-commerce firm, was travelling through the road, said the Kattoor police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chain-snatchers-target-young-man/article36352120.ece
08 September 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘20,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccine given a day’||Average number of doses of COVID-19 vaccination administered in Dindigul district has crossed 20,000 a day in the last two weeks. The district was clocking only 8000 to 10,000 doses a day till third week of August. With adequate stocks of both Covishield and Covaxin available in the district, 24-hour vaccination centres were functioning at Dindigul Government Medical College hospital and Government hospital in Palani. Dindigul district has so far covered around 45% of the persons eligible for COVID vaccine. “In some areas, the coverage has been around 70%,” an official said. Even as free of cost vaccination camps are being held in all 48 wards in Dindigul city, a private hospital has introduced Sputnik-V, the Russian vaccination against COVID in the city. Collector, S. Visakan, inspected the vaccination at the hospital on Palani By-pass road He said that two doses of the vaccine should be taken in a gap of 21 days. Each dose would cost Rs. 1,150. The vaccination has got global recognition and its administration can be helpful for going abroad and for other Government restrictions. Joint Director (Health in-charge), S. Anbuselvan, Block Medical Officer, A. Srinivasan, were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20000-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-given-a-day/article36352177.ece
08 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers affected by power line projects seek compensation||Urging the Central and State governments to provide adequate compensation for farmers who were affected by the erection of High Tension Transmission Towers on farm lands and implement all the future power line projects only along the road, farmers submitted a petition to the district administration here on Tuesday. Farmers under the banner “Joint Movement of Farmers Against High Tension Power Line Projects” said Power Grid Corporation of India Limited and Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation Limited (TANTRANSCO) continued to implement projects by erecting the towers on farm lands without the permission of farmers. Work was being executed in the districts with the help of police and revenue officials despite stiff opposition and protest by the landowners. “The land value has fallen and farmers are unable to cultivate crops and lost their livelihood,” they said and added that there was no transparency in fixation of compensation. The G.O. (Ms) No. 54 dated February 14, 2020 of the Industries Department states that compensation payable for the land for Right of User of land (RoU) by the petroleum companies should be 10% of 10 times of the market value of that land as fixed by the District Collector. Also, compensation should be paid for standing crops, trees or for any other injury in any property or the earnings of the land owners. “In addition, an ex-gratia of Rs. 5 lakh should be paid to the landowners if his holdings are less than 10 cents in extent through which the pipeline passes,” they added. As per Section 30 of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2012, 100% solatium should be paid to the farmers for compulsory acquisition of land. The farmers wanted new projects implemented through underground cable systems along the road and also provide monthly rent to the land owners under Section 3(2) of Work Licence Rule, 2005. Salem In Salem, farmers protested in front of the Collectorate. The members of Federation of Farmer Associations against high tension towers condemned the Power Corporations for taking power lines through farmlands. The protesters complained that compensation as per norms was not being paid to the farmers. They said they were not able to cultivate crops on the land following installation of towers. Besides compensation, they should be paid monthly rent for using their land, the farmers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-affected-by-power-line-projects-seek-compensation/article36352212.ece
08 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for posts in Child Welfare Committees||The Department of Social Defence has called for applications for the posts of chairperson and members of the Child Welfare Committees constituted under the provisions of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015. A release from Collector H. Krishnanunni said the appointments were made on an honorarium basis and one of the appointees shall be a woman. The applicant shall have a degree in psychology, or psychiatry, social work, law, or health, education or special education for children and shall have been actively involved in health, education or welfare activities of children for not less than seven years, or alternatively should be a practising professional in child psychology, psychiatry, law, social work, human development, or special education for differently abled children. The applicant should not be less than 35 years of age and should not have completed 65 years of age. A person may be eligible for appointment for a maximum of two terms. Further details may be obtained from the District Child Protection Unit or downloaded fromwww.erode.nic.in. The last date for the receipt of applications is September 21. The applications should be sent to the District Child Protection Officer, District Child Protection Unit, 69-Gandhiji Road, Jawan Bhavan – 2nd Floor, Opposite to Fire Service Station, Erode – 638 001. Phone 0424-2225010. The release said appointments would be purely based on merit and experience and the decision of the government would be final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-posts-in-child-welfare-committees/article36352209.ece
08 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to complete sewerage scheme works||The district Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has urged the Corporation to complete the ongoing underground sewerage scheme works in Ward 34 in Zone 3 and also re-lay the roads at the earliest. In a petition submitted to the Corporation Commissioner here on Tuesday, the party said pipelines were yet to be interconnected in Cheran Nagar Vinayagar Kovil Street leading to sewage water entering nearby houses. Bad odour from the stagnated water was causing inconvenience to the residents, particularly children and elderly persons who feared an outbreak of water borne diseases. The petition also said re-laying of road at Sri Krishna Nagar was delayed and wanted the works completed soon. House service connection The underground drainage house service connection should be given after which the road should be re-laid. The petition said the issue was already taken up with the Assistant Commissioner for action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-complete-sewerage-scheme-works/article36352208.ece
08 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water level at Bhavanisagar dam||The water level at Bhavanisagar dam continues to be at 102 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet. At 4 p.m., the inflow was 2,083 cusecs while the discharge was 394 cusecs in Kalingarayan canal and 1,606 cusecs in River Bhavani. The storage was 30.31 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-at-bhavanisagar-dam/article36352213.ece
08 September 2021||KOLLAM,TAMIL NADU||Dowry prohibition system a lifeline for many||From newly-weds to elderly women above 60, married women in distress are reaching out to dowry prohibition officers appointed in all districts following the death of Vismaya. The officers across the State have been receiving a volley of calls in the last one-and-a-half months. As many as 26 cases have been officially filed in which proceedings are initiated. "Most of the women who seek help are victims of emotional abuse and are not willing to lodge a complaint. While some want to resolve the issue without much hullabaloo and save their marriage, there are other cases with long histories," says an officer. Women feel that the new system is more comfortable as they can avoid the involvement of the police in the initial stages. "After talking to the officer, I understood that the procedure will be faster and hassle-free. My family didn't want to approach the police and this seemed like an ideal option," says a complainant. After receiving a complaint, the officer-in-charge initiates a preliminary probe and conducts the hearing. "When the woman produces all the documents and evidence, we proceed to the hearing. If the husband denies all the allegations, we launch an inquiry, based on which an order will be issued. If the husband fails to comply, he will have to face criminal proceedings,” says the official. Burden of proof According to the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, the legal burden of proof is on the accused as the husband and family have to prove that they have not committed the offence. The officers say there are cases where the family starts demanding dowry after the engagement or a few days before the wedding. "Women have produced WhatsApp chat messages and voice clips of family members threatening to cancel the wedding if they don't pay the money,” says an official. Then there are grooms who force the bride's family to throw extravagant wedding parties and later the girls are harassed for not meeting their expectations. "Quite often, the bride's family borrows money to meet these last-minute demands and they can produce loan documents and the witness statements to prove it. We have a mechanism to cross-check facts since a small percentage of complaints can be false or exaggerated accounts," adds the official. Since dowry is a forbidden word, most families refer to it as 'gift', but the girls are hardly made custodians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dowry-prohibition-system-a-lifeline-for-many/article36351921.ece
08 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Chaturthi fete: action will be taken against organisations violating ban||A consultative meeting on enforcement of ban on public gatherings by outfits on Vinayagar Chaturthi was held under the aegis of Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy at the Collectorate here on Tuesday. No public worship In view of the lockdown restriction, the public are denied permission to congregate for public worship. However, individuals are allowed to hold their celebrations inside their homes and are also permitted to take their idols for immersion. The exception is made only for individuals, and organisations are warned against flouting the ban in anyway. The Collector said any violation would be met with legal action. Further, individuals might also leave their idols outside temples and arrangements would be made by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department to collect the idols. The public were also advised against crowding in public places and markets while shopping for the festival. Shops and establishments were mandated to follow the COVID-19 safety protocols and the public should wear mask and maintain physical distancing. In Dharmapuri, Superintendent of Police C. Kalaiselvan presided over a law and order meeting with cultural outfits. Cultural and political outfits were banned to set up public worship pandals and no public congregation or processions would be allowed, the police stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chaturthi-fete-action-will-be-taken-against-organisations-violating-ban/article36352205.ece
08 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Road workers stage demonstration||Tamil Nadu Highways Road Employees Association staged a protest demonstration over a charter of demands at the Collectorate here on Tuesday. The Association demanded employment to a member of the families who died during road works, on compassionate grounds. There were over 300 families awaiting job on compassionate grounds. The basic pay of Rs. 1,900 for road workers designated as unskilled workers should be revised with a hike. There were over 5,000 vacancies that needed to be filled in the Highways Department. Among the demands included uniform allowance, accident compensation, increase in dearness allowance and reinstating the old pension scheme. The Association also demanded that the families of Makkal Nala Paniyalargal be given jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-workers-stage-demonstration/article36352206.ece
08 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Toll free number for bonded labour alert||The pubic may alert the authorities about incidence of bonded labour over the government’s toll free number 1800 4252 650. Legal assistance and counsel for dealing with cases of bonded labour may also be availed from the aforementioned toll free number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-free-number-for-bonded-labour-alert/article36352207.ece
08 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Posts of DCPs redesignated||The State government has issued an order for redesignation of the posts of Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) Law and Order and Crime in Madurai City. While DCP (Law and Order) would become DCP (South), DCP (Crime) will be redesignated as DCP (North). In the Government Order dated August 24, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) S. K. Prabakar has issued direction to increase the number of ranges from the existing six to nine and reallocate their jurisdictions. “The government has made the DCPs (Law and Order) and Crime heads of different jurisdictions from being functional heads. This proposal has been pending for over a year,” said a senior police officer. The Deputy Commissioners of Police were hitherto given specific tasks of taking care of Law and Order or Crime separately all over the city limits. But, from now on, they will take care of both Law and Order and Crime in their respective jurisdictions. “The reallocation of work is aimed at improving the performance of both Law and Order and Crime wings at the police station level,” the G.O. said. Consequently, the role of Assistant Commissioners (ACPs) of six ranges has also been redesignated. While Tirupparankundram and High Court ranges have only one ACP, other ranges – Town, Tallakulam, Thilagar Thidal, Anna Nagar – have got two ACPs each to separately take care of Law and Order and Crime. However, under the new proposal, the number of ranges has been increased to nine with each range having only one Assistant Commissioner of Police who would take care of both functions of Law and Order and Crime. Consequently, fewer number of police stations would be brought under the new ranges. “Keeping the jurisdictions of the ACPs compact will improve the quality of supervision,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/posts-of-dcps-redesignated-in-madurai/article36352186.ece
08 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Establish CGHS Wellness Centre in Madurai: forum||National Coordination Committee of Pensioners Association (NCCPA) staged a demonstration here on Tuesday demanding a Central Government Health Scheme Wellness Centre (CGHS) in Madurai. The members said that it was a long-pending demand. The association said that the wellness centre should be set up in Madurai for the benefit of Central government employees and pensioners. The Central government should focus on COVID-19 relief measures. The compensation given for COVID-19 related deaths should not be less than Rs. 15 lakh. Hospitalisation bills of the COVID-19 affected patients must be reimbursed and priority must be given to the employees in vaccination. In cases of death, appointments on compassionate grounds should be considered. Pensioners who do not have health cover should be given insurance coverage and the cost must be borne by the government. The pension of the Central government employees should be revised along with more medical benefits. Arrears of Dearness Allowance (DA) and Dearness Relief (DR) for the period between January 2020 and July 2021 that was held back by the government for its employees and pensioners must be given, the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/establish-cghs-wellness-centre-in-madurai-forum/article36352201.ece
08 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC takes serious view of extortion case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday took cognisance of the report on the status of the investigation into the extortion case involving suspended Police Inspector S. Vasanthi. She was booked for extortion of Rs. 10 lakh from a tailor. Considering the serious nature of the offence, Justice B. Pugalendhi observed that it was not only an offence committed by an individual, but an offence against the institution. A thorough investigation was required to preserve the reputation of the institution, the judge said. The judge said that he had trust and confidence in the investigation agency that a thorough probe would be conducted in the extortion case. Taking note of the status report, the judge permitted the counsel representing Vasanthi to withdraw the anticipatory bail petition. Earlier, the counsel for Vasanthi had sought to withdraw the petition seeking anticipatory bail as she was arrested in the case. He wanted to move the district court for bail. In her petition seeking anticipatory bail Vasanthi said that she was innocent. She was booked based on a complaint lodged by K. Asrath, a tailor who complained that the suspended Police Inspector had taken away his bag containing Rs. 10 lakh and did not return the money. He had raised a loan of Rs. 10 lakh for setting up a tailoring unit and needed more money. He was offered help by a group. Under these circumstances, Vasanthi arrived at the spot. She told the men to come to the police station for an inquiry. It was said that Asrath, who was picked up, was dropped midway. The next day when he went to the police station, he was told that the bag contained only newspapers and documents. He then lodged a complaint. In her petition, Vasanthi said that she took the men to the police station after she received secret information on exchange of fake currency notes. But released them after finding no incriminating materials. The other accused in the case are Pandiaraj, Palpandi, Karthik and Ukkirapandi. The main accused Vasanthi was nabbed by a Special Team in Kotagiri in the Nilgiris district. She was hiding in a lodge in Kotagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-takes-serious-view-of-extortion-case/article36352198.ece
08 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Call for interns, volunteers in waterbody digitisation work||Madurai district administration invites interns and volunteers in its efforts to create a database of waterbodies. A special team has been formed for the purpose under Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar with officials from Corporation, Public Works Department, Revenue Department, Rural Development and DHAN Foundation representatives to digitise records of irrigation tanks, ponds, ooranis and their inlet channels and surplus courses. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sekhar said an integrated database of all waterbodies could be used to restore and maintain them. “We want community involvement in this project. Volunteers can monitor and protect the waterbodies in the long run. They will be trained in mapping and digitising the water bodies using a mobile application. Interns will guide them,” he said. The initiative is expected to be launched on September 13, the World Water Monitoring Day, and will go on till Pongal. Graduates of engineering, agricultural and geographical studies can apply for a three-month internship. DHAN Foundation will train them. Volunteers from rural areas are invited at the ground-level. N. Venkateshan, Programme Leader, DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation, who has been working in the project said, “As on expert in this field, we believe there must be close to 2,000 irrigation tanks and 50,000 ponds in the district. Digitising is done by locating and identifying their longitude, latitude and altitude, using Geographic Information System. (GIS) This has potential to be a valuable official database,” he said. Those interested in internship or volunteering may call 0452 2302583 or write todhancure@dhan.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-interns-volunteers-in-waterbody-digitisation-work/article36352402.ece
08 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Pleas challenging allotment of plots at industrial estate dismissed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed a batch of petitions challenging allotment of industrial and commercial plots in SIDCO Industrial Estate at Kappalur near Madurai. The petitioners had alleged irregularities in the allotment. Justice J. Nisha Banu observed that the contention of the petitioners that the process was conducted in a hasty manner could not be accepted. The petitioners were well aware of the notification. If they had had any grievance, they should have challenged the notification before participation. When the allotment process came to an end, the time of despatch of the allotment orders need not be taken serious note of, the court said. It further said the lot system to select the candidates was applied before the screening committee comprising officials from various departments. Hence, the question of favouritism or secretive selection did not arise. The case of the petitioners was that SIDCO proposed to allot 43 plots to eligible applicants. A total of 267 applications were made and 160 of the applicants were called for an interview. A total of 111 of the applicants were shortlisted. Draw of lots Since the total number of plots were only 43, allotment process was finalised through a draw of lots in the presence of the screening committee. Subsequently, allotment letters were dispatched. The petitioners alleged irregularity in the entire process. The State submitted that the petitioners had participated in the allotment process knowing the procedure. In order to remove any ambiguity in the lot procedure, SIDCO had proposed to conduct the draw of lots in the presence of short-listed candidates and videograph the process. SIDCO would follow this procedure in all future allotments, it was submitted. Taking note of the submission, Justice Nisha Banu observed that the allotment of the plots did not need interference. In future allotments, the new procedure should be followed to avoid any room for complaints, the judge said, and dismissed the petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pleas-challenging-allotment-of-plots-at-industrial-estate-dismissed/article36352202.ece
08 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ravichandran’s plea goes to principal seat||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday transferred to the Principal seat in Chennai a petition filed by P. Ravichandran, a life convict in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. In the petition filed in 2020, Ravichandran had sought direction for implementation of the State government’s recommendation to release the life convicts in the case. He said that he had undergone nearly 29 years of actual imprisonment and 37 years of imprisonment. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and J. Nisha Banu took note of the fact that a similar petition filed by S. Nalini, another life convict in the case, was pending before Madras High Court and transferred the petition to the Principal Seat in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ravichandrans-plea-goes-to-principal-seat/article36352175.ece
08 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Response in human trafficking case sought||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday sought response from the State in the bail petitions filed by three accused in the case pertaining to 23 Sri Lankan nationals who were arrested in Madurai after they illegally landed in Thoothukudi. Justice B. Pugalendhi sought response in the bail petitions filed by N. Alangara Sakkratis, R. Nicholos and S. Jegatheeswaran. The Sri Lankan nationals were promised lucrative jobs in Canada. They were arrested by Q Branch police. The case of the prosecution was that the Sri Lankan nationals believed the words of another Sri Lankan national Kannan alias Mayuran who took them in three fibre boats on April 27. He dropped them in a launch in mid-sea. The Sri Lankan nationals arrived in Thoothukudi on April 28 and reached Madurai secretly. Two other accused, Ashok Kumar and Kasiviswanathan, picked them and dropped them at a body building unit where they stayed for more than 40 days without any documents, proper food and shelter. Based on a tip-off, the Q Branch police arrested them, including the Sri Lankan nationals. In their petition, Alangara Sakkratis said he and his father Nicholos were fishermen from Thoothukudi and were wrongly implicated in the case. Car driver Jegatheeswaran also said the same. The accused, remanded in judicial custody, said they would abide by the conditions imposed by the court and sought bail. A case has been booked for human trafficking and under the provisions of the Passports Act and the Foreigners Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/response-in-human-trafficking-case-sought/article36352199.ece
08 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Army man held for assaulting conductor||A Naik of Indian Army, M. Rajesh Kannan, 30, of Peraiyur was arrested on a charge of assaulting the conductor of a TNSTC bus at T. Kallupatti on Sunday. Police said that the army man, posted in New Delhi, had travelled by the TNSTC bus from Tirumangalam to T. Kallupatti on Sunday night. When the conductor sought Rs. 2 change from him, he had told him that he did not have it. Later, after getting the balance from the conductor, the army man kicked and slapped the conductor, Murugan, 43, and snatched his cash bag and threw it down. Based on the conductor’s complaint, T. Kallupatti police arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/army-man-held-for-assaulting-conductor/article36352182.ece
08 September 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur-Nagapattinam road widening project remains incomplete||Trade and industry representatives in Nagapattinam districts are annoyed over stagnancy in Thanjavur-Nagapattinam road widening project. Originally planned as a four-lane project, the land procurement was also carried out with that plan. However, National Highways Authority of India later downgraded the stretch to a two-way highway with paved shoulders. The work was put in cold storage for long and the public in all three districts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam expected the new DMK regime to give a push to the project, since, as per the original plan, the project also provided a link to Central University of Tamil Nadu, which was brought to Tiruvarur at the initiative of late DMK leader M. Karunanidhi, said trade and industry representatives in the delta region. “The project has a bearing on the economic development of the region as timely transport of products is a vital factor for development," said Ramalingam, a trader in Tiruvarur district. “The delay in execution of the project by more than 10 years has caused resentment among the people. Ideally, the stretch must be four-laned as per the original plan,” V. Ramachandiran, president of Nagapattinam District Small and Tiny Industries Association said. According to official sources, NHAI had taken up four-laning of the stretch in 2009. It subsequently restructured the project to two lanes with paved shoulders in 2012-13. But the work remained incomplete for several years after the original concessionaire abandoned it. Subsequently, fresh tenders were awarded but not much no progress was achieved. Nevertheless, farmer producer organisations exuded hope that the State government would give a push to the project in the wake of its announcement in the Budget for developing the Tiruchi-Nagapattinam stretch as agro-industrial corridor.  Ideally, the highway stretch must be four-laned as per the original plan V. RamachandiranPresident, Nagapattinam District Small and Tiny Industries Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur-nagapattinam-road-widening-project-remains-incomplete/article36352159.ece
08 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Constable found dead||A police constable was found dead at Kolli Hills on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Anandhan (33), who worked at Namakkal Police Station. His body was found at Sollapalam near Chinnanurnadu here. The police recovered the body and sent it to Senthamangalam government hospital. A case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-found-dead/article36352217.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC refuses to intervene in Kodanad case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to intervene in a Madras High Court order refusing to restrain the Shulurmattam police in the Nilgiris district from conducting further investigation into the Kodanad estate heist-cum-murder case of 2017. A Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, dismissed the petition filed by prosecution witness ‘Anubhav’ Ravi alias N. Ravi of the AIADMK’s Amma Makkal Peravai in Coimbatore against the conduct of further investigation. In August, the High Court found the police fully empowered to conduct further investigation under Section 173(8) of the CrPC even after the filing of the chargesheet and the commencement of the trial. Another Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Justice Vineet Saran, refused bail to two police officers accused in the case of the custodial deaths of a father-son duo, P. Jayaraj and J. Bennicks, in Sattankulam. The court rejected the bail pleas of S. Sridhar and P. Raghu Ganesh with a terse comment: “Not at this stage.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-refuses-to-intervene-in-kodanad-case/article36352065.ece
08 September 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop sale’ order issued on 200 tonnes of fertilizer||Agriculture Department officials have issued “stop sale” order on nearly 200 tonnes of fertilizers in about a dozen private retail shops in Perambalur district after irregularities were detected during surprise inspections. The teams inspected retail fertilizer shops following complaints received by the Collector alleging that some traders were selling fertilizers without proper endorsement and forcing farmers to purchase other products along with urea. Acting on instructions of Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya, the inspections were conducted by four teams of Agriculture Department officials in different parts of the district. Private retail shops in Thungapuram, Veppanthattai, Kunnam, Chettikulam, Padalur, Irur, Esanai, Bommanapadi, Kalpadi and other places in the district were inspected. One of the teams led by S. Karunanidhi, Joint Director of Agriculture, Perambalur, found about six tonnes of urea without proper endorsement and issued the stop sale order on the stocks. The private dealer in Thungapuram was also issued a show cause notice seeking an explanation on why their licence should not be cancelled. Irregularities such as stocking fertilizers without endorsement and other violations of the provisions of the Fertilizer Control Order, were detected at 11 other shops, including four in Alathur taluk, two each in Perambalur and Veppanthattai taluks and three in Veppur taluk, an official press release said. Stop sale orders were also issued on 192.05 tonnes of fertilizers in the shops and show cause notices issued to the dealers concerned. Inspections to continue Such inspections would be conducted regularly henceforth and violations such as selling the fertilizers above the stipulated price, diversion or forcing farmers to purchase other products while buying urea would be dealt with sternly, Ms. Priya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-sale-order-issued-on-200-tonnes-of-fertilizer/article36352171.ece
08 September 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||As schools reopen, students sensitised to safety issues||Police personnel attached to the Anti Child Trafficking Unit conducted an awareness campaign at Government Higher Secondary School at Esanai in the district on Monday on crimes committed against women and children. The students were sensitised about ‘good touch’ and ‘bad touch; in detail and ways to deal with unforeseen problems encountered by them. They were also told about the toll free number ‘1098’ to convey information regarding issues concerning children and their protection and toll free number 181 created to receive information about issues concerning women safety. The students were also told that they could play a role in checking child marriage and eliminating child labour. A complaint box was placed on the school campus to enable students to convey problems faced by them. The students were also told that confidentiality would be maintained on complaints. Officials from the District Child Protection Unit, school teachers and Esanai panchayat president participated. The students were also enlightened on the ways to improve their latent skills, a police press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-schools-reopen-students-sensitised-to-safety-issues/article36352162.ece
08 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Only 5 persons can accompany candidates for campaigning’||The standard operating procedure (SOP) prepared by the State Election Commission for the upcoming local body poll in Puducherry has said only five persons can accompany the candidates during the house-to-house campaign. The SEC prepared the SOP based on the COVID-19 guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare after the outbreak of the pandemic. The SOP, which would come into effect once the notification for the poll was issued, said,“The candidates can undertake house-to house campaign with five supporters. They should maintain social distancing norms and wear masks during the campaign. In view of the COVID-19, large groups are not allowed.” The candidates should give preference for campaigning through electronic media. Candidates who tested positive for COVID-19 should only campaign through electronic media. Such candidates are also permitted to submit nomination through their proposer. The SEC would issue a separate order to ensure COVID-19 infected persons have the facility to exercise their franchise. Voters would be allowed to enter the polling station only by following COVID-19 protocols. The polling centres would have separate queues for men and women. The voters should drop the slip in the box meant for the purpose. The polling staff wearing mask and gloves should apply the indelible ink on the voters by maintaining physical distance. The SOP for the polls also prescribed disinfection of counting centres a day before it begins. Only the candidate or his/her agent would be allowed inside the room. Large gatherings would not be allowed near the counting centres, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-5-persons-can-accompany-candidates-for-campaigning/article36352466.ece
08 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry L-G urges youth to embrace environmentalism||An ‘Open Air Classroom’ where learning happens in the midst of nature and a ‘Corona Memorial Garden’ have come up at the Tagore Government Arts and Science College, Lawspet. Launching the facilities and a Green Puducherry mission, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan urged youth to adopt environmentalism in life. Addressing the students of the college, the Lt. Governor recalled that one of the first schemes she had discussed with the Chief Minister while planning events for the year-long 75th anniversary Independence Day celebrations was to undertake planting of 75,000 saplings across the Union Territory. Fondness for nature Mentioning her fondness for trees and plants, Ms. Soundararajan, who also serves as Telangana Governor, spoke about the home of poet and freedom fighter Sarojini Naidu in Hyderabad which had a fully bloomed mango tree that had sprouted from a seed planted by none other Mahatma Gandhi. It is said that Gandhi brought the seed to Hyderabad after eating a mango while in detention at the Yerawada Central Jail, and planted it while rejoining the freedom struggle, she said. “There is an important lesson in this... that each small seed contains in it a large tree. Like every seed, each of you should blossom to your full potential,” she told the students. She also advised them to develop the reading habit and extra curricular talents and to seize opportunities that come their way. Often switching to an interactive mode, the Lt. Governor asked students whether any of them had planted a sapling and to share their experience of nurture. Earlier, Ms. Soundararajan was shown around the campus by college principal Sasi Kanta Dash who had spearheaded comprehensive greening initiatives that turned a once-barren piece of land in an elevated corner of the city into a bio-diverse habitat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-urges-youth-to-embrace-environmentalism/article36352467.ece
08 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Judicial inquiry sought into undertrial’s death||The Federation for People’s Rights (FPR) has urged the Puducherry government to order a judicial probe into the death of an undertrial at the Central Prison complex at Kalapet. In a statement, G. Sugumaran, secretary of the FPR, said 42-year-old Ashok Kumar was arrested by the Karaikal police in a land grabbing case on August 14 and lodged him at the Central Prison. According to Mr. Sugumaran, the undertrial complained of chest pain and was pronounced dead after he was taken to a private hospital. The Kalapet police have booked a case under Section 176 of CrPC. A magisterial inquiry into the death is under way. Mr. Sugumaran said the amicus curiae appointed by the Madras High Court to submit a report on the prison complex had recommended the appointment of doctors round-the-clock. However, the prison department authorities had failed to take any steps to implement the recommendation, he alleged. FPR said the undertrial died due to negligence by the prison officials in getting him treated immediately. Hence, the government and senior officials of the prison department should own moral responsibility for Ashok Kumar’s death. The government should pay the bereaved family a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh and provide a job to his wife. The government should suspend the errant prison officials responsible for the death of the undertrial and order a judicial probe into his death, Mr. Sugumaran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judicial-inquiry-sought-into-undertrials-death/article36352123.ece
08 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||127 new cases recorded in U.T.||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 127 new cases on Tuesday. The death occurred in Karaikal taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,819. The toll by region is: Puducherry (1,433), Karaikal (239), Yanam (105) and Mahe (42). Puducherry accounted for 87 of the new cases followed by Karaikal (25), Yanam (2) and Mahe (13). The test positivity rate was 2.32%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.75%. With 66 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 974. Of this, 171 patients were in hospitals and 803 cases in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,24,311 cases against 1,21,518 patients recovered. Of an estimated 16.77 lakh tests administered so far, over 14.23 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,389 persons took the jab in the last 24 hours taking the total vaccinated population to 8,42,874.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/127-news-cases-recorded-in-puducherry/article36352160.ece
08 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Closure notice issued to 3 industries in U.T.||The Puducherry Pollution Control Committee has issued closure orders to Sunshine Polymers, Sasri Enterprises and Krithigha Poly Tech for manufacturing banned plastic items. The industrial units were functioning in Nettapakkam commune panchayat. Banned plastics Inspection in the units found that they did not have valid air and water consent and were involved in the manufacture of banned plastic items, including poly bags of thickness less than 51 microns. The committee had directed officials to disconnect power connection with immediate effect, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/closure-notice-issued-to-three-industries/article36352221.ece
08 September 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||14 tonnes of TNCSC paddy seized in Rajapalayam||Fourteen tonnes of paddy, supplied by Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, that was being smuggled to a private mill in Sankarankoil from a registered hulling mill in Rajapalayam was seized in the small hours of Tuesday. Acting on a tip-off, a team of revenue officials kept a watch on the rice mill on Tenkasi Road after they got an alert about smuggling of rice. TNCSC officials had supplied 44.5 tonnes of paddy to the mill on Monday and the mill that has been registered with TNCSC has to hull it and hand over 68% rice of the supplied quantity of paddy. “Such registered mills should not handle paddy from private people,” an official said. However, when the officials, including Flying Squad Special Tahsildar, Sankarapandian, Taluk Supply Officers, Ramanathan (Rajapalayam) and A. Gothandaraman (Srivilliputtur) and Flying Squad Revenue Inspector, Vigneshwaran, found a truck leaving the mill around midnight, they followed it stealthily in a car. After halting at a weighing bridge for weighing the goods, the truck proceeded towards Sankarankoil when the officials intercepted it. The driver tried to give a false information that the paddy was procured from a private person. However, he was not able to give any other details. Later, he reportedly confessed to have brought the paddy from the registered rice mill. The truck was taken back to the mill where the owner, Siddaiah, was present. Enquiry by the officials revealed that the owner had tried to illegally sell the fine quality of paddy to the private mill. The officials have recommended to the Collector for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-tonnes-of-tncsc-paddy-seized-in-rajapalayam/article36352189.ece
08 September 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Plaint over death of woman after taking vaccine prompts post-mortem||The family members of a 56-year-old woman M. Dhanalakshmi of Solapuram, who died on Tuesday reportedly after being administered the COVID-19 vaccine at a camp held here on Monday, alleged medical negligence. A post-mortem was done on her body post the complaint, and the findings are awaited. They charged that the medical officers had not checked her health condition before giving her the jab. The woman had taken the vaccine around 11.30 a.m. at the camp and had complained of uneasiness upon reaching home. Later, a doctor who checked her had advised her to go to the Government Hospital in Rajapalayam from where she was referred to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. However, she was taken to a private hospital in Madurai. “She was taken back home against medical advice,” a senior health official said. He added that around 13,000 persons were administered the vaccine in Virudhunagar district on Monday. However, following a complaint from the family members, post-mortem was done at the GH in Rajapalayam. “It looks like a mere coincidence. However, we will wait for the post-mortem report,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-mortem-carried-out-on-woman/article36352181.ece
08 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||3 tonnes of fish caught using pair trawling seized||Three tonnes of fish caught by two mechanised boats using the banned “pair trawling” nets were seized by officials of Fisheries Department at Mandapam on Tuesday. During a surprise inspection, a team of officials, led by Assistant Director of Fisheries, V. Abdul Kader Jailani, and Marine Enforcement Wing personnel, found that the two mechanised boats had the nets used for pair trawling. The officials identified that the boats belonged to S. Baskaran of Mandapam and A. Arokkiya Selvam of Pamban. The seized fish was auctioned by officials. “The proceeds of the auction would be deposited in the State Government account,” Mr. Jailani said. The officials would initiate a penal action like cancellation of permits for the boats and also denying diesel supply at concessional rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fish-caught-using-pair-trawling-seized/article36352191.ece
08 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Fish seized||Three tonnes of fish caught by two mechanised boats using the banned “pair trawling” nets were seized by officials of Fisheries Department at Mandapam on Tuesday. The seized fish was auctioned by officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fish-seized/article36352173.ece
08 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Parcel earnings of Salem Railway Division increase in August||The parcel earnings of the Salem Railway Division have improved and the Division recorded an increase of over 12% in its earnings during August. The Salem Railway Division has been operating special parcel services and dedicated parcel and goods trains to ensure free movement of goods during the pandemic period. Despite the pandemic, the Division has seen an increase in goods movement and in its earnings. Officials said they were also trying to attract new goods and destinations for delivery. According to Railway officials, during August, the earnings through transportation of goods increased to Rs. 21.19 crore compared to the corresponding period last year. The Division transported 2,56,476 tonnes of goods during August alone while in August 2020, only 2,24,237 tonnes of goods was loaded and the Division earned Rs. 18.77 crore. Petroleum products, cement, iron and steel blooms, containers and maize were transported from various stations and the Division recorded an increase of 14.38% in terms of quantity of goods loaded and 12.86% in revenue earnings compared to last August, the officials said. They said 190 rakes were operated and new routes like Erode-Patna for transportation of goods were also launched. The Division also recorded increase in parcel loading during August. The Division loaded 3365.2 tonnes of parcel goods and earned Rs. 1.93 crore in revenue, an increase of 74.59% in terms of goods loaded and 81.48% increase in earnings compared to last August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parcel-earnings-of-salem-railway-division-increase-in-august/article36352219.ece
08 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Take precautions during thunder, lightning: Tangedco||The Salem power distribution circle of Tangedco has advised the public to follow various precautionary measures including staying away from stagnant water during rain. In a release, K. Shanmugham, Superintendent Engineer of the circle, advised people to carry out electric repairs by engaging only licensed contractors and to use only products with ISI certification. They were advised to replace broken switches and plug points immediately, and also fix switches at a place inaccessible to children. The public were also asked to check the wiring in their buildings once in five years and replace faulty ones. People should not tie livestock to or place advertisement hoardings on electric posts. The release said people should alert Tangedco when they noticed snapped power lines. Electrical fire must not be doused with water and public must switch off electronic devices during thunder and lightning. They were also advised to not to stay close to windows and doors during thunder and lightning. Public can air their grievances with Tangedco on WhatsApp on 9445851912, and on Minnagam number 9498794987.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-precautions-during-thunder-lightning-tangedco/article36352214.ece
08 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Gutkha worth Rs. 8 lakh seized in Salem||The Salem City Police on Tuesday seized 400 kg of gutkha worth Rs. 8 lakh near Ammapet here. According to the police, based on a tip-off, the Ammapet police conducted vehicle checks near Kumaragiripettai and found the gutka products in a mini-truck and in a two-wheeler that followed the truck. Eight arrested The police have arrested eight persons in connection with the case. Hosur The police seized 206 kg of gutkha and other contraband substances from a van at Zuzuvadi check post on Tuesday. The SICOT police intercepted a van at the check post and found 18 sacks of gutkha. Krishnan (26) of Dindigul was driving the vehicle from Bengaluru to Vellore. Krishnan was arrested. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gutkha-worth-rs-8-lakh-seized-in-salem/article36352220.ece
08 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||One killed, three injured in gang attack||Four youths were attacked by unidentified gang on Monday near Kitchipalayam here. According to the police, Vinod (26), V.Manikandan (26), a 17-year-old minor and A.Prathap (23) from Kitchipalayam were attacked by a gang with sickle and knife near Kaligounder Housing Board. The injured were rushed to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital where Vinod died on Tuesday. The special teams formed secured eight persons in connection with the case. On Tuesday, the family members of Vinod staged a protest in front of the Collectorate demanding the arrest of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-three-injured-in-gang-attack/article36352105.ece
08 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||BJP cadre send postcards to Chief Minister||Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party sent postcards with Vinayaka Chaturthi greetings to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin from post offices here on Tuesday as a sign of protest condemning the State government for prohibiting Chaturthi celebrations citing the COVID-19 pandemic. The protesters complained that while the Chief Minister wished for festivals related to other religions, he did not wish for Hindu festivals. In Namakkal, the party unit would be sending 500 cards in three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-cadre-send-postcards-to-chief-minister/article36352215.ece
08 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Elderly couple electrocuted||A elderly couple died due to electrocution near Omalur here on Monday. The deceased were identified as Ramalingam (62) and Lakshmi (55). The police said that on Monday, Ramalingam was electrocuted while drying clothes on a TV cable line on the terrace, unaware that a power line was in contact with it. When his wife tried to rescue him, she too got electrocuted. The Omalur police recovered the bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-couple-electrocuted/article36352216.ece
08 September 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) protest against move to increase water charges||Cadres of CPI (Marxist) staged a protest in front of Theni-Allinagaram municipal office against its proposal for manifold increase of drinking water charges, on Tuesday. The party district secretary, T. Venkatesan, said that the municipal workers were issuing notices to the residents asking them to pay the increased water charges. “The annual water charges of domestic water connection which was Rs. 600 has been proposed to be increased up to Rs. 2,820,” he added. Similarly, the water charges for commercial buildings would be increased to Rs. 8,460 a year from Rs. 1,200 a year. The proposal was made during the previous AIADMK Government citing the poor financial condition of the municipality after implementing development works like underground drainage. “The people of the town have already suffered a lot under the COVID pandemic and any imposition of higher water charges will only put them in more troubles,” Mr. Venkatesan said. Petition to CM The cadres handed over a petition addressed to the Chief Minister to Municipal Commissioner Subbiah. The party taluk secretary C. Muneeswaran, CITU district secretary C. Murugan, and P. Ramamoorthi, were among those who took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-protest-against-move-to-increase-water-charges/article36352192.ece
08 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fish landing centre to get more facilities||The coastal hamlet of Vembar, situated about 30 km from here with 100 country boats and 50 mechanised boats, is all set to get new facilities in the fish landing centre and the places around it, Collector K. Senthil Raj has said. The Vembar fish landing centre, which was created in 2018 on an outlay of Rs. 10.50 crore under the NABARD scheme, has 164-meter-long ‘T’-shaped jetty where the mechanised boats involved in ‘day fishing’, are berthed. Moreover, a fish auction centre, fishnet mending centre and an approach road were created when the fish landing centre was established for the benefit of 50 mechanised boats. Apart from the mechanized boats, 100 country boats are also going for ‘day fishing’ from Vembar to feed around 1,000 families. Dr. Senthil Raj, who inspected the fish landing centre on Monday, said the approach road would be re-laid as the vehicles coming to Vembar to take fishes had to manoeuvre this badly damaged stretch. Since the number of mechanised boats operating from Vembar has touched 50, the fishermen appealed to the Collector to extend the fish landing centre and the groyne as well as the boats suffer damage whenever heavy wind lashes this region. The fishermen also requested the Collector to widen the approach road so that the lorries with refrigeration facility could reach the fish landing centre easily and install high-mast lights at three places along the road leading to the beach and also at the fish landing centre. “The fishermen’s demands will be fulfilled,” Dr. Senthil Raj assured after the inspection. Joint Director of Fisheries R. Amal Xavier, Assistant Director of Fisheries T. Vijayaraghavan, Executive Engineer, Department of Fisheries Gangadharan and NABARD District Development Manager Suresh Ramalingam accompanied the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vembar-fish-landing-centre-to-get-more-facilities/article36352184.ece
08 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Red sander logs seized||Officials attached to the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence have seized 5.69 tonnes of red sander logs worth Rs. 2.27 crore when the timber concealed in a container was about to be smuggled to Colombo. Sources in the DRI said intensive vehicle check was conducted at the toll plaza on Thoothukudi – Madurai 4-lane national highway on Monday night by its personnel, led by Assistant Director Karthikeyan, following information about the smuggling of red sanders logs in containers. When a container lorry was intercepted in the early hours of Tuesday, the officials found cotton bales stuffed in the container. On suspicion, the officials entered the container and checked to find the red sander logs concealed beneath the bales.  Driver held Besides seizing the lorry with the logs, driver George, 35, of Thoothukudi was arrested. Upon questioning him, the DRI personnel found that the red sanders logs were being smuggled from Andhra Pradesh and were about to be shipped to Colombo from where they would be taken to some other country where the timber would be sold for a premium. The lorry has been parked in a private godown in Thoothukudi and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/red-sander-logs-seized/article36352176.ece
08 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi distributes welfare assistance||Member of Parliament K. Kanimozhi handed over welfare assistance worth Rs. 5.30 lakh to physically challenged beneficiaries here on Tuesday. While inaugurating a special camp for assessing the needs of the differently-abled persons, Ms. Kanimozhi said over 200 persons had participated in the camp. Vaccination of the persons with disabilities against COVID-19 was also done in the special camp. Corporation Commissioner T. Charu Shree and Additional Collector, District Rural Development Agency, Saravanan, and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-distributes-welfare-assistance/article36352194.ece
08 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Demo by retired staff||Pressing their demands, retired employees of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited staged a demonstration here on Tuesday. Led by T.K. Srinivasan, advisor of the BSNL Retired Employees’ Union, the protesters raised slogans demanding the disbursal of the dearness allowance arrears, revised pension from January 1, 2017 and the medical allowance every month. They also demanded Rs. 1 lakh for COVID-19 treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demo-by-retired-staff/article36352508.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Proposal for new police station awaits govt. nod||The jurisdiction of Tiruchi City Police Commissionerate is likely to expand if the State government gives its approval for a a new police station proposed at Uyyakondan Thirumalai. If the proposal gets the nod, it will increase the number of police stations falling within the Commissionerate to 15. Commissioner of Police A. Arun told The Hindu on Tuesday that a proposal to create the new police station had been forwarded to the State government for approval. It would be created by merging some areas under Woraiyur and Somarasampettai police stations. The Somarasampettai police station on the city border is under the control of Tiruchi Rural Police, while the Woraiyur police station is under the Commissionerate. The move comes at a time when there is a plan to increase the limits of Tiruchi Corporation by incorporating neighbouring villages on the city's outskirts. The areas between Woraiyur and Somarasampettai have seen a proliferation of residential localities over the years. At present, the Commissionerate has under its limits 14 police stations: Fort, Gandhi Market, Palakkarai, Cantonment, E. Pudur, Sessions Court, K.K. Nagar, Goldenrock, Ariyamangalam, Airport, Srirangam, Woraiyur, Government Hospital and Thillai Nagar. Barring Sessions Court and the Government Hospital police stations, the remaining police stations are manned by Inspector of Police. It also has four All Women Police stations at Cantonment, Srirangam, Fort and Golden Rock with each of them headed by a woman Inspector of Police besides Traffic Investigation Units. Tiruchi district has two separate police establishments: Tiruchi City Police Commissionerate headed by an Inspector General of Police and Tiruchi Rural Police headed by a Superintendent of Police. The territorial limits of Tiruchi Rural Police is vast and covers 30 police stations. Several areas on the city's periphery, including Tiruverumbur, Somarasampettai, Navalpattu, Kollidam, Bikshandarkoil and Mutharasanallur, come under it. In 2012, the Tiruchi City Expansion Committee was constituted to work out modalities to bring certain peripheral areas within the ambit of Tiruchi City Police Commissionerate to expand its territorial limits. Discussions were held between Tiruchi City Police and Tiruchi Rural Police to identify areas that could be annexed to Tiruchi Police Commissionerate under the proposed expansion plan. A host of aspects such as population, approachability and access to the city, road coverage and volume of traffic were taken into account prior to finalising the plan. The committee recommended that the police stations at Manikandam, Ramji Nagar, Somarasampettai, Tiruverumbur, Kollidam, Navalpattu and BHEL and the areas falling under their limits be attached with the City Police Commissionerate. Consequent to the panel’s recommendations, a detailed proposal mentioning the extra manpower required was compiled and forwarded by the then Police Commissioner to the Office of the Director General of Police for approval from the State government. However, that plan failed to take off.  Data at a glance Tiruchi City Police Commissionerate has 14 police stations under its jurisdiction There are four All Women Police Stations under the Commissionerate It also comprises traffic investigation units Tiruchi City Expansion Committee was set up in 2012 to expand its territorial limits The panel’s suggestions were not implemented||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proposal-for-new-police-station-awaits-govt-nod/article36352161.ece
08 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||School teachers relieved over resumption of offline classes||Albeit loss of a couple of months, school teachers have heaved a sigh of relief over the start of offline classes for students, and are bracing themselves up for the tough task ahead. Students of standards IX to XII who are being engaged from the start of this month have been initiated into a bridge course of 45-day duration to acclimatise them to the portions that they had to either miss or rush through last year due to the lockdown. On their part, officials are a relieved lot more because teachers have shed their inhibitions over handling classes for students though they have not been administered COVID-19 jabs as yet. “Nevertheless, the indications are not rosy. Most of the students have entirely lost touch with the academic activities and it will take quite some time to orient their mind-set to classroom teaching-learning. But, this was not entirely unexpected,” James, an English teacher of a government-aided school in the city, said. “As for English, it is back to basics even for students in higher classes. Simple grammar exercises are being given now to students. It will take quite some time to prepare their minds to listen to prose and poetry,” Mr. James said. Meanwhile, teachers of primary and upper primary levels are looking forward to early start of off-line classes. “When the shops and restaurants are kept open and the usual transport services are being operated, there is no reason why schools must not function with the usual strength,” Parthiban, a teacher of an upper primary school said. “We had been struggling to keep track of the academic progress of the students since the students do not have access to smart phones. Though we do give them writing exercises and project work, following up has been a tough proposition. Door to door visits do not work well always. Also, it is practically impossible to visit all students on a daily basis,” Mr. Parthiban pointed out, He welcomed the move by the government to start offline classes for primary and upper primary levels. Representatives of teacher associations, however, point out that the course of action for resumption of offline classes has to be strategised by involving them as well as stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-teachers-relieved-over-resumption-of-offline-classes/article36352158.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Poor maintenance of Palakkarai RoB takes a toll on motorists||Uneven surface and widening gaps at joints on Palakkarai road overbridge (RoB) pose severe hardship to motorists. It is among four major road over bridges constructed about 20 years ago by the State Highways (Projects) Department. The road overbridge acts as an important link in the city to commute between Bheema Nagar to Palakkarai and Melapudur. The RoB came as a relief to motorists, who suffered due to frequent traffic snarls on Palakkarai Main Road for several years. While the volume of vehicles moving on the RoB has seen a manifold increase over the years, uneven surfaces have developed at various places on the structure. They are spotted on all three arms running towards Palakkarai, Melapudur and Bheema Nagar. Similarly, gaps at joints have widened, thereby making the rides on the bridge bumpy for motorists, particularly two-wheelers. The concrete surface appears to have eroded or battered at several spots. Tiruchi Corporation, which takes care of repair and maintenance of the bridge, is said to have carried out patch-up work several years ago. It chose to cover the uneven spots with bitumen, but this too has eroded. Motorists say the poor and improper maintenance has taken a toll on the quality of the bridge. “The protruding edges at joints make our ride uncomfortable. We need to negotiate very carefully. Otherwise, it causes trouble to vehicles too,” says S. Subramanian of Ariyamangalam, a regular user of the RoB. The motorists warn that if the RoB is used without carrying out repair and maintenance, the gaps at joints will widen further and it will ultimately face the fate of the Cauvery bridge between Mambazhasalai and Mela Chinthamani. They say the Corporation must look into the the issue immediately so as to undertake maintenance works with expert advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-maintenance-of-palakkarai-rob-takes-a-toll-on-motorists/article36352167.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine camps in Tiruchi city today||COVID-19 vaccination camps would be held at the following places in the city on Wednesday: Corporation Zonal Office, Srirangam; Renga Matriculation School, Srirangam; Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College, Thiruvanaikovil; Periyar School, Azhagiripuram, Thiruvanaikovil; Bishop Heber Nursery School, Teppakulam; Anganwadi Centre, Rockfort; Anganwadi Centre, Vellavettrilaikara Street, Tharanallur; Corporation Middle School, Agraharam, Tharanallur; Balamurugan Temple Complex, Ammakulam, Ariyamangalam; Corporation School, Senthaneerpuram; Sri Yadhukula Sangam Middle School, Edatheru; Corporation School, Mela Kalkandarkottai; St.Mary’s Nursery School, Ponmalaipatti; Corporation Middle School, Subramaniapuram; Anganwadi Centre, Thiruvalluvar Street, TVS Tollgate; Orchard School, LIC Colony, K.K.Nagar; Anganwadi Centre, Muslim Street, Kamaraj Nagar; Corporation park, Anbu Nagar, Crawford; Angandwadi Centre, Edamalaipattipudur; Police Quarters, Marsinghpet; Corporation School, Khajapettai,Anganwadi Centre, Periya Milaguparai; Corporation Ovehead Water Tank complex, Manthoppu, Karumandapam; Susaiappar Church Complex, Pillaima Nagar, Edatheru; All Saint’s School, Pattabiraman Pillai Street, Thennur;Bishop Heber College; Roadside Library, Officers Colony, Puthur; Corporation School, Kuratheru; Anganwadi Centre, Cholarajapuram, S.M.Higher Secondary School, Woraiyur; Philomena’s School, Kattur; Urumu Dhanalakshmi College,Kattur; Corporation Middle School, Kattur; and Nala Sangam, Kailash Nagar. Doses allocated About 540-550 doses of Covishield would be administered at each of these camps. Three-hundred and eighty doses of Covaxin would be administered at a camp to be held at Thevar Hall on West Boulevard Road. The camps would begin at 9.30 a.m., a Corporation press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-camps-in-tiruchi-city-today/article36352163.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||248 fresh positive cases, two fatalities recorded in central region||There was a drop in the number of fresh cases of COVID-19 in the central region with 248 persons testing positive for the infection on Tuesday against Monday’s tally of 323. The decline was most noticeable in Thanjavur district, which had been reporting more than 100 cases daily in the recent past. On Tuesday, 53 tested positive in the district. With 56 persons testing positive, Tiruchi had the maximum number of fresh cases among the nine districts in the region. Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai reported 33 fresh cases each. Nagapattinam saw 21 persons testing positive. Seventeen persons tested positive in Pudukottai district, 15 in Karur and 11 in Ariyalur. With nine more positive results, Perambalur had the least number of fresh cases in the region. Two more persons succumbed to complications arising out of the infection in the region with Tiruchi and Tiruvarur districts accounting for one death each, according to the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. As on Tuesday, Thanjavur had the highest number of active cases in the region with 763 patients under treatment including those in home quarantine. There were 611 active cases in Tiruchi, 371 in Tiruvarur, 318 in Mayiladuthurai, 307 in Nagapattinam, 257 in Pudukottai, 156 in Ariyalur, 155 in Karur and 80 in Perambalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/248-fresh-positive-cases-two-fatalities-recorded-in-central-region/article36352165.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central scheme to ease storage burden of TNCSC||Launch of the new Central Sector Scheme of financing facility under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund for establishment of post-harvest infrastructure is expected to lighten the burden of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation in handling agricultural produce in the delta districts. The district administrations are learnt to have activated the Agriculture and Horticulture departments, NABARD and Lead Banks to pursue the scheme in right earnest against the backdrop of the difficulties faced by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation in storing the produce brought by farmers to Direct Purchase Centres during the harvest season. The scheme will facilitate building of godowns, and setting up grading and sorting units which will help member farmers secure a higher price for their produce. “We do face problems in storing paddy brought by farmers directly after harvest for the Samba crop in particular. Out of 314 Direct Purchase Centres for paddy in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts, only 123 centres function in own buildings. There are limitations in storing paddy and are helpless when there is sudden rainfall,” a senior TNCSC official said. There are some technical impediments in operationalising the modern silo at Erukkur in Sirkazhi in Mayiladuthurai district. The modern silo has been established with a capacity to hold 50,000 tonnes of paddy, and is linked by conveyor belts to the modern rice mills. The problems on the mechanical side are being rectified, sources said. The TNCSC officials are of the view that village-level storage facilities will help iprevent post-harvest losses due to rainfall, cyclones or other such factors. According to NABARD sources, some groundwork has to be done to prepare the mindset of the farming community to derive the benefit of the scheme. The Agriculture Infrastructure Fund is a medium-long term debt financing facility for investment in viable projects for post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets through interest subvention and credit guarantee. Since establishing post-harvest facilities warrants large investment, an element of hesitancy is palpable, the official said. Under the Central scheme, Rs. 1 lakh crore will be provided by banks and financial institutions as loans with interest subvention of 3% per annum and credit guarantee coverage under CGTMSE (Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises) scheme for loans up to Rs. 2 crore. The beneficiaries will include farmers, Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies, Marketing Cooperative Societies, Farmer Producer Organisations, Self Help Groups, Joint Liability Groups (JLG), Multipurpose Cooperative Societies, Agri-entrepreneurs, Startups, and Central/State agency or Local Body sponsored Public-Private Partnership entities. The State government has announced that Rs. 5,990 crore will be spent for the purpose. A substantial portion is expected to be utilised in the delta region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-scheme-to-ease-storage-burden-of-tncsc/article36352179.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Four more students in Tiruchi test positive||Four more school students and a school teacher tested positive for COVID-19 virus in Tiruchi district on Tuesday. The four students study in different schools. According to sources, they were subjected to RT-PCR tests as they showed mild symptoms of COVID-19. The results turned out be positive. The results were communicated to the students and the schools concerned. Schools close down As a precautionary measure, a private higher secondary school at Mela Chinthamani, a private matriculation higher secondary school at Kumaran Nagar and a couple of government schools at Manapparai and Lalgudi closed down till further notice. Disinfection measures were carried out on the campuses. Similarly, a school teacher in Mannachanallur was also tested positive for the virus. The teacher was said to have contracted the viral infection from her husband, a medical representative. The RT-PCR test of a college teacher of a private self financing college in the city was also found to be positive for the virus. However, since the college faculty did not report for duty since the reopening of the colleges, the college was allowed to continues classes as usual. A student of a private school affiliated to the CBSE school at Rettaivaical on Vayalur Road was the first student in the district to be diagnosed with the viral infection since schools reopened for senior classes on September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-more-students-in-tiruchi-test-positive/article36352180.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure supply of urea to farmers’||The Bharthiya Kisan Sangam-Tamil Nadu has urged the authorities to ensure availability of adequate quantity of urea in Tiruchi district through cooperative institutions. In a statement issued here, N. Veerasekaran, State spokesperson of the organisation, alleged that there was an acute shortage of urea to meet the standing kuruvai crop and the forthcoming samba season. “Farmers have started preparatory works for samba season. But there is shortage of urea, which is applied as a basal fertilizer and also used for top dressing,” he said. He claimed that private dealers were forcing farmers to buy other products along with urea. In some places, they sold the fertilizer over and above the stipulated price. Following the efforts of the district authorities, a consignment of urea was expected to arrive in the district shortly. The entire consignment should be routed only through cooperative societies and ensured that the urea was available for both loanee and non-loanee farmers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-supply-of-urea-to-farmers/article36352170.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||PF programme, pension adalat||The Tiruchi regional office of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation will conduct a ‘PF Near You’ programme and Pension Adalat on September 13. The virtual meeting for trade unions, employees, employers and pensioners will be held from 2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m., S.Murugavel, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner-I, Tiruchi, said in a press release. Those who wish to participate should send in their details such as Universal Account Number, PF account number, e-mail address and mobile phone number to ro.trichy@epfindia.gov.in before September 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pf-programme-pension-adalat/article36352172.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Fiat on installation of Vinayaka idols||While installation of one-and-a-half-feet-tall Vinayaka idols in houses will be allowed, anyone installing the idols over this stipulated size in public places during Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations will be booked as instructed by the government, Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan has said. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday after handing over 51 recovered mobile phones, worth Rs. 7.67 lakh, to the owners here on Tuesday, he said the individuals could install one-and-a-half-feet-tall Vinayaka idols in their houses and immerse them individually without taking out any procession which had been banned during this pandemic. He also informed that 700 policemen would be deployed across the district as part of the Vinayaka Chaturthi security arrangements. The SP said 133 persons been detained under the Goondas Act in the past 8 months since January to check the anti-social activities and crimes while 397 others were booked in various criminal cases. After arresting 112 of them to be remanded in judicial custody, others were being monitored on being released on bail. A total of 285 anti-social elements, who were booked as precautionary measures based on their criminal antecedents, were being monitored. On the seizure of ganja through special drives, the SP said the Tirunelveli district police had registered 86 cases pertaining to smuggling of ganja and banned tobacco products and arrested 111 persons from whom 29,645 kg ganja had been seized. Similarly, 6,107 kg banned tobacco products had been confiscated in 528 cases and 541 arrested by five special teams in the past two years. He said the Tirunelveli district police had so far recovered 315 mobile phones worth Rs. 39.74 lakh, which were either lost accidentally or stolen. “The public, especially the younger generation, should use social media platforms with extreme caution and without sharing their personal photos and videos with anyone. Making video calls on request from anyone, particularly strangers, should be strictly avoided. If you lose money through online fraud upon promise of winning money through online lottery, the victims should call immediately the toll-free number 155260 to register complaints. The victims can also use cybercrime.gov.in for registering complaints,” said Mr. Manivannan, who also handed over to the owners tree saplings along with the recovered mobile phones. Of the 1,842 personnel in the district, 1,710 had been vaccinated against COVID-19 and 1,171 of them had taken the second jab, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fiat-on-installation-of-vinayaka-idols/article36352510.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) cadres allege irregularities in desilting of tank||Alleging irregularities in the desilitng of Vadakku Chezhiyanallur irrigation tank near Manur, the CPI (M) cadres staged a demonstration here on Tuesday. The protesters, led by Mani Sudalai, president of Tamil Nadu Vivasaayigal Sangam’s Tirunelveli district president, also submitted a petition in the Collectorate. The cadres said desilting of 120-acre tank, which is feeding to over 500 acres of land in 7 villages, was selected under the much-publicised ‘kudimaramaththu’ scheme in 2017 – 2018. ‘Bills sanctioned’ Without desilting the irrigation tank, bills were sanctioned with the connivance of the Public Works Department officials. As the matter came to light, questions were raised under the Right to Information Act in 2019 for which the PWD officials provided the reply only in 2021 after the person who raised questions under RTI went for an appeal against the PWD officials with the RTI Commissioner. Sensing the irregularities in the work, the complaint has now been referred to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption wing for an investigation. “The RTI activist started receiving death threats over the phone and in person from unknown persons,” said Mr. Mani Sudalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-cadres-allege-irregularities-in-desilting-of-tank/article36352196.ece
08 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level in Papanasam, Manimuthar dams||The water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 86.90 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 889.05 cusecs and 1,204.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 63 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 5 cusecs and 100 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-in-papanasam-manimuthar-dams/article36352507.ece
08 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Eight Bangladeshi nationals arrested in Tiruppur||The Tiruppur District Police on Tuesday arrested eight Bangladeshi nationals on charges of staying illegally without valid documents. Police sources said that based on a tip-off, a team from the Avinashi police station visited Chinnakarunaipalayam on Tuesday morning, where the eight men were allegedly working in a private knitwear manufacturing and exporting firm. They were identified as Jakir Hussain (23), Alamin (29), Litton (30), Biplab Hussain (23), Ridoyan (23), Rana Charprasi (22), Balbul Ahamad (32) and Mochin Hussain (33). Fake Aadhaar cards They were staying together in an accommodation near the knitwear firm. As per preliminary investigations, they were allegedly in possession of counterfeit Aadhaar cards to show that they were from West Bengal and had no other documents such as passports and visas, the sources said. The eight accused were from various parts of Bangladesh including Dhaka, Gazipur and Madaripur and had been working in the company for varying periods of time ranging from one month to six months. The Avinashi police booked the eight accused under Sections of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and sent them for remand under judicial custody to Puzhal Central Prison, Chennai. Nearly three weeks ago on August 19,five Bangladeshi nationals were arrestedfor staying illegally near Mangalam in the district. A senior police officer said that Tiruppur District Police has launched a district-wide drive to identify and arrest illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. “Most of them tend to stay in and around Palladam and Avinashi [for employment],” he said, adding that more arrests would be made based on further investigations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-bangladeshi-nationals-arrested-in-tiruppur/article36352111.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvannamalai teacher, Class X student test positive for COVID-19||A teacher at a government-aided college and a Class X student tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruvannamalai district on Tuesday. With this, a total of four teachers and a student have tested positive for the infection in the temple town since the reopening of educational institutions. Those who tested positive on Tuesday included a 24-year-old teacher working at a government-aided college in Somasipadi village in Kilpennathur block and a 15-year-old Class X student of a government school in Mekkalur village, around 20 km from Tiruvannamalai town. “As per norms, institutions where cases were reported should be closed for three days for carrying out preventive measures. Hence, the school and the college concerned have been closed for the week,” R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruvannamalai, told The Hindu . On Monday, a librarian and a computer science teacher at a government school in Kadaladi were found to have contracted the infection. Interestingly, the first case among students and staff of educational institutions in the district since the reopening of schools and colleges was reported last Friday, when a 38-year-old teacher from the same school in Kadaladi village tested positive for COVID-19 after developing a cold and a cough. Subsequently, five members of his family tested positive on Sunday. Acting on directions from District Collector B. Murugesh, health officials have been carrying out contact tracing on the affected premises. Apart from this, they have been collecting samples from 700 people every day as part of preventive measures. Areas like Arunthathiyar Colony, Ethuvaipuravadai, Gandhi Nagar, Kattukulam, Kuruvikaran Puravida, Muttathu Ranpuravadai, Kothanthavadi, Erumpoondi, Kalpundi and Keekalur in Kilpennathur block are under surveillance for COVID-19 infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvannamalai-teacher-class-x-student-test-positive-for-covid-19/article36352512.ece
08 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The Nilgiris district administration has collected Rs. 26,200 as fine for using banned plastic items as part of a mass campaign against plastics across the district. A release from Collector J. Innocent Divya on Tuesday said that banned plastic goods weighing 10.35 kg were seized in four zones namely Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Gudalur and Kotagiri since the commencement of the campaign on September 3. Apart from this, a total fine of Rs. 35,400 was collected since September 3 from those who did not wear masks as part of the enforcement of COVID-19 safety protocols, the release said.      The Tourism Department will organise a COVID-19 vaccination camp in Udumalpet on September 12 (Sunday) from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. A release from the district administration said that the camp would be open to tourism entrepreneurs, workers in hotels, restaurants and lodges and drivers of tourist taxis, auto rickshaws and other tourist vehicles. Beneficiaries must bring their Aadhaar cards to the camp, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article36352117.ece
08 September 2021||VEDARANYAM,TAMIL NADU||Pushpavanam fisherman saved from drowning in sea||A fisherman of Pushpavanam, who fell into the sea on Monday, was rescued by fishers of another boat. Selvamani, 34, was fishing seven nautical miles east of Pushpavanam along with Thavamani, 45, Mahalingam, 67, and Chandrakumar, 42, when their nets reportedly got entangled in a Coast Guard vessel. The boat jerked and Selvamani lost his balance and fell into the water. Fishers from another boat rescued him and entrusted him with Thavamani. Meanwhile, Assistant Commandant of Karaikal Coast Guard Station Ganesh visited Pushpavanam and held inquiry. He was accompanied by senior officials of Police and Fisheries departments. The official also called on the injured fishermen at the Government Hospital in Vedaranyam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pushpavanam-fisherman-saved-from-drowning-in-sea/article36352168.ece
08 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Camps for persons with disabilities held in 4 districts||The district administrations in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur conducted a special grievances day for persons with disabilities on Tuesday helping more than 800 people. The initiative was resumed after over six months in Vellore. In the newly carved Ranipet, the camp was held for the first time. Earlier, the monthly camp was suspended due to the pandemic. The decade-old community hall for the Self-Help Group at the Collectorate was the venue for the beneficiaries in Vellore. Over 900 people, including the wheelchair-bound beneficiaries, thronged the premises for hours for medical examination before their petitions were addressed by the officials People from Katpadi, Anaicut, Gudiyatham, Sathuvachari, Usoor, Melpatti and Aragam attended the camp. “The camp is being held after more than six months resulting in a rush. After scrutinising over 900 petitions, we issued smart identity cards for 326 people,” said Saravanan, the District Disabled Rehabilitation Officer, Vellore. In Tiruvannamalai, the camp was being organised twice a week on Tuesdays and Thursdays for over a month. More than 150 people were provided with smart identity cards in the camp at the District Collectorate. Medical experts were roped to screen the petitioners. In Tirupattur, 108 people got their ID cards and in Ranipet 77 beneficiaries received them. Being the first camp after its bifurcation from Vellore, Ranipet witnessed persons with disabilities from faraway places like Arakkonam, Nemili, Sholinghur, Walajahpet and Arcot. “We will organise such camps in Arakkonam for surrounding taluks to prevent people from travelling to Ranipet,” said D. Saravanakumar, DDRO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/camps-for-persons-with-disabilities-held-in-4-districts/article36352515.ece
08 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||14 new COVID-19 cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,928 with 14 new cases reported on Tuesday. While a total 47,584 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 233. The district’s death toll is 1,111. In Ranipet district, 16 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 42,632. In Tirupattur district, 6 new cases were reported on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,634. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 32, taking the total number of cases to 53,531. Out of this, 52,521 had been discharged and the number of active cases stood at 354.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-new-covid-19-cases-in-vellore/article36352513.ece
08 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram Collector orders removal of banners, cutouts||The Villupuram Collector has ordered the removal of all unauthorised banners, hoardings, flexi boards and cutouts that have cropped up in several places across the district within September 20. Directive to officials Chairing a meeting at the Collectorate here, District Collector D. Mohan ordered officials of urban and rural local bodies to start identifying all sorts of advertisements including unauthorised banners, political hoardings, cutouts and flex boards erected for family functions and remove them. The Collector also asked the municipalities and town panchayats to submit a daily report to the District Revenue Officer, explaining the steps taken for removing the unauthorised hoardings. The village panchayats should submit a daily report to the Project Director of District Rural Development Agency, he said, adding that the police department would initiate stringent action against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villupuram-collector-orders-removal-of-banners-cutouts/article36352469.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM announces increase in DA for govt. employees||Every year, it will involve an expenditure of Rs. 6,480 crore. The Chief Minister said the retirement age of cooks and cooking assistants of nutritious meal centres will be increased from 58 to 60, and this will benefit 29,147 cooks and 24,576 assistants. He announced the revival of bonus increment for government employees with additional qualifications. The scheme was cancelled in 2020. “It will be implemented based on the guidelines of the Union government. It will increase their [the employees’] performance and skills,” he said. The Chief Minister announced the recruitment of junior assistants to fill vacancies in government schools. They will be recruited by TNPSC. Mr. Stalin said the government had decided to treat as working period the duration of the strike and suspension faced by government employees during the protests against the AIADMK government in 2016, 2017 and 2019. “The practice of suspending employees on the day of retirement will be avoided,” he reiterated. As for the request to appoint teachers in the place where they worked before they were transferred for their involvement in the strike, the Chief Minister said the disciplinary action against them will be given up, and they will get priority in counselling for transfers. The government also decided to come out with guidelines for the appointment of family members of deceased government employees on compassionate grounds to dispense with practical difficulties. The Chief Minister said there will be no age limit for sons and daughters who depend on government employees for inclusion in the health insurance scheme. “A separate help desk will be created to help government employees avail themselves of the insurance scheme,” he said. Moreover, the insurance limit for government employees will be more than Rs. 10 lakh for COVID-19 treatment. Mr. Stalin said employees of the Treasuries and Accounts Department will be trained to effectively and quickly handle work related to the Integrated Financial and Human Resources Management System (IFHRMS). Newly-appointed government employees need not go to the Civil Services Training Institute in Bhavanisagar. Instead, they will be trained in the districts where they were posted. This will help them join work without delay. The Chief Minister also announced the appointment of teachers in proportion to the strength of students, as student admissions had increased in government schools. The Joint Action Committee of Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Organisations and Government Employees’ Organisations (JACTTO-GEO), the School Teachers’ Federation of India (STFI) and the Tamil Nadu Government Employees Teachers Welfare Federation (TNGETWF) welcomed the announcements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-announces-increase-in-da-for-govt-employees/article36352064.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Laghu Udyog Bharati Coimbatore Chapter: Initiation Ceremony – Year 2021 to 2023, COSIEMA Hall, 5 p.m.  Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association: 68th Annual General Meeting, SIEMA – ND Hall, 5.45 p.m.  Molecular Diagnostics, Counselling, Care and Research Centre: World Duchenne Awareness Day celebrations, 7 p.m.  KG College of Arts and Science: Virtual Awareness Programme on Cancer and Stem Cell Transplantation, 2 p.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Webinar on ‘General Legal Awareness for Youth’, 2.30 p.m.  Karpagam Academy of Higher Education: Online Students Induction Programme, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36352118.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Builders Engineering College, Kangayam: Department of Mechanical Engineering, webinar - Inauguration of Mechanical Engineering Association and Society of Automotive Engineering India by Shankar Mahalingam of Profenaa Industrial Training Center, Erode, 10 a.m.  RD National College of Arts and Science: Students development programme series, webinar on The Power of a Smile, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article36352210.ece
08 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi local body poll results sign of changing colour of language politics?||The multi-party elections to the Belagavi City Corporation (BCC) council has proved that the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) has been decisively defeated. But, does MES losing the poll signify the end of language politics as Belagavi has seen, since the 1950s, is the moot question. In the 58-member BCC council, the BJP won 35 seats, the Congress 10, AIMIM one, and the rest 12 were Independents that includes MES, the biggest party in the last council. Kannada organisations are upbeat and believe that the elections henceforth will be fought on developmental and other issues rather than language. Others say that it marks the ascendency of Hindutva identity over the linguistic one. Ashok Chandaragi, Kannada activist, said voters have sent a message not only to local MES leaders but some political leaders in Maharashtra who have in the past tried to help the MES cause by aligning with them. On the other hand, D.S. Chougale, writer, noted that the rise of the right-wing forces has strengthened the Hindutva identity and weakened the linguistic one, which is being seen across the country in the last few decades. Shiv Sena factor Some analysts also believe that the MES lost favour with young voters after it locally aligned with the Shiv Sena that shares power with the Congress in Maharashtra. “Though the MES is a party of Marathi speakers, most of its sympathisers are youth from the Maratha community. Many among them are supporters of the Hindutva ideology and their natural choice is the BJP. They did not want to support the MES, suspecting that it would share power with the Congress in the city corporation,” argued Pandurang Bhojagekar, a Marathi writer. The BJP too puts forth the argument that the results marks Hindutva ideology taking root more strongly. “The people of Belagavi have shown that they are real supporters of the Hindutva ideology. They will not be swayed by the limited identities of language or caste and attempts to divide on such lines,” said Abhay Patil, MLA and BJP leader. Mr. Patil has had open altercations with MES leaders in the past. Some candidates have accused Mr. Patil of playing “caste politics” in order to end language politics.  Some BJP leaders admit that their party gave ticket to MES leaders in order to dismember the pro-Marathi party from the inside. “This was the strategy employed by S. Bangarappa in the 1980s. He gave the Congress ticket to MES leaders that led to the first Kannada Mayor being elected. This also reduced the number of MES MLAs from Belagavi district. The BJP is using the same strategy now,” said a newly elected BCC member. Maruti Gowli, a long time MES supporter and member of the gram panchayat at Yallur, takes a contrary view. He says that while MES may be defeated, language will continue to dominate Belagavi politics. He pointed to the pending case by Maharashtra in the Supreme Court about the border dispute. “As long as the Supreme Court gives its final judgment on the judgment, it will remain an active political issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-local-body-poll-results-sign-of-changing-colour-of-language-politics/article36352036.ece
08 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Tension in Belagavi city||There was tension in Belagavi on Tuesday after a youth organisation put up a board renaming a prominent traffic circle. The youth tried to change the name of Rani Parvati Devi Circle as Veera Madakari Nayaka Circle by putting up a green board in the middle of the circle. Passers-by alerted the police who rushed to the spot and removed the board. The police told the youth that their act had no legal sanction and that they could change the name of the circle only after due permission from the State government. This angered the youth who argued that Madakari Nayaka was a national hero and that they did not need anyone’s permission to rename the circle. A crowd gathered at the spot and some residents counter argued that the circle was named after the Queen of Sawant Wadi who had donated land to several educational institutions of Belagavi. The board was removed and the police had to resort to lathi-charge to disperse the crowd. Two KSRP vans are stationed at the spot now. A team of woman police constables is also camping in the area that has several colleges in the vicinity. Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan said that the situation is under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tension-in-belagavi-city/article36352229.ece
08 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Body donated||The family members of a retired police officer Shankar Nagappa Pawate donated his body and skin for medical research and teaching in Hubballi on Monday. The 67-year-old former police officer passed away in KIMS Hubballi on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-donated/article36352228.ece
08 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Teachers Day celebrated||Teachers Day was celebrated in KLE Society’s BK College in Chikkodi on Monday. Resource person S.M. Panabude spoke of the cultural roots of the Guru-Shishya relationship in the country. Meanwhile, Jain College of Engineering Belagavi celebrated Teachers Day on Sunday. Principal and Director K.G. Vishwanath gave the inaugural speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-day-celebrated/article36352230.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Agencies must wake up from slumber’||For weeks, residents from neighbourhoods across the city have been staging protests to highlight the condition of roads and pavements, and the health hazards they pose to motorists and pedestrians. The death of a differently-abled 75-year-old man while he was reportedly negotiating his scooter on a pothole on Manganapalya Main Road has angered citizens, many of whom blamed civic agencies for apathy. They demanded that agencies wake up from their “deep slumber” and take action against the officials concerned for the lapses. Rajkumar Dugar of Citizens for Citizens demanded that the government impose a heavy penalty on officials and others who fail to maintain roads. “In July, a biker was injured after his motorcycle skidded on loose gravel near Kalpana Circle. People carrying out Smart City works were responsible as they did not clear the gravel while carrying out the repair work. Our volunteers rushed him to the hospital and got him treated,” he said. The injured motorcyclist had demanded compensation so that he could pay his medical bills and repair his bike. “It was only when we took up the issue with officials concerned that he was compensated. Accidents caused by bad roads are a common occurrence, but the general public gets penalised when we violate rules. Why should the same rules not apply to officials; they should be fined heavy,” Mr. Durgar added. Others, especially those living in the Central Business District area, criticised the road work taken up under Smart City. “Lack of coordination between various agencies has only added to the mess,” said one motorist. On Monday, Minister for Revenue R. Ashok gave the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike time till September 20 to repair bad reaches and fill potholes on 1,332-km of major roads. But that has been met with a healthy dose of scepticism. “Every rainy season they talk about fixing potholes. We are in September and agencies are still buying time to fix the problems,” said Vinod Kumar, a motorist. A member of Whitefield Rising said, “Despite raising awareness about missing roads and potholes, there continues to be zero response or no urgency shown to tackle the issues by BBMP or other civic agencies in the city. There is no concerted effort to provide good roads. We want civic agencies to put roads that last and withstand the rains and not do patchwork as they disintegrate after two rains”. People living in Varthur said their roads were reduced to mud puddles due to work by multiple agencies. “We have raised the issue in Varthur, Nallurhalli, and other areas, but nothing has happened so far. Officials are still buying time. We have been waiting for good roads ever since 110 villages were added to BBMP 13 years ago. There continues to be apathy and negligence,” said another member of Whitefield Rising.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agencies-must-wake-up-from-slumber/article36352024.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||It cannot be business as usual once schools reopen: Report||With lower primary schools closed from March 2020 due to the pandemic, various studies and surveys, including the ASER report published on Monday, have highlighted learning loss among students. While the government and school managements are under pressure from a section of stakeholders to resume physical classes for lower primary students, a paper published by the Azim Premji Foundation has stated that it could not be ‘business as usual’ once schools reopen. There is a need for changes in the curriculum with a reduction in curricular load, stated the report released on Tuesday. Titled, Open Schools, Focus on Recovering Lost Learning: Clear Voice of Teachers , the report is based on a field study in August 2021, covering 363 primary school teachers across five States in India. Around 56% of teachers surveyed felt initial teaching-learning should focus only on recovery of learning loss, while 57% of them felt changes in teaching-learning processes would be needed. The study took into account the impact of school closure on the learning levels of children and also sought the opinion of teachers on what needs to be done once schools reopen. According to the survey, 96% of teachers said that once schools reopen there is a need to assess children on abilities from the previous years (2019–20 and 2020–21), rather than just focus on abilities of the current academic year (2021–22). One of the recommendations the authors have made is that once schools reopen, there needs to be “changes in the curriculum, with a reduction in curricular load to align with foundational abilities, along with a conscious, meticulously planned focus on foundational literacy and numeracy”. The report also stated that once schools reopen, teaching should be informed of the learning level of each child in the class and not be defined by the regular curriculum. Batting for the need to tweak the curriculum, a member of the field research team of the foundation said that teaching the regular curriculum would assume that children have not forgotten their foundational abilities and regular learning has taken place during the pandemic period. Teachers said that this assessment must form the basis for planning learning with the intent to help students recover learning loss and bring them on a par with their class-level expectations. They also acknowledged that regular assessments will be required to keep track of their learning. The team which conducted the study said that it should not be “mindless assessment” but an assessment with a purpose. Another finding of the paper was that teachers could address the learning loss with autonomy and support from the administration. “All other steps, including curricular and pedagogical changes, will not be useful unless teachers are given sufficient time to work on recovering learning loss in their respective classrooms,” the paper noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-cannot-be-business-as-usual-once-schools-reopen-report/article36352017.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bommai makes fourth visit to Delhi||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and some of his Cabinet Ministers landed in Delhi on Tuesday to attend Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi’s daughter’s wedding reception. They also met several Union Ministers and submit memoranda seeking clearance of pending financial dues and projects to the State. This is Mr. Bommai’s fourth visit to the national capital since he assumed office as the Chief Minister on July 28. Several Union Ministers, including Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, were in Bengaluru last Sunday to attend the reception. Home Minister Amit Shah attended the reception in Hubballi. Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa met Union Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Giriraj Singh in Delhi and urged him to release pending dues of Rs. 781.64 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act as on September 2. The State has already achieved 70% of the annual Budget and generated 9.11 crore of person days as on September 2, he said in a memorandum to Mr. Singh. With heavy rainfall in July in 61 taluks of 13 districts, causing damage to infrastructure, the State urged the Union Minister to sanction additional 50 days of work under the Act in the taluks. Noting abundant scope for utilisation of MGNREGA funds, Mr. Eshwarappa urged Mr. Singh to add additional works such as construction of public health centres, school and college buildings, libraries in gram panchayats, and rural gymnasiums under Schedule-1 of the Act under the category of rural infrastructure. Mr. Bommai met Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and sought release of pending dues under various centrally sponsored schemes. He called on Union Minister of Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw and discussed ongoing railway and infrastructure projects in Karnataka. Minister for Water Resources Govind Karjol, Minister for Housing V. Somanna, and the Chief Minister’s principal secretary were present. Mr. Bommai will meet Union Minister Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, and other Ministers on Wednesday and urge them to clear pending projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-makes-fourth-visit-to-delhi/article36352041.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Law and order hit by insufficient police force’||A fact-finding committee constituted by the State Congress to study the issue of the recent gang-rape near Chamundi Hills in Mysuru has blamed the State government for its failure to deploy adequate number of police and provide sufficient number of police vehicles to maintain law and order in the city. Frequent transfer of police officials, lack of coordination between the police and other departments and deployment of police force for providing security to VIPs during their visit to Mysuru also contributed to the law and order issues, the committee said in its report submitted to the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). The committee headed by V.S. Ugrappa, former MP, claimed that the administrative machinery in the district has collapsed owing to lack of coordination between district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha and BJP legislators. Focus on other issues During interaction with the public, the people alleged that the police seemed to have been giving more priority to resolving cases related to real estate and civil matters and not much about law and order of the city. “This has impacted the functioning of the IAS and IPS officers in Mysuru,” the report said. Resignation sought The committee demanded the resignation of Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, owning moral responsibility. The committee has made several recommendations and said the police have to complete the probe and file a chargesheet in the court and ensure that the case comes up for hearing in the next five months. It recommended to the government to strengthen the police force in the city based on the city’s population and tourists’ visiting the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-insufficient-police-force-impacting-law-and-order/article36352019.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP bans idol immersion in lakes||In a move that will bring some cheer to conservation activists, the civic body has announced that there will be a ban on the immersion of Ganesha idols in lakes this year. All idols installed at homes cannot be taller than 2ft. People can either immerse them in buckets at home or in mobile idol immersion tankers only, said Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Tuesday. Each ward will be assigned a mobile idol immersion tanker to only immerse idols installed at homes. BBMP officials will use public address systems to inform the public of the time and the place where the service can be availed within the ward. Even idols installed at public places and temples must be immersed in mobile tankers only as far as possible. But artificial immersion ponds will also be created for larger idols at select places across the city, where immersion will take place with a minimum number of people with no processions, Mr. Gupta said. Citizens who have been campaigning for an eco-friendly Ganesh Chathurthi said that these measures should be in place permanently and not just a precautionary measure against COVID-19. The city’s lakes have been taking the brunt of idol immersion. Prior to the pandemic, nearly 1 lakh idols were immersed in lakes, many of them made of plaster of Paris, causing damage to the lake ecosystems. For instance, in 2019, around 24 lakes were identified for idol immersion, while in the previous year, people could immerse idols in 35 lakes. Recently, the BBMP had taken to creating artificial ponds or kalyanis at these lakes in an effort to protect the lakes from the adverse impact. “The pandemic has muted celebrations in the city and this has an unintended positive impact on the city’s lake ecosystem, like lockdown had on pollution levels in the city,” said a senior civic official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-bans-idol-immersion-in-lakes/article36352008.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. told to enforce SC order banning statues in public places||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to ensure implementation of the apex court’s 2013 direction to all States not to grant permission for installation of statue or construction of any structure on public roads, pavements, sideways, and other pubic utility places. Also, the court set aside the 2017 decisions of the State government and the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) to install a statue of late Sri Shivaratri Rajendra Swami of Suttur Mutt at a circle near Gun House on the southern side of Mysuru palace. A Division Bench passed the order while allowing a PIL petition filed by Akhila Bharata Kshatriya Mahasabha and Karnataka Rajya Arasu Sangha, Bengaluru, challenging decision to install the seer’s statue. The Bench found that both the March 3, 2017, decision of the government and August 2018 resolution passed by the MCC to install the seer’s statue at the circle was contrary to the direction of the apex court. The High Court on January 29, 2018, had stayed the government’s March 2017 decision. “State governments shall not grant permission for installation of statue or construction of structure on public roads, pavements, sideways and other pubic utility places. Obviously, this order shall not apply to installation of high mast lights, streetlights, or construction relating to electrification, traffic, toll, or development and beautification of the streets, highways, roads etc. and relating to public utility and facilities. The Chief Secretary/administrator concerned shall ensure compliance of the order,” the apex court stated in its order. Refusing to accept the government’s contention that the spot where the seer’s statue was proposed to be installed did not come under the definition of public area as per SC order, the Bench, from the map, noticed that is a place where six roads join and the circle is part of the road. The government had contended that the petitioners had “vested interest” as they knocked the doors of the gourt after the authorities rejected their plea for installing the statue of late Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar, scion of the Mysuru royal family, at that location.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-told-to-enforce-sc-order-banning-statues-in-public-places/article36352038.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plea against Isha Outreach dismissed||While appreciating the steps taken by Isha Outreach for afforestation through Cauvery Calling project, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday dismissed a PIL petition, which had alleged that sapling are being planted on government lands by collecting huge donations from the public. “In the present case, a categorical statement has been made by the State government that the project Cauvery Calling is not their [government’s] project, and planting of sapling is not being done either on the government land or on public land. Hence, the question of interference by this court in a ‘noble project’ like Cauvery Calling does not arise,” the court observed. A Division Bench passed the order while dismissing the petition filed in 2019 by city-based advocate A.V. Amaranathan, who was at a later stage dislodged by the court from prosecuting the petition for his conduct and treated it as a suo motu petition. “We are of the considered opinion that afforestation has become very necessary keeping in view the present scenario and such activities need appreciation rather than putting spokes in projects like Cauvery Calling,” the Bench observed. The court also noticed that the project is being implemented on the Cauvery river basin by encouraging farmers to plant saplings only on their private lands, and that the Karnataka government is not financing the project. “It is clear from the record that Cauvery Calling is not a project of the State government. The project is aimed to bring the river Cauvery back to her glory and to save the eco-system and most importantly to save farmers,” the Bench observed. Pointing out that no law that prohibits an individual/citizen from planting sapling on government was brought to the court’s notice and that Isha Outreach is not planting trees on government land, the Bench also said that “planting trees on barren land is not a crime.” While terming the petition as “frivolous” one, the Bench said “in fact, no prudent person will file such a PIL to restrain a body/person from planting trees on their own private land”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plea-against-isha-outreach-dismissed/article36352037.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Alert sounded in border districts of Karnataka over Nipah||Karnataka has issued an advisory on strengthening surveillance, especially in border districts, in view of confirmed cases of Nipah virus infection reported in Kerala. The focus districts are Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Mysuru, Kodagu, and Chamarajanagar. In the advisory to the deputy commissioners ofall districts, the Department of Health and Family Welfare said arrivals from Kerala should be monitored for fever, altered mental status, severe weakness, headache, respiratory distress, cough, and other typical symptoms. “Samples should be collected with all necessary precautions from suspected, probable and contacts and sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for laboratory confirmation. As there is no known treatment or vaccine available, Ribavirin, an antiviral, may have a role in reducing mortality among patients with encephalitis caused by Nipah virus disease,” said the advisory. Intensive supportive care with treatment of symptoms is the main approach for managing infection in people, it added. All district authorities have been asked to send daily reports to the Commissioner, Health and Family Welfare Services, on the status of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alert-sounded-in-border-districts-of-karnataka-over-nipah/article36352012.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Inter-State gang of chain-snatchers busted; third in last one week||The city police have busted yet another inter-State gang of chain-snatchers and arrested three men hailing from Mumbai. The police have also recovered 139 grams of gold jewellery, valued at Rs. 6.2 lakh from the trio. “The key accused in the case had 18 chain-snatching cases registered against him in Mumbai and had been jailed. But he was released on bail recently, after which he shifted to Bengaluru with two of his associates,” said the police. This is the third such case of a gang, coming from outside the State to Bengaluru to commit offences, that has been busted over the last one week. The Sanjay Nagar Police, while investigating a chain-snatching case reported from 80 Ft Road on August 17, observed from CCTV camera footage of the incident that the miscreants were riding a high-end KTM Duke. Further analysis showed they had gone into the neighbouring BMT Layout. An investigation of all parked KTM Duke bikes in the Layout led the cops to two suspects who were residing in a rented accommodation in the area. When questioned, they allegedly confessed to the crime and led the police to the prime accused in the case from whom the gold jewellery was recovered. The bike was stolen from the city three months ago, investigation has now revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inter-state-gang-of-chain-snatchers-busted-third-in-last-one-week/article36352009.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress to raise ‘mishandling’ of COVID, rising fuel prices at legislature session||The Opposition Congress has decided to raise issues such as rising prices of fuel and essential commodities, precarious financial condition of the State, gang-rape of a college girl in Mysuru, mishandling of COVID-19, and other issues in the upcoming State legislature session starting from Monday. Congress Legislature party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah, who chaired the meeting on Tuesday, discussed various failures of the State government and decided to expose the government on the floor of both Houses of the legislature. Mr. Siddaramiah alleged that law and order had deteriorated in the State and cases of extortion and harassment of the common people were on the rise. The gang-rape of the girl in Mysuru last month was an instance of failure of the government to ensure safety of women, he said. ‘Commission govt.’ The former Chief Minister called the BJP government “20% commission government”. The financial condition of the government was very bad and there were no funds to schemes announced by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai after he assumed office, the Congress leader said. He also criticised the unilateral decision of the Central and State governments on implementation of the New Education Policy and said the policy was being implemented without discussion. Noting the flood situation in the State, Mr. Siddaramiah said that the government has not provided relief to people affected by floods two years ago. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition in the Council S.R. Patil, and other legislators attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-to-raise-mishandling-of-covid-rising-fuel-prices-at-legislature-session/article36352039.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fraudsters create fake FB account in Nirani’s name||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Murugesh Nirani has said that some mischievous elements have created a false Facebook account in his name and have been seeking money from people known to him and his well-wishers. In a message, the Minister said: “It has come to my notice that some fraudsters have created a fake account using my name on social media and demanding money. This is totally false and intended to deceive people. Please don’t fall prey to such fraudsters”. The Minister said that he was contemplating lodging a complaint with the cyber crime cell of the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fraudsters-create-fake-fb-account-in-niranis-name/article36352042.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in view of carrying out conversion of overhead line into UG/ AB cable works. According to a press release from BESCOM, West Circle, the areas to be affected are: Widia: Andanappa Layout, near drainage and surrounding areas. Nelagedaranahalli: T.G. Palya Main Road, Andrahalli Main Road and surrounding areas. Srigandhakavalu: M.T.M Layout, Sir M.V. 9th Block, and surrounding areas. Byadarahalli, RHCS Layout, Annapoorneshwarinagara, Health Layout, D. Group Layout, Narasapura, Benachakallipalya, Muddinapalya, Gowramma Layout and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article36352006.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Water adalat||The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will hold a water adalat on Thursday from 9.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. to settle the grievances concerned with the water billing, delay in providing water supply and sanitary connections, delay in converting from domestic to non-domestic connections, and other related issues. For any problems regarding the water supply, consumers can contact the helpline number 1916 or send a Whatsapp message to 8762228888.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-adalat/article36352007.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC to run 1,000 more buses||Though the celebration of Gowri-Ganesha festivals will be low key owing to pandemic restrictions, road transport corporations are expecting people to return to their hometowns within Karnataka and to neighbouring States. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), on Tuesday, announced that it will operate 1,000 additional buses on Thursday and Friday. A discount of 5% on the fare will be extended, if four or more passengers book on a single ticket, and a discount of 10% is offered on the return journey ticket if onward and downward journey tickets are booked simultaneously, stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-to-run-1000-more-buses/article36352010.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jewellers allege harassment by police||Members of the Karnataka Jewellers’ Association met Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Tuesday alleging that owners of small jewellery shops were being harassed by the police. In a petition to the Minister, they urged him to ensure that jewellers are not extorted and SOPs issued by the Home Department based on the High Court of Karnataka directions are followed during any investigation against jewellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jewellers-allege-harassment-by-police/article36352013.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Foundation distributes health kits||Bengaluru-based Aahwahan Foundation began distributing family health kits among frontline workers, daily wage workers, government school students, slum dwellers, and pavement dwellers. The programme was launched by MLA Dr. Uday B. Garudachar, in the presence of doctors, government officials and other citizens in Bengaluru. On September 7, the foundation distributed 14,302 health kits to families in need as part of its ‘Family Health Kit Initiative’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foundation-distributes-health-kits/article36352020.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘BJP-JD(S) will come to power in Kalaburagi’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the BJP and the Janata Dal (S) will come together and secure power in the Kalaburagi City Corporation. In the 55-member Kalaburagi City Corporation council, the Congress won in 27 wards, BJP in 23, JD(S) in four, and Independent in one ward. Speaking to reporters, the Chief Minister said the JD(S) has shown interest to work together with the BJP to secure power. JD(S) MLAs, including former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, met Mr. Bommai at the latter’s official residence and held discussions on various issues, ahead of the next week’s legislature session. Responding to a question, Mr. Bommai said: “Though no detailed discussions were held, we have almost decided to stick together. The JD(S) leaders will hold discussions with their local leaders. But JD(S) leaders showed interest to work together in the Kalaburagi City Corporation.” A few days ago, the BJP came to power in the Mysuru City Corporation, for the first time, after the tie-up between the JD(S) and the Congress which were in power, fell apart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-jds-will-come-to-power-in-kalaburagi/article36352043.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 851 new cases, 15 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 851 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,56,988. The districts with the most number of new cases were Bengaluru Urban (248) followed by Dakshina Kannada (227). Fifteen succumbed to the virus taking the toll across the State to 37,441.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-851-new-cases/article36352011.ece
08 September 2021||Gangoor (Hassan),KARNATAKA||Dalit labourers demand land||Tension prevailed at Gangoor in Arkalgud taluk on Tuesday after the freed bonded labourers of the Dalit colony in the village staged a protest demanding grant of land at Gobbali Reserve Forest. The villagers had planned to till the forest land as a mark of protest, forcing the district administration to deploy hundreds of policemen to avert any untoward incident. As many as 91 people, who were freed as bonded labourers in 1994, have been demanding land to cultivate for the last 27 years. The villagers continued to cultivate the forest land, as they had no other land to cultivate. However, the Forest Department took over the forest land on April 1 this year, evicting the Dalit families. Since then, the freed bonded labourers intensified their protests demanding the grant of land. They put up thatched huts in the forest land and they had planned to plough the land on Tuesday. The officers deployed policemen and forest officials at the spot early in the morning. The Health Department had kept doctors and ambulances ready in cases of any violence. The Forest Department had made plans to remove the huts. The villagers were not allowed even to take their cattle to the forest area for grazing.  The villagers staged a protest under the leadership of representatives of Communist Party of India (Marxist), Dalit Hakkugala Samiti, Madiga Dandora Horata Samiti and Dalit Sangharsha Samiti at the forest land demanding that their demand be fulfilled. They raised slogans criticising the government for not providing them rehabilitation even 27 years after they were freed from bondage. Renu Kumar, Arkalgud tahsildar, met the protesters and listened to their grievances. The protesters criticized the officers for failing to grant them land. They said they would not leave until they were granted land. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Renu Kumar said as per the directions from the Deputy Commissioner, he had been looking for alternative land. “As many as 91 people were freed as bonded labourers in 1994. Among them, a few have got land. We have to identify suitable land for the remaining people. The rules do not permit us to grant them forest land. We will find alternative land within Arkalgud taluk for them within a week”, he said. The villagers have resolved to wait for a week. CPI(M) district secretary Dharmesh, DSS leader Rajashekhar, Madiga Dandora Samiti district president T.R.Vijaya Kumar, Dalit Hakkugala Samiti leader M.G.P ruthvi, and Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha district president H.R. Naveen Kumar led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dalit-labourers-demand-land/article36352434.ece
08 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Advocate run over by truck||An advocate died on the spot after a truck ran over him at N.R. Circle in Hassan on Tuesday. Nazeer Ahmed, 64, was on his way to court in a two-wheeler when he fell on the road in an attempt to avoid hitting a vehicle and the truck ran over him. Nazeer Ahmed, who has been an advocate for nearly 40 years, was elected to Hassan City Municipal Council in 1996 as an independent candidate. Later, he identified with the Janata Dal (Secular). He is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters. Following the incident, advocates staged a protest at N.R.Circle, blaming the poor management of traffic by the police in the city. Traffic was hit on the busy road for a couple of hours. Superintendent of Police R.S rinivasa Gowda and other officers reached the spot and convinced the protesters to disperse. District Advocates’ Association president Manjunath Murthy and others were present. Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda has mourned the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advocate-run-over-by-truck/article36352432.ece
08 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Tanks damaged in rain, floods will be repaired soon: Minister||Requisite steps will be taken very soon to get tanks damaged in heavy rain and floods in July and August, Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs and Minor Irrigation J. Madhuswamy has said. Speaking to presspersons after inspecting the Indrammana Kere in Alnavar taluk of Dharwad district on Tuesday, Mr. Madhusawamy said that heavy rain and subsequent floods caused damage to tanks and lift irrigation projects, particularly in Uttara Kannada and Dharwad districts. The department has made an initial assessment of the damage and shortly, the required works to repair and develop these tanks and projects will be taken up, he said. The Minister said that the officials of Minor Irrigation Department have been instructed to take the stakeholders into confidence and seek suggestions from the local MLA and district in-charge Minister before finalising the plans for development of tanks. On the charge regarding rampant corruption and low quality of works, Mr. Madhuswamy said that the department will appoint engineers from the Indian Institute of Science Bengaluru and carry out third party inspection. Based on the report on quality of work, further action will be taken and there is no question of sparing anyone if complaints are found to be true, he said. Regarding the long-pending Kalasa Banduri Nala Project, the Minister clarified that the project did not come under his department. However, Basavaraj Bommai, who had fought for the implementation of the long-pending project and getting a rightful share of Mahadayi waters, was now the Chief Minister of the State. And, he was committed to implementing the project at the earliest. He said that there is some delay in view of the objections filed by the Goa government. After getting the hurdles cleared, the work will be taken up on a war footing, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tanks-damaged-in-rain-floods-will-be-repaired-soon-minister/article36352236.ece
08 September 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||How AIMIM cut into Congress votes in Hubballi-Dharwad||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), which contested in the elections to three key municipal corporations of North Karnataka – Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi, and Kalaburagi – for the first time, has made its presence felt by winning three seats in Hubballi and one in Belagavi. The performance of MIM is a definite cause for concern for the Congress, particularly in Hubballi-Dharwad. One visit by AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi seems to have swung voters in Hubballi-Dharwad East Assembly Constituency, which has sizeable number of Muslim voters, and is the lone seat held by Congress in Dharwad district. AIMIM’s all three victories came from wards in this constituency. In this constituency, represented by Congress MLA Prasad Abbayya, AIMIM has secured over 18,000 votes. AIMIM which had contested in 12 wards ended up either second or third place in seven wards with its candidates securing an average of over 1000 votes and in two wards, AIMIM’s contest has helped Independents win. Congress leaders and workers believe that AIMIM has adversely impacted their party’s prospects. On Monday night, one of the AIMIM candidate’s family was attacked allegedly by a defeated Congress candidate’s husband. However, unlike Hubballi-Dharwad, AIMIM seems have made little impact on the prospects of Congress candidates in Belagavi and Kalaburagi. Although AIMIM won one seat in Belagavi, the rest of the candidates have hardly made any impact. In the 12 wards that AIMIM contested, the winners were either Congress or Independents and AIMIM candidates got between 300 and 500 votes in each ward. In ward number 18, Shahid Khan Pathan, a former Congressman, won on AIMIM ticket by securing 949 votes against the Congress nominee Abdul Khadar Gheewale who got 897.  Not much impact In Kalaburagi too, AIMIM did not make much impact. Having contested from 20 seats, the party secured just 9,341 votes, a vote share of 3.5%. What was unusual was that in seven seats, the AIMIM candidates did not get a single vote, meaning that the candidates withdrew from contest despite being in the fray. But AIMIM did contest from some Muslim dominated wards, where the BJP had no candidates and finished a distant second, a development that drew the attention of Congress leaders.  (With Inputs from Rishikesh Bahadur Desai & Praveen B. Para)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/how-aimim-cut-into-congress-votes-in-hubballi-dharwad/article36352034.ece
08 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Konaraddi resigns||Owning moral responsibility for the poor show of the JD(S) in the elections to three municipal corporations, national general secretary of the party and former MLA N.H. Konaraddi announced his resignation on Tuesday. Making the announcement during a press conference in Hubballi on Tuesday, Mr. Konaraddi said that despite all-out efforts by him and other leaders, the party had performed very poorly. So, owning moral responsibility, he decided to resign. He said that he will continue to work for the party as an ordinary worker. He said that he has not yet spoken to the party chief about his resignation but will abide by the party’s decision on the matter. The JD(S) won one seat in Hubballi and four in Kalaburagi and none in Belagavi. It won nine seats in Hubballi and 10 in Kalaburagi in the previous municipal councils. In both these cities, the party had fielded over 40 candidates. He said all-out efforts on sensitising people about the misrule of the present disposition had failed to make an impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/konaraddi-resigns/article36352241.ece
08 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||32 seats needed to land mayoral posts||The magic figure to land the Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts is likely to be 32 this time in Kalaburagi City Corporation council. Of the 55 seats, Congress has won 27, the BJP 23 and the Janata Dal (Secular) has bagged four seats, while one councillor is an Independent. The number of ex-officio members is yet to be finalised, though the cumulative will be eight. All the 63 representatives, including corporators, will together elect the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor. At present, there are three MLAs and MLCs each. Apart from these legislators, one Rajya Sabha and one Lok Sabha member are also eligible to vote along with the 55 corporators. As per the rulebook, more than 50% of votes are needed for one to be elected to the post of Mayor and Deputy Mayor. As there are 63 representatives, at least 32 votes are needed to land the mayoral posts. The Congress will make it to 29, with 27 corporators, one MLA and a Rajya Sabha member. The BJP will increase its tally to 29, with 23 corporators, three MLCs, two MLAs and a Member of Parliament. To cross the magic figure of 32, both the BJP and the Congress need at least three more seats. Under the circumstances, the Janata Dal (Secular), which has won four seats, and the Independent candidate will play a key role in electing the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor. The party leaders are yet to make a decision, while the local Janata Dal(S) leaders are tightlipped. The former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda in a release on Tuesday stated that Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge had had talks with him and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and expressed his desire to form the Kalaburagi City Corporation Council. However, the decision will be taken after discussion with the local leaders of the party, Mr. Deve Gowda added. At the same time, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has hinted at forming the council with the help of the JD(S) councillors and the Independent candidate. The BJP is working out its own strategy. Meanwhile, the Congress too is working out plans to retain power in the city corporation with the support of the JD(S).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/32-seats-needed-to-land-mayoral-posts/article36352238.ece
08 September 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Congress secures higher vote share than BJP||The Congress secured a better vote share than the BJP in the Kalaburagi City Corporation elections, the results of which were declared on Monday. Congress secured seven percentage points more than the BJP vote share. Out of 5,19,646 total eligible voters in the city, 2,59,783 (50.01 percent) voters cast votes. The breakdown Of the 55 seats that went to the polls, Congress secured 27 with a vote share of 38% (98,510 votes). The BJP won 23 seats with an approximate vote share of 31% (80,246 votes), while Janata Dal (Secular) bagged four seats with a vote share of 12% (3,111 votes). While the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) contested 20 seats, it failed to win a single seat. Its vote share was 3.5% (9,341 votes). And none of the above (NOTA) options garnered 1,915 votes, less than one percent of the total votes polled. Second place Of the four seats won by JD(S), the Congress was pushed to second position in Ward No. 16 and Ward No. 34. The JD(S) pushed the BJP to second place in Ward No.42. In Ward No. 27, the JD(S) pushed the Aam Aadmi Party to second place and Congress finished in the third place. Gangamma Basavaraj (BJP) from Ward No. 5 won with a huge margin of 3,238 votes, followed by Krishnaraj of BJP from Ward No.7 with a margin of 2,768 votes. Also, BJP councillor Vishal Dhargi from Ward No. 46 won with a thin margin of 10 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-secures-higher-vote-share-than-bjp/article36352240.ece
08 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Traffic woes at NH 66 junction||Kallianapura Santhekatte, an emerging suburb of Udupi town located on the flanks of National Highway 66, has been bogged down by traffic woes with hundreds of vehicles competing with each other to enter and exit the busy national highway at the traffic junction every day. The genesis of the problems goes back to the time of construction of the four-lane national highway without any underpass or overpass for vehicles either from the surrounding areas or for the ones on the highway, say residents of the area. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) recently proposed a vehicular overpass at a similarly-placed Katpady Junction between Udupi and Mangaluru on the national highway upon the insistence of Union Minister Shobha Karandlaje. Santhekatte is the nearest commercial hub for many surrounding villages, including Kolalagiri, Hoode, Kemmannu, Kallianapura, Bengre, Kodi Bengre, Thenkanidiyuru and Garadimajalu, located in about a 20 sq km area. At least four roads, from Hoodi, Garadimajalu, Kallianapura and Kolalagiri, converge at this traffic junction. Joseph G.M. Rebello, a Santhekatte resident and a resource person in the Zilla Panchayat, said that there was a proposal for a grade separator at the traffic junction while the four-lane road was being planned. As per the proposal, vehicles from surrounding villages were to cross the highway on the grade separator to join the national highway further ahead. The proposal, however, did not materialise. For over seven years now, residents of the localities have been facing the ordeal, particularly during the peak hours. Added to their woes is the express and shuttle buses halting very close to the traffic junction, though the erstwhile Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Mary Francis had ordered that they use different locations for their halts. Mr. Rebello said that the woes could be mitigated to a certain extent till a vehicle overpass/ underpass is constructed at the traffic junction if the traffic police manage the traffic effectively. However, that too is not happening while a few local youth, including himself, would jump in to manage traffic at times. Sukhanand, an autorickshaw driver in Santhekatte, said that considerable fuel and energy are wasted while attempting to cross the traffic junction. NHAI should address the issue on priority, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-woes-at-nh-66-junction/article36352407.ece
08 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ganesha comes alive in sand art||Three enthusiastic artists from the Sand Theme team of Udupi on Tuesday created a Prakruti Ganapa in sand on Koteshwara Beach in Kundapur taluk, Udupi district. The team comprising Harish Saga, Raghavendra and R. Prasad made the Ganesha using the sand on the beach. The sand art was adorned with the “Muttale” traditional headgear made of dried arecanut tree leaf and was given the turmeric colour to signify resistance to diseases. A statement from Theme Udupi here said that the Prakruti Ganapa goes well with the call given by Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao to make Ganesha idols using turmeric. The creation is aimed at raising awareness among people about COVID-19 and the need to develop immunity to diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganesha-comes-alive-in-sand-art/article36352409.ece
08 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Udupi tops in school attendance||Schools in Udupi district continue to lead at the State level in attendance of students from Classes 6 to 10 with the overall attendance on Tuesday touching 72% across all categories of schools. The overall attendance of students of these classes on Monday when Classes 6 to 8 reopened was 60%. Chikkodi and Madhugiri education districts came second and third with 55% and 54% attendance respectively, N.H. Nagur, Deputy Director of Public Instruction, Udupi, said in a statement here. The State average was around 25% on Monday. Mr. Nagur said the attendance was 79%, 72% and 56% in Class 6 of government, aided and unaided schools respectively on Tuesday. It was 77%, 73% and 55% for Class 7 in these categories of schools and 75%, 72% and 60% in Class 8 respectively. The State average for Classes 6, 7 and 8 on Monday was 29.15%, 28.05% and 23.22% respectively as against 59%, 59% and 62% in Udupi district. The average attendance of students in Udupi district on Tuesday was 79%, 77% and 75% respectively, Mr. Nagur said. The government allowed the reopening of schools to conduct Classes 6 to 8 in districts where the COVID-19 test positivity rate was less than 2%. Accordingly, classes have resumed in almost all districts except Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu districts. Exuberance was evident among students of Classes 6 to 8 since Monday as they were returning to schools after nearly one and a half years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-tops-in-school-attendance/article36352419.ece
08 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Weekend restrictions to continue in temple towns||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has continued weekend restrictions to the visit of devotees to the two popular pilgrim centres in the district. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra in his order on Tuesday said that entry of devotees to Sri Manjunatha Temple at Dharmasthala and Sri Subrahmanya Temple at Kukke Surbahmanya was prohibited on Saturdays and Sundays till further orders. During the remaining days of the week, devotees may go to these temples between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. Devotees can have only darshan of deities while they will not be given Tirtha, Prasadam and food at these temples, he said. The administration had earlier banned entry of devotees to Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple too along with Dharmasthala and Kukke Subrahmanya temples during the weekends. Tuesday’s order was passed under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act after reviewing the COVID-19 situation in the district. Though the test positivity rate has reduced, the restrictions are being continued in the wake of possible breakout of COVID-19 third wave, the Deputy Commissioner said. While the entry of devotees to the two temples on weekends was restricted, managements can continue with the regular rituals in the temples on Saturdays and Sundays as usual. However, there will be no fairs or festivals or processions at these temples. At the same time, lodging houses in these places cannot offer lodging facility to devotees, he added. Those violating the directions will be booked, Dr. Rajendra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-restrictions-to-continue-in-temple-towns/article36352410.ece
08 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccination today in city, Udupi||A vaccination camp will be conducted at Rajangana in the Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple at 10 a.m. on Wednesday. All those aged above 18 can take the vaccine, a release said. And, Mangaluru City Corporation and the Dakshina Kannada district administration will host a mega vaccination drive at 44 centres in the limits of 10 urban primary health centres in Mangaluru at 9 a.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-today-in-city-udupi/article36352418.ece
08 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||T. Saminathan is CMD of KIOCL Ltd.||Director (Commercial), KIOCL Limited, T. Saminathan, on Tuesday, took charge as Chairman-cum-Managing Director (CMD) of the company, a Union government undertaking. He holds a degree in Mechanical Engineering and Post-Graduate Diploma in Business Management and has more than three decades of experience in KIOCL Ltd. in the field of iron ore mining, beneficiation, pelletisation and pig iron-making since joining KIOCL Limited in 1986 as a graduate engineer. During the initial period, he served in Kudremukh mine, beneficiation plant and later, moved to the Corporate Office in Bengaluru in 1992 and executed projects such as crusher-III installation, relocation of crusher-I and installation of additional ball mills at Kudremukh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/t-saminathan-is-cmd-of-kiocl-ltd/article36352412.ece
08 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||UPHC opened in city||Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath inaugurated a new urban primary health centre (UPHC) constructed at Shakthi Nagar here on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kamath said that the UPHC built at a cost of Rs. 46 lakh has a portico, entrance lobby, reception counter, dispensary, laboratory, store room, injection/dressing room, doctor’s room and wash rooms. It has bio-medical waste disposal facility and a disinfection tank. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty said that the jurisdiction of the UPHC also covered the three wards in Mangaluru City North Assembly constituency. Dr. Shetty appreciated the services by the medical fraternity. Mayor Premananda Shetty was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uphc-opened-in-city/article36352413.ece
08 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Elocution competition||The Department of Student Affairs, Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), will conduct a three-day online elocution competition from September 23 in connection with Nashamukt Udupi Abhiyan. It will be conducted for students (Class 8 and above), teachers and general public. The competition is open to all residents of Udupi district. Participants may speak in English or Kannada. The last date for registration is September 15. The link for registration ishttps://tinyurl.com/elocution21or email id: dsa.mahe@manipal.edu. The Nashamukt Udupi Abhiyan is part of Nashamukt Bharat Abhiyan funded by the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elocution-competition/article36352414.ece
08 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Freedom run ends||The two-day ‘Fit Raho Udupi’ freedom run, organised by Team Nation First, covering 75 km concluded in Udupi on Tuesday. Team Nation First, a voluntary organisation of ex-cadets, had organised the event to commemorate the Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav and to create awareness on the need to maintain fitness, its president Sooraj Kidiyoor said in a release. The run covered 100 villages surrounding Udupi. The teams sang motivational songs at 24 major points. The police, Home Guards, sports club members, college students and locals took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/freedom-run-ends/article36352420.ece
08 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Teachers hailed for lockdown innovation||Teachers need to be praised for quickly adapting to new ways of teaching and ensuring that pandemic–induced lockdowns did not hamper the education of students, Shekar C. Mande, Secretary, DSIR and Director General, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), New Delhi, has said. “All of us should feel proud that we have been able to overcome the hurdles posed by the pandemic,” he added. Delivering his address at the 101st convocation of the University of Mysore here on Tusday, Dr. Mande said educational institutions took teaching and learning to students’ homes because of COVID-19. However, the contributions of teachers and the cooperation of students during the pandemic have almost gone unnoticed even though the education sector was also affected like other sectors. Educational institutions of all kinds had to be shut down and they continue to be largely closed even today. Complementing the University of Mysore for introducing online teaching even before the pandemic, Dr. Mande said the pandemic has only catalysed the broader adoption of online programmes globally. The situation highlighted the critical role played by teachers irrespective of their engagement - being in kindergarten or in an institution of higher learning. The pandemic has been an exceedingly challenging time for everyone as doctors, scientists and researchers worked tirelessly on developing solutions and interventions related to COVID-19 mitigation. They rightly deserve the applause and our deepest gratitude. ‘Humane side’ The DSIR Secretary observed that the pandemic showed the humane side of several segments of the global citizenry and there is a need for many such efforts in the coming times even as the harm caused to the environment, mainly due to our disregard, carelessness, and ignorance, was being witnessed by everyone. Observing that students of today are at ease with the use of technology, he said it is laudable that the National Education Policy-2020 advocates more use of technology in education, including creation of virtual labs. Earlier, Governor and Chancellor Thaawarchand Gehlot, who presided over the convocation, conferred the honorary doctorate on eminent scientist and honorary professor in Biochemistry at IISc Bengaluru, Govindarajan Padmanabhan, and the Chairman of Vision Group of Start-ups, Government of Karnataka, Prashanth Prakash. The Governor later presented gold medals and cash prizes to meritorious students. Minister for Higher Education and Pro-Chancellor C.N. Ashwath Narayan graced the occasion. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar welcomed the guests. Registrar R. Shivappa and Registrar Evaluation A.P. Gnana Prakash were present. Nearly 30,000 students were conferred with various degrees at the convocation. Women have done better with 20,118 (67.39%), out of the 29,852 total candidates. Due to paucity of time, the presentation of gold medals, cash prizes and degrees was restricted to only a few students at the convocation and others were presented with the medals and certificates during the programme held in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-hailed-for-lockdown-innovation/article36352436.ece
08 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Gold harvest by farmer’s daughter from Sirsi taluk||Chaitra Narayan Hegde, the top medalist at the 101st convocation of the University of Mysore, has plans to carry out research in medicinal chemistry from any of the country’s reputed research institutes. She bagged 20 gold medals and four cash prizes in MSc Chemistry. More than half of the winners of gold medals and cash prizes at the convocation are women. And many girls have bagged over six medals in their course. Ms. Hegde, a native of Shigehalli in Sirsi taluk of Uttara Kannada, belongs to an agriculturist family. Her father is a farmer and she lives in a joint family. She had won a medal in her graduation at Yuvaraja’s College. “I knew I was going to win medals but had not expected I would win so many,” said Ms. Hegde, displaying two caskets filled with medals. It was a proud moment for her family when the audience at the Crawford Hall gave a thunderous applause when she received her medals from the Governor. “I am very happy and I wish to thank everyone who supported me for this achievement.” Ms. Hegde has cleared her PhD entrance but she aspires to pursue her research from a prestigious institute. “I am hoping for admission in a top institute as my aim is to do research in medicinal chemistry.” Another medalist T.S. Madalambike secured 10 medals and four cash prizes in MA Kannada. She belongs to Chamarajanagar. She too had not expected to win so many medals. Journalism calling Sindhu Nagaraj, who bagged seven medals and seven cash prizes in BA (Journalism), aspires to become a journalist. She has plans to pursue her Master’s in journalism. Special feat A visually challenged girl from Periyapatna, Latha H.N., bagged a gold medal in MA Kannada. Hailing from a village near Ravandur, the girl was applauded for her feat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-harvest-by-farmers-daughter-from-sirsi-taluk/article36352438.ece
08 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Virtual labs for scientific awareness||The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has embarked on an initiative of setting up virtual labs - a virtual platform that incorporates different multimedia digital contents to disseminate scientific knowledge. Shekar C. Mande, Director General, CSIR, New Delhi, said in Mysuru on Tuesday that the virtual labs’ programme was taken up on the advice of the Prime Minister, who is also the President of CSIR. At the 101st convocation of University of Mysore here, Dr. Mande said the digital contents for the purpose would cover simulation-based experiments, interactive content comprising comics, animation-based stories, interactive modes and videos of relevant scientific topics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/virtual-labs-for-scientific-awareness/article36352437.ece
08 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Nipah virus: No cause for worry in Kodagu, Mysuru, say officials||Even though the authorities in Kodagu and Mysuru stepped up surveillance and have been on alert over cases of Nipah virus detected in neighbouring Kerala, the health officials in the two districts have said no suspected cases have been reported so far and added that there is no cause for worry. Kodagu District Health Officer R. Venkatesh said surveillance has been stepped up at the district’s border with Kerala, where entry of visitors is restricted on account of COVID-19. Precautionary measures against Nipah virus have been taken including setting aside of five beds at Ashwini Hospital in Madikeri and two beds in Madikeri taluk hospital exclusively. The symptoms include fever, headache, cough, altered mental status, respiratory distress, convulsions, diarrhoea, muscle pain, etc. Persons experiencing these symptoms have been advised to consult a doctor and begin treatment. The Nipah virus test will be conducted by obtaining a sample of the throat swab like COVID-19 test, besides testing urine and blood samples, said Dr. Venkatesh, adding that positive cases will be sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for confirmation. Treatment will, however, be symptomatic. But, persons experiencing severe symptoms will be given anti-viral drugs. Caregivers of persons with such symptoms should also compulsorily wear masks. Pointing out that bats could be responsible for spread of Nipah virus, Dr. Venkatesh cautioned people against consuming fruits that are bitten by animals or birds. The virus can spread from animals to other animals and humans, he said. While asking people to avoid consuming ‘Neera’ for the next few days, the Kodagu district health officer also called upon people to consume fruits only after washing them clean and drying them. Also, if any pigs, dogs, cats, sheep were found to be ill, they should immediately be referred to the Veterinary Department. In Mysuru district, Ravikumar, Health Officer of H.D. Kote taluk, which borders Kerala, said there is no reason for panic as no cases or suspected cases have been reported in the taluk or areas in Kerala bordering Karnataka. However, he said precautionary measures were in place and surveillance has been stepped at the border, where visitors are already being checked for COVID-19. Persons with symptoms have been advised to call Arogya Sahayavani on 104 for more information and advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nipah-virus-no-cause-for-worry-in-kodagu-mysuru-say-officials/article36352439.ece
08 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Oxygen plants inaugurated||Oxygen generating plants set up at K.R. Pet and Pandavapura public hospitals in Mandya district were inaugurated on Tuesday. Set up with CSR funds from Hombale Group, the plants were inaugurated by Minister for Higher Education, IT/BT and Skill Development C.N. Ashwath Narayana in the presence of Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports K.C. Narayana Gowda and MD of Hombale Group Vijay K. They will help reduce the dependency of people in rural parts on bigger cities for medical requirements, said Mr. Narayan. They will also help people face COVID-19-like situations better and ensure quality treatment. The plants, come up at a cost of Rs. 1 crore each, can generate oxygen at the rate of 500 litres per minute (LPM). A state-of-the art ICU with 20 beds at Mandya government medical college with an aid of Rs. 60 lakh from the same group had been inaugurated three months ago, said a statement issued by Mr. Narayan’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-plants-inaugurated/article36352440.ece
08 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Bridge near Yaddalli collapses partially||Heavy rain left a trail of destruction in many rural areas of Yadgir district on Tuesday. Agricultural fields where farmers had taken up red gram, cotton and groundnut cultivation have been destroyed in rain. Road connectivity to Yaddalli village from Yadgir has been disrupted as a bridge collapsed partially near Yaddalli village. According to sources, the bridge collapsed partially after a huge quantity of water was discharged from Hattikuni Dam. Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya and Revenue officials visited the spot. Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy, who also visited the spot, has deployed staff to prevent people from passing through the partially collapsed bridge. Meanwhile, residents said that despite the natural disaster, officials from the Revenue department are yet to visit the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bridge-near-yaddalli-collapses-partially/article36352232.ece
08 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||CBI probe sought into mysterious death of First Division Assistant||Members of Dalit organisations have demanded that a case of mysterious death of Prakash Babu, who was working as First Division Assistant in the Assistant Commissioner’s Office in Raichur, be handed over to the CBI for a thorough investigation and to bring the culprits to book. Staging a protest in Raichur on Tuesday, the organisations said that Prakash Babu was found dead in a lodge in Bengaluru on August 30, 2021 after he went missing on August 26, 2021. They said that Prakash Babu’s family members have, however, expressed doubts over his death linking it to corruption in the Assistant Commissioner’s Office. Memorandum The protesters have in a memorandum addressed to the Deputy Commissioner of Raichur stated that the Assistant Commissioner has lodged a complaint in connection with corruption charge after the death of Prakash Babu, instead of when he was alive. Prakash Babu was working in the Land Acquisition Division. He had worked under various Assistant Commissioners, they said. Under such circumstances, how can corruption running into Rs. 40 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh happen without the knowledge of the Assistant Commissioners? they asked. The protesters, hence, urged the State government to hand over the case to the CBI for a thorough investigation and to bring the truth out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cbi-probe-sought-into-mysterious-death-of-first-division-assistant/article36352234.ece
08 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Woman, two children found dead||A woman and her two children were found dead in the Tungabhadra on Tuesday. Depressed over the death of her husband four months ago due to COVID-19, the woman and her two children are said to have jumped off a bridge across the Tungabhadra near Dadhesugur village in Sindhanur taluk of Raichur district. The dead were identified as Channamma (35), Sumitra (7) and Prashanth (5). The three bodies have now been retrieved from the river. A case has been registered in the Sindhanur Rural Police Station. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-two-children-found-dead/article36352233.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Senior citizen dies navigating pothole||“The compacting done may have given way due to traffic and rainfall. We will fix it as soon as possible,” Mr. Gowda said. The Kamakshipalya traffic police registered a case of death due to negligence against BDA officials under Section 304A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and for rash driving against the deceased under Section 279 of the IPC. When asked why a case had been booked against the deceased, Kuldeep Kumar R. Jain, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic West), said: “The rider was coming from the wrong side. So, there was a mistake from both ends.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/senior-citizen-dies-navigating-pothole/article36352021.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Defer travel to Kerala till October-end, says Karnataka||Colleges authorities The Hindu spoke to said they would counsel students and convince them to not travel for the time being. Jayakar Shetty, Vice-Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, said that most of the students of medical, dental, nursing, and other allied health courses had returned to their colleges in Karnataka already. “If any students have not returned, we will ask colleges to make alternative arrangements so that the students’ learning is not affected,” he said. Many people currently in Kerala, who were contemplating returning as offices have opened, have now decided to postpone their plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/defer-travel-to-kerala-till-october-end-says-karnataka/article36352022.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rain fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-fury/article36352045.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Final touches||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/final-touches/article36352423.ece
08 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||100 fish species found in Vembanad Lake||The Vembanad fish count, an annual survey to evaluate fish varieties in Vembanad Lake, has recorded 100 species, an increase in comparison to the previous year. The fish count, 14th in a series of surveys, was conducted in different parts of the lake last month under the aegis of the Community Environment Resource Center, a field academic unit of the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and Environment (ATREE), a non-governmental organisation. A team consisting of members of the ATREE, researchers and fishermen conducted fish counts in the southern and northern parts of the lake in two phases. Releasing the details of the survey here on Tuesday, Anu Radhakrishnan, senior programme officer, ATREE, said 92 fin fish species and eight shellfish species were recorded in the survey. Seventy-six species of fish were found in 2020, while the figure was 98 in 2019. The team, which surveyed the southern side of the lake on August 10, 11 and 12, recorded 48 species. Fifty-two species were identified from the northern side, where a survey was conducted on August 17, 18 and 19. Mr. Radhakrishnan said that pearl spots were found in good numbers in the lake. Alien species such as iridescent shark catfish (koori vaala), tilapia and red belly fish were spotted from different parts of the lake. As per the accounts of inland fishermen, there was a decline in the number of freshwater prawns (aattu konju) since the 2018 floods. Apart from evaluating fish species, a scientific analysis of water in the lake was conducted as part of the programme. The pH value varied between 5.9 and 6.2. The highest salinity recorded was 6.8 ppt. The level of dissolved oxygen varied between 2 and 4 ppm. Dissolved oxygen levels of 4-5 ppm are considered as the minimum amount needed to support a diverse fish population, while levels below 3 ppm are considered stressful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/100-fish-species-found-in-vembanad-lake/article36352367.ece
08 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Four DYFI activists held||The Kayamkulam police have arrested four activists of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) in connection with an attack on the BJP Devikulangara grama panchayat secretary. The arrested have been identified as Abhijith, 24, Akhil, 25, Ashik, 22, and Ananduraj, 24. Their arrest was recorded on Monday. The police said that DYFI area treasurer Aneesh, the prime accused in the case was absconding. The incident happened a week ago. BJP panchayat secretary Hareesh Lal who sustained serious hack injuries is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kochi. The police said that he was hacked following a clash between the DYFI and BJP activists. They registered a separate case against five people, including Hareesh Lal, for attacking DYFI members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-dyfi-activists-held/article36352372.ece
08 September 2021||Chennai,KERALA||T.N. announces Rs. 5,000 for Vinayaka idol makers||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who reiterated the government’s decision to ban celebrations of Vinayaka Chathurthi in public places in view of the pandemic, announced Rs. 5,000 as assistance for artisans making Vinayaka idols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-announces-rs-5000-for-vinayaka-idol-makers/article36352346.ece
08 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||CPI seeks explanation from district secretary||The Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretariat has sought an explanation from party district secretary K.K. Sivaraman on his remarks about party mouthpiece Janayugam for what he terms poor reportage of Sree Narayana Guru on his Jayanti last month. Mr. Sivaraman in his Facebook post criticised the Janayugam , which is under State secretary Kanam Rajendran, and it triggered a row within the party. The CPI leadership has decided to seek an explanation from Mr. Sivaraman about the circumstances he had made the remarks. Mr. Sivaraman said the party mouthpiece underplayed the Guru’s birth anniversary. “When compared to Janayugam , other newspapers ensured detailed coverage in connection with the Guru’s birth anniversary. Janayugam ’s approach was not conducive to the significance of the occasion. It is not desirable for the Janayugam to have an editorial board and management which seem to be in the dark about Sree Narayana Guru,” said the Facebook post.  Janayugom editor Rajaji Mathew termed Mr. Sivaraman’s remarks baseless. Mr. Sivaraman on Tuesday said the Facebook post was a closed chapter. He also said the issue was discussed by the party and he did not withdraw the post. Party sources said the explanation given by Mr. Sivaraman would be discussed at the State executive on Thursday.  K.K. Sivaraman in his Facebook post criticised the Janayugam, which is under State secretary Kanam Rajendran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-seeks-explanation-from-district-secretary/article36352377.ece
08 September 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Woman’s death: accused brought to collect proof||The police on Tuesday collected evidence in the murder of Sindhu, 44, whose body was exhumed from the kitchen of a house at Panikkankudy in Idukki. Accused Benoy was brought to the spot at 10 a.m. Benoy showed the police the room where he quarrelled with Sindhu. He also showed the police a pit on the backyard where he initially planned to bury the body. He also explained how he killed her and how the body was buried in the kitchen. Sindhu had gone to the Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, to attend on her ailing husband, for which the accused threatened to kill her son. Benoy was arrested on Monday from a plantation at Perinjamkutty, where he has been hiding. The body of Sindhu was exhumed from the kitchen of his house on Saturday. Sindhu was reported missing from August 12 and Binoy went into hiding from August 16 after her family filed a complaint with the Vellathooval police station. Idukki Deputy Police Chief Immanuel Paul is heading the team investigating the case. The case Sindhu was living in a rented house with her 12-year-old son at Panickankudy after she left Thankamany following a quarrel with her husband six years ago. She became close to Benoy and moved to his house. The police said on August 11, she sent her son to stay with a relative of Benoy. Next day, her son reached the house and noticed that Sindhu was missing and informed the relatives. As per the post-mortem examination report, the woman was strangled to death. There were marks of attack on the body. A rib was also found broken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womans-death-accused-brought-to-collect-proof/article36352378.ece
08 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Spurned man cuts girl’s hair||A youth in Idukki district was arrested on Tuesday in connection with forcibly cutting the hair of a 19-year-old girl who had rejected his proposal at her house. The arrested has been identified as Sunilkumar, a resident of Peerumade. The police said the incident took place on Monday at a quarters for estate workers. The accused is a neighbour of the girl. He had reportedly made several requests for love to the girl who rejected them. On Monday, Sunilkumar intruded into her house when she was alone. Fearing that he might attack her, she took hold of a pair of scissors from a table. Sunilkumar then forcibly seized the tool and beat her up, before cutting her hair, the police said. After a complaint had been lodged, he went absconding. He was later arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spurned-man-cuts-girls-hair/article36352314.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LDF consolidates its position in corpn. council||The Congress suffered a major jolt in the Kochi Corporation after a rebel councillor dumped the party and pledged her support for the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) regime. With the shifting of loyalty by Mary Calista Prakasan, who represents the Mundamveli division, the civic administration led by the CPI(M)’s M. Anilkumar is seated firmly in the saddle. The support of the Congress rebel has also helped the LDF consolidate its position in the council. The newfound backing also saw the front gain a simple majority in the 74-member council. The LDF now enjoys the support of 37 members even as the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) has been reduced to 31 seats. The BJP has five representatives in the council. The Gandhi Nagar seat remains vacant following the death of the CPI(M)’s K.K. Sivan. It was a tiff between local Congress workers and the councillor and organisational issues that culminated in the rebel member moving over to the rival camp. Seizing the opportunity, the LDF welcomed her to the fold. The councillor has decided to support the LDF unconditionally, said K.J. Prakasan, husband of Ms. Calista, and former councillor. Mr. Prakasan, who was elected to the council three times consecutively, alleged that the Congress leadership had adopted a hostile stand towards Ms. Calista, as she had earlier offered her support to former Mayor Soumini Jain when the party leadership had tried to dislodge her. The councillor and her husband, it is learnt, will shortly join the CPI(M). She was welcomed to the party by Benedict Fernandez, the parliamentary party secretary of the CPI(M) in the council. Independent to LDF Meanwhile, there are indications that one more Independent candidate will move over to the LDF camp soon. The LDF enjoys the support of most councillors in the corporation council, and it is growing in strength, said Mr. Fernandez.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-consolidates-its-position-in-corpn-council/article36352335.ece
08 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Plea in High Court against toll collection||A plea has been made in the Kerala High Court seeking prohibition of toll collection on the Kazhakkuttam-Karode bypass till completion of the entire stretch of the highway. On Tuesday, Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar directed the High Court’s registry to register the plea as a writ petition. The petition by a lawyer — K.V. Abhilash — had not been numbered as a writ petition due to certain objections raised by the High Court’s registry. Shifting sought The plea, filed through advocate G. Sudheer, besides seeking a bar on toll collection till completion of the National Highway bypass work, sought shifting of the toll plaza from Thiruvallom to some place between Kazhakkuttam and the Chakka bypass junction. The petition contended that since the entire project had not been completed, the collection of toll was “illegal” and against the National Highways Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008. The Kazhakuttam-Karode NH 66 bypass road was a corridor of 43 km, eventually leading to Kanyakumari, the plea said, claiming that the 26.7-km first stretch of the project from Kazhakkuttam to Mukkola was not yet complete. Second stretch The second stretch from Mukkola to Karode was still under construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-in-high-court-against-toll-collection/article36352495.ece
08 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Internal roads mooted in Edayar industrial region||The Periyar River Rejuvenation Action Plan has included a Rs. 5-crore project to construct internal roads and proper drainage in the Edayar industrial region. The proposal has been recommended as a short-term measure to restore the original condition of the river. The Industries Department will be responsible for implementing the project. The authorities are yet to fix a timeline for the execution of the proposal. The decision to include the project came after the studies conducted by a joint committee consisting of scientists, experts and officials of the State Pollution Control Board found that several stormwater drains leading to the river were choked with sewage and effluents from various domestic and industrial sources of pollution nearby the river. The stormwater drains were constructed for rainwater run-off into the river. But the investigations by the expert team found that the drains were used for illegal discharge of sewage and effluents. The local bodies along the river had also failed to act against the practice. The proposal for constructing internal roads was made based on the inference that the lack of proper access had hampered efforts to ensure surveillance against those responsible for dumping sewage and effluents into the river. Overgrown bushes nearby the boundary wall of industrial units had facilitated the illegal discharge of effluents. The construction of roads is expected to reduce such acts as the authorities pointed out that the violators would be cautious not to get caught by surveillance cameras. The State Pollution Control Board has proposed setting up night-vision cameras near the river banks at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. Nine such cameras were installed by the board earlier. However, the lack of maintenance had resulted in the facility becoming defunct. The action plan has also proposed installing a common discharge pipeline at the downstream of the Pathalam regulator-cum-bridge to improve the water quality in the upstream area. The estimated cost of the project is Rs. 3 crore. The Industries Department will implement the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/internal-roads-mooted-in-edayar-industrial-region/article36352331.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. to take relook at KCOCA||The draft Kerala Control of Organised Crimes Act (KCOCA), inspired by the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, has come under scanner. A panel headed by Chief Secretary V.P. Joy will scrutinise the draft Act on September 10. The proposed Act, mooted by former State Police Chief Loknath Behera, aims to curb all ‘organised’ and ‘continuing crimes’. Though the Act has its genesis in the Maharashtra legislation, it has been tweaked to suit the Kerala situations, sources claim. Organised crime has been defined as any continuing unlawful activity committed by an individual, singly or jointly, either as a member of an organised crime syndicate or on behalf of such a syndicate. The Act comes into play when an organised crime is committed using violence, threat of violence, intimidation, coercion or other unlawful means for gaining pecuniary benefits or undue economic or other advantages for himself or for any other person or for promoting insurgency. An organised crime syndicate is a group of two or more persons who act either singly or collectively as a syndicate or a gang and indulge in organised crimes, notes the draft. Punishment Death sentence or imprisonment for life and a minimum fine of Rs. 1 lakh can be awarded if the offence results in the death of people. For all other cases, the Act suggests a minimum imprisonment for five years and fine of Rs. 2 lakh. Conspirators and those who attempt to commit such crimes and those who harbour, conceal or attempt to harbour or conceal any member of the organised crime shall be awarded a minimum imprisonment for five years and a fine of Rs. 5 lakh. The Act empowers the police to attach the property of the accused during the course of the investigation. Currently, it is extremely difficult to attach the properties of the accused during the investigation, sources indicate. Incidentally, the previous Left Democratic Front government had to withdraw the amendments to the Kerala Police Act after widespread criticisms that it provided unfettered powers to the police to curtail free speech and media freedom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-govt-to-take-relook-at-act-to-curb-organised-crime/article36352340.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Start-up develops app to create smart auto stands||An Infopark Kochi-based start-up has set out to turn autorickshaw stands smart by developing an app, Tukxi, an online aggregator for autorickshaws. The app, which has been on trial run within the Kochi Corporation limits for the last seven months, is now being used by 950 autorickshaws from nearly 50 stands. Unlike the city-centric multinational online aggregators, the indigenously developed app, which is available in Google Play Store, aims at reaching out even to the smallest towns where online booking of rides is still a novelty. “We have been going around autorickshaw stands explaining the features of our app to drivers who were most suspicious of online aggregators. They were won over by the app that left them fully in control of its operations while respecting the jurisdiction of autorickshaw stands integral to their operations,” said Sooraj Nair, operational head of Tukxi. It was the violation of that jurisdiction that often led to confrontations between operators signed up for other online aggregators and the rest. On entering the 1-km radius of their respective stands, the app seeks the permission of drivers to enlist them in an automated queue for their stand. It is left to them whether to join that virtual queue or to take a trip outside the app. A customer looking for a ride is directed to the nearest stand and only if the drivers there turn it down will it be directed to others nearest to the user’s location. The trip is accepted only by a driver willing to operate to the chosen destination ruling out the possibility for last-minute cancellations. Neither is there the phenomenon of surge pricing, which antagonised a large number of users who had initially fallen in love with other online aggregators. “Our business model is quite simple where the user is charged the government-fixed fare plus Rs. 10, which is shared equally between the operator and the company,” said Mr. Nair. Plans are now afoot to expand the business beyond the corporation limits to the rest of Ernakulam district before branching out to Thriuvananthapuram and Thrissur by next month-end. Cabs will also be brought under the network shortly. A toll-free number will also be introduced for enabling technologically handicapped senior citizens to book rides. The introduction of electric two-wheelers for home delivery is also being explored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-app-to-create-smart-autorickshaw-stands/article36352320.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL, AI Express pact on special schemes||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) and Air India Express Limited have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for exploring and implementing promotional campaigns, programmes, and schemes for passengers. CIAL managing director and CIAL Duty Free and Retail Services Limited executive chairman S. Suhas and Air India Express chief executive officer Aloke Singh signed the MoU at an event held in Kochi, said a communication here on Tuesday. As part of the MoU, the two companies are launching an all-new promotional scheme for passengers. Accordingly, passengers travelling in Air India Express can avail 15% to 20% discount while shopping from the Cochin duty-free shop at the international departure terminal. In addition, those travelling in any airline will stand a chance to win free round trip tickets through a lucky draw if they purchase from the Cochin Duty Free outlet. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Suhas said that the MoU had set a milestone for closer collaboration and long-term association between CIAL and Air India Express Limited. “Partnerships between institutions are built on shared values. CIAL and Air India Express indeed share common values,” he added. Air India Express has identified CIAL as one of its primary hubs, and the airline is the single largest international operator from CIAL in terms of the number of flights, he said. Mr. Aloke Singh said with the MoU, Air India Express was looking forward to engaging with its customers more. “We hold our relationship with CIAL very dear. CIAL is a unique airport, unique in its mode of operations, green initiatives, and architecture. “We are really proud of the relationship we have with the airport,” he was cited as saying. Being the largest international airline operating in Kerala, Air India Express is looking forward to leveraging the State’s tourism potential once the situation becomes normal. “Initiatives like collaboration with the Cochin Duty Free outlet will help us become more involved with our customers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-air-india-express-agree-on-special-schemes-for-passengers/article36352323.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KSEB’s solar power programme gets enthusiastic response||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), which had invited applications from landowners to join a campaign to generate solar power, has received enthusiastic response, with enquiries exceeding the proposed target of around 40 MW. KSEB sources said on Tuesday that the invitation was targeted at landowners, holding at least two acres or more, which were lying fallow, unsuitable for farming activities and receiving sufficient sunlight to generate solar power. Centre’s initiative The solar power generation programme was launched as part of an initiative of the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha Evam Utthan Mahabhiyan (PM KUSUM) scheme, which aims to help farmers install solar pumps and grid-connected solar and other renewable power plants across the country. Leasing out of land The solar power generation campaign has been envisaged in such a way that landowners can either lease out the land to a developer, who will install solar panels and sell the power generated to the KSEB and pay landowners the rent or the latter can install the panels and sell the power generated directly to the KSEB. Rates The board will pay Rs. 3.50 per unit of power generated at any of the solar farms proposed under the scheme. It also said that if the land was leased by the board, it will pay 10 paise per unit for a period of 25 years to landowners as rental per unit of power generated, ensuring a return of around Rs. 25,000 per acre a year. It is estimated that 0.25 MW power can be generated from an acre of solar farm. Land identification The KSEB is targetting land, including abandoned granite quarries, while avoiding land-falling under the Forest Act, Coastal Zone Management Act, and The Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act. The KSEB had also implemented a programme to generate 50 MW of power from panels installed on rooftops during 2019-20 utilising a scheme under the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy.  Invitation was targeted at landowners, holding at least two acres or more||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksebs-solar-power-programme-gets-enthusiastic-response/article36352324.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Insightful journey of a legal luminary||Barrister M.K. Nambyar, an illustrious lawyer of the Supreme Court and the Madras High Court, who died in 1975, pulled no punches when it came to defending the fundamental rights and basic structure of the Constitution. It was he who laid the very foundation for the idea of the basic structure of the Constitution when he argued in the I.C. Golaknath v. State of Punjab case in the Supreme Court in 1967. He had contended that Parliament had no power to amend the fundamental rights under Part III of the Constitution. He took the cue from the principle expounded by the German thinker, Dieter Conrad, in this regard. Since then, various facets of the basic structure doctrine have evolved through a slew of Supreme Court judgments. Nambyar believed that the struggle for Independence and the enactment of the Constitution had secured for the citizens the fundamental rights. Later, in 1973, his stand was proved right when the Supreme Court stated in the Kesavananda Bharati case that Article 368 did not empower Parliament to alter the basic structure of the Constitution. Champion of Fundamental Rights,a brief biography compiled by his sons, including Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, gives an account of Nambyar’s early life, including his birth in an affluent family at Kanhangad in Kasaragod, his education at Mangalore and the London School of Economics, and his successful legal career in Mangalore, Madras High Court, and the Supreme Court. A.K. Gopalan case Nambyar’s appearance in 1950 in the A.K. Gopalan case, the first constitutional case in the country, catapulted him to the position of a constitutional lawyer, that too at the beginning of his legal practice in the Supreme Court after he shifted practice from the Madras High Court. It was a case challenging the detention of Communist leader A.K. Gopalan. The case was one of seminal significance regarding the interpretation of fundamental rights and their interplay, former Attorney General late Soli Sorabjee has said in an article in Nambyar’s biography. In the case, Nambyar had argued that procedural due process and principles of natural justice should be read into the expression “except according to the procedure established by law” in Article 21. However, it was only 28 years after that case that the Supreme Court accepted the argument and ruled in Maneka Gandhi's case that the expressions meant a procedure “which is just, fair, and reasonable”. Sorabjee added that if Nambyar’s far-sighted arguments were accepted in the A.K. Gopalan case, it would have led to healthy development of the Constitutional law. Late V.R. Krishna Iyer, former Supreme Court Judge, paid an apt tribute to Nambyar when he said, “There was a commitment about him in the garb of fundamental rights. He fought the case (A.K. Gopalan) not for the ideology of his client, who was a communist, but for the ideology of human rights which finds expression in Part III (of the Constitution).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/legal-luminary-who-propounded-idea-of-constitutions-basic-structure/article36352304.ece
08 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||GPS mandatory for vehicles transporting waste||The Local Self-Government Department has asked local bodies and Clean Kerala Company Ltd. (CKCL) to ensure that vehicles engaged for the transportation of waste from collection centres to disposal facilities have GPS facility within 45 days. The order issued by Sarada Muraleedharan, Additional Chief Secretary, on September 6 stated that local bodies and CKCL should set up tracking systems in their offices to monitor the movement of vehicles. An officer has to be designated for tracking the GPS to check illegal waste dumping. NGT order The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had asked the government to create a mechanism for registering vehicles deployed for transporting waste to designated dumping sites or treatment facilities. Local bodies have to incorporate specific conditions in the tender notification and in the agreements with transporting contractors to the effect that the transporting vehicle will have GPS facility. A detailed manifest has to be maintained by the agencies engaged for transporting waste from source to the location of treatment or disposal. The contractor has to submit a copy of the manifest signed by the receiver at the treatment or disposal facility before the hiring agency within a week. Waste carried in vehicles should be covered properly during transportation. Local bodies and CKCL should impose a fine and terminate the agreement with the transporting contractor on coming across violations. Authorised agencies Civic bodies have to engage authorised agencies or organisations for removal of non-recyclable waste. The firms should have valid consent to operate from the State Pollution Control Board and an agreement with the disposal facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gps-mandatory-for-vehicles-transporting-waste/article36352338.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3,194 test positive in Ernakulam; TPR 13.69%||As many as 3,194 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday. A total of 3,110 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 78 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 13.69%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 50 include Kavalangad (123), Thrikkakara (82), Puthenvelikkara (78), Thripunithura (77), Rayamangalam (65), Malayattoor-Neeleswaram (63), Chendamangalam (61), Payipra (59), Kalady (57), Kothamangalam (54), Ezhikkara (51).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3194-test-positive-in-ernakulam-tpr-1369/article36352336.ece
08 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Flex board unit near Nettoor gutted||A private firm involved in the production of sign boards near Nettoor market was completely gutted after a fire broke out at the building early morning on Tuesday. A major tragedy was averted as local residents alerted the two employees who were sleeping inside the building. Nobody was injured in the fire that broke out at 4 a.m. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Gandhinagar, Thripunithura and Aroor stations doused the flames before it spread to nearby buildings. “The preliminary inference showed that the fire may have occurred owing to an electrical short circuit. The unit manufactures flex and sign boards and it had inflammable materials inside,” said T.B. Ramakrishnan, Station Officer of the Fire and Rescue Services, Gandhinagar. No fire safety systems “The pre-fabricated structure lacked even basic facilities like fire extinguisher and a fire bucket. The managements of such units have the responsibility to ensure at least basic fire-fighting systems,” he said. The owner of the building claimed losses to the tune of Rs. 25 lakh. However, Mr. Ramakrishnan said that the actual estimate would be arrived based on the report to be submitted by the Station Officer, Thripunithura, after inspecting the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flex-board-unit-near-nettoor-gutted/article36352337.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New academic blocks opened at MEC||The government will ensure basic infrastructure development in higher educational institutions, said R. Bindu, Minister for Education. “The government has taken up the responsibility to create a knowledge-based society,” she said at the inauguration of academic blocks at the Government Model Engineering College, Thrikkakara, and College of Applied Science College, Puthupally, here on Tuesday. The Minister also inaugurated the building of Model Polytechnic College, Poonjar, on the occasion. Ms. Bindu said that the Higher Education department had initiated steps to reform the exam system and laws governing the universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-academic-blocks-opened-at-mec/article36352339.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mobile medical unit||The Ernakulam Karayogam has launched a clinic on wheels, a mobile medical clinic, with corporate social responsibility (CSR) support from the BPCL-Kochi Refinery to “render quality healthcare services to the marginalised sections of society”. The facility has been conceived to facilitate consultation with doctors, get laboratory tests conducted and for supply of medicines to people in the remote areas of Ernakulam district. A press release said Lakshmi Hospital was the medical partner for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobile-medical-unit/article36352326.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive in ISRO case||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the CBI not to arrest V.K. Mainy, former Intelligence officer and an accused in the ISRO espionage frame-up case, till October 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-in-isro-case/article36352299.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LIC honours Sreejesh with Rs. 25 lakh||Olympian P.R. Sreejesh, goalkeeper of the Indian hockey team that won bronze at the Tokyo Olympics, was felicitated at LIC of India, Ernakulam divisional office. K. Vasant Kumar, senior divisional manager, presented the star sportsman a cash award of Rs. 25 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sreejesh-feted/article36352300.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Free ride for teachers on metro today||Kochi metro will offer free ride to all school teachers as a mark of respect for them on International Literacy Day on September 8. They may use their school identity cards to avail of the offer. Service disrupted A technical glitch disrupted the metro service on Tuesday. The service was confined to Muttam from Pettah for half-an-hour after 1 p.m. on Tuesday after a train developed problems. The service was cut short to attend to the train which developed the problem between Ambattukavu and Companippady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-ride-for-teachers-on-metro-today/article36352332.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tribunal Reforms Act: HC notice to Centre||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Central government on a writ petition challenging certain provisions in the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021, which include making the Chief Secretary and the Chairman of the State Public Service Commission (PSC) concerned as members of the search-cum-selection committee for the selection of members to the post of the State Administrative Tribunal. The petition was filed by Biju T.T., a lawyer from Kottayam. Minimum age Apart from challenging Section 3(3) of the Act that made Chief Secretary and Chairman of the State PSC concerned as members of the selection committee, the petitioner questioned Section 3(1) that fixes the minimum age for applying for the post of tribunal members at 50.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribunal-reforms-act-hc-notice-to-centre/article36352385.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea to fill posts of medical officers||The Kerala Government Homoeo Medical Officers’ Association has said that the posts of superintendent in 19 of the 30 homoeopathy hospitals in the State have been lying vacant for long. Association representatives said the functioning of homoeopathy hospitals had been hit as the posts of superintendent had been lying vacant. Sreelatha L.B. and Jessy Uthup, president and general secretary of the association, said in a communication that junior doctors were in-charge of administration and it affected hospital work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-fill-posts-of-medical-officers/article36352342.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IAS officer booked for ‘inappropriate’ message||The police have registered a case against N. Prasanth, Managing Director of the Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation, for allegedly sending an inappropriate sticker on WhatsApp to a woman journalist who had contacted him for a reaction on the deep-sea fishing controversy. A senior official at the Palarivattom police station said here on Tuesday that the case has been registered under Section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) based on a preliminary inquiry. The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) had filed a complaint before Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking action against the IAS official. The reporter had objected to the nature of the message, while stating that she would report it to the authorities concerned. The IAS official responded by saying that it was a nice way to extract news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ias-officer-booked-for-inappropriate-message/article36352397.ece
08 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||19 held for possessing unlicensed guns||Nineteen security personnel, who accompany vehicles that carry cash to ATM counters, were arrested by the Kalamassery police, said a communication here on Tuesday. The Karamana police in Thiruvananthapuram had registered a case in which unlicensed guns were found in the possession of a security agency. Checks were conducted on Tuesday in connection with the case registered by the Karamana police. The communication said the security personnel worked for a private agency whose headquarters is located at Kalamassery. Nineteen guns and around 100 rounds of ammunition were recovered from the place where the security personnel lived.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/19-arrested-for-possessing-unlicensed-guns/article36352319.ece
08 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||2,548 test positive in Kollam, 3,490 recover||The district reported 2,548 new cases of COVID-19 and 3,490 recoveries on Tuesday. While 2,533 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include one NRI and 14 health workers. At present the district has 33,967 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 22,95,932. While 2,018 people completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 3,43,415 primary and 19,672 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in the district is 16.3%. Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 1,814 people testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 1,799 people including eight health workers contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day stood at 14.19%. With 136 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kanjirappilly panchayat, which recorded 72 cases . As many as 1,457 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 9,298. Meanwhile, 51,484 people remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Alappuzha The district reported 1,435 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 14.85%. Of the fresh cases, 1,406 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 28 others remains unknown. One health staff also tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, 1,909 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 14,871. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 1,016 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 1,014 people contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of five cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 16.2%. With 52 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamathitta, which reported 41 cases. Meanwhile, the decease claimed seven more lives in the district. With 1,191 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 11,243. ( With contribution from bureaus in Kottayam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2548-test-positive-in-kollam-3490-recover/article36352369.ece
08 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam District Collector Abdul Nasar steps down||District Collector B.Abdul Nasar, the driving force behind noted campaigns like Safe Kollam, is stepping down after completing two years in office. He will be taking charge as the director of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) shortly. Mr.Nasar had to face many challenges after he took reigns of the district administration. A couple of months after he assumed charge as the 47th Collector of Kollam, he had to handle the floods and later the pandemic. He helmed the COVID-19 containment and prevention measures in the district and his social media interventions during the period were noted. He has also settled 90% of the complaints that came before him through various grievance redressal programmes. Mr.Nasar had conceived and introduced Safe Kollam, a multi-level strategy that targets various aspects including safe environment, safe water, safe food, safe road and safe children. Awareness programmes, regular inspections and strict enforcement were part of the ambitious project. Recently he had started an internship programme to ensure participation of youngsters in development projects and disaster management. Mr.Nasar turning teacher and taking online classes to motivate students during the beginning of academic year was also widely appreciated. During his tenure, he also dealt with renovation and digitalisation of offices, steps to make Kollam bypass accident-free, implementation of LIFE project and coordination of various voluntary organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-district-collector-abdul-nasar-steps-down/article36352375.ece
08 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Lakeside beach of Vaikom to get facelift||The Kayaloram (lakeside) beach at Vaikom, a destination in the backwater town that has been lying neglected for years on end, is finally set to undergo a major facelift. In line with a decision by the State government to turn the location into a major tourist draw, the Department of Tourism has kick- started the preliminary works on developing tourism infrastructure at the property. A joint team of tourism officials and architects visited the location and commenced preliminary planning. Rs. 9 crore cost According to the officials, the objective is to develop a host of tourism facilities that will combine activities ranging from entertainment to art, including water sports and cultural activities. The project will be implemented at a cost of Rs. 9 crore, as announced by the State government in its annual Budget for the fiscal 2021-22. “Besides the facilities for sports, the plan also envisages construction of walkways, an indoor stadium, open stages and provision for digital experience, among other things. Approval awaited As the property belongs to the Vaikom municipality, we are awaiting an approval from the civic body and sketch of the property before finalising the plan,” said a senior official with the Tourism Department. Commenting on the initiative, Vaikom legislator C.K.Asha said the government had already allotted a token provision of Rs. 1.8 crore towards the works. “The government has been asked to prepare a list of empanelled architects to prepare a detailed plan, which will be designed and implemented in an environment-friendly manner,” she noted The 6.5-acre lake-side property, which abuts the historic boat jetty at Vaikom, was opened to visitors a few years ago but since has been lying in neglect. The new proposal, meanwhile, has triggered a controversy with the municipality coming out in the open against the alleged unilateral attempt by the local MLA to develop the location in an unscientific manner. An emergency meeting of the municipal council held here the other day decided to lodge complaints in this regard with the State government and the Tourism Minister. Opposed “The project, which envisages the construction of huge concrete structures, will remain antithetical to the tourism development in Vaikom, which has embraced the principle of Responsible Tourism in a huge way,” pointed out an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lakeside-beach-of-vaikom-to-get-facelift/article36352365.ece
08 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. calls for a virology lab in district||With Nipah reappearing in the district, the Kozhikode Corporation has unanimously demanded that the State government open a virology lab here. Mayor Beena Philip, in an adjournment motion, made the demand at the Corporation Council meeting on Tuesday, while Opposition leader K.C. Shobhita demanded that the government stick to its word and make the lab a reality. “The World Health Organisation had suggested that a lab be opened here after the first Nipah outbreak. The Chief Minister had announced in February 2019 that the work had begun and later announced that a virology institute had started functioning. But, that was only on paper,” said Ms. Shobhita. She blamed the Health Department for its “negligence” in setting up a virology lab even when the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had sanctioned Rs. 5 crore for it. However, the Mayor said setting up a laboratory required a lot of ground work and research. Congress councillor P.N. Ajitha, a doctor by profession, said the microbiologists at the Government Medical College Hospital were top-notch professionals and needed only a little training to handle a virology lab. The council also decided to take action against private hospitals in the city for using COVID-19 as a cover to carry out unauthorised constructions on their premises. Congress councillor M.C. Sudhamani, in a submission, pointed out that the hospitals were not following safety precautions and did not have the permission of the civic body to carry out most constructions. The Mayor asked the Superintending Engineer to conduct an inquiry into the matter and submit a report at the next meeting. The council postponed an agenda based on a letter from the Deputy Director of National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK) demanding that the civic body take complete responsibility of sanitation workers who were braving COVID-19 to do their duty. The demand is to provide an insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh for every sanitation worker in the event of death by COVID-19 and to take care of all treatment expenses besides giving a monthly incentive for health care and safety equipment. The Mayor said it was an expensive proposal and the council needed to study it thoroughly before implementing. Containment zones Meanwhile, a Nipah review meeting at Mukkam decided to seek the help of the police in areas that have been declared as containment zones. Nine wards of Kodiyathur panchayat, one ward of Karassery panchayat, and five wards of Mukkam municipality have been declared as containment zones while two wards of Kodiyathur, one of Karasseri and one of Mukkam have been partially isolated. The symptom survey in the containment zones will be completed by Wednesday. Ministers Ahammad Devarkovil and Mohamed Riyas, Linto Joseph, MLA, and heads of local bodies took part in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-calls-for-a-virology-lab-in-district/article36352309.ece
08 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Uncertainty over resuming big plane operation at Calicut||Uncertainty has prevailed over the resumption of the operation of wide-bodied aircraft suspended after the Air India Express crash last August at the Calicut International Airport. Confusion reigned following a letter by Union Minister of Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan last week asking the State government to hand over 152.5 acres of land to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for the expansion of the airport. According to the letter, 137 acres would be used for the development of aprons, construction of a new terminal building and cargo complex, and the remaining 15.25 acres would be used for car parking. The AAI has projected a land requirement which is yet to be handed over by the State government. Among various other issues, the delay in handing over the land has been impacting the implementation of various projects pertaining to the aviation sector in Kerala. Additionally, Mr. Scindia also pointed out that a sum of Rs. 5.29 crore is outstanding on part of the State government as Viability Gap Funding (VGF) share against Regional Air Connectivity Fund Trust (RACFT). Authorities at the Calicut Airport are of the opinion that acquiring land for the expansion of the airport would be a pointless exercise unless the Ministry restores the operation of wide-bodied aircraft and the Haj embarkation point. The issue of acquiring land arose when the Advisory Committee for the Calicut International Airport was awaiting the report of the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), which is probing the accident. Mr. Scindia in a letter addressed to M.P. Abdussamad Samadani, Lok Sabha member representing Malappuram constituency, in July, said that the probe report on the accident would be made public in August. He added that the draft report had been under consultation with the accredited representative of the U.S-based National Transportation Safety Board. However, the report has not yet been published. Sources said the operation of wide-bodied aircraft hinged on the recommendations in the report of the AAIB, under the Ministry of Civil Aviation, which investigates aircraft accidents and incidents in India. The crash of Air India Express flight 1344, a Boeing 737-800 aircraft, on August 7, 2020, claimed the lives of 21 persons including that of the pilot and co-pilot and left at least 100 passengers injured, many in critical condition. Incidentally, the operation of wide-bodied aircraft was banned at the Calicut airport from May 2015 after the Court of Inquiry report on the Air India Express Boeing 737 crash in Mangaluru in May 2010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uncertainty-over-resuming-big-plane-operation-at-calicut/article36352317.ece
08 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Problems in Congress in Kerala over: Muraleedharan||The problems in the Congress party in the State are over, K. Muraleedharan, MP, has said. The allocation of posts in the name of groups had finally ended, he added. Speaking after inaugurating the installation ceremony of newly appointed Kozhikode District Congress Committee (DCC) president K. Praveen Kumar, Mr. Muraleedharan maintained that the party would seek the views of popular leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala. But, discipline was of paramount significance in the party, he added. He said the Congress was shifting to a semi-cadre political outfit. The only goal of the party was to fight its main political adversaries, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). It was the beginning of a strong struggle against those parties, he added. On some local leaders deserting the Congress party, Mr. Muraleedharan said that only the unwanted joined the CPI(M). The CPI(M) had become a waste box, he said, adding that even former Minister G. Sudhakaran, who wrote a poem, was facing trial in that party. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kumar said there would be no booth in the district without the representation of Congress workers. At a time when history was being distorted, his first task would be to take steps to impart political education to party activists and the younger generation, he said. Outgoing DCC president U. Rajeevan presided over the function. AICC secretary P.V. Mohanan, M.K. Raghavan, MP, KPCC working president T. Siddique, KPCC general secretaries N. Subramanian and P.M. Niyas, and KSU State president K.M. Abhijith participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/problems-in-congress-in-kerala-over-muraleedharan/article36352306.ece
08 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Steps to prevent tax evasion in gold jewellery sales: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the government will take stringent measures, including augmented inspections in jewellery shops, to prevent tax evasion in gold jewellery sales. Mr. Vijayan announced the decision at a high-level meeting held in Thiruvananthpuram on Tuesday to discuss the issue, an official press release informed. He said at the meeting that the sales tax intelligence in the State would be strengthened. Strict checks The Chief Minister ordered officials to carry out strict inspection in places where tax evasion was possible. Actions including cancellation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) registration should be taken against people involved in tax evasion, he directed. He also said that adequate incentives should be given to officials who make more tax collection. Mr. Vijayan also explored at the meeting the possibility of making CCTV footage in large jewellery shops available at the GST office and police stations. He said there was a trend to deliver gold directly to houses for weddings and other social functions. Such practices deprived the public exchequer of its rightfully due tax revenue. Hence, he had asked the sales tax intelligence to identify tax evaders for possible prosecution. Mr. Vijayan said most gold traders had welcomed the move. They did not view it as harassment. Only tax evaders need be concerned, he added. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, Chief Secretary V.P. Joy, Tax Department Secretary Sharmila Mary Joseph and State GST Commissioner Ratan Kelkhar took part in the meeting. Merchants flay decision The All Kerala Gold and Silver Merchants Association (AKGSMA) has reacted sharply to the statement of the Chief Minister, which it said was casting aspersions on the integrity of the jewellery shops in the State. AKGSMA State general secretary K. Surendran said the State government was relying heavily on the reports of officials on the dent in tax collection. “The revenue collection would have come down with the GST replacing taxes such as value-added tax [VAT] two years ago. That does not mean gold and silver merchants are not paying taxes,” he said. At present, he said the GST was 3% equally divided between Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) and State Goods and Services Tax (SGST). However, the VAT was 5% in the State. “Now we are paying taxes for gold imported by agencies in Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. The entire bullion is coming from other States,” said Mr. Surendran. The decision of the government asking jewellery owners to link the CCTV cameras of their showrooms to police stations and GST offices amounted to infringing on privacy rights, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-prevent-tax-evasion-in-gold-jewellery-sales-cm/article36352296.ece
08 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Awareness drives at State, district level||Health Minister Veena George has said trying to eliminate bats, in fear of Nipah infection, will escalate the situation and sought the help of MLAs and MPs in the district in creating awareness among the public and managing the situation. At an online meeting of MLAs and MPs on Tuesday, the Minister said an attack on bat habitats might lead to serious repercussions. The department had started awareness drives at the district and State level to eliminate anxiety and fear regarding the disease. Rapid response team volunteers had started field and fever surveillance. Two volunteers each for 25 houses had been deployed in the area where the disease had been reported from for house surveillance. A task force would be in the district by Wednesday to test the source of the virus among bats. The Minister called for extreme vigil in areas declared as containment zones. Ministers A.K. Saseendran, P.A. Mohamed Riyas, and Ahammad Devarkovil, M.K. Raghavan, MP, and MLAs Linto Joseph, K.K. Rema, K.M. Sachin Dev, E.K. Vijayan, K.P. Kunhammed Kutty, and P.T.A. Rahim besides District Collector N.Tej Lohit Reddy and authorities of Government Medical College Hospital were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awareness-drives-at-state-district-level/article36352383.ece
08 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||2,669 new COVID cases in Kozhikode; TPR 18.67%||Kozhikode district recorded 2,669 COVID cases on Tuesday when 14,625 people were tested for the SARS-COV2 virus. The test positivity rate was 18.67%. District Medical Officer V.Jayasree said that 2,636 of the new patients had contracted the disease locally while the source was unknown in 28 cases. Five of them had recently arrived from other States. Meanwhile, 3,319 persons were discharged from various treatment facilities in the district. The active caseload as on Tuesday was 33,960 while 1,07,543 are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2669-new-covid-cases-in-kozhikode-tpr-1867/article36352307.ece
08 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Malappuram DCC chief Joy assumes office||The newly appointed District Congress Committee (DCC) president V.S. Joy assumed office at a function held at the DCC office here on Tuesday. K. Muraleedharan, MP, inaugurated the function and offered sweets to Mr. Joy. Former DCC president E. Mohammed Kunhi, who was in charge of the post following the death of V.V. Prakash, presided over the function. Senior Congress leader Aryadan Mohammed; KPCC working president T. Siddik, MLA; AICC secretary P.V. Mohan; A.P. Anil Kumar, MLA; UDF district chairman P.T. Ajaymohan; and several other leaders of the Congress attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappuram-dcc-chief-joy-assumes-office/article36352311.ece
08 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Pinarayi trusts Kunhalikutty more than Jaleel, says BJP||BJP zonal vice president K.K. Surendran alleged here on Tuesday that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had begun to trust IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty more than former Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel. “By rejecting the allegations raised by Dr. Jaleel against Mr. Kunhalikutty, the nexus between the CPI(M) and the IUML leader has come to the fore,” said Mr. Surendran. The Chief Minister had opposed the demand for an investigation by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) into the irregularities found at the AR Nagar Service Cooperative Bank. ‘Make stand clear’ “The Chief Minister is attempting to save those involved in the corruption in spite of the allegations raised by Dr. Jaleel. In view of the Chief Minister rejecting his claims, Dr. Jaleel should make his stand clear,” said Mr. Surendran.  The Chief Minister opposed demand for an investigation by the ED into the irregularities found at a cooperative bank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-trusts-kunhalikutty-more-than-jaleel-bjp/article36352301.ece
08 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Tight vigil on borders||Tamil Nadu has tightened the surveillance on the borders it shares with Palakkad district in view of the Nipah virus scare in Kerala. Those coming from northern Kerala are being subjected to intensive checking on the border. Coimbatore Collector G.S. Sameeran visited the areas on Monday and issued instructions to the police and other enforcement agencies monitoring the movement of passengers and goods through the borders. Special camps for monitoring fever and related symptoms have been opened on the borders, especially at Walayar. People living on the borders have been asked to step up vigil. However, it looked normal on the borders on Tuesday as people moved across abiding by the COVID-19 norms issued by both Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The Coimbatore district administration has reportedly issued orders to the officers not to permit entry for anyone showing symptoms like fever and cold. The administration has reportedly asked the police not to allow people to get off their vehicles coming from across Walayar anywhere near the border. The police have also been asked to slap cases against those getting off the vehicles for no valid reason on the border. The control room at Coimbatore will be monitoring the vehicle movements to and from Kerala. More officers were posted at all the check-posts, particularly Walayar, Meenakshipuram and Gopalapuram. Vigil in Kasaragod Stringent steps are being taken to maintain vigil on the Talapady check-post bordering Kerala and Karnataka. “We have already issued an alert for symptoms and the border restriction has been tightened,” said Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. Local doctors had been asked to remain vigilant about Nipah symptoms, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tight-vigil-on-borders/article36352386.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nipah scare leaves exotic fruit farmers worried||Is there any link between the Nipah outbreak and farmers engaged in exotic fruit cultivation such as rambutan? Farmers in hilly regions fear that the demand for fruits in northern India may be hit by rumours that the boy who succumbed to Nipah in Kozhikode recently had reportedly consumed a bat-bitten rambutan fruit. Though the harvest of exotic fruits is over in the plains, it has just begun in hilly areas such as Wayanad and Idukki. Many farmers took to fruit cultivation after issues with cash crops such as pepper and a fall in price of rubber, coffee, and tea. More than 5,000 farmers in Wayanad are cultivating exotic fruits such as rambutan, pulasan, mangosteen, avocado, dragon fruit, and litchi in over 6,000 acres. “We get a sustainable income as fruits are available only in the high ranges during the period,” says Kuruvila Joseph, 69, a progressive planter at Meppadi. “I have been cultivating rambutan for the past 30 years, but I could not see a bat bite on the fruit, thanks to its thorny skin,” he says. Many farmers sell their produce through supermarkets in the metros. “We got many enquiries from Haryana and Delhi after rumours spreading through media,” says Sartov Joseph, a farmer at Rippon. The price of rambutan rose from Rs. 170 a kg to Rs. 250 recently in the Kerala market after the harvest got over in the plains. Rumours of a litchi virus, associated with the death of a few children in West Bengal a couple of years ago, had hit sales in metros leading to a fall in prices then, he says. Irrational reaction Such panic and irrational reactions should end as stopping fruit procurement or not eating rambutan is not going to prevent Nipah, says P.O. Nameer, Dean, College of Climate Change and Environmental Science, Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur. “Fruit bats are found in all parts of the State and across the country and we have coexisted with them for millions of years. We have always known that these bats are natural reservoirs of several viruses, including Nipah virus. But why this spillover of these viruses to humans has happened in Kerala or its timing are subjects which need close study. In the case of Kerala outbreaks, it has still not been scientifically established that the virus jumped from bats to humans and that it is through the consumption of fruits which were possibly contaminated by bat saliva. It is only a premise, beyond which we have nothing to go on as of now,” says Dr. Nameer. “In a State where non-communicable diseases kill people every day, much more than Nipah will ever do, stopping the consumption of fruits because of Nipah scare is going to do more harm than good. Fruits are an essential part of a healthy diet and avoiding rambutan or any other fruit is not the cure for Nipah,” says T.S. Anish, a public health expert. ‘No link with death’ He says there is no proof linking eating of rambutan to the death of the 12-year-old who succumbed to Nipah. “People need to be careful not to consume fruits lying on the ground beneath the fruit tree or which have bite or peck marks as these might have been bitten by bats or birds. In the context of increasing emergence of zoonotic diseases, it is a general precaution we need to follow. Fruits are safe to consume if washed well and their skin is removed,” says Dr. Anish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nipah-scare-leaves-exotic-fruit-farmers-worried/article36352393.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF, UDF unite against coop. tax||Animal Husbandry Minister J. Chinchurani shared stage with the Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan here on Tuesday to protest against the Centre’s move to bring milk cooperatives with a turnover of over Rs. 50 lakh under the ambit of the Income Tax. Inaugurating a protest organised by Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (popularly known as Milma) at the Palayam Martyrs Column here, Ms. Chinchurani also hinted at the possibility of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) coming together for the cause in the future. Motion in Assembly “A motion will be moved against the decision of the Central government at the next session of the Legislative Assembly. The resolution will be passed unanimously with the Opposition’s support. The Centre’s decision that has been adopted without consulting with the stakeholders is unacceptable,” she said. The Minister, who lit a protest flame to launch a Statewide agitation, said the decision has cast a huge burden on dairy farmers who belong to the lowest rung of the society. The blow has come at a time when they are struggling to sustain the dairy sector amidst severe hardships caused by the pandemic,” she lamented. Pointing out that she had already written to the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to demand a rollback of the decision, Ms. Chinchurani added that the issue was raised at a national-level consultative meet convened by Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Parshottam Rupala on Monday. Mr. Satheesan, who presided over the protest meet, stressed on the need to keep aside political differences to counter the Centre’s move. Efforts will be made to ensure that the MPs from Kerala took up the issue in Parliament, he said. He added that the decision to tax milk cooperatives could lead to around 70% of such societies facing closure. This could push large sections of dairy farmers into crisis and could ultimately result in a severe fall in milk production. Milma chairman K.S. Mani, Thiruvananthapuram Regional Cooperative Milk Producers Union administrative committee convener N. Bhasurangan, member V.S. Padmakumar and Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers Union director board member Johny Joseph also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-udf-unite-against-tax-on-milk-coops/article36352315.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Coop. sector laws to see changes||Amendments will be made to the laws governing the cooperative sector as many of the existing laws are weak in the current context, Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan has said. The comprehensive amendments to the Kerala Cooperative Societies Act were expected to be presented in the next Assembly session, said the Minister after inaugurating a webinar organised by the Kerala NGO Union on the topic ‘Cooperative sector-challenges and solutions’ on Tuesday. He said the consultations with experts regarding the amendments were in the final phase. A complete overhaul would also be brought about in the auditing system, with the appointment of an independent director. On the loan scam unearthed at the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank, he said that it was something that should not have happened at a cooperative institution. “If such a scam went on for 10 years, it could not have happened without the connivance of the bank officials, some members of the administration, and officials of the cooperative department. This scam could have been stopped long ago if the inspectors had noticed it and reported it in time. Such an auditing system cannot be condoned. Even though the issue at Karuvannur is an isolated one, there are similar tendencies in some other banks too. The officials should be able to stop this at the right time,” he said. Few bad apples Mr. Vasavan said that a majority in the sector were doing the job with a commitment to serve the people, but a few bad apples had given the tools to the forces trying to destroy the cooperative sector. A cooperative audit monitoring information system in association with C-DIT would be implemented within a month. The work for linking of the entire IT infrastructure of the cooperatives had been tendered. A new norm to ensure that no person continues in the same post for more than two years would be brought about. He said that primary agricultural cooperatives should try to invest their surplus funds in Kerala bank to ensure that these were utilised within the State. Accusing the Union government of having political motives in bringing a separate Ministry for the Cooperative sector, he said the ruling BJP was trying to replicate the gains they were able to make in Gujarat by a slow takeover of the cooperative sector in the other States like Kerala too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amendments-to-be-made-to-cooperative-sector-laws-vasavan/article36352318.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State trying its best to get IAV functional soon: CM||The State government is trying its best to get the Institute of Advanced Virology (IAV) at Thonnackal in the capital fully functional as fast as possible, even though the inherent delays in setting up an institute of its magnitude and the task of finding scientists with the right skills to man various divisions is taking its own time, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Biolabs ready Fielding a question on the delays in getting IAV up on its feet, in the context of the State’s continued reliance on the National Institute of Virology for all diagnostics, Mr. Vijayan said that the diagnostics wing of the IAV was being readied and that virology labs with Biosafety Level (BSL) 1 and 2 had been completed. BSL 3 lab had to be set up as per the specifications and the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research and the expression of interest for setting it up has been called for. The process was time consuming and not as easy as setting up a standard lab, he pointed out. Training Two scientists recruited for the IAV were now undergoing training in Ireland, courtesy the Global Virus Network, of which the IAV was a member, he said. After Akhil Banerji, the scientist chosen as director of the IAV had chosen to leave, the State government had now appointed E. Sreekumar, senior scientist at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, as director on deputation basis. However, he would be assuming office only by the end of September Some of the scientists who were recruited would be joining soon after they were relieved from their current institution. More technical staff would be joining by month-end. One scientist at the IAV was already assisting the newly set up virology lab at Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital in diagnosis, the Chief Minister said.  The task of finding scientists with the right skills to man various divisions of the IAV is taking its own time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-trying-its-best-to-get-iav-functional-soon-pinarayi/article36352341.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Samagra to set up butterfly gardens in schools soon||After biodiversity gardens, the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, is setting up butterfly gardens in schools to impart practical lessons in biodiversity conservation. With butterflies being good indicators of effects of climate change, the gardens will come up at a time when concerns over extreme weather patterns are magnifying. Engagement The butterfly gardens will also provide an engagement for school children who have been particularly affected by school closures brought by the COVID-19 pandemic. The State-level launch of the initiative will be made by Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty in Alappuzha next week. The gardens will be arranged in select schools and even homes of interested students with the support of the Kerala Forest Research Institute, Peechi. The institute will provide know-how such as where and how to create the gardens and the plants needed to attract butterflies, both host plants that provide food source and larval plants. Two to be selected Two teachers from schools that have registered online for setting up of the gardens will be selected as convener and joint convener, and given online training by the Samagra Shiksha. Butterfly clubs with a maximum of 50 students will be set up in those schools to streamline activities. The students who are club members will be given online training. Quizzes and online webinars too will be organised for them. Brochures and handbooks prepared by the Samagra Shiksha will be handed over. The butterfly parks are expected to nurture students’ love for nature and teach them how to coexist with it. Students will also develop a better understanding of biodiversity concepts and get an opportunity to undertake their own research-like activities and present them as projects this year. Best projects The best projects will be given prizes, said Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, Project Director A.P. Kuttykrishnan. The butterfly gardens will improve students’ academic knowledge, photography skills, and provide them joy, he believes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samagra-to-set-up-butterfly-gardens-in-schools-soon/article36352368.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Murder convict escapes from Poojappura Central Prison||A life convict escaped from the Poojappura Central Prison on Tuesday allegedly after exploiting security lapses that have remained neglected for long. Jahir Hussain, 48, a native of Tuticorin, who has been undergoing life imprisonment since 2017 for committing a murder under the Fort police station limits in 2004, was reported to have gone missing around 9 a.m. The incident occurred after Jahir had been taken to a laundry area on the rear side of the prison premises along with another prisoner around 7.30 a.m. While a prison officer stood guard as the duo washed clothes, Jahir is suspected to have fled when the officer returned to the prison building after a while. According to sources, the portion of the compound wall close to the laundry area has remained vulnerable to such jail breaks. While the wall adjacent to a laundry stone was barely four feet tall, the perimeter is exposed a short distance away owing to damaged construction. The City police, which have launched a man hunt, suspected the convict to have escaped through one of the two vulnerable spots. He was seen as leaving the premises by workers of a cloth ironing shop and a tea stall nearby. Following his escape, Jahir allegedly changed his prison uniform for clothes that he had purportedly taken from the laundry area. Later, he allegedly boarded an autorickshaw to reach Thycaud from where he is suspected to have walked till Thampanoor to get on a bus that was headed for Kaliyikkavila, the police said. Considering the possibility of the convict attempting to return to his home town, the police have intensified surveillance on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border. The Tamil Nadu Police have also been alerted of the jail break. Jahir had been jailed for murdering the owner of a jewellery shop, where he used to work, and stealing ornaments from the outlet. While several prisoners had been granted parole on account of COVID-19, Jahir has remained imprisoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-convict-escapes-from-poojappura-central-prison/article36352497.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LSGD wants vehicles used for transporting waste registered||The Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) has insisted that local bodies register vehicles used for transporting waste to track their movement to ensure that the waste is reaching the designated treatment facilities. Currently, there is no mechanism in most local bodies to track and regulate the movement of vehicles that transport such wastes. The National Green Tribunal had in a judgment in July, regarding the dumping of garbage in public spaces, ordered for the creation of a mechanism for registering the vehicles that are entrusted with carrying waste to be disposed at designated dump sites or treatment facilities, in order to supervise and to track the movement of such vehicles to find out whether the waste that is being entrusted to them is really reaching the designated treatment facilities. The LSGD’s order to local bodies comes in this context. Local bodies or their support systems, including the Clean Kerala Company Limited or other agencies which are engaged by the local bodies for garbage collection, are supposed to follow the directives. According to the guidelines, recyclable, non biodegradable waste can be sold to the recycling agencies or their aggregators at a price not less than the rate notified by the Clean Kerala Company. The non-recyclable waste is to be removed through the company. Authorised agencies The local bodies can engage authorised agencies for removal of non-recyclable waste provided they possess valid consent to operate from the Pollution Control Board and a valid agreement with a disposal facility such as engineered sanitary landfills or furnace-based industries like cement kilns. The agencies selected for removal and transportation of non-recyclable waste should declare the destination where the waste is proposed to be disposed of and the local body or the Clean Kerala Company should verify and ensure whether the destination is suitable for safe disposal. All the vehicles that are entrusted with the transportation of waste to disposal or recycling facilities should be registered with the hiring agency from where waste is being collected. Clean Kerala Company and local bodies need to keep a separate record of vehicles registered by them for this purpose. The vehicles should be fitted with GPS and tracking systems. For transporting waste from source to location of treatment, a detailed manifest has to be maintained by the agencies engaged. The local bodies can impose fines, terminate the agreement, or forfeit the amount payable in case of violations. The order has to be complied within 45 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lsgd-wants-vehicles-used-for-transporting-waste-registered/article36352382.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case graph stabilises, TPR dips||The State’s COVID-19 case graph is stabilising with 25,772 new cases being reported on Tuesday when 1,62,428 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate dipped to 15.87 %. The current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals rose to 2,483 (2,421 on Monday), while the number of patients requiring ventilator support went up to 1,020 (999 on Monday). The State’s active case pool dropped to 2,37,045 on Tuesday with 27,320 patients recovering on the day. The cumulative case fatality now stands at 21,820 with the State adding 189 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the toll on Tuesday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,464 on Tuesday. Total hospitalisations of people with moderate or severe infection was beginning to stabilise and was currently 32,935. The cumulative case burden now stands at 42,53, 298. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 3,194, followed by Malappuram 2,952, Kozhikode 2,669, Thrissur 2,557, Kollam 2,548, Palakkad 2,332, Kottayam 1,814, Thiruvananthapuram 1,686, Kannur 1,649, Alappuzha 1,435, Pathanamthitta 1,016, Idukki 925 Wayanad 607 and Kasaragod 388.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-graph-stabilises-tpr-dips/article36352396.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Timely response to contain outbreak: CM||Though the sudden outbreak of Nipah has come in the middle of the State’s fight against COVID-19, rapid and timely response by the health system is effectively containing the outbreak, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Tuesday. Detailing the quick response of the health administration and the detailed arrangements made for Nipah-related contact tracing, disease surveillance, diagnosis, and patient care, he has said intensive efforts were on to trace the source of Nipah outbreak, which has made its third appearance in the State. Addressing mediapersons, the Chief Minister said as soon as the Nipah outbreak was confirmed, all follow-up measures fell in place overnight. None of those on the contact list and under surveillance and isolation developed serious symptoms and more sample results were awaited. The State had set up a Nipah control room to coordinate all outbreak-related activities. A Nipah management plan was in place and a revised treatment protocol was brought out within hours of the confirmation of the outbreak. All districts had been asked to sound an alert and keep a close watch on acute encephalitis syndrome. A Nipah control cell would coordinate with districts and help train health workers on surveillance and control activities. COVID situation The situation with COVID-19 also seemed to be stabilising and the surge in cases witnessed immediately after Onam had now come down. The increase in cases last week in comparison to the week after Onam was just 0.6% Mr. Vijayan said the government was in total concurrence with the Kerala High Court’s directive that the inter-dosage interval of Covishield vaccine be reduced to four weeks. However, it was the Centre’s call and the Chief Secretary and the Health Secretary would be in touch with the Union Health Ministry about this, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-timely-response-to-contain-outbreak/article36352387.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||VYBE-green army flea market to be opened||Former Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac will on Saturday inaugurate a flea market to be organised jointly by the Vattiyurkavu Youth Brigade Entrepreneurs’ Cooperative Society (VYBE), led by V.K. Prasanth, MLA, and the city Corporation’s green army. The flea market will function from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. at a space opposite the Joint Solutions Orthopedic Clinic on Rathapurakkunnu road. At the flea market, the public can contribute their used or unused old home appliances, furniture, musical instruments, bags, clothes or electronic appliances, and get the things they need in exchange. Only objects than can be reused will be accepted at the market. The market is being organised to promote a culture of reuse and reduce waste. For more information, contact: 7012568303, 8848042501.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vybe-green-army-flea-market-to-be-opened/article36352489.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,686 fresh cases, 2,085 recoveries in capital||The district recorded 1,686 COVID-19 cases and 2,085 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 16,306 on Tuesday. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 13.3%. The district administration has currently placed 42,865 people in quarantine as part of the mitigation efforts. Containment zones The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has declared 20 more local body wards as containment zones in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases. The existing ones is 65 other wards have also been withdrawn. District Collector Navjot Khosa, who is also the chairman of the DDMA, has declared the containment zones in Vazhottukonam, Muttada, Kesavadasapuram, Kowdiar and Kudappanakkunnu wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Chemmarathumukku, Kottakkal and Vellalloor wards in Nagaroor grama panchayat; Veeranakavu ward in Poovachal grama panchayat; and Kattakode, Mangalaykkal, Kanacode, Chettikonam, Ponnara, Killi and Kavinpuram wards in Kattakada grama panchayat. Micro-containment zones have been declared in TENRA house no 117 to 124 of Thycaud ward in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Plankala of Pirayummoodu ward in Neyyattinkara municipality; Kunnatheri tribal settlement of Chonampara ward in Kuttichal grama panchayat; and Anacode Nakkara area of Kovilvila ward in Poovachal grama panchayat. The curbs were lifted in various wards of the Nedumangad and Attingal municipalities, Nagaroor, Kallikadu, Kuttichal, Madavoor, Manamboor, Pazhayakunnummel, Poovachal, Vembayam, Vithura, Aruvikkara, Cherunniyoor, Edava, Kadakkavoor, Kuttichal, Nanniyode, Ottasekharamangalam, Pulimath, Uzhamalakkal, Vakkom, Vamanapuram, Vellanad and Vettoor grama panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1686-fresh-cases-2085-recoveries-in-capital/article36352499.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||100 more ‘Take-a-Break’ complexes opened||The Take-a-Break project for travellers and tourists is a model for the nation, said Minister for Local Self-government M.V. Govindan on Tuesday. He was virtually inaugurating 100 ‘Take-a-Break’ toilet complexes completed as part of the project’s second phase by including it in the Chief Minister’s 100-day action plan. Mr. Govindan said the maintenance of the toilet complexes would be ensured with the support of the Kudumbashree and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). He said the complexes, set up along roads and in densely populated areas, had modern facilities and could be used by children and women safely and with the confidence that they were clean. Refreshment centres with coffee shops had been completed under local self-government institutions in the second phase, he said. In the first phase, 100 toilet complexes were inaugurated. Construction of 524 more toilet complexes was under way. A lot of progress had been achieved in the area of cleanliness and waste management under the Haritha Kerala Mission and the Suchitwa Mission. The new hygienic public toilets will add to the achievement, said the Minister. In Thiruvananthapuram, 13 Take-a-Break facilities were inaugurated. These are in Neyyattinkara municiplaity, Kollayil, Kallikad, Poovar, Perunkadavila, Kottukal, Panavoor, Malayinkeezhu, Madavoor, Karumkulam, Ottasekharamangalam and Vembayam. While seven of them have coffee shops, others have refreshment rooms or feeding rooms or sanitary napkin incinerators. Nava Kerala Mission coordinator T.N. Seema presided over the event. Local Self-government Additional Chief Secretary Sarada Muraleedharan and Secretary Saurabh Jain and Suchitwa Mission Executive Director Mir Mohammed Ali were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/100-more-take-a-break-facilities-opened/article36352313.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Union seeks aid for BSNL contract workers||The Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited Casual Contractors’ Labourers Union (CITU) State committee has demanded that the Chief General Manager ensure just wages and benefits as well as job security for the contract workers who carry out various works for the public sector telecom company. Burden of the crisis In a resolution on Tuesday, the union said the burden of the crisis created in the sector by the Union government’s steps to destroy the BSNL was now falling on the shoulders of the workers. After a large number of workers were removed with the introduction of a voluntary retirement scheme, most of the works are now being outsourced to contractors. Several workers were laid off and contract workers were being placed at the mercy of contractors, with no timely payment of wages or other benefits. Payments pending The BSNL management has washed its hand of from any responsibility towards the workers. Even the payments for works carried out in 2019 are still pending. In this context, the BSNL management should intervene urgently, the union said. BSNLCCU working president K. Mohanan presided over the meeting.  After many workers were removed through a VRS scheme, the firm is outsourcing most of the works to contractors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/union-seeks-aid-for-bsnl-contract-workers/article36352488.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sexual assault: panel takes case||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has suo motu taken a case in connection with the sexual assault on a minor at a COVID-19 treatment centre in Pathanamthitta. Media reports The action by commission chairperson Manojkumar K.V. comes on the basis of media reports. The Pathanathitta District Child Protection Officer, Aranmula police station house officer, and the Pathanamthitta District Police Chief, have been asked to submit reports by September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sexual-assault-panel-takes-case/article36352485.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RSS gang in CPI(M): Sudhakaran||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran said here on Tuesday the CPI(M) was in cahoots with the BJP in Kerala. For one, the CPI(M) leadership should explain how BJP State president K. Surendran became a witness in the Kodakara hawala heist case despite overwhelming against him. Mr. Sudhakaran said the RSS gang was in the CPI(M) and not in the State police as CPI leader Annie Raja implied. The CPI(M) pro-women talk was all bluster and women and children got no justice under the current government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rss-gang-in-cpim-sudhakaran/article36352389.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LLB entrance results published||The Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) has published the results of the entrance examination conducted for admission to the three-year LLB courses. Sreenath S.V. (roll no. 550331) has secured the first rank in the examination. The results have been published on the websitewww.cee.kerala.gov.in. The results of some of the candidates have been withheld due to defects in their uploaded certificates. They have been advised to rectify such defects through the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/llb-entrance-results-published/article36352390.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM to launch new digital tax services||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will on Thursday launch the new digital services, including the remittance of land tax through mobile application, offered by the Revenue Department. In addition to the online payment system, the digitisation of the basic land tax register and the 'thandapper' account and a module for submission of Field Measurement Book (FMB) sketch, Thandapper account and location sketch through online, updated e-payment portal, official websites for 1,666 vilages and social security pension module will also be launched here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-launch-new-digital-tax-services/article36352391.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||School building work to be expedited||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty on Tuesday convened a meeting of different agencies to expedite the construction of school buildings using Rs. 1,400 crore from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). These include 446 buildings to come up at a cost of Rs. 1 crore, 286 buildings using Rs. 3 crore and 20 buildings for Rs. 5 crore each. Top officials of KIIFB, the Kerala Infrastucture and Technology for Education (KITE), the Kerala Institute of Local Administration, INKEL, and so on and Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. attended the meeting, which reviewed the progress of the works. Action plan It was decided to prepare an action plan to complete the construction in a time-bound manner. Identification of hurdles and their solutions were charted out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-building-work-to-be-expedited/article36352503.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assistive device showroom work from tomorrow||Construction of the first showroom in the public sector here to make available assistive devices to the differently abled at low rates will get under way on Thursday. Minister for Social Justice R. Bindu will inaugurate. The showroom will be on the premises of Kerala State Handicapped Persons’ Welfare Corporation Ltd. at Poojappura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assistive-device-showroom-work-from-tomorrow/article36352486.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||126 complaints taken up at Corporation adalat||As many as 126 complaints were taken up at the city Corporation’s town planning file adalat for constructions below 120 metre square in area. Applications from the Vizhinjam, Thiruvallam Nemom, and Central zones were taken up on the first day of the adalat on Tuesday. Temporary numbers have been provided for 46 of the constructions, while ownership certifications have been given to 26 applicants. Nine applications were rejected during the adalat here. Building numbers In the case of the remaining 45 applications, building numbers were allocated subject to clearance from other departments, from which no objection certifications are required. On September 13, the second phase of the adalat for the Fort zone will begin at 10 a.m. For the North zone, comprising of Kadakampally, Kazhakuttam, Ulloor, Attipra and Sreekaryam, the adalat will begin at 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/126-complaints-taken-up-at-corporation-adalat/article36352500.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ED has no role in Cooperation dept. affairs: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Tuesday that “the government has investigated the suspected anomalies in the A.R. Nagar Cooperative bank. The High Court has stayed further proceedings. K.T. Jaleel appears to repose faith in the Enforcement Directorate after the agency questioned him. But, the ED has no role in the affairs of the Cooperation Department”. He was responding to questions on Left Democratic Front MLA K.T. Jaleel’s accusations against Indian Union Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty. Dr. Jaleel had accused Mr. Kunhalikutty and his son of using the bank’s accounts to launder crores of rupees of ill-gotten wealth. The Chief Minister refused to get ensnared in the scandal. But, he rejected the insinuation that the Cooperation Department was on the side of the alleged wrongdoers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-has-no-role-in-cooperation-dept-affairs-cm/article36352388.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth coop. launched||K. Ansalan, MLA, on Tuesday inaugurated the functioning of the youth cooperative K-track, formed in the Neyyattinkara constituency as part of the 100-day action plan of the State government. Out of the 27 youth cooperatives being formed, two are in Neyyattinkara. The cooperative has been started with the aim of ensuring the participation of youth in developmental and welfare activities in the district as well as to promote entrepreneurship among the young.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-coop-launched/article36352487.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree groups to get revolving fund to tide over financial problems||Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups experiencing financial crisis in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19 can breathe a sigh of relief. As many as 19,489 area development societies (ADS) under the Kudumbashree and 133 ‘ooru samithis’ (settlement committees) in Attappady will get Rs. 1 lakh each as revolving fund. The government has issued orders sanctioning Rs. 196.22 crore to the Kudumbashree for providing the revolving fund. The project, being implemented as part of the 100-day action plan of the government, will help alleviate to some extent the difficulties experienced by neighbourhood groups owing to loss of income or health problems faced by members owing to COVID-19 and the lockdown. Special guidelines have been drawn up to identify neighbourhood groups to be provided with the fund. As per the guidelines, ADS have to submit a proposal for identification of neighbourhood groups and the amount to be provided as fund to the community development societies concerned. The Rs. 1 lakh that each ADS gets will be of huge support to the issue of loans in the neighbourhood groups. Depending on the ability and regularity of the groups’ repayment, the ADS will allow them anywhere between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 20,000. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the project online on Wednesday evening. Minister for Local Self-government M.V. Govindan, Local Self-government Additional Chief Secretary Sarada Muraleedharan, and Kudumbashree Executive Director P.I. Sreevidya will attend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-groups-to-get-revolving-fund-to-tide-over-financial-problems/article36352321.ece
08 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Submerged weeds pose threat to paddy||Submerged aquatic weeds have been posing a threat to paddy cultivation in the State. These include aquatic plants such as vallisneria, najas, utricularia (bladderworts) and so on. “Recently, a shift in weed species has been observed in the paddy fields of Palakkad district, the rice granary of the State,” notes P. Prameela, Professor & Principal Investigator, All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Weed Management, Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur. Kannur, Ernakulam, Kottayam and Idukki districts have also recorded their presence, though the spread is less severe, she said. Vallisneria, also known as eel grass or tape grass, is a common submerged aquatic plant. It was introduced in the country as an ornamental aquarium plant. The genus is widely distributed in tropical and subtropical regions of Asia, Africa, Europe and North America. In Malayalam, it is known as thalayattippullu, vazhakala and mudipayal . Najas, commonly known as rice field water nymph, is typically found in freshwater habitats, especially still or slow-moving ones such as ponds and rice fields. Utricularia, a carnivorous aquatic plant, has become common in rice fields, and pose a more severe problem during second season planting. “These plants may seem harmless initially, but can grow as a major rice weed. Their proliferation is quite severe in several parts of Palakkad district such as Mankara, Alathur, Kannadi, Pattambi and Thasrak,” says Savitha Antony, Assistant Professor, AICRP. The impact is more severe in transplanted crops where the weeds receive an ideal growth condition of standing water and sufficient inter-space and sunlight. Moreover, as other common rice weeds are absent at this stage, these new groups of weeds hold an advantage, she points out. Fertilizers Fertilizers applied to the crop after 60 days turn ineffective as weeds absorb the nutrients, forming a thick mat over the soil, adds Ms. Antony. In parts of Palakkad, hand weeding is still a common practice, and farmers find it difficult to control the overgrowth as these new species of weeds cannot be hand-picked easily like grasses, sedges or broad-leaved weeds of rice. Farmers say such weeds have been witnessed in paddy fields in the State for the last four to five years. “Currently, many aquarium plants, propagules and seeds are available online. Awareness on their safe disposal is important to avoid them reaching our water bodies and become invasive. This has happened in the case of Cabomba furcata at Perambra in Kozhikode,” says Dr. Prameela.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/submerged-weeds-pose-threat-to-paddy-cultivation-in-state/article36352302.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Left to nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/left-to-nature/article36352329.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protection from virus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protection-from-virus/article36352371.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking solace for all||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-solace-for-all/article36352493.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tearing their hair out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tearing-their-hair-out/article36352380.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Heads up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heads-up/article36352298.ece
08 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New study sheds light on groundnut cultivation||A study conducted by the Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture (CRIDA) with Maruthi Sankar Ghattamraju, a retired agriculture statistician leading it, on the groundnut growing conditions in 63 mandals of Anantapur district, under rainfed conditions (no irrigation of any kind), has thrown up some interesting facts and insights that will help ground-level farmers. The study from 2001 to 2018 on the impact of total rainfall in a year in that mandal, total cropped area, the length of crop growing period, efficiency of rainwater use, groundnut yield sustainability index, has helped the scientists classify 18 mandals as profitable or sustainable taking into account all parameters. “This information must reach the grassroots level farmer so that groundnut could be sown only in those mandals and farmers reap the profits, while those farmers in other mandals could diversify their crops based on these scientific models,” Mr. Sankar told The Hindu . All this work done at the Agriculture Research Centre, Rekulakunta in Anantapur, has helped scientists identify 10 mandals that are superior to others in all aspects with a composite ranking given to them based on rainfall, yield, cropped area, water management, and the best is Guntakal (with a rank score of 69), followed by Gooty (85), Vidapanakal (154), Kothacheruvu (158), Nallamada and Peddavadagur (169), Kadiri (179), Dharmavaram (182), Vajrakarur (192) and Tadipatri (196). “This study is pertinent as many farmers have not sown groundnut this kharif season and the sown area has fallen despite good rainfall,” said B.Sahadeva Reddy, Principal Scientist & Head, ARS, Rekulakunta. The State Agriculture Department with a hierarchy starting from Village Secretariat level Horticulture / Agriculture Assistant to Mandal Agriculture Officer to Joint Director Agriculture, should ensure that this information percolates to specific farmers in those mandals, he opined. Some of the promising mandals that had a rank-sum of less than 200 include Tadipatri with 182, Tanakal with 195, Mudigubba with 197, CK Palli with 198, and Lepakshi with 200.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-study-sheds-light-on-groundnut-cultivation/article36352450.ece
08 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTUA students get plum jobs||Students at the JNTUA College of Engineering in Anantapur got plum jobs during the Virtual Campus Recruitment Drive (VCRD) held last month for the B.Tech third year aspirants. Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana, while appreciating and congratulating the students on their achievements, said on Tuesday that more companies would be coming for campus selections. Six students got selected in the TCS with an annual salary of Rs. 7 lakh and nine students got an annual package of Rs. 3.5 lakh in the same company. Another six students were selected in the Axiom IO with Rs. 6 lakh per annum salary, the V-C said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntua-students-get-plum-jobs/article36351973.ece
08 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB raids Madakasira CPDO office||Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths raided the office of the Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) at Madakasira and six other places simultaneously checking and searching for documents related to accounts and supplies on Tuesday. The raids were continuing and could go well past midnight. The ACB sleuths have taken the help of officers from the Legal Metrology, Sarva Siksha Abhiyaan, Food Inspector, and Revenue Officers to check bills and books at four Anganwadi Centres, Cluster-level office, and the CDPO’s office. “We have received complaints from people at the Spandana programme and based on them, we have launched this drive as of now we have noticed some difference in the ground level balance and the balance shown in books with relation to stocks or money/bills. We are taking the help of auditing personnel to come to a conclusion as to what misappropriation had taken place and cannot say anything right now,” ACB Deputy Superintendent of Police(DSCP) J. Kula Sekhar told the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-raids-madakasira-cpdo-office/article36351965.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior citizen dies navigating a pothole||Days after citizens held protests on the pathetic condition of the roads in Bengaluru, a physically challenged senior citizen was killed while he was reportedly trying to navigate a pothole on Mangammanapalya Main Road, near Vishveshwarya Layout, on Monday night. The deceased, 75-year-old Khurshid Ahmed Khan, lived alone in Bismillah Nagar, and sold hats and artificial jewellery sets by the street side. He was returning home after work on his scooter rigged up with two additional wheels for support. According to the police, he lost his balance and fell down while trying to navigate a pothole that was filled with rain water. He sustained severe head injuries and died on the spot. After complaints from motorists and pedestrians on the health hazards posed by pothole-ridden roads, the administration decided to set up task forces at the zonal level and even set a month-end deadline to fill all potholes. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds charge of Bengaluru Development, said the issue had come up during the review meeting he had chaired last week, and the Civic Commissioner had been instructed to take up the work of filling potholes and redoing bad stretches on a war footing after the monsoon recedes. Blame game There was confusion among the city’s agencies over whose jurisdiction under which the Mangammanapalya Main Road falls, perhaps indicating why the road was in such a condition. Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike was not maintaining the road. According to sources, there was confusion within the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA). It was only later in the day that BDA Commissioner Rajesh Gowda acknowledged that the authority was responsible for maintaining the road. However, the BDA blamed the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) for the condition of the road. “The BWSSB has cut the road to lay a pipeline. It is the contractor’s job to redo the road and bring it back to a motorable condition. We are checking on this specific case. The compacting done may have given way due to traffic and rainfall. We will fix it as soon as possible,” Mr. Gowda said. The Kamakshipalya traffic police registered a case of causing death due to negligence against BDA officials under Section 304A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and for rash driving against the deceased under Section 279 of the IPC. When asked why a case had been booked against the deceased as well, Kuldeep Kumar R. Jain, DCP (Traffic West), said: “The rider was coming from the wrong side. So, there was a mistake from both ends.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/senior-citizen-dies-navigating-a-pothole/article36351924.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Home Secy. must appear if report not filed’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday said that the Home Secretary will have to personally appear before it if the process of granting sanction and filing of final report is not completed in 30 days in a corruption case related to preferential facilities illegally given to V.K. Sasikala in Bengaluru central prison. This pertains to the time when she was serving sentence in connection with corruption case against former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order while declining to accept the plea of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) to grant additional two months to submit final investigation report to the jurisdictional court. “This court failed to understand why two months’ time is required. Sanction can be granted in a day if there a will,” the court observed while hearing a PIL petition filed by K.S. Gita, a 65-year-old social worker and an educationist from Chennai, who had questioned the delay in completion of the probe. The court, while disposing of the petition on June 11, 2021, had set a deadline of two months for the ACB to complete the probe on the First Information Report registered bay back in 2018. However, ACB in August filed an application before the High Court seeking two more months time to complete the probe and the High Court on August 13 had sought status report on probe from the ACB. When the ACB’s application came up for hearing on Tuesday, the counsel for ACB said that the agency needs two months as the competent authority in the State government has sought certain clarifications on the request made by the ACB for grant of sanction to proceed against four accused public servants. The High Court, while disposing of the petition in June itself, had noted that there was considerable delay in probe and had made it clear that it was granting two months’ time in view of the then prevailing situation due to COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-secretary-has-to-appear-if-report-not-filed/article36351911.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hike in DA for T.N. govt staff||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday made 13 announcements in the Assembly, including an increase in the Dearness Allowance (DA) for State government employees, and raising the retirement age of cooks and assistant cooks at nutritious meal centres. He reiterated that no employee would be suspended on the day of retirement. Making a suo motu announcement in the Assembly, the Chief Minister said he decided to make these announcements after associations representing government employees and teachers made a representation to him. Recalling the announcement made in the Budget that the increase in DA will be implemented from April 2022, Mr. Stalin said though the government was facing a severe financial burden, it decided to give effect to the hike from January next year. This will benefit 16 lakh government employees and cost an additional Rs. 1,620 crore because of its early implementation. Every year, it will involve an expenditure of Rs. 6,480 crore. The Chief Minister said the retirement age of cooks and cooking assistants of nutritious meal centres will be increased from 58 to 60, and this will benefit 29,147 cooks and 24,576 assistants. Bonus increment He announced the revival of bonus increment for government employees with additional qualifications. The scheme was cancelled in 2020. “It will be implemented based on the guidelines of the Union government. It will increase their [the employees’] performance and skills,” he said. The Chief Minister announced the recruitment of junior assistants to fill vacancies in government schools. They will be recruited by the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC). Mr. Stalin said the government had decided to treat as working period the duration of the strike and suspension faced by government employees during the protests against the AIADMK government in 2016, 2017 and 2019. “The practice of suspending employees on the day of retirement will be avoided,” he reiterated. As for the request to appoint teachers in the place where they worked before they were transferred for their involvement in the strike, the Chief Minister said the disciplinary action against them will be given up, and they will get priority in counselling for transfers. Guidelines The government also decided to come out with guidelines for the appointment of family members of deceased government employees on compassionate grounds to dispense with practical difficulties. The Chief Minister said there will be no age limit for sons and daughters who depend on government employees for inclusion in the health insurance scheme. Help desk “A separate help desk will be created to help government employees avail themselves of the insurance scheme,” he said. Moreover, the insurance limit for government employees will be more than Rs. 10 lakh for COVID-19 treatment. The Joint Action Committee of Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Organisations and Government Employees’ Organisations (JACTTO-GEO), the School Teachers’ Federation of India (STFI) and the Tamil Nadu Government Employees Teachers Welfare Federation (TNGETWF) welcomed the announcements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tamil-nadu-cm-announces-increase-in-da-for-government-employees/article36352030.ece
08 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dairy cooperative societies will help empower women in State, says Minister||The State government is aiming at empowering women by making them a vital part of the ‘white revolution’ in the State by setting up dairy cooperative societies exclusively for them, Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Sidiri Appala Raju has said. “The government has set up 9,899 women cooperative societies at the village level and launched several financial schemes such as YSR Cheyutha and Aasara to provide interest-free loans from the Andhra Pradesh State Cooperative Bank (APCOB) through the District Central Cooperative Banks. It is an unprecedented scheme in the State,” Mr. Appala Raju told The Hindu on Tuesday, after reviewing the status of the Jagananna Pala Velluva (AP-Amul Project) in Guntur district. The milk is procured from the Amul Dairy, with which the government has signed an MoU. As part of the pact, the Amul Dairy will procure, process and market the milk produce, and steadily, the pace of milk procurement is picking up, the Minister said. Stating that the project is a brain child of Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy, Mr. Appala Raju said that the ham-handed approach of the previous governments had resulted in gradual weakening of the dairy cooperative societies, district unions and State federations and the rapid growth of private diaries. Be it Visakha Dairy in Visakhapatnam, Vijaya Dairy in Krishna, Sangam Dairy in Guntur, Heritage in Chittoor, the district unions have been weakened so much so that private milk dairies flourished. In the case of Heritage Dairy, the existing union has been liquidated, he said. Complete revamp “The role of unorganised sector in the dairy industry was so much that only 25 % of 400 lakh litres of milk was being procured by the cooperatives in the organised sector, while the rest were being processed by the unorganised sector. We want to revamp the whole system and so brought in revolutionary changes. Milk Collection Centres and Bulk Milk Cooling Units are being set up and the pricing will be remunerative to farmers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dairy-cooperative-societies-will-help-empower-women-in-state-says-minister/article36352458.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain continues in Telangana||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall over Telangana for the next two days. Several districts including Peddapalli, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Mulugu, Asifabad, Nirmal, Adilabad, Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Khammam have been put on red alert for the next two days. Moderate to heavy rain is expected in other parts of the State. Several parts of the State are experiencing heavy rains for the last couple of days due to a low pressure area formed over Bay of Bengal. Heavy rains continued to lash Rajanna-Sircilla, Warangal and Khammam districts since Monday. Flood waters entered several residential colonies and low lying areas are under sheet of water. Several people were reported to be stranded due to overflowing canals while roads to several villages have been cut off. Sircilla in particular bore the brunt with several colonies inundated. Water entered the bus stand complex as well as the newly constructed district collectorate while residents of several colonies were put to hardships as water entered their homes. A control room has been set up and holidays declared for educational institutions in view of the heavy rains. District collector Anurag Jayanthi said efforts were under way to assess the loss to property and crops and exhorted people to report their losses to district authorities through the control room (Ph. No 9398684240). Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, presently in New Delhi, has asked the collectors of all districts to be on alert and take steps to meet any eventuality in view of the heavy rainfall forecast for the next couple of days. Minister K.T. Rama Rao held a teleconference with Rajanna-Sircilla district administration and directed them to intensify relief and rehabilitation measures. Relief camps should be set up and people in low lying areas should be moved to safer areas. He directed the officials concerned to depute teams of disaster response force to the district and asked them to take steps to divert the flood waters. KTR directed the officials to take necessary measures to avoid inconvenience to people. Officials concerned should be on high alert as more rains are forecast in the next 48 hours and steps should be taken to instil confidence among the affected people that the administration is geared up to meet any situation. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar who held a teleconference with the collectors of 20 affected districts took stock of the situation and reviewed their preparedness. The collectors were accordingly directed to step up their vigil by setting up control rooms wherever needed. Officials were directed to stay put in the headquarters while steps should be taken to shift people in low lying areas,if need be, to make shift shelters. He instructed the officials to see that breaches to tanks or damages to roads were repaired with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-continues-in-telangana/article36351915.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Autistic child assaulted during therapy session||A two-and-a-half-year-old boy was allegedly assaulted at a therapy centre in Karkhana during autism therapy sessions. While a complaint was registered at the Karkhana police station on September 2, the alleged horrific incident came to light on Tuesday, after Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivas Rao responded to a video which the victim’s uncle had tweeted. The video purportedly showed injuries on the victim’s torso. “We filed an FIR against Pinnacle Therapists, sir please see below video my nephew is a victim of child abuse. Pinnacle Therapy was suppose to help my nephew with speech therapy, occupational therapy & behavioral therapy,” Twitter user Murali Krishna tweeted, even as he tagged handles of Information Technology Minister K T Rama Rao, Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar and the official Hyderabad City Police handle. While Dr Srinivas Rao assured action, the Hyderabad City Police said that a First Information Report has been filed at the Karkhana police station. According to the FIR, the victim was diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder. The victim’s mother A. Priyanka decided to take the victim for therapy sessions to Pinnacle centre. The complainant stated that on September 2, after completion of the two-hour session, when she was on her way back from Pinnacle centre, the victim was crying incessantly. It was only after they reached home, and when she was changing the victim’s clothes that she noticed nail marks on the victim’s body, which she said were a result of pinching. She went to the therapy centre and demanded to know how the victim was injured, and asked for CCTV footage. The administration allegedly refused to share any information. She then approached the Karkhana police who registered a case under Section 323 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 77 of the Juvenile Justice Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/autistic-child-assaulted-during-therapy-session/article36351922.ece
08 September 2021||JAGGAIAHPET,ANDHRA PRADESH||Overflowing streams cut off road links to villages on A.P.-Telangana border||Road connectivity to the border villages on the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border has been cut off due to incessant rains in the catchment areas for the last few days. Paddy, maize, chilli and horticulture crops in some thousands of acres were inundated in the border habitations. Traffic was disrupted at Chityala, Gampalagudem, Musunuru, Veerulapadu and other hamlets. Movement of buses, autos and two-wheelers have been prohibited on Tuesday at many border villages due to floods. Road link between Chityala and Lingala was snapped as Munneru Vaagu was overflowing. Traffic was disrupted between Veerulapadu and Doddadevarapadu villages as floodwater entered on the main road. At Musunuru, communication has been cut off between Balive and Vijayarayi villages as Tammileru Vaagu was overflowing. Traffic was blocked at Gampalagudem, as Kattaleru Vaagu was overflowing at Vinagadapa. Roads at Pallampalli and Damuluru villages were closed. Roads were damaged due to floods and rainwater entered low-lying areas in villages. As there was heavy rain forecast in Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts, officials sounded alert in the border villages. Krishna Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said that pickets had been arranged at the villages, where the streams were overflowing. “We request the villagers and the vehicle drivers not to cross the overflowing rivulets,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/overflowing-streams-cut-off-road-links-to-villages-on-ap-telangana-border/article36352454.ece
08 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha concealed under water bottles seized||The Kadapa police seized a huge quantity of banned gutkha products, being smuggled under the camouflage of water bottles, on Mydukur Road in Badvel town on Tuesday. Based on a tip-off, a police team intercepted vehicles at Chennampalli Mitta, when they searched a cargo carrier with water bottles, they reportedly found gutkha sachets concealed under them. The sachets were reportedly being brought from Raichur in Karnataka. Malli Obulesu (28), Kommineni Bhagiratha (25), Burri Balakrishna (37), Malli Naveen (24), Shaik Sohail (25) and Meda Ramesh Babu (41) were arrested for in the case. The value of the seized gutkha is estimated at Rs. 8.46 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gutkha-concealed-under-water-bottles-seized/article36351972.ece
08 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man injured in cylinder blast||A 45-year-old man suffered severe injuries in a cylinder blast on the Rajamahendravaram-Yanam road under Mandepta rural police limits in East Godavari district on Tuesday. A cylinder, which slipped on the road from a van transporting cylinders, blew up injuring the man riding behind the vehicle, the Mandapeta police said. The Mandapeta police said the injured man was admitted to the local hospital in Anaparthi town. His health condition is said to be serious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-injured-in-cylinder-blast/article36351977.ece
08 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Action plan will be prepared to prevent entry of rainwater into GGH’||East Godavari Joint Collector (Development) Ch. Kirthi and Kakinada Municipal Corporation (KMC) Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar on Tuesday assured that an action plan would be prepared to prevent the entry of rainwater inside the Government General Hospital (GGH-Kakinada). The officials led by Ms. Kirthi on Tuesday inspected the Mother and Children Care Ward, out-patient block, medical and surgical stores and other wards where rainwater stagnated in the hospital due to heavy rain reported since Monday. “The rainwater has already been drained out from the wards in the hospital. The A.P. Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) and KMC authorities have been told to take up the works to prevent the entry of rainwater into the hospital,” said Ms. Kirthi. Mr. Dinakar has said that the team of municipal engineers would also be roped in to address the problem within a few days. Resident Medical Officer Giridhar, KMC Engineer Satyanarayana Raju and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/action-plan-will-be-prepared-to-prevent-entry-of-rainwater-into-ggh/article36351976.ece
08 September 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remove derogatory terms on sexual minorities: plea||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the National Medical Commission and Undergraduate Medical Education Board to consider and take a decision on representations seeking to revise medical textbooks and curriculum by removing unscientific data and derogatory terms against the transgender community and sexual minorities. The petition was filed by the Queerythm LGBTIQ community in Thiruvananthapuram and a Kollam-based NGO, both working towards the welfare of the queer community. According to the petitioners, the references in the medical textbooks prescribed for medical courses termed the Queer community’s sexual or gender identities as an offence, mental disorder or perversion despite recognising such persons' rights by the Supreme Court and decriminalising homosexual intercourse between consenting adults. The curricula, formulated by the commission and the medical education board, portrayed queer and sexual minorities in an inhuman manner. According to them, homosexuality, transvestism and transsexuality were termed as abnormal sexual behaviours in textbooks and described as psycho-sexual patients needing careful handling.  The petitioners pointed out that the volunteers of the NGOs pursuing their undergraduate medical education had expressed their pain and agony at studying the textbooks that stereotype their sexual or gender identities. These descriptions amounted to a discriminatory social attitude and contributed to the stigmatisation faced by the gender and sexual minorities, they contended. The petitioners pointed out that they had already given representations to the commission and the board for removing these terms from the medical textbooks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remove-derogatory-terms-on-sexual-minorities-plea/article36351916.ece
08 September 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 symptomatic persons test negative for Nipah||The Kerala Health Department is awaiting the lab results of seven more persons who are symptomatic for the Nipah infection, which claimed the life of 12-year-old Mohammed Hashim of Chathamangalam in Kozhikode district on Sunday. According to Health Minister Veena George, 10 of 17 symptomatic persons have tested negative for the virus. She told presspersons on Tuesday evening that eight of these samples were tested at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, and two at the special lab set up at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode. The results of five more samples from Pune were expected by Tuesday night. A total of 36 samples of high-risk contacts were also being tested at the MCH. Ms. George said the number of persons on the primary contact list had risen to 257, of whom 122 were in the high-risk category. Forty-four of them were healthcare workers. A total of 51 had been hospitalised. Asked about the government response to repeated instances of Nipah infection in Kozhikode, Ms. George said surveillance of all encephalitis cases was being planned in the district. A survey of bats, the fruit-eating species of which are considered to be natural carriers of the virus, was also in the pipeline. The Minister said a house-to-house surveillance conducted in 3,037 houses in Chathamangalam grama panchayat had revealed that 17 persons had symptoms such as fever. However, they have never had any contact with Hashim. No unnatural fever deaths had been reported so far. Also, there had been no deaths following Nipah symptoms either. The National Centre for Disease Control team on Tuesday visited three places. As a dead bat was found at Manassery near Mukkom, veterinary experts will disinfect the carcass and collect samples to figure out the possibility of the infection spreading from them. State border vigil Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government has tightened the surveillance on the borders it shares with Palakkad district in view of the Nipah virus scare in Kerala. Those coming from northern Kerala were being subjected to intensive checking on the border. Coimbatore Collector G.S. Sameeran visited the areas on Monday and issued instructions. Special camps for monitoring fever and related symptoms had been opened on the borders, especially at Walayar. Those living on the borders had also been asked to step up vigil. The Coimbatore district administration has reportedly issued orders to the officers not to permit entry for anyone showing symptoms like fever and cold. It has asked the police not to allow people to get off their vehicles coming from across Walayar anywhere near the border. The police have also been asked to slap cases against those getting off the vehicles for no valid reason on the border. The control room at Coimbatore will be monitoring the vehicle movements to and from Kerala. People having any symptoms like fever and cold have been asked to avoid travelling to Kerala. Steps were also being taken to maintain vigil on the Talapady checkpost bordering Kerala and Karnataka. “We have already issued an alert for symptoms and the border restriction has been tightened,” said Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. Local doctors had been asked to remain vigilant about Nipah symptoms, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-symptomatic-persons-negative-for-nipah/article36351913.ece
08 September 2021||MOPIDEVI (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Home guard returns lost purse to devotee||A home guard, Venkata Krishna, attached to the Avanigadda police station, handed over a lost purse to a devotee in Sri Submanyeswara Swamy Devastanam (popularly known as Mopidevi temple), on Tuesday. N.N.S.V. Sharma, of Atreyapuram village in East Godavari district, had darshan in the temple. While doing ‘pradakshanams’, Mr. Sharma lost his purse near Nagavalli Vruksham. Venkata Krishna noticed the purse and announced through the public announcement system and handed over the purse to the devotee, said Avanigadda DSP Md. Mahaboob Basha. Mr. Sharma expressed happiness over the sincerity of the home guard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-guard-returns-lost-purse-to-devotee/article36352528.ece
08 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||295 new COVID cases in South Coastal A.P.||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh registered four COVID-19 deaths, two each in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts, in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Tuesday, taking the toll to 2,074 in the region. Prakasam district has accounted for 1,060 fatalities and SPSR Nellore for 1,014 so far, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The number of fresh COVID cases went up to 295 in the region, including 177 in SPSR Nellore district, taking the cumulative tally closer to 2.76 lakh mark in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries in the region stood at 204, 126 in SPSR Nellore district and 78 in Prakasam district. As a result, the number of active cases rose to 2,195 in SPSR Nellore district and 2,278 in Prakasam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/295-new-covid-cases-in-south-coastal-ap/article36351966.ece
08 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Artist calls for boycott of POP idols||Artist Sanath Kumar created a sand sculpture of Lord Ganesha ahead of Vinayaka Chavithi to impress upon the people to celebrate the festival in an eco-friendly manner this year. In a pain-staking effort taking seven hours, he created the beautiful sculpture with three tonnes of sand on the Eruru beach in SPSR Nellore district to underscore the need to save environment by eschewing POP idols and following the cultural tradition of ancestors who used only clay in the past. He said clay idols when immersed in water bodies enriched the soil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eschew-pop-idols-go-for-clay-ones-artist/article36351964.ece
08 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt.’s order to ban festivities comes as a jolt to idol makers||Ganesh Chaturthi is just a few days away and yet, there is hardly any activity in Chagallu, where people come to buy huge Ganesh idols to be installed in pandals in the streets for a cheap price. For the second year in a row, COVID-19 curbs have hit hard idol makers in Chagallu. The artisans, who came from far off places in Gujarat, Rajasthan, West Bengal braving the virus, are now ruing their fates as the State and Central governments have issued directives to ban public celebration of the festival as the thrid wave threat looms large. They had been camping here for over eight-to-nine months after investing huge sums to make attractive idols of different sizes and shapes, a group of artisans said. More than 50 families from northern States come here early in the year and return only after the festival. The artisans lamented that even those who had paid them a part of the cost as advance were unwilling to take the idols following the curbs to discourage community celebrations. They decided to make idols as usual as even cinema halls were opened. “Had the governments made an announcement earlier, they would not have made the idols at all in the first place,” said Rathod Kapoor, an artisan, showing the rows of idols remaining unsold, each of them costing anywhere between Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 per piece. “We will incur huge losses running into several lakhs this year also,” said another artisan Akash Rathod. “We are getting calls for cancellation of the orders,” said K. Samrajyam, who had let out her premises to the idol makers expecting handsome rent. Now she was unsure of getting payment from the artisans in view of the lacklustre trade this year. Rise in cost of raw materials There has also been a steady increase in the cost of raw material including paint, said a workshop owner K.Venkateswarlu who was clueless on paying wages to the workers who have been working day in and day out to make the idols. Now all that they hope for is that at least those idols that measure less than two feet will be sold out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govts-order-to-ban-festivities-comes-as-a-jolt-to-idol-makers/article36351968.ece
08 September 2021||PEDDAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Guli, the Haveri connection of Andhra’s Millet Mission||The traditional agronomic practice of the ‘Guli’ method practised in Karnataka’s Haveri region is attracting thousands of tribal farmers who now are increasingly adopting finger millet cultivation in the north Andhra region. Realising the bumper yield in the Guli method, hundreds of tribal farmers have adopted this method voluntarily. On the other hand, the Andhra Pradesh Community Manager Natural Farming (APCMNF) has intensified its efforts to encourage more farmers to adopt it, apart from giving an impetus to the field-level research through Agriculture Research Stations (ARS). “The tribal farmers were trained in the Guli method. In 2016-17, the method was tested in the Araku in Visakhapatnam Agency, with 100 farmers from six panchayats. By the kharif this year, nearly 5,000 farmers are practising the method and cultivating finger millet in the Northern Andhra region and East Godavari district,” Acharya N.G.Ranga Agricultural University (ANGRAU) Board Member Pachari Devullu told The Hindu.  The unique feature of the Guli method is maintaining an ideal space between plants with square planting design. Each plant should have space of at least one foot distance from the other. More tillers “In Guli method, we have recorded a maximum of 60 tillers of a plant. The highest yield of 18 quintals of finger millet was recorded in 2010-19 kharif. Indigenous varieties such as Pedda Chodi and Chinna Chodi are guaranteeing a bumper yield. Until now, the success has been scripted by adopting recommendations of natural farming without using any fertilizers and pesticides,” said Mr. Devullu. At the ANGRAU, Mr. Devullu, who is from Visakha Agency, is monitoring implementation and performance of the Guli method, by engaging with scientists and tribal farmers. Research activities Last week, scientists of ANGRAU’s Agriculture Research Station (ARS) at Peddapuram planted finger millet on research field, adopting the method. A similar research is in progress at ARS Chintapalli, Seetampeta and Millet Research Institute in Vizianagaram. “The yield is between 6 to 8 quintals more per acre in the Guli method when compared to that from normal farming methods in which farmers use fertilizers and pesticides. The APCMNF initiative is reaching out to farmers across the State, persuading them to shift to the Guli method,” added Mr. Devullu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guli-the-haveri-connection-of-andhras-millet-mission/article36352460.ece
08 September 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Report on investment prospects in Godavari districts in Oct.: MP||Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat on Tuesday announced that a report on the investment prospects in East and West Godavari districts would be released next month. A meeting with the budding entrepreneurs was held here at the Bommana Ramachandra Rao Chamber of Commerce hall. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Bharat has said, “The State government will conduct a special meeting with the bankers and investors in the city soon.” “In case of any industry or new business worth up to Rs. 1 crore, the State government is offering 45% subsidy to the entrepreneurs and the Centre pledges 25% subsidy. The subsidy will be reimbursed by the State government within the six months of the commencement of the business,” Mr. Bharat said. The meeting was chaired by B. Lakshmana Rao, Retired General Manager, ONGC. The Swarnandhra Charitable Trust has conducted the meeting. State Industrial Development Corporation Director Kanuboyina Sagar, A.P. Khadi and Village Industries Board Director Pilli Nirmala Kumari and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/report-on-investment-prospects-in-godavari-districts-in-oct-mp/article36352476.ece
08 September 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Victory Flame’ arrives in Rajamahendravaram||The ‘Victory Flame’ of Swarnim Vijay Varsh, marking the 50th anniversary of India’s victory in the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war, arrived here on Tuesday, where it was received by the families of gallantry awardees from Eastern Naval Command (ENC-Visakhapatnam). A rally was taken across the city covering the Central Prison area, Hi-tech bus stand, Devi Chowk, III Town police station and River Bay hotel. Naik K.J. Victor, brother of late Sep. K. John Kristoper, Vir Chakra (posthumous), and Donga Venkata Ramana, son of the late Sep. Donga Darma Rao received the victory flame from Captain V.S.C.. Rao of the Eastern Naval Command and East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran. Lt. Gen. K.G. Krishna (retd), Major General V.S. Gurunath (retd), Brig. Y.S. Sharma (retd), Lt. Jasti V.V.S. Murthy (retd), Lt.Col. Varun Bhartiya, Commanding Officer, 18 Andhra Batallion, NCC GP, Kakinada, interacted with the family members of those who participated in the 1971 war. The 1971 War Widows and War Disabled soldiers belonging to East Godavari were felicitated by the Defence officials during the commemorative programme. Zilla Sainik Welfare Officer P. Satya Prasad said 552 soldiers belonging to the East Godavari district had participated in the 1971 war. Rajamahendravaram Urban SP Aiswarya Rastogi and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/victory-flame-arrives-in-rajamahendravaram/article36352452.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sunday lockdown, night curfew withdrawn||A COVID-19 review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided to withdraw the pandemic-impelled Sunday lockdown and night curfew (10 a.m. to 6 p.m.). Briefing mediapersons here, Mr. Vijayan said in-person learning could commence on residential campuses. Teachers and students should remain confined to the bio-bubble. They should have received at least one dose of vaccine From October 4, colleges can admit final year graduate and postgraduate students. However, the faculty, students and staff should have received at least one dose of the vaccine. Expediting vaccine Mr. Vijayan urged the General and Higher Education Departments to expedite the double vaccination of teachers and staff. He hinted that the State could expect more sectors to open up as it moved towards total inoculation. Mr. Vijayan said COVID-19 hospitalisations had plateaued, and an estimated three crore people have received at least one dose of vaccine. The vaccination drive has picked up again after the Centre supplied 10 lakh doses on Monday. The mask and physical distancing mandate would continue, while in-person dining remained banned. Mr. Vijayan asked district disaster management authorities not to show any laxity in publishing containment and micro-containment zone on the COVID Jagrata portal. He said the authorities should upload details about the zones on a daily basis. On Wednesday, the authorities should publish details about larger containment zones.  An estimated three crore people have received at least one dose of vaccine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sunday-lockdown-night-curfew-withdrawn/article36351918.ece
08 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two WB natives killed after being hit by train||Two migrant workers were found dead reportedly after being hit by a train near Thumba on Tuesday. The Thumba police identified the deceased as James Oran, 39, and Ganesh Oran, 26, both of who hailed from West Bengal. They used to reside in a rented house at Chithra Nagar in Kulathoor close to the railway track. The bodies were found lying on the track by local residents during the early hours of the day. While their mobile phones and earphones were also found close by, the police suspected the duo to have met with the accident late Monday while they were crossing the railway track unmindful of the oncoming train while listening to music or talking on the phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-wb-natives-killed-after-being-hit-by-train/article36351919.ece
08 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uncertainty looms large over Tirumala Brahmotsavams||Uncertainty looms large over the open conduct of the nine-day annual Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala this year. Speculations of a possible third wave of COVID has nevertheless dampened the spirit behind the conduct of the annual event, to which devotees across the globe attach immense importance. Though the mega festival is scheduled to commence from October 7, the absence of the ‘hype’ that normally surrounds the mega pageantry is being conspicuously felt. Generally the preparations for the grand festival begin at least four months in advance. Ahead of the commencement of the festival, the TTD embarks on numerous activities like sprucing up the town, barricading of the Mada Streets, setting up of pandals at identified points, works relating to electrification and sanitation, drawing police forces from all over the Rayalseema districts, internal drafting of additional staff atop the town besides augmenting arrangements at Annadanam, darshan, accommodation, tonsuring, etc,. No decision Even though the annual event is exactly a month away, the top echelons of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) management are yet to arrive at any concrete decision with regard to the open conduct of the event . For the first time in the history of the temple, the celebrations last year were confined only to the inner precincts of the hill temple owing to the pandemic. Though the temple was all set to experience two Brahmotsavams last year, they were conducted on a low key note devoid of all the pomp and gaiety. Even the two-time daily processions of the deities on various vahanams that form the core part of the festival were limited to the four walls of the temple complex. Should the TTD decide to tread last year’s path, then it would be for the second consecutive year that the devotees would be deprived of the opportunity of taking part in the festivities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uncertainty-looms-over-brahmotsavams/article36352025.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPMVV honours outstanding teachers||Commemorating the centenary celebrations of Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) honoured its excelling teachers with awards based on various parameters. The varsity decided to honour its teachers on its own, as the State government could not announce the awards this year owing to the COVID situation. V-C D. Jamuna, Rector D. Sarada, Registrar D.M. Mamatha, deans and heads of department gave away the ‘Best teacher award’ to professors Dwaram Lakshmi, G. Sarah Sarojini, N. Chandrakala, R. Usha, B. Jeevana Jyothi, M. Usha Rani, D. Saritha and Ganga Bhavani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spmvv-honours-outstanding-teachers/article36351969.ece
08 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD worker, who tried to end life, dies||A middle-aged worker employed with the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) died at SVIMS super speciality hospital here on Tuesday, a day after making a vain suicide bid. Uday Kumar (47) sustained grievous injury on the head when he jumped from atop a guest house building on Tirumala hills, reportedly owing to mental agony. His colleagues allege police excesses as the reason behind the extreme step. According to Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) city president T. Subrahmanyam, the police officials had summoned him several times for a theft case that he had not committed, driving him to the extreme step. Contacted by the media, Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu said that an enquiry had been ordered to unearth the facts behind the suicide bid and promised to initiate action based on its outcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-worker-who-attempted-suicide-dies/article36351971.ece
08 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees slight dip in active COVID cases||The State reported 10 more deaths due to COVID-19 and 1,178 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative tally and toll increased to 20,23,242 and 13,935 respectively. The number of active cases slightly came down to 14,452 as 1,266 patients recovered in the past day. Total recoveries and recovery rate stands at 19,94,855 and 98.60% respectively. The daily positivity rate of the 54,970 tests conducted in the past day was 2.14% and that of the 2.7 crore tests conducted so far was 7.48%. The last 10 lakh tests were conducted in the past 17 days and their positivity rate was 2.19%. Krishna, Nellore and Prakasam reported two new deaths each while Chittoor, East Godavari, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one death each. Six districts witnessed no death in the past day. Chittoor reported 204 new infections. It was followed by Nellore (177), Krishna (151), Guntur (135), West Godavari (124), Prakasam (118), Visakhapatnam (74), East Godavari (72), Srikakulam (48), Kurnool (34), Anantapur (17), Kadapa (15) and Vizianagaram (9). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,87,007), Chittoor (2,39,599), West Godavari (1,75,212), Guntur (1,73,372), Anantapur (1,57,270), Visakhapatnam (1,55,421), Nellore (1,41,403), Prakasam (1,34,506), Kurnool (1,23,888), Srikakulam (1,22,276), Krishna (1,14,688), Kadapa (1,13,174) and Vizianagaram (82,531).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-slight-dip-in-active-covid-cases/article36352456.ece
08 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clay idols being readied for Vinayaka Chavithi||With just a couple of days left for Vinayaka Chaviti, artisans are busy giving final touches to the idols of Lord Ganesh. A variety of idols have been lined up at Kondapalli, Gollapudi Centre and near Siddhartha College in the city. Clay idols of various sizes and shapes greet visitors at a workshop at Kummari Bazaar in Kondapalli. Sunkara Srinivas, who has been making the idols for the last 10 years, explained that the first step in the idol-making process is to source different kinds of material — clay and mud —from Kolkata, in January. “Five truckloads of soil from the Ganga was sourced from Kolkata. Actual work began in February. Idols of different shapes and sizes were made. Depending on the shape and size, the price of each idol costs anywhere between Rs. 600 to Rs. 2,000. The idols mostly are of clay colour. Some people feel the idols look dull and ask us to add colour. We explain to them that these are eco-friendly. If they persist, we use sketch pens to put a ‘tilak’ or ‘namam’ on the forehead,” he said. Mr. Srinivas added that Rs. 7.5 lakh was spent on sourcing the clay alone. “Thirty artisans were hired from Kolkata, and a total amount of Rs. 25 lakh was paid to them. Twenty local artisans were also involved in the making of idols. The Kolkata clay from the Ganga is considered pure and virtuous so the artisans use only that to create the idols. It also gives a smooth finish unlike the rough mud which leads to cracks on the idol,” Mr. Srinivas said. The whole process took around five months, he said. Mr. Srinivas said that 50,000 idols were exported to Hyderabad. Around 20,000 idols were kept ready for sale in A.P.. Of these, 2,000 idols were two to four feet tall. “Initially, I had planned to make six-feet idols also but the government has curbed public celebrations. Now, idols with a height of six inches to four feet are available," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clay-idols-being-readied-for-vinayaka-chavithi/article36352448.ece
08 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remove curbs on Vinayaka Chavithi, BJP urges Governor||Taking strong exception to the restrictions imposed by the State government on Vinayaka Chavithi celebrations in public places, the BJP has urged the Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to intervene and order the removal of the curbs. In a representation made to the Governor on Tuesday, BJP State president Somu Veerraju said Vinayaka Chavithi was an important festival for the Hindus and it was an age-old tradition to erect Ganesh pandals as part of the festivities. He pointed out that no such curbs were implemented in the neighbouring States of Telangana and Karnataka, where the celebrations were allowed in strict adherence to COVID-19 protocol. Alleging discrimination towards the Hindus and their religious sentiments, the BJP leader said installation of Alams were allowed at Ashoorkhana (Peerla Chavidi) during the Muharram recently, where gathering of 30 to 40 members in majlis was allowed. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy himself was part of a large gathering recently on the occasion of the death anniversary of his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy,” Mr. Veerraju pointed out, adding that local body elections were also conducted in the middle of the second wave of the pandemic. “Schools have reopened. Cinema theatres have started functioning. Public and private functions are happening around. Then why curbs on the celebration of Vinayaka Chavithi alone?” he asked. Drawing attention to the plight of the artisans , he urged Mr. Harichandan to issue orders to the authorities concerned to allow celebrations in public places in adherence to COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remove-curbs-on-vinayaka-chavithi-bjp-urges-governor/article36352463.ece
08 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway Board panel visits Gudur, Nellore stations||Members of the Passengers Amenities Committe (PAC), constituted by the Railway Board, inspected Venkatachalam, Gudur and Nellore railway stations in the division on Tuesday. The PAC, comprising P. Madhusudhana, Dr. G. V. Manjunath, Nirmala Kishore Bollina, K. Ravichandran and Gottala Uma Rani inspected the general and ladies’ waiting halls, feeding rooms, RO water vending stalls, CCTVs, quality of drinking water, toilets, first aid kits and other facilities. The panel observed the working condition of lifts, foot over-bridges, escalators, fans and Divyang Jan amenities at the stations. Senior Divisional Commissioner P. Bhaskar Reddy explained the footfall at each station, and the facilities provided for passengers on the platforms. Mr. Bhaskar Reddy said that wheelchairs for senior citizens were provided at all stations. South Central Railway officers R. C. Sahoo, Mirza Qadir Baig, K. Ramesh, and E. Sudarshan Reddy accompanied the PAC team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railway-board-panel-visits-gudur-nellore-stations/article36352526.ece
08 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Victory Flame’ to reach Vijayawada today||The Victory Flame of Swarnim Vijay Varsh, commemorating the 50th anniversary celebrations of India’s victory in the 1971 war, kick-started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi, will reach Vijayawada on Wednesday. Sainik Welfare Department Assistant Director V.V. Raja Rao recalled that in December 1971, the Indian Armed Forces secured a historic victory over the Pakistan army, which led to the creation of Bangladesh. He said on Wednesday, an Eastern Naval Command team would reach the Ramesh Hospital junction on Eluru Road at 9.30 a.m. with the Victory Flame. Later, the team would reach the Raj Bhavan where Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan would felicitate war veterans and “veer naris”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/victory-flame-to-reach-vijayawada-today/article36352464.ece
08 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector releases awards poster||District Collector J. Nivas unveiled the Inspire Awards- Manak 2021 campaign poster along with District Education Officer Tahera Sultana and District Science Officer Mynam Hussain here on Tuesday. Mr. Nivas said that in the Manak competitions organised by the Department of Science and Technology and National Innovation Foundation students of the district bagged 1,100 awards in the past two years and more students should get awards this year. Mr. Nivas appreciated Mr. Hussain for encouraging students to take part in the competitions. Ms. Sultana said all school managements should send nominations of student projects before September 30. Each school can send five nominations from high school and two nominations from upper primary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-releases-awards-poster/article36352529.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMRDA plan designed to benefit the rich: TDP||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) leader and former Minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy has alleged that the VMRDA Master Plan is designed to benefit the rich and promote corruption. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, he wondered for whom the road from the forest guest house to Hanumanthawaka was included in the Master Plan. A commercial complex was constructed in a green belt and the land under cultivation of farmers was converted into a green belt. Mr. Murthy alleged that the lands belonging to the common people were being included in 22 -A to benefit the influential people. (The State government has incorporated the Section 22-A prohibiting the sale and registration of the land notified as barren, assigned, poramboke and government land.) He wondered as to why the Simhachalam devasthanam lands, taken under LRC, were being continued under 22-A. He sought that YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, district in charge Minister K. Kannababu and district Minister M. Srinivasa Rao should come out with an explanation on it. He said that though 16,000 objections were received against the Master Plan, they were ignored by the VMRDA. He wondered how a road could be constructed in a reserve forest. He demanded cancellation of the VMRDA Master Plan and bringing out a new one in its place. Visakhapatnam Parliament Telugu Mahila president S. Anantalakshmi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmrda-plan-designed-to-benefit-the-rich-tdp/article36352536.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prepare plans to check the spread of seasonal diseases, officials told||Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas has advised the officials to prepare plans for the effective implementation of preventive measures to check the spread of seasonal diseases. Presiding over a review meeting with people’s representatives and the officials at the VMRDA Children’s Theatre here on Tuesday, the Health Minister said that this year like last year, there were good rains and the incidence of seasonal diseases like dengue, malaria and chikungunya was quite high in the Visakhapatnam district, as per the statistics provided by the district officials. While the incidence of malaria was high in the Agency areas, dengue was more in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and in the limits of other municipalities in the district. A total of 462 cases of dengue, 708 malaria and 24 chikungunya cases were reported in the district. While appreciating the officials for their dedication in containing the seasonal diseases, he called for creating greater awareness among people, especially in the tribal areas, so that they prevent stagnation of rainwater around their homes. Mr. Srinivas called upon District Collector A. Mallikarjuna to prepare special plans for the Agency areas and ensure regular door-to-door campaigns by ASHA and health workers. Doctors should be asked to stay in the tribal areas and organise medical camps, if necessary. He said that the government has improved the infrastructure at the government hospitals during the last two years. Mosquito nets Commending the measures taken by the officials in releasing gambusia fish into drains to check the proliferation of mosquito larvae, he suggested that such measures should be continued to check the thriving of mosquitoes, which were causing various diseases. He also appreciated the plan to distribute five lakh mosquito nets, in places where malaria was rampant. District in-charge Minister Kurasala Kannababu said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had ordered holding of a review meet in Visakhapatnam as the incidence of malaria and dengue was more in the district. He underlined the need for the Medical and Health and Panchayat Raj Departments to conduct a door-to-door fever survey in the district. He called for field visits by the ASHA workers, ANMs, secretariat staff and doctors. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivas suggested that the general funds of the panchayats could be used for the control of seasonal diseases. Fogging machines could be used in the villages, where there was high incidence of malaria, by coordinating with the Zilla Parishad CEO, he said. Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, Government Whip Budi Mutyala Naidu, Collector A. Mallikarjuna, Joint Collector Arun Babu, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, ITDA Project Officer R. Gopalakrishna, Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar and VIMS Director K. Rambabu were among those who attended. The Deputy Chief Minister and his Cabinet colleagues released a poster brought out on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prepare-plans-to-check-spread-of-seasonal-diseases-officials-told/article36352522.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Disha covers all segments related to women’s safety’||The Disha programme launched by the State government is a comprehensive programme for women’s safety, as it covers almost all segments concerning the safety of women, said Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, here on Monday. Speaking to The Hindu , he said that primarily the programme focusses on educating women on their rights and how to access the justice delivery system. The programme is administered through Mahila Mitra or Cyber Mitra or through various social media platforms such as Facebook and Instagram, and also through Mahila police. The outreach and emergency response factors are also embedded in this programme, which includes calling the Mahila Police, dial 100, dial 112, social media platforms, Disha application and Disha Patrol vehicles. The idea is to reach women in distress at the earliest, he said. The programme also addresses the prevention aspect, said Mr. Manish Kumar Sinha. He said that women were now coming out to lodge their complaints. About 52% of Spandana complainants are women and 89% of complaints coming to Cyber Mitra are also from women. “We have also worked on the investigation angle and these days police are filing charge-sheet on an average within 42 days. All charge-sheets are getting vetted by the Special Public Prosecutor, to tighten the case,” he said. Integrated crime scene vehicle has also given us the edge to speed up the investigation, he said. According to him, all efforts are being made for capacity building. Training is being imparted right from constables to the Assistant Commissioners of Police, to make the investigation scientific, evidence-based and foolproof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disha-covers-all-segments-related-to-womens-safety/article36352535.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals of Samalammakonda finally get to see bulbs glowing||The agitations organised by the tribal families living atop Samalammakonda of Cheemalapadu panchayat in Ravikamatham mandal during the past three years seeking power supply to their hamlet have yielded results at last. A Good Samaritan and his colleagues joined hands to make it a reality. Around 50 people belonging to 10 families, had been organising protests on and off, seeking power connectivity and other basic amenities to their hamlet. The news of the protests, which appeared in the media, caught the attention of Joseph Henry, a Pastor at Christian Brethren Assembly Church of Anakapalle. He went to the village, interacted with the residents, and understood their problems. Mr. Joseph, along with some other members of the church, arranged for three bulbs for each household apart from four streetlights. He also installed a 1.5 kw capacity solar power plant at a cost of Rs. 1.20 lakh, much to the delight of the residents. The power supply to the hamlet began on Monday night, bringing smiles on the faces of the families. They performed Dhimsa in the honour of their benefactor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-of-samalammakonda-finally-get-to-see-bulbs-glowing/article36352027.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man arrested in 6 cases||The Anakapalle Central Crime Station (CCS) police arrested a 26-year-old youth for allegedly being involved in six cases, including house break-ins at various places in the Visakhapatnam district. The arrested was identified as D. Durga Rao, a resident of Jagannadhapuram area of Kakinada. According to the police, the accused had committed two house break-ins in Atchutapuram, two in Parawada and two thefts in Kakinada (East Godavari). The police said that Durga Rao had stolen gold and silver ornaments, mobile phones, a motorcycle, LED TV and a few other valuables, all worth Rs. 5.35 lakh. The police have recovered gold and silver ornaments weighing 105 grams from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-arrested-in-six-cases/article36352480.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cookery competition organised||A cookery competition was organised by the GITAM Women Empowerment Cell in connection with National Nutrition Week here on Tuesday. Around 20 women faculty and non-teaching staff participated in the competition. Cell chairperson Ch. Surekha delivered the inaugural address. GIMSR Hospital nutrition expert P. Manasa Lakshmi said that nutritional needs change in women in different life stages. GITAM Hospitality wing executive chef A. Rupeswara Rao attended as a judge to select the final winner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cookery-competition-organised/article36352542.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports one death, 74 new cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 74 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,55,931. Only 43 COVID-19 patients had recovered from the virus during the same time period. After almost a week, the district reported one more death taking the toll to 1,076. The last death was reported on September 1. The number of active cases stand at 1,108, while the recoveries have increased to 1,53,747.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-one-death-74-new-cases/article36352544.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leaders planning to grab lands in district: TDP||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) Visakhapatnam Parliament district president Pasarla Prasad has alleged that the YSR Congress Party leaders are planning to grab lands in the city and the district in the name of making Visakhapatnam as Executive Capital of the State. He was referring to the recent statements of Rajya Sabha member and YSRCP general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy that he has no interest of acquiring lands in the city. Mr. Prasad alleged that Mr. Vijaya Sai was behind many land scams being committed by the YSRCP leaders in the Visakhapatnam district. He alleged that a ruling party MLA had tried to acquire land valued at Rs. 100 crore for Rs. 20 crore at Kommadi, with forged documents. He also alleged that the revenue officials were trying to shield him. The TDP leader alleged that the usual method employed to grab land was to involve it in some litigation and exert pressure on the owner to sell it at a throwaway price. Mr. Prasad alleged that Yelamanchili MLA Kannababu Raju had grabbed 750 square yards of land at Seethammadhara in the city during the Congress rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-planning-to-grab-land-in-vizag/article36352521.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prevent accidental deaths, DRM tells officials||Divisional Railway Manager Anup Kumar Satpathy has expressed concern at the growing unfortunate incidents of accidental deaths due to run-over by trains, trespassing on railway tracks and footboard travel, and emphasised on the importance of extensive campaigns in this regard. As many as 185 such unfortunate deaths have occurred in the current year, till August, in the Waltair Division. The Railway Protection Force (RPF)launched an awareness drive, involving all stakeholders, according to a statement issued by the Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. A web portal for RPF personnel ‘e-Suvidha’, developed by the Railway Board, was launched by Mr. Satpathy,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prevent-accidental-deaths-drm-tells-officials/article36352540.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held for attack on YSRCP worker||The Kasimkota police on Tuesday arrested three persons on the charges of attacking and injuring a YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) worker Malla Bullibabu in the Visakhapatnam district on September 3. The arrested were identified as K. Naga Uday Sai Kumar (26), V. Papa Rao (44), both from Kasimkota, and A. Shankar Rao (31). Addressing the media at Anakapalle on Tuesday, Anakapalle Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Sravani said that old grudges and political rivalries had led to the attack. She said that Papa Rao had taken the help of Sai Kumar who attacked the YSRCP worker with a sharp-edged weapon. Mr. Bullibabu is undergoing treatment at a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-for-attack-on-ysrcp-worker/article36352541.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto driver stabbed to death||The city police are on the look out for the accused involved in the murder case of a 30-year-old auto-rickshaw driver, at Arilova here on Monday night. The police suspect that only one person might have been involved in the murder, who had committed the crime on the spur of the moment. According to the police, auto-rickshaw driver Polipalli Rambabu (30), had reportedly gone out at around 7.30 p.m. on Monday. The victim was intercepted by another unidentified person who stabbed him. Though Rambabu was rushed to a nearby private hospital, he was declared brought dead. The police confirmed that Rambabu had no criminal history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-stabbed-to-death/article36352481.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chit fund case: Malla Vijay Prasad taken to Odisha||YSRCP leader Malla Vijay Prasadwas was taken to Bhubaneswar on a transit remand, after the Economic Offences Wing of Odisha CID arrested him on Monday night in a chit fund case surfaced in 2019. He was produced before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Visakhapatnam on Monday, taken to the King George Hospital (KGH) for a medical checkup, before being taken to Odisha. As per a release by the Odisha Police, Mr. Vijay Prasad was arrested under various sections such as 420/406/467/468/471/120-B of the IPC read with Section 4,5 & 6 of the PC & MC Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 / Section 6 of the OPID Act, 2011. He was produced before the Court of OPID, Cuttack on Tuesday. Mr. Vijay Prasad allegedly duped a large number of investors of crores by promising high rate of interest through different deposit schemes floated by the Wellfare Group of Companies. He is the managing director of the firm. As per the Odisha Police, investigation has revealed that the Wellfare Building & Estates Private Limited Company was initially registered with the ROC, Hyderabad and subsequently changed to Kolkata during 2011, having its head office in Visakhapatnam and a registered office in Kolkata. Between 2009 and 2014, the company operated its branch offices in Bhubaneswar, Narsinghpur (Cuttack) and Nayagarh in Odisha. It has been ascertained that the company, represented through its managing director (Mr. Vijay Prasad) and others, had lured people with false promise of higher returns and unauthorisedly collected huge amounts before absconding from the locality after closing down their offices, said police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chit-fund-case-malla-vijay-prasad-taken-to-odisha/article36352465.ece
08 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps taken to develop higher education, says Javadekar||Former Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said that the Centre has taken a number of initiatives to develop higher education in India. He was addressing a webinar organised by the Department of Electrical Engineering, Andhra University College of Engineering, on the theme ‘National Education Policy and HRD initiatives’. Speaking about a few schemes, he said that introducing the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranking for institutions imparting higher education, including universities, has brought in a healthy competitive environment. Mr. Javadekar said that the UGC has granted greater autonomy to universities having National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) score of 3.25 and above and this should give enough leverage to universities to design their own courses and curriculum in tune with the demand from the industries. Mr. Javadekar said the Hackathon competition for students has given a fillip to the innovating young minds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-taken-to-develop-higher-education-says-javadekar/article36352534.ece
08 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will highlight issues despite threats: JSP||Jana Sena Party leaders Palavalasa Yashaswi and Adada Mohana Rao said that the party would continue to highlight public issues and grievances in spite of the threats from ruling party leaders. Ms. Yashaswi, an advocate, said that the police should file charge-sheets in the incident that occurred in Amadalavalasa where JSP leaders were attacked for holding a banner highlighting the deplorable condition of roads. “As a responsible Opposition party, we will continue to fight on public issues. The Constitution gives citizens the freedom of speech. The police should maintain neutrality,” she said. In another release, she said that YSRCP leaders were worried over the overwhelming response to the digital campaign launched by the JSP to highlight the condition of roads in State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-highlight-issues-despite-threats-jsp/article36352477.ece
08 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to remove illegal constructions||Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy and Mayor Vempadapu Vijayalakshmi on Tuesday directed municipal corporation officials to remove all unauthorised constructions along canals. They said that many low-lying areas were being inundated whenever there was a heavy downpour due to those constructions. Both public representatives visited the railway under-bridge area of YSR Nagar where people had faced many difficulties with the stagnation of rainwater. Mr. Veerabhadra Swamy said that corporation officials were suggested to prepare a long-term plan for creation of a proper drainage system. Vizianagaram municipal officials told him that the special teams would ensure normalcy within two days in all markets and other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-remove-illegal-constructions/article36352478.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fervent plea||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fervent-plea/article36352538.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In a fix||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-a-fix/article36352546.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waiting to be heard||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waiting-to-be-heard/article36352524.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unenviable task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unenviable-task/article36352531.ece
08 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Coal production hit||The Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL)’s Opencast Projects (OCPs) in Kothagudem region resembled marooned islands with extensive waterlogging caused by the heavy rains over the past few days. The coal belt region spanning the tribal majority district and its neighbouring Khammam and Jayashankar Bhupalpally districts has been witnessing incessant rains for the last three days. The heavy rains virtually brought the overburden removal operations to a grinding halt curtailing the movement of high-capacity dumpers, shovels and other heavy machinery in the Opencast Projects. 122 mm rainfall The coal production in the Opencast Projects continued to remain affected , Singareni Collieries Company Limited sources said. The JVR Opencast Project near Sattupalli in Khammam district recorded 122 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, ending at 8 am on Tuesday. The JVR Opencast Project produced 3829 tonnes of coal as against its daily output target of 19,231 tonnes of coal during the three shifts in the last 24 hours till Tuesday morning. The coal production in the GK Opencast Project stood at 3893 tonnes as against the set daily production target of 8462 tonnes of coal owing to the major disruption caused by heavy rains, sources in the coal company added. The JK Opencast Project in Yellandu recorded 4000 tonnes of coal production much below the stipulated daily coal output target of 9000 tonnes on Monday. According to sources, the coal mines in Jayashankar Bhupalpally district suffered a major production loss of nearly 6000 tonnes of coal due to heavy rains in the last two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coal-production-hit/article36352028.ece
08 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||‘Beggar’ found dead||An elderly man, said to be a beggar, died while taking shelter on the premises of the bus stand during heavy rain overnight in Aswaraopeta town early on Tuesday morning. Sources said the man aged around 70 eked out a living by seeking alms. Gram panchayat staff and members of a voluntary organisation performed the last rites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/beggar-found-dead/article36352291.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Aedes larva all pervasive in city||Larva of Dengue mosquito is becoming more pervasive in certain areas of the city where fresh infections have surfaced. In certain instances, even eggs of the mosquitoes are found to have been infected by the virus. Officials from the Entomology wing of GHMC have informed that the larvae of Aedes aegypti mosquito which carries the Dengue virus have been found in every third house in certain areas where the incidence is high. The areas include Secunderabad, Saroornagar, Amberpet, Begumpet, Karwan, Goshamahal, Musheerabad and others. “Our teams are carrying out anti-larval activities in all the houses up to half a kilometre around the infected household. Each day, they cover upward of one lakh households. It has been noticed that, of every 10 houses thus covered, Dengue larvae is found in at least three to four,” Chief Entomologist A. Rambabu informed. Further, the virus is already found to be there in the Aedes eggs due to trans-ovarian transmission, which hatch into mosquitoes born with the virus. According to prior understanding, the mosquito is thought to be a vector for transmission between humans. Officials said the number of dengue cases in city have gone up to about 120, of which 76 are confirmed infections. However, it cannot be said whether each confirmed positive is a case of dengue fever, because the virus could be latent in some individuals, claim officials. The coming two months are favourable for mosquito explosion, thanks to continuous rainy days, and utmost care should be exercised to eradicate larvae. Gated communities are especially susceptible to proliferation of Dengue mosquito, due to accumulation of rain water at various public spots including flower pots, fountains, ornamental features, and swimming pools, Mr. Rambabu says. “We have found abundant presence of larva in gated communities of Serilingampally, Chandanagar, Jubilee Hills and Yousufguda areas,” he said. GHMC teams are able to cover only about 13 lakh households from a total estimated 25 lakh in the city. Unless colony welfare associations, youth associations and NGOs chip in, it will be next to impossible to contain the breeding, warn officials. “Fifty per cent of the breeding is done in the plates placed underneath the flower pots, which people do not bother to empty. Water drums, sumps and tanks are other dangerous spots. The large number of vacant plots and locked houses in the city add to the numbers, as they are used as garbage dumps by others. In such circumstances, there is only so much we can do to contain mosquito proliferation, without community participation,” Mr. Rambabu says. Close to 5,400 vacant plots and over 16,000 locked houses have been enumerated in the city by GHMC authorities under the Urban Malaria Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aedes-larva-all-pervasive-in-city/article36352271.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rains make Singur, Nizamsagar surplus||All the major and medium irrigation projects and minor irrigation tanks, particularly in the Godavari Basin, are discharging surplus water downstream with incessant rains lashing the immediate catchment areas within the State and in the upstream areas of Karnataka and Maharashtra. The ongoing spell of heavy rains made Singur and Nizamsagar projects, the only project yet to reach surplus position till the other day, surplus as the authorities took up spillway discharge of flood from Monday night at Singur and from Tuesday evening at Nizamsagar, as a precautionary measure to keep a safe flood cushion in the reservoirs. According to irrigation authorities, the discharge of flood from the spillway of Singur was commenced around 9 pm on Monday with a discharge of about 4,500 cusecs and it was likely to increase to 35,500 cusecs as the inflow went up to 40,200 cusecs. The storage was 29.16 tmc ft against its capacity of 29.91 tmc ft. Similarly, the spillway discharge at Nizamsagar was taken up on Tuesday evening by letting out 7,300 cusecs against the inflow of 22,650 cusecs. Storage of the reservoir was 15.83 tmc ft against its capacity of 17.8 tmc ft as of Tuesday evening. Meanwhile, Sriramsagar was receiving huge flood, highest in recent years, as of Tuesday evening as the inflow was 3.5 lakh cusecs and the discharge of flood from the spillway too was similar at 3.5 lakh cusecs from 33 crest gates. Another 7,000 cusecs of flood was also being let into river after power generation. The engineers of Sriramsagar alerted officials and people living in the habitations along the river course downstream that the discharge could cross 4 lakh cuses or even more as more flood was forecast from the upstream. Similarly, Mid Manair was getting inflow of 59,300 cusecs, Lower Manair 2.62 lakh cusecs and Kaddam 22,300 cusecs. Outflow was 1.05 lakh cusecs, 2.62 lakh cusecs and 18,150 cusecs, respectively. At Yellampally Barrage, the inflow was 5,21,700 cusecs and the discharge was 5,75,750 cusecs and at Medigadda Barrage it was 7,75,350 cusecs and 7,94,990 cusecs, respectively. In the Krishna Basin, Jurala was getting 93,000 cusecs flood and discharging over 1.03 lakh cusecs including 72,900 cusecs from 11 spillway gates and another 30,450 cusecs with power generation. As a result, the storage of Srisailam reservoir was improving and reached 168 tmc ft against its capacity of 215.8 tmc ft after it went down below 155 tmc ft with regular drawals for canals, lifts and power generation by Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Of the 36 medium irrigation projects in the State, the cumulative inflow and outflow was 2.1 lakh cusecs as a healthy cumulative flood cushion was being maintained. Against their capacity of 62.12 tmc ft together, the projects were holding 56 tmc ft as of Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-rains-make-singur-nizamsagar-surplus/article36352281.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Are you toothless tiger, HC asks PCB||Telangana High Court on Tuesday asked State Pollution Control Board if it was a toothless tiger as it was not cracking whip against pollution of Hussainsagar due to immersion of Ganesh idols made of plaster of paris. While reserving orders in a contempt of court case relating to immersion of Ganesh idols in Hussainsagar, a bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Vinod Kumar sought to know why the PCB was not acting against pollution despite it having powers under different Acts. “You take action against quarry owners...somehow you are not doing much on pollution of Hussainsagar”, the Acting CJ observed. He wondered what had happened to the powers conferred on PCB under Water and Environment Protection Acts. “Apparently there is no will to do anything...a statute confers power on you and you shirk responsibility,” he remarked. The bench heard contentions of different parties including the government before reserving orders, making it clear that it wanted short-term solutions to check pollution due to immersion of Ganesh idols in Hussainsagar. The bench noted that everyone was giving suggestions and advice but the government wings concerned were not willing to enforce the law and rules. Referring to the authorities’ contention that people were encouraged to use idols made of clay instead of those polluting environment, the bench said that “when there is a rule it should be enforced”. “State is empowered to enforce the law. You are not serious about pollution,” the Acting CJ said referring to different government wings concerned. Citing the Central PCB rules, the Acting CJ asked the government counsel if the State government had banned use of idols made of plaster of paris. When government counsel contended that idols made of plaster of paris were not harmful to the environment, the bench made it clear that the CPCB had prohibited using such idols. “Cannot you see the idols made of PoP being transported on the roads?” the Acting CJ said. Earlier, the bench expressed dissatisfaction over GHMC Commissioner filing the counter affidavit in the matter in the last minute. “The court begins at 10.30 a.m. and the counter affidavit is filed by GHMC Commissioner at 10.20 a.m.” the bench said. Since no counter affidavit was received from the police by then, the bench remarked that the Hyderabad Police Commissioner did not seem to have time to respond to the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/are-you-toothless-tiger-hc-asks-pcb/article36352283.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||‘TRS won’t keep quiet on misinformation’||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) would give a fitting reply, as “tit for tat”, to the so called national parties every time their leaders make allegations and indulge in misinformation campaign against the Telangana Rashtra Samithigovernment, working president of the party K. T. Rama Rao has said. Taking a dig, particularly at Congress, he said some leaders, who he said had lived as second grade citizens during the combined Andhra Pradesh in their own party, and also those who were learning politics, were talking nonsense. He sought to know why the national parties had failed to provide even basic needs such as water and power to people of Telangana for 70 years. Executive meeting Speaking at an extended executive meeting of the party’s Greater Hyderabad unit here on Tuesday Mr. Rama Rao, who also holds the portfolio of Industries, IT and Municipal Administration in the Cabinet, alleged that the Congress had always conspired against Telangana and the statehood movement. The party had always tried to trample the movement but had to give in to the demand in inevitable circumstances. From a single soul (KCR) taking off on a journey for the statehood by quitting the Assembly Deputy Speaker post, TRS was an indomitable political force now, Mr. Rama Rao said adding that by having poll alliance with Congress (2004) and TDP (2009) the TRS had made the two parties speak in support of Telangana. However, the Congress had failed to keep its promise on statehood given in 2004 after its 2009 victory. Later, it had to give in to the demand following massive support to KCR’s fast in support of statehood to Telangana, he said. “We (TRS) have been observing for the last seven years but have decided now to give fitting reply to every utterance of Congress and BJP leaders. We have readied the armoury to counter the Opposition parties’ attack effectively and efficiently,” the TRS working president said. On Huzurabad bypolls, Mr. Rama Rao said it was a small election and the local leaders would handle it. He instructed party leaders to complete formation of Basthi, colony and 150 division committees of the party by September 20. He stated that those working hard for the party would be rewarded while filling 500 corporation posts soon. Stating that training programmes for party ranks would begin soon after Dasara, the TRS working president said the party office of the Greater Hyderabad unit would be constructed at a place convenient to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-wont-keep-quiet-on-misinformation/article36352278.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Thinking outside the box to shift pregnant duo to safety||Officials in Telangana employed unconventional modes of transport to shift two pregnant women to safety owing to flooding in their respective areas. While one was taken to hospital on an excavator, the other was wheeled out on a railway trolley! A young pregnant woman in Autonagar of Rajanna Sircilla district developed labour pain on Tuesday morning. However, her locality and the roads were heavily inundated following incessant rain over the past two days. Superintendent of Police Rahul Hegde said her relatives put their heads together and came up with some solutions they thought could work. As part of their plan, a lorry was bought in but the vehicle couldn’t make its way through the water. Initial setback “There was more than three feet of water. Apart from that, there was silt too. There was a possibility of vehicles getting stuck,” said Mr Hegde. With Plan A failing, they had to think on their feet. Finally, an excavator was pushed into service based on the suggestion of one of her relatives. That was used to carry the mother to-be and a few of her family members out of the flooded area. After reaching a safe place, she was shifted to a police vehicle and taken to the hospital around 500 metres from her residence, said Rajana Sircilla Rural police inspector B. Upender. In another incident on Sunday early morning, another pregnant woman from Karamkote village in Tanduru of Vikarabad district was being shifted to the District Hospital in a ‘108’ ambulance when they encountered a water body overflowing onto the road. With no option, the ambulance had to pull to a stop along with other vehicles. “Though our staff waited, the water level did not recede. So our team approached the Railway officials and shifted the pregnant woman on a trolley, wheeling it on the rail tracks. She was admitted to a government hospital,” said P. Brahmananda Rao, chief operating officer of GVK-EMRI 108 Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/thinking-outside-the-box-to-shift-pregnant-duo-to-safety/article36352248.ece
08 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Khairatabad Ganesh idol to be of 40 feet this year||Days to go before the city starts celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi, hundreds of people are stopping on the road and praying to the tallest Ganesh idol in Hyderabad at Khairatabad. “We expect a larger number of pilgrims than last year. In order to reduce the rush we are letting people have a darshan of Lord Ganesh earlier,” informs S. Raj Kumar, a key organiser of the Ganesh Utsava Committee. This year, the idol towers at 40 feet, as against the 9-foot idol in 2020 during the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. In 2019, the idol was nearly six-stories tall at 61 feet. The last time the idol was 40 foot tall was in 2001. The Khairtabad Ganesh idol installation is one of the signature events in Hyderabad’s calendar and has an air of carnival and hundreds of thousands of people turn up to see the idol. The organisers said they will deploy sanitiser tunnels, temperature checks and mandatory masks for all the devotees. But as thousands of devotees throng and enter the street through multiple entrances it will be a big challenge. Every year a few lakh devotees come to see the idol. Review meeting Cyberabad Commissioner Stephen Raveendra on Tuesday said that the Ganesh idol immersion should be peaceful and directed officials of all departments to work in such a manner so as to ensure that rains which have been lashing the city do not cause any disruption in this process. At a meeting chaired with all departments, he said there would be seamless coordination. Cranes are being installed at 36 ponds under the Cyberabad Police Commissionerate limits. Halogen lights, and mobile toilets have also been installed. As many as seven cranes have been pressed into service at the IDL Lake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khairatabad-ganesh-idol-to-be-of-40-feet-this-year/article36352269.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Collectors of rain-hit districts asked to remain on high alert||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the Collectors of the districts affected by heavy rains to be on high alert and take steps to provide relief to people. The Chief Minister, who is presently in New Delhi, enquired about the situation arising out of the heavy rains in a telephonic chat with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officials. He wanted the official machinery at the district, mandal and village levels to be geared up to meet any eventuality as several canals were in spate. Efforts should be made to assess the impact of the rains on power supply, roads and other infrastructure at the village level. Officials at all levels of the Municipal Administration, Panchayat Raj, Roads and Buildings and Energy departments should be on high alert in view of the heavy rains. Steps should be taken to ensure that people living in the low-lying areas were not inconvenienced because of the overflowing canals, tanks and rivulets. Alternatives Officials should take steps to provide alternatives to people and at the same time, focus on relief measures in flood-affected areas. Teams of NDRF and disaster management should be kept ready to rescue people stranded in water bodies that were overflowing. The elected representatives on their part should stay put in their respective areas and coordinate with the officials concerned in taking up relief and rehabilitation measures. The Chief Minister asked people, especially those living in vulnerable areas, to stay indoors in view of the heavy rains forecast over the next couple of days.  CM’s directions Assess impact of rains on power supply, roads and other infrastructure at village level Ensure people residing in low-lying areas are not put to inconvenience due to overflowing canals, tanks and rivulets Keep teams of NDRF, disaster management ready to rescue marooned people Elected representatives must coordinate with officials for relief and rehabilitation measures||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collectors-of-rain-hit-districts-asked-to-remain-on-high-alert/article36352251.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Power supply on without interruption, despite rains’||Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Genco and TS-Transco D. Prabhakar Rao has stated that all sections of power consumers are being supplied quality power despite heavy rains lashing the State except a few areas here and there where the distribution network is affected due to flooding and inundation. At a review meeting held on power supply position in the State in the backdrop of heavy rains, the Chairman and Managing Director said adequate coals stocks were being maintained at the thermal stations of TS-Genco keeping in mind heavy rains this season. Such preparedness had helped the Genco keep generation process uninterrupted. The Genco was also coming to the rescue of a few States that were struggling with power generation due to delay in coal supplies with heavy rains. He stated that flood water from Garikavagu, a nearby rivulet, had entered Kothagudem Thermal Power Station premises but the authorities there broke open a portion of compound wall so that a foot deep water was drained out without causing any obstruction to the installations there as also power generation. Similarly, flood water had also inundated two sub-stations — Gopalpur and Uppal — in the Northern Discom areas but the water had depleted now. Alternative arrangements were made to keep the power supply on to the areas depending on the sub-stations. He also appealed to farmers and other not to get in contact with electricity poles and cables/conductor during rains. On the hydel generation at Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station, Mr. Prabhakar Rao said the generation was going on as the inflow to the reservoir was in the measure of over one-lakh cusecs and it would be continued as per the requirement of the power needs of Telangana. At a review meeting held by Northern Discom Chairman and Managing Director A. Gopal Rao at Warangal, he directed all the field and supervisory staff to be available in their headquarters to attended to emergency calls of power supply disruption. He asked the consumers to contact 1912 or 18004250028 for any complaints/problems related to power supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-supply-on-without-interruption-despite-rains/article36352277.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Amit Shah to address meeting at Nirmal on September 17||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is scheduled to address a public meeting at Nirmal on September 17 to commemorate the Telangana Liberation Day and also demand the TS government to celebrate the day officially. Union Minister for Tourism, Culture and Development of Northeast States G. Kishan Reddy, National OBC Morcha president K. Laxman, and State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar are expected to participate in the meeting. Party general secretary G. Premander Reddy told the media on Tuesday that the BJP has been demanding the government to celebrate the momentous day just like neighbouring Karnataka and Maharastra have been doing as the Hyderabad State joined the Indian Union following the ‘Police Action’ on the day. “People of Hyderabad attained freedom from the atrocities of the Nizam-Razakars after the decisive action under the leadership of then Home Minister Sardar Patel. Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao after making a hue and cry about it during the agitation for a separate State has forgotten about it to please the Majlis Party leaders,” he charged. The BJP wants the stories of valour of freedom fighters to be included in the text books for the future generations to be aware of the sacrifices made to earn the independence from the Nizam-Razakars tyranny. “The sites where the freedom fighters have been martyred should be developed as place of interest to visit,” he said, in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amit-shah-to-address-meeting-at-nirmal-on-september-17/article36352287.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Contingency plan for mothers to-be||With flood risk looming over several parts of the State following heavy rains, the government machinery is on alert. During such times, the safety of citizens, especially pregnant women on the verge of delivery, is paramount. District Medical and Health Officials said that police in a few districts have asked them for a list of women whose delivery is expected in the coming days. “We have directed medical officers to shift women whose delivery date is inching close. Police, too, have asked for the list,” said a DMHO. As a precautionary measure, 108 ambulances are placed close to inundated areas to respond to health emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contingency-plan-for-mothers-to-be/article36352249.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man held for cheating suspended govt. staff||The Cyberabad Cyber Crime Police apprehended a 48-year-old man for allegedly cheating government servants who were suspended from duty, claiming to be influential enough to have them reinstated in exchange for money. According to the police, the accused Bangaru Suresh Kumar Chary, who operates using the aliases Nageswar Rao and Kumar, is a resident of Gowrishankar Colony in Banjara Hills and a milk seller by profession. He allegedly claims to be an officer working at the Telangana Secretariat, specifically from the General Administration Department, or the Vigilance Department. He then contacts his victims and tells them to transfer sums of money through Unified Payments Interface (UPI) such as Google Pay, or PhonePe. Impersonation Police said that they had received a complaint on September 3. The complainant stated that the accused had called him, impersonated as GAD official, and instructed him to send him a list of officers who are to be reinstated. Once this was sent, those on the list received phone calls directing them to transfer funds through UPI. Police said that his victims are primarily those who have been trapped by the Anti Corruption Bureau. He has been arrested nine times for allegedly committing similar offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-cheating-suspended-govt-officials/article36352274.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CBI books cases in NIRDPR scam||The National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRDPR) was rocked by a scam which came to light after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) booked a cheating case against serving and retired employees for alleged irregularities in placing orders for printing course material, and defrauding the institution of over Rs. 1.5 crore. The accused include now retired associate professor G Rajnikath, retired editor K. Papamma, and Accounts Officer G. V. Sridhar Goud, who has since been placed under suspension. Two others identified as Aluri Siva Ramakrishna Prasad, director of Balaji Scan Pvt Limited, and V Sudhakar Reddy, proprietor of Vaishanavi Laser Graphics, have also been booked. The accused staff of NIRDPR placed orders to these two companies, which allegedly violated General Financial Rules, which the institute adhered to. The NIRDPR, in collaboration with International Labour Organisation, was designing course material for nationwide orientation programme on Barefoot Technicians. According to the CBI, the accused staff allegedly sought separate quotations from these companies, despite rate contracts being in force. While the prescribed rates for four pages multi-coloured booklet and binding were fixed at Rs. 2,800 and Rs. 7 respectively, the quotations obtained were for Rs. 3,800 and Rs. 35. Payments amounting to Rs. 51.09 lakh were made to Balaji Scan Pvt Ltd. From 2016 to 2019, the material was reprinted four times through both companies and Rs. 4.74 crore were paid. The CBI stated that preleminary investigation showed that an excess payments of Rs. 1.26 crore was made to Balaji Scans Pvt limited, and Rs. 30.20 lakh to Vaishanavi Laser Graphics in several instances in 2015 and 2016. Further, the accused staff allegedly did not call for tenders.They allegedly placed work orders verbally. When NIRDPR raised internal queries, the accused allegedly made false justifications, and tried to cover their tracks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cbi-books-cases-in-nirdpr-scam/article36352276.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases drop to less than 300||After recording the highest number of COVID-19 cases in a day in April 2021, the daily load in Telangana has dropped to less than 300. The highest of 10,122 new infections were recorded on April 26 of this year. On Tuesday (September 7), 298 people were detected with coronavirus. In June, July and till first week of August, over a lakh samples were put to test in a day. On Tuesday, 68,097 samples were examined and results of 5,476 are awaited. Two more COVID patients have died. From March 2, 2020 to September 7 of this year, a total of 2.51 crore samples were examined and 6,60,142 people were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 5,476 were active cases, 6,50,778 have recovered, and 3,888 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-cases-drop-to-less-than-300/article36352261.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||‘State BJP a pawn in Delhi’s power play: Cong.||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has alleged that Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were conspiring to obstruct the Congress’ progress in the State and that’s why the BJP’s State unit has become a pawn in the hands of its Delhi leadership. People were watching how BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar was attacking KCR (Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao) and TRS in the State and how the Delhi leadership of BJP was pally with KCR, TPCC working president T. Jayaprakash Reddy said adding that it was evident now that Mr. Sanjay would be a political scapegoat in the power game being played by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, considered right-hand man of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and KCR. Alleging that KCR was friends with BJP to power in the State, Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy sought to know how much of funds KCR had secured from the Centre during the last seven years. He demanded that the State government give Rs. 10,000 relief to every family affected by rains and floods as given in the GHMC for 2019 floods. He also sought a compensation of Rs. 10,000 per acre to farmers. Meanwhile, former Karimnagar MP Ponnam Prabhakar demanded payment of Rs. 10,000 relief to every rain/flood-hit family as thousands of families were displaced due to flood and inundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-bjp-a-pawn-in-delhis-power-play-cong/article36352279.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Ensure level playing field’||Forum for Good Governance has urged the Election Commission of India to ensure a level playing field to all parties for conduct of a free and fair poll in Huzurabad in the light of the ‘abnormal situation’ on Tuesday. In a communication to the Chief Election Commissioner, FGG secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy said two representations sent to the EC on the disbursal of Rs. 2,000 crore under Dalit Bandhu for ‘electoral gains’ as ‘accepted’ by the Chief Minister himself had not been taken cognisance of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ensure-level-playing-field/article36352286.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two drug peddlers arrested||The South Zone Task Force and S R Nagar Police apprehended two alleged drug peddlers Mohd Ibrahim Khan (30) and Mohd Khaja Mubeen (22) and seized from their possession 25 boxes containing hash oil worth Rs. 1 lakh. The prime accused, identified as Mohd Mahboob Ali alias Shooter Aiyaz (32) is absconding. Police said that Mahboob and Ibrahim are addicted to consuming narcotic substances. They came in contact with Mubeen and their friendship got an entrepreneurial tilt when they allegedly began to buy hash oil, and sold them to those who wanted to get high. Two commit suicide An unemployed 28-year-old man Junaid Iqbal, sharing a status update on WhatsApp about what he was going through, committed suicide under Banjara Hills police station limits on Tuesday. In another case, a 26-year-old man, identified as Mohammed Affan-ul-Haq came in the way of a moving train and ended his life. A resident of Risala Bazaar in Bollarum, he is said to have been depressed. The Railway Police, Secuderabad have booked a case.  [Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-drug-peddlers-arrested/article36352275.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wildlife Board clears 24 road proposals||State Board for Wildlife in its meeting on Tuesday, gave its stamp of approval for several proposals for construction of BT roads through protected areas. A total of 24 proposals for roads under the Prime Minister Grameen Sadak Yojana have been cleared, involving close to 60 hectares of forest land. The roads are proposed in forest division purviews of Echoda, Utnoor, Kinnerasani Wild Life Management, Asifabad, Kagaznagar, Gudur, and Khanapur. As an ameliorative measure for animal passage wherever the roads have been proposed, underpasses and passages have been proposed along with the roads. Minister for Environment and Forests A.Indrakaran Reddy who chaired over the meeting, said Telangana State government gives importance to provision of infrastructural facilities in tribal areas, and asked the Forest department officials to ensure speedy permissions for the road projects. Also discussed were the agenda items, including All India Tiger Estimation for 2021-22, control of wild boar, eco-tourism, and others. Mr. Indrakaran Reddy directed officials to constitute a committee for development of eco-tourism with the brief of presenting relevant proposals after comprehensive study||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wildlife-board-clears-24-road-proposals/article36352288.ece
08 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DRF handles 184 complaints||GHMC’s Disaster Response Force (DRF) has attended to a total of 184 complaints in the last 10 days, pertaining to the heavy rains. A statement from the Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management wing said that 86 complaints resolved were of water stagnation, 89 were of tree falls, and nine were requests for rescue from flooded areas. In case of any emergency, people may call 040-29555500/9000113667, for assistance from the DRF teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drf-handles-184-complaints-in-10-days/article36352272.ece
08 September 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||State Page -WITH ARRANGED PIC - CAN GO AS PICTURE BRIEFLY ALSO Shashi Tharoor, Karthi Chidambaram attend Cong meet||Lok Sabha Member Shashi Tharoor and office-bearers of All India Professionals' Congress (AIPC) Telangana met on Tuesday over dinner organised by former Kodad MLA and Secretary of AIPC Telangana Padmavathi Reddy. The dinner meet, which was attended by doctors and chairpersons of pharmaceutical companies, discussed the organisation’s journey in the State and its objectives. Speaking at the event, Mr. Shashi Tharoor thanked the medical professionals for their service during the pandemic and said, “We want professionals to be part of India’s policy making. All India Professionals Congress is about policy, not polity."  Among the attendees were Nalgonda MP Uttam Kumar Reddy, Sivaganga MP Karthi Chidambaram, AIPC South Zone Coordinator & Former Minister Dr. J. Geetha Reddy and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-page-with-arranged-pic-can-go-as-picture-briefly-also-shashi-tharoor-karthi-chidambaram-attend-cong-meet/article36352285.ece
08 September 2021||KHAMMAM/ BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Overflowing streams submerge roads, colonies||Heavy rains lashed large parts of the old undivided Khammam district for the third day in a row on Tuesday, throwing normal life out of gear, with overflowing streams obstructing vehicular movement on several internal and main roads in both Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts. Bhadradri-Kothagudem recorded an average rainfall of 128.8 mm in the past 24 hours, ending at 8.30 am on Tuesday. The district headquarters town of Kothagudem recorded extremely heavy rainfall of 235.2 mm during the same period. A total of 11 mandals in the tribal majority district recorded excess rainfall. Mulakalapalli, Tekulapalli, Julurupadu, Palvancha and Burgampadu mandals recorded 175.4 mm, 166.6 mm, 163.2 mm, 157.4 mm and 155.8 mm of rainfall, respectively. Multiple incidents of extensive waterlogging on roads and residential localities were reported from different parts of the district. A house situated along the banks of the swollen Murreduvagu stream at Sanjeevnagar in Laxmidevipalli mandal caved in on Tuesday morning. Luckily, the inmates of the house were away at the time of the incident. Rainwater entered several houses in Vidyanagar, Saraiah Colony, Ramnagar in Chunchupalli mandal and encircled dozens of houses in low-lying areas including Subashchandra Bose Nagar in and around Kothagudem. Incessant heavy rains wreaked havoc in the district with crops on hundreds of acres getting submerged under a sheet of rainwater in several parts. The water level in Godavari at Bhadrachalam rose to 34 feet, around nine feet below the first flood warning level of 43 feet, at 6 p.m. on Tuesday. Control room, helpline A flood control room (08744-249994) was activated at the RDO’s office in Kothagudem to monitor the rain situation and deal with any exigency that may emerge. A WhatsApp number (93929-19743) was also made available for people to report rain-related incidents. In Khammam district, Munneru, Akeru and Buggeru streams were in spate at Teerthala, the famous pilgrim centre, in Khammam rural mandal. Traffic movement between Siripuram and Snanala Laxmipuram in Wyra mandal and Pallipadu-Teegala Banjara in Konijerla mandal was suspended due to flooding of the causeways by overflowing streams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/overflowing-streams-submerge-roads-colonies/article36352257.ece
08 September 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Rains lash Nalgonda, projects brimming||After rain fury wreaked havoc in the district last week with broken road connections to villages, people and property being washed away and low-lying areas inundated, rain condition this week was below normal but wet weather continued on Tuesday. According to the district’s planning department, the maximum rainfall received was 23.5 mm in Shaligowraram and all other mandals recorded less than 20 mm, while about 50% of the mandals’ figures were less than 10 mm. The proportionate June-August rain figures suggest it was excess rainfall. Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri’s Rajapet mandal recorded the maximum 51mm rainfall on Tuesday. Officials in Suryapet stated the difference in rainfall deviation at 17%, between June and September. With incessant rains over the last week, and the continuing downpour in the upstream, several irrigation projects in the composite district started receiving heavy inflows and the reservoirs have reached brimming level. Nearing capacity Nagarjunasagar project was receiving about 17,000 cusecs and flowing out 16,000 cusecs, while its full reservoir level of 590 feet was approaching fast. For the maximum capacity of 312 tmcft, the project was already holding 305 tmcft. Musi project at Kethepally was operating the gates, in view of rain and flood in Hyderabad and the northern region. Six gates with varying heights were maintained throughout the day to discharge about 10,000 cusecs. The water level was at 640 feet, five feet short of the full reservoir level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rains-lash-nalgonda-projects-brimming/article36352252.ece
08 September 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Missing doctor found dead||More than 24 hours after D. Jayasheel Reddy, a relative of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) LB Nagar legislator D. Sudheer Reddy, went missing, his body was retrieved from an irrigation tank near the family’s agriculture fields at Mella Duppalapally in the district on Tuesday. Police sources said the victim was to travel back to the United States, where he completed his education and practices medicine, on Wednesday. While there were speculative theories regarding his mysterious missing, the police and network teams, and the dog squad were only able to point the suspicion at the brimming agricultural well. They also started emptying it. According to the police, it is still not clear if 42-year-old Jayasheel Reddy fell into the irrigation tank accidentally or it was an intended act to end his life. Nalgonda rural police has opened an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/missing-doctor-found-dead/article36352292.ece
08 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Singur receives heavy inflows||Erstwhile Medak district has witnessed heavy to very heavy rain in the past 24 hours with floodwater from Singur entering the temple and flowing over the bridge that connects the temple. It was stated that the rains may continue for another 48 hours and Medak Collector S. Harish warned people not to venture out unless it was emergency. In Medak town, some low-lying areas like Gandhi Nagar were inundated and officials forced people to move to safer places. MLA M. Padma Devender Reddy and officials visited the colony. At least three mandals registered more than 10 cm rainfall. As of Tuesday evening, the Vanadurga Bhavani temple in Edupayala was closed as floodwater entered the temple premises. As of Tuesday afternoon, three spillway gates - 7,9 and 11- were opened to a height of two metres and outflow was stated as 34,813 cusecs including 2,822 cusecs for GENCO for power generation. It was informed that Singur may be full by night or Wednesday morning as heavy floodwater is coming from Maharashtra and Karnataka. A man was washed away and died at Gudatipally Road on Tuesday. He was identified as a native of Pothannapet village in Akkannapet mandal of Siddipet district. Husnabad division headquarters was under a sheet of flood water, which entered houses in several localities. Siddipet Urban recorded 10.6 mm rainfall. In Sangareddy district, several low-lying areas were inundated and rainwater entered cellars of some apartments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singur-receives-heavy-inflows/article36352255.ece
08 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Will fight on behalf of people’||BJP State unit president Bandi Sanjay has promised people to fight the government on the problems being faced by them. During his 11th day of padayatra from Sadashivpet to Sangareddy on Tuesday, Mr. Sanjay interacted with farmers of Saidapur tanda in Sadashivpet mandal who alleged that pattas were not being issued to them despite having their lands in their name. They informed the BJP leader that lands had been cultivated by them for generations. People said: “This government is harassing us by not giving us new passbooks even though we have title deeds and passbooks for our land, which has been cultivated for 200 years.” Cotton crops lost due to heavy rains, the farmers said and urged Mr. Sanjay Kumar to bring pressure on the government to come to their rescue. He assured Saidapur residents that the BJP team would visit the village and, if necessary, formulate an action plan. Former minister Babu Mohan, Dubbaka MLA Raghunandan Rao, padayatra convenor Manohar Reddy, Lankala Deepak Reddy, SC Morcha national secretary S Kumar and State spokesperson Rakesh Reddy participated in padayatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-fight-on-behalf-of-people/article36352290.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||No respite||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-respite/article36352260.ece
08 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat towns report spike in dengue, chikungunya cases||Hospitals in several Gujarat towns are witnessing a sudden surge in cases of mosquito-borne dengue and chikungunya. In Ahmedabad, more than 30% of OPD cases in private and government hospitals are of either dengue or chikungunya, as per the association of private hospitals and nursing homes. “There is huge huge spike in cases of dengue and chikungunya in the city. Of the total cases that are coming in, more than 20 % require hospitalisation,” Dr. Bharat Gadhavi, president of Association of private hospitals and nursing homes Ahmedabad (AHNA). In the last 10 days, 25 patients have died of the either of the disease in the city, he added. He said the civic body and the government should launch awareness drives and cleanliness campaign to check places for mosquito breeding. “We are seeing an unusual rise in cases of high fever and body ache. Large number of patients require hospitalisation,” said a doctor at the civil hospital. “There are more than 2,000 cases of dengue and chikungunya in Ahmedabad city and over 20 patients have died. The local civic body has completely failed to maintain hygiene in the city,” said Congress leader Arjun Modhvadia, who demanded a State- widecleanliness drive. In Vadodara and Surat also, cases of vector borne diseases and seasonal flu are rampant. According to experts, Gujarat is prone to vector borne diseases like dengue, chikungunya and even malaria but this year, there is sudden and unusual rise in the cases. Surat has reported more than 1,500 cases and Vadodara over 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gujarat-towns-report-spike-in-dengue-chikungunya-cases/article36352363.ece
08 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha passes Bill capping reservation of seats at 50%||The Odisha Assembly on Tuesday passed the Odisha Municipal Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to cap reservation at 50%, a move that has paved the way for conducting elections to urban local bodies in the State. The Naveen Patnaik Government had introduced the Bill with amendments proposed in the Odisha Municipal Act, 1950, and the Odisha Municipal Corporation Act, 2003, on Monday. The Odisha Panchayat Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks amendment to the Odisha Grama Panchayats Act, 1964; Odisha Panchayat Samiti Act, 1959 and Odisha Zilla Parishad Act, 1991 was also introduced in the House on Tuesday. While elections to urban local bodies are long overdue, the tenure of the present three-tier panchayati raj institutions is coming to an end early next year. Due to the confusion over reservation, the government had not been able to conduct elections to urban local bodies, which are currently being governed by bureaucrats. The Opposition parties had been demanding immediate election to the local bodies. In 2013, the Orissa High Court passed a order stating that the upper ceiling limit of reservation of seats for the SC, ST and Backward Classes shouldn’t exceed 50% in accordance with the judgment passed by the Supreme Court in the K. Krishna Murthy case. The State Government had moved the Supreme Court through a special leave petition and, subsequently, through a review petition challenging the order of capping reservation at 50%. The Supreme Court had, however, upheld the decision of the Orissa High Court. Law Minister Pratap Jena said the government was left with no other option, but to amend the relevant provisions of the Odisha Municipal Act, 1950, and the Odisha Municipal Corporation Act, 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-passes-bill-capping-reservation-of-seats-at-50/article36352155.ece
08 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Naveen Patnaik cautions against third wave||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday cautioned people against possible third wave of COVID-19 in the State in the wake of deteriorating situation in Maharashtra and Kerala. Reviewing the State’s COVID-19 situation, Mr. Patnaik laid emphasis on respecting COVID-19 guidelines, especially by educational institutes which have opened on a limited scale a couple of months ago. He directed authorities to conduct inspections of institutes to find out if standard operating procedures were being followed. School students infected Mr. Patnaik’s warning came on a day when Kanapura High School in Kamakhyanagar area of Odisha’s Dhenkanal district was closed for seven days after 20 persons, including 14 students, tested positive for COVID-19. This was the first school to be shut down on account of infections among students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/naveen-patnaik-cautions-against-third-wave/article36352154.ece
08 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Is AAP heading for repeat of 2017 poll mistake in Punjab?||As the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) prepares to battle it out in the coming Punjab Assembly election, finding a native leader with a State-wide appeal in order to pose a challenge to heavyweights such as Parkash Singh Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Congress leader Amarinder Singh seems to be a big challenge for it. In June last, AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal declared in Amritsar that a member of the Sikh community would be the party’s Chief Minister ‘face’ in Punjab. However, with polls due early next year, the anxiety among the party cadre is growing. ‘Sooner the better’ Some political observers and party insiders feel that sooner the party announces the leader, the better it would be for its electoral prospect. “The playing field in the coming polls is wide open amid the ongoing infighting within the ruling Congress. The AAP has an opportunity to make an impact, but they need to get their act together. It is repeating the mistake it did in the 2017 polls by not announcing a ‘local’ face to lead their campaign. Only few months are left for the elections, and by this time, they should have set up a team. They need a local face, otherwise they will have to seek vote in the name of Arvind Kejriwal, as they did in 2017. The AAP needs to avoid such a situation, as the ‘outsider leadership’ tag had apparently hadn’t worked in its favour,” said Ashutosh Kumar, professor, political science department of Punjab University. Notably, several AAP members have come out in support of party’s two-time Lok Sabha member Bhagwant Mann. They demanded the central leadership to announce him as the leader. A party member, requesting anonymity, stated a section of the cadre believed that time was running out and the leadership should immediately announce the leader. “The delay is only letting down the morale of volunteers. We need to hit the ground with rallies and approach the voters,” he pointed out. A party source asserted that the party had been deliberating on finalising the leader and it could be announced once the election schedule is declared by the Election Commission of India. Punjab-based noted writer and political analyst Desraj Kali observed that the road ahead for the AAP was not without challenges. “While there seems to be an inclination among Dalits and small farmers towards the AAP in the Malwa and Majha regions, finding a leader with a mass appeal across the State is a challenge for the party,” he highlighted. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Harpal Cheema of the AAP, stressed that the party would announce the CM’s face at an appropriate time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/is-aap-heading-for-repeat-of-2017-poll-mistake-in-punjab/article36352153.ece
08 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Respite for employees of closed Assam paper mills||Employees of two Assam paper mills closed since 2015 can continue to stay in the residential quarters until their dues are settled, the Assam government said on Tuesday. The decision not to evict the employees from the quarters of the Hindustan Paper Corporation’s mills at Jagiroad in Morigaon district and Panchgram in Hailakandi district was taken after a meeting between representatives of the State government and the unions of the mills on Monday evening. “We will work out the modalities for an agreement on the final settlement of the pending issues,” Manobendra Chakraborty, the president of the Joint Action Committee of Recognised Unions (JACRU), told The Hindu . The JACRU, however, said many issues remain unresolved at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/respite-for-employees-of-closed-assam-paper-mills/article36352156.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||COVID relief process to become easier as govt. now tweaks rules||The Delhi government has tweaked the process to get compensation if a person’s family member has died due to COVID-19. The decision will “speed up” the process, said officials. Earlier, even after submitting the mandatory documents, one of these two conditions had to be fulfilled — the deathmust be certified as COVID-19 death as per a list by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA); else, the death must have happened within one month of testing COVID-19 positive. Plus, it had to be verified as COVID-19 death by the government Health Department, as per a notification of the scheme. Applications pending Now, the verification by the Health Department is not mandatory, as per an official order.  The Hindu had reported on Sunday that applications were being sent to the Health Department, if names were not on the MHA list and it was a “bottleneck”. More than 2,200 applications were pending as the names were not on the MHA list till Monday. “Further, to ameliorate distress faced by other families during this period, any other case where the deceased has tested COVID positive and expired, within one month of the report shall also get the benefits,” an official order issued on Monday evening read. The order said the decision was taken in view of the discussions meeting held by the Social Welfare Minister on August 26. “This decision is expected to speed up the process of approvals as now officials do not have to send files to the Health Department if the name is not in the MHA list. This will make it easier,” a Delhi government official said. For families On June 22, ‘Mukhyamantri COVID-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna’, was notified to “provide immediate financial relief” to families who have lost their dear ones to COVID-19. Under the same scheme, a one-time Rs. 50,000 is given to a family if they have lost someone to COVID-19 and a monthly assistance of Rs. 2,500 each to specific categories of people, who have lost their family members the virus. The beneficiaries of the scheme include children who have lost one or both parents due to COVID-19. There are 6,200 children who are left with a single parent and 292 left orphaned as on August 16 due to COVID-19, as per a Delhi government report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rules-tweaked-covid-19-relief-process-to-be-easier/article36352147.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||DTC inks deal with energy firm for charging stations||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) on Tuesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL) for the installation of charging stations and battery swapping stations at finalised DTC locations. The CESL is a subsidiary of State-owned Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), a joint venture of public sector companies under the Ministry of Power, Government of India. As per the directions of the signed MoU, EESL through its subsidiary organisation CESL has agreed to procure, install, operate and maintain charging units and related infrastructure at the location of the DTC area at its costs and expenses, the government stated. The charges for usage of location will be paid by CESL to DTC every month at the rate of Rs. 1 per kWh of energy dispensed. If the space required by the concessionaire is more than 3 ECS (Equivalent Car Space) then Rs. 2,000 extra would be levied per ECS per month, it also stated. 10-year contract Initially, the contract period is of 10 years. As per the terms and conditions, the CESL will start work immediately and shall endeavour to finish the installation of all stations in the next four months. Location assessment surveys at various DTC locations had been conducted following which seven locations had been for the stations. These include — Dwarka Sector-8, Dwarka Sector 2 Depot, Mehrauli Terminal, Nehru Place Terminal, Okhla CW-II, Sukhdev Vihar Depot and Kalkaji Depot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dtc-inks-deal-for-charging-stations/article36352145.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||I owe my victory to my cousin, says Paralympics bronze medallist||Dilip Gurjar, 32, is a proud brother after javelin thrower Sundar Singh Gurjar won a bronze in the recently concluded Tokyo Paralympics. The two grew up together and Mr. Sundar owes one or two to Dilip, he feels. Mr. Dilip is posted at Connaught Place police station as constable and has been serving the Delhi police since 2010. Speaking to The Hindu , the bronze medallist said that the best thing his cousin, Dilip, did for him is to not rat him out in front of his family when he skipped school to train. “Dilip has played a very important role in my success. Starting from Class VIII, we both used to go to school together in the morning but I used to skip and attend training. Around 4 p.m., the two of us would go back home together. But he never told our families about it and I continued to train,” said Mr. Sundar. The constable — who had met senior officers from the district on Monday when his brother was honoured for his accomplishment — felt extremely proud of his cousin. Proud moment “I had specially taken a day off on August 30 when he was to perform in Tokyo. A big event was organised in our village in Rajasthan. It’s a feeling I can’t express,” he said. Mr. Dilip said that even if he wanted to, he couldn’t have pursued a career in sports because his family conditions didn’t allow. He lost his father when he was five years old. Alongside his higher secondary education, he continued to help his mother and two elder brothers in farming till the age of 18. He then got a private job and studied to join Delhi Police. “One needs a lot of money to be able to pursue a career in sports. I didn’t have the privilege. But I am happy that my cousin did it,” he said. People around Mr. Dilip only got to know that he is Mr. Sundar’s cousin when the former sought permission to receive him at the airport on Sunday. The word spread thereafter. Mr. Sundar lost his left hand in 2015 and bounced back as a para athlete the next year. He is also employed as District Forest Officer by the Rajasthan government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/i-owe-my-victory-to-my-cousin-says-paralympics-bronze-medallist/article36352137.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi to urge neighbouring States to cooperate in fight against pollution||The Delhi government on Tuesday said that it was preparing a winter action plan to reduce pollution, which include dealing with the issue of stubble burning. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that a delegation from the Delhi government will be meeting with Union Environment Minister and Commission for Air Quality Management to discuss stubble burning in neighbouring States and present measures to combat it. Mr. Rai urged the neighbouring States of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to reduce vehicular and dust pollution and said that if the governments cooperate and adopt ample anti-pollution measures, then not just Delhi, but the entire North India can get freedom from pollution. “It is very difficult to reduce pollution in the whole of North India just by making efforts in Delhi. We will set out on the tough roads too, but the whole fight will be a lot easier if all the States cooperate,” Mr. Rai said. The Minister said that last year with the help of the Pusa Institute, trials were conducted to figure out whether crop stubble could be decomposed using bio-decomposer solutions and the Delhi government found the bio-decomposer to be highly effective when it was sprayed on stubble. Bio-decomposer “We are now at a juncture where all the governments of the States surrounding Delhi need to take cognisance of the bio-decomposing solution. Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh governments need to step up and adopt this measure so that we can get relief from the stumbling block of stubble burning,” Mr. Rai said. “We see an exorbitant rise in air pollution in Delhi and the rest of North India during winters. Multiple factors like dust and vehicle pollution contribute to this. However, stubble burning is the biggest contributor to the problem. Last year, with the help of the Pusa Institute, trials were conducted to figure out whether crop stubble could be decomposed using bio-decomposer solutions. The Delhi government found the bio-decomposer to be highly effective when it was sprayed on stubble,” the Minister said, adding that the delegation will stress the importance of using bio-decomposer solutions this upcoming season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-to-urge-states-to-join-its-pollution-fight/article36352151.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||Afghan refugees have vacated stir site outside UNHCR office, police tell HC||The Delhi police informed the Delhi High Court on Tuesday that the Afghan nationals, protesting outside the United Nations High Commissioner of Refugees office here seeking refugee status, have vacated the spot. “The protest by Afghan refugees has been withdrawn from UNHCR office,” the police said in a status report filed before the court, which was hearing a petition filed by Vasant Vihar Welfare Association seeking the removal of protesters in the proximity of residential areas. The counsel, appearing for the association, said “Yesterday [Monday] evening I received a status report. There are no protests and nothing remains.” In view of the change in circumstances, Justice Rekha Palli closed the proceedings initiated by the association with liberty to approach the court again if need arises. Additional standing counsel Satyakam, appearing for Delhi Police, stated that “a small nudge goes a long way” and “nothing remained” in the petition in the absence of any protest at the site. The court had last week directed the Delhi government and the police to reduce the number of Afghan nationals protesting at the spot and to ensure they follow COVID-19 protocol. The court had said the law was same for everybody and questioned the authorities as to how there can be 500 persons protesting when the guidelines do not permit it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/afghan-refugees-have-vacated-stir-site-police-tell-hc/article36352131.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||Hike capacity of natural STP at Ghoga drain: Jain||Irrigation and Flood Control Minister Satyendar Jain  on Tuesday visited the natural Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at Ghoga drain, and Sannoth lake. After inspecting the STP at Ghoga drain, the Minister directed the officials to increase its water treatment capacity from 10 lakh litres per day to 50 lakh litres per day. The recycled water from the drain will be used for groundwater recharge by creating a lake in the adjacent area, he said. The Delhi government is reviving the Sannoth lake with innovative techniques on 6-acres of land at Bawana. Mr. Jain inspected the construction site and said that around 3 MGD recycled water from Bawana Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) will be used to rejuvenate the Sannoth lake. It is scheduled to be completed by December, 2021. “The water holding capacity of the Sannoth lake should be increased so that more groundwater can be recharged through the lake,” he said. The Minister also instructed officials of the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (DSIIDC) and Irrigation & Flood Control Department (I&FC) to clean the Bawana escape drain which has a design discharge capacity of 680 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hike-capacity-of-natural-stp-jain/article36352133.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Naidu pushes for awareness campaigns on eye donation||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday called for dispelling myths and false beliefs on eye donation and suggested launching of massive multimedia campaigns in local languages in every State by involving celebrities and icons to create awareness among the people. Speaking at the 36th National Eye Donation Fortnight celebrations, he referred to the huge gap between demand of donor cornea tissues and supply. “The need of the hour is to increase awareness among people about the importance of eye donation,” he added. Meanwhile, the R.P. Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences at AIIMS has initiated a study to ascertain the presence of COVID-19 in parts of the eye of those who have died due to the infection, the centre’s chief J.S. Titiyal said. He said the study will help ascertain the presence of the virus in the cornea, optic nerve and retina of COVID-19 infected deceased. Doctors noted that there is no proven evidence so far which establishes any direct link between COVID-19 leading to blindness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/naidu-pushes-for-awareness-campaigns-on-eye-donation/article36352149.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SI thrashed, robbed in Vasant Vihar||A police Sub-Inspector was robbed of his wallet after being threatened and beaten up by three bike-borne men in south-west Delhi’s Vasant Vihar on Saturday night, the police said. SI Kunal, who is posted at Bindapur police station in Dwarka, was on his way home to Munirka when the incident took place. “When he reached Vasant Vihar, he was allegedly intercepted by three men. They hit him on his head with helmets and robbed his wallet containing cash after threatening him,” a senior police officer said, adding that the accused then escaped from the spot. Luckily, the SI did not sustain major injuries as he was wearing a helmet. Based on the SI’s complaint, a case has been registered, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/si-thrashed-robbed-in-vasant-vihar/article36352132.ece
08 September 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra sees revival of monsoon, six dead||At least six people were swept away by floodwaters in Maharashtra as heavy rain pounded Gondia and Yavatmal districts of Vidarbha and several parts of Marathwada , said authorities. A group of eight to ten men had gone to bathe in the Bagh River in Gondia’s Amgaon tehsil, when powerful currents swept away four of the group. Two other rain-related deaths were reported from Yavatmal. Marathwada region is also bearing the brunt of the monsoon’s revival with districts like Parbhani, Nanded, Hingoli and Latur receiving heavy rain on Tuesday. In Latur, several rivers including the Manjra, the Rena, the Terna and the Tiru are in spate. The floodwaters have resulted in major damage to the crops, with the sugarcane crop badly affected, said authorities while some villages in Jalkot taluka were cut off. In Nanded, floodwaters forced closure of the NH 361, with traffic along the route coming to a complete standstill. Heavy showers were also recorded in Bhokar, Naigaon and Umri tehsils. The India Meteorological Department has indicated heavy rainfall in Sindhudurg in the Konkan in the coming two days. Meanwhile, in Thane and Palghar the administrations have asked citizens to remain alert following the forecast for heavy rainfall by the Regional Meteorological Centre over the next three days. Collectors of the two districts, appealed to people not to venture into rivers, lakes and other water bodies in the next few days and also avoid travelling, unless absolutely necessary. An “orange alert” for the Konkan region, predicting heavy showers till September 9.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-sees-revival-of-monsoon-six-dead/article36352361.ece
08 September 2021||Pune,||ED is being used by Centre to suppress opponents, says Pawar||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) was being used as tool by the Centre to suppress opponents, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar said on Tuesday and added that never before had Maharashtra seen so many ED probes against ruling government leaders. “The ED is taking action against [NCP leader] Eknath Khadse, [former Home Minister] Anil Deshmukh and against Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali. Despite there being proper commissions in place to address malpractices, the ED is used to intervene in everything…This is an attempt to infringe upon the State government's rights and I think this is highly improper,” he said. Mr. Pawar said he would take up the issue of the ED’s ‘harassment’ at the next session of Parliament. In an implied warning to the BJP-ruled Centre, Mr. Pawar, also said that as times changed, the present political cycle, too, would turn. “These days, such agencies are being used [by the Centre] to trouble the [non-BJP] opposition…but times come and go and this will not last forever,” he said. In a a jibe at Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s Mohan Bhagwat over remarks on Monday that Hindus and Muslims shared the same ancestry, Mr Pawar said this was “an addition to my knowledge.” Mr. Pawar also expressed reservations over the Reserve Bank of India's interference into the co-operative sector and said such moves had weakened the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ed-is-being-used-by-centre-to-suppress-opponents-says-pawar/article36352362.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||In Panjshir, the odds were against rebels||At no point in Afghanistan’s multi-directional civil war that started in the 1970s, was Panjshir taken over by forces that were hostile towards the local guerrillas. It is from the Valley, ringed by the Panjshir mountains in the north and the Kuhestan mountains in the south, Ahmad Shah Massoud, the renowned Tajik commander who was assassinated by al-Qaeda two days prior to the 9/11 attacks, resisted the Soviets and later the Taliban. In the 1980s, the Soviets made several inroads to the Valley, but they couldn’t hold it in the face of repeated attacks by Massoud’s guerrillas. In the 1990s when the Taliban were in power, they were kept at the foothills of Panjshir by the Northern Alliance. But now, three weeks after the Taliban recaptured Kabul, the Islamists haveclaimed that they are in total control of Panjshir, for the first time. When Kabul fell on August 15, the First Vice President, Amrullah Saleh, a Panjshiri himself, retreated to the Valley where he joined hands with Ahmad Massoud, the 32-year-old son of Ahmed Shah Massoud. Their National Resistance Front (NRF) of Afghanistan vowed to continue fighting against the Taliban, reliving the memories of the past. But this time, the odds were against the resistance from the very beginning. Resistance in the past In the 1970s, when Afghanistan became a republic, Ahmad Shah Massoud, who was a member of the Muslim Youth, the student wing of the Jamiat-e Islami, started an uprising in Panjshir against President Daoud Khan with help from the Pakistani intelligence. When Khan put down the rebellion, Massoud fled to Pakistan. But he would return to Panjshir after the communists took over Kabul in 1978. In the Panjshir Valley, literally the valley of five lions, Massoud built a guerrilla resistance against the communists, with help coming from the U.S., Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. The aid, along with the rugged terrain and guerrilla warfare, allowed Massoud to hold out against the Red Army. In 1996 when the Taliban took power in Kabul, Massoud, who was the Defence Minister of the post-communist Mujahideen government (1992-96), retreated to Panjshir along with President Burhanuddin Rabbani, who was his mentor from the anti-Soviet days. They formed the Northern Alliance, a broad coalition of anti-Taliban warlords, who established their control in northern Afghanistan, including Panjshir Valley and Badakhshan and Takhar provinces. Badakhshan shares a long border with neighbouring countries, including Tajikistan and China. The Northern Alliance had direct access to Tajikistan and thereby Central Asia through the border crossings, which allowed them to sustain the resistance against the Taliban. The Northern Alliance also got support from other regional players, mainly India, Russia and Iran. In 2001, when the U.S. invaded Afghanistan after the 9/11 attacks, northern Afghanistan became the staging ground and the Northern Alliance fought with the Americans to topple the Taliban regime. Twin-pronged strategy In their second coming, the Taliban seemed to be aware of the challenges that could emanate from the north. On May 1, the day the remaining U.S.-led international troops started withdrawing as part of President Joe Biden’s plan, the Taliban launched a new offensive targeting the northern provinces of Afghanistan. They took districts by districts, finally taking over Badakhshan province, including the crossings with Tajikistan. The Taliban did not attack Panjshir, but seized all provinces around Panjshir. So by the time provincial capitals started falling on August 6, Panjshir had already become an island surrounded by the Taliban with no direct access by land to Tajikistan. Secondly, the Taliban had started a charm offensive to win over Afghanistan’s neighbours, who had backed anti-Taliban forces in the past, long ago. The Taliban delegation had visited Moscow many times starting in 2018. Mullah Mansour, the former Taliban leader, was killed in a U.S. strike in 2015 when he was travelling from Iran to Pakistan, suggesting that Tehran had also established contacts with the Taliban leadership. China was one of the first countries that declared a willingness to work with the Taliban after the fall of Kabul. What the Taliban did in all these cases was to turn their biggest weakness — ties with transnational terrorist organisations — into an opportunity. They promised Iran, Russia and China that they would not host or aid terrorist groups that are opposed to those countries’ interests. In return, the Taliban want those countries not to help any resistance forces within Afghanistan. Fall of Panjshir So when Mr. Saleh and Mr. Massoud Jr. started resistance against the Taliban from an isolated Panjshir after the fall of Kabul, they were on their own. They neither had any direct access to a friendly border (say, Tajikistan) nor direct military assistance from regional players such as Russia, Iran or Tajikistan. They still called for resistance, perhaps to extract concessions from the Taliban before the new government was formed. The Taliban held talks with Panjshir representatives but did not make any concessions. The Taliban wanted a total surrender. Immediately after the U.S. troops were out of the country on August 31, the Taliban launched the Panjshir offensive aimed at taking over the Valley. The Taliban now claim that they have the control of the entire Panjshir province. Their supporters have posted photos of the Taliban’s white flag raised at the provincial headquarters at Bazarak, Panjshir’s capital. But the NRF says their guerrillas are in the strategic locations and that the fight is not over, while the whereabouts of Mr. Saleh and Mr. Massoud Jr. are unknown. It’s likely that the NRF, under attack, has retreated to the mountains, allowing the Taliban to take over the provincial capital and the main artery to the Valley. But any NRF plan to regroup and counter-attack the Taliban would depend on regional support, which would, in turn, depend on whether the Taliban could establish a stable government in Afghanistan and whether they could keep the promises they made to regional powers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-panjshir-the-odds-were-against-rebels/article36351860.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Xi names new General to head Western Theater Command||China’s President Xi Jinping on Monday promoted a new General to head the military’s Western Theater Command, which borders India, state media reported, unusually marking a third change in the command’s leadership in nine months amid the continuing stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India. Mr. Xi, who is Chairman of the Central Military Commission (CMC), on Monday “presented certificates of order at a ceremony to promote five senior military officers to the rank of General”, the highest rank for officers in service. “The promoted officers are Commander of the Western Theater Command of the People’s Liberation Army Wang Haijiang, Commander of the PLA Central Theater Command Lin Xiangyang, Commander of the PLA Navy Dong Jun, Commander of the PLA Air Force Chang Dingqiu, and President of the PLA National Defence University Xu Xueqiang,” state media said. It remains unclear what is the current position of the incumbent, General Xu Qiling, who in July was similarly promoted as General and named Commander of the Western Theater Command. Last month, General Wang, then a Lieutenant General, was named Commander of the Xinjiang region, which is under the Western Command. Several changes Monday’s announcement named General Wang as “Commander of the Western Theater Command” and did not say where General Xu, who is 59 and well below the retirement age of 65, now serves. His biography on Baidu, China’s Google equivalent search engine, was on Monday updated to describe him as former Western Theater Commander, leading one post on Baidu to ask why the Western Command’s leadership was changed after two months and was being changed so frequently. The Western Theater Command leadership has undergone several changes in the past year in the wake of the retirement in December 2020 of the long-serving General Zhao Zongqi who headed the command since its inception. That month, General Zhang Xudong took over as Commander, while General Zhao was rewarded with a post-retirement appointment as the Vice-Chairman of the National People’s Congress (NPC) or parliamentary committee on foreign affairs, a top advisory body. General Zhang was then replaced in July by General Xu. General Wang may now be the fourth head of the command since the border tensions began. He has particular expertise in the Western Theater, having earlier served as Commander of the Tibet military region, which also borders India, and previously deputy commander of the southern Xinjiang military region, which is the military region that has been directly engaged with India during the LAC crisis that began in the summer of 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-names-new-general-to-head-western-theater-command/article36351858.ece
08 September 2021||Mexico City,||Venezuela political rivals narrow differences at talks||Venezuela’s government and opposition on Monday found common ground on two fronts, including the country’s pandemic response, in a tentative step towards ending a long-standing political crisis. The signing of two “partial agreements” came after representatives of President Nicolas Maduro and Opposition leader Juan Guaido held four days of talks in Mexico City mediated by Norway. They agreed to meet again on September 24 to 27, with the key issues of elections and sanctions still to be resolved. The accords involve social protection — including dealing with the coronavirus — and Venezuela’s stance on a disputed border area controlled by Guyana. Fighting the pandemic “The parties agreed to establish mechanisms for restoring and obtaining resources to meet the needs of the COVID-19 pandemic, including those from multilateral organizations,” a joint statement said. That includes drawing on funds from the International Monetary Fund, head government negotiator Jorge Rodriguez said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/venezuela-political-rivals-narrow-differences-at-talks/article36351854.ece
08 September 2021||Bangkok,||Myanmar Opposition calls for national uprising||The main underground group coordinating resistance to Myanmar’s military government issued a sweeping call for a nationwide uprising on Tuesday, raising the prospect of spiralling unrest. The National Unity Government, which views itself as a shadow government, was established by elected legislators who were barred from taking their seats when the military seized power in February. The group’s acting President Duwa Lashi La declared what he called a “state of emergency” and called for revolt “in every village, town and city in the entire country at the same time”. A video of his speech was posted on Facebook. Some 1,000 civilians have been killed in the seven months of clashes that followed the army takeover. A spokesman for the ruling military downplayed the call for renewed protests. The shadow government’s Prime Minister, Mahn Winn Khaing Thann, said in a separate statement posted online that the new move was taken due to “changing circumstances” that required the complete abolition of the ruling military government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-opposition-calls-for-national-uprising/article36351856.ece
08 September 2021||Kabul,||Taliban disperse Kabul rally, arrest journalists||The Taliban fired into the air on Tuesday to disperse protesters and arrested several journalists, the second time in less than a week the group used heavy-handed tactics to break up a demonstration in the Afghan capital of Kabul. The demonstrators had gathered outside the Pakistan Embassy to accuse Islamabad of aiding the Taliban’s assault on the northern Panjshir province. Afghanistan’s previous government routinely accused Pakistan of aiding the Taliban, a charge Islamabad has denied. Former Vice-President Amrullah Saleh, one of the leaders of the anti-Taliban forces, has long been an outspoken critic of Pakistan. Dozens of women were among the protesters on Tuesday. Some of them carried signs bemoaning the killing of their sons by Taliban fighters they say were aided by Pakistan. One sign read: “I am a mother when you kill my son you kill a part of me.” On Saturday, Taliban special forces troops fired their weapons into the air to end a protest march in the capital by Afghan women demanding equal rights from the new rulers. The Taliban again moved quickly and harshly to end Tuesday’s protest when it arrived near the presidential palace. They arrested several journalists covering the demonstration. In one case, fighters waving Kalashnikov rifles took a microphone from a journalist and began beating him with it, breaking the microphone. The journalist was later handcuffed and detained for several hours. “This is the third time i have been beaten by the Taliban covering protests,” he said on condition of anonymity as he was afraid of retaliation. “I won’t go again to cover a demonstration. It’s too difficult for me.” In the western Afghan city of Herat, hundreds of demonstrators marched, with some chanting “freedom”. Two people were shot dead and eight wounded in the protest, a doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-disperse-kabul-rally-arrest-journalists/article36351857.ece
08 September 2021||Doha,||Taliban will let Afghans freely depart: Blinken||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Tuesday that the Taliban had reiterated a pledge to allow Afghans to freely depart Afghanistan following his meeting with Qatari officials on accelerating evacuations. U.S. President Joe Biden has faced mounting pressure amid reports that several hundred people, also including Americans, had been prevented for a week from flying out of an airport in northern Afghanistan. The Taliban told the U.S. that “they will let people with travel documents freely depart,” Mr. Blinken told a news conference in Doha where he and Defen- ce Secretary Lloyd Austin met their Qatari opposite numbers. “We will hold them to that,” he added. Qatar said that Kabul airport, largely closed since the conclusion of Washington’s chaotic withdrawal from the country at the end of August, would hopefully reopen soon, potentially opening an important corridor for Afghans seeking to leave. “The entire international community is looking to the Taliban to uphold that commitment,” Mr. Blinken said, referring to a UN Security Council resolution that urged safe passage. Mr. Biden’s senior Cabinet members had dinner on arrival on Monday with Qatar’s ruler Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani where they expressed Washington’s thanks to Doha for its assistance with the Afghanistan airlift.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-will-let-afghans-freely-depart-blinken/article36351853.ece
08 September 2021||Berlin,||Merkel backs Laschet as her successor||German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Tuesday endor- sed Armin Laschet as the best choice to succeed her, ahead of the September 26 elections that polls show her CDU party losing under its gaffe-prone new leader. “It is a special election, not only because for the first time since 1949 no incumbent Chancellor is running for re-election,” Mr. Merkel said in what was likely her last speech in Parliament ahead of the vote. “It is also a special election because it is a decision on the direction of our country in difficult times — and it is not irrelevant who governs this country,” she said. “The best way for our country is a CDU/CSU-led federal government with Armin Laschet as Chancellor, because his government stands for stability, reliability, moderation and centrality.” Mr. Laschet, for long the favourite candidate for CDU and its Bavarian CSU ally, has seen his ratings plummet following a series of gaffes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/merkel-backs-laschet-as-her-successor/article36351855.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Do not surrender the peace in Afghanistan||The fall of Panjshir in Afghanistan has highlighted the seamy side of an unspoken international consensus since August 12, that the Afghan war has ended and the task now is to see what sort of government the Taliban form. Acting on this consensus, international and regional powers simply watched while the Taliban attacked the Panjshir valley, where resistance forces ( picture ) had assembled under the leadership of Ahmad Massoud and Amrullah Saleh. Mr. Massoud and Mr. Saleh were in negotiations with the Taliban for an inclusive government, but the Taliban used the talks time to surround Panjshir and cut off supplies, electricity and communications to the valley. Then they announced that talks had broken down and began a military assault, using weaponry that the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization supplied to the Afghan National Army. Much of Panjshir has now fallen and Mr. Massoud and Mr. Saleh are in hiding. Fahim Dashti, the resistance front’s spokesperson and a leading civil society actor, was killed. Responsibility redoubles With the fall of Panjshir all but complete, international and regional actors might feel there is little to be done. On the contrary, their responsibility to protect lives is redoubled by their inaction thus far. How much longer will we watch while the young and hopeful of the past 20 years are thrown to the wolves, group by group, individual by individual? The resistance forces represent the more liberal elements of Afghanistan. Many of them worked in the Hamid Karzai and Ashraf Ghani administrations, including the Afghan army; others were in independent civil society organisations, including the free media. They support women’s rights to education and public participation, elections and the orderly transfer of power, even independent human rights monitoring. They are Afghan nationalists who believe that Afghanistan should have sovereign good relations with all of its neighbours without being drawn into any of their hostilities. They deserve our support, not our indifference. The Taliban pledged at Doha that they would not take Afghanistan by force. By and large, they succeeded in simply walking in, though there were areas such as Herat, in which the Afghan army fought and lost because the U.S. did not provide air support, despite being in place to do so. At the time, events were so rapid that the lack of U.S. response might be forgiven (by some). But the war over Panjshir unfolded over two weeks, and there was time and enough to react. What we saw, instead, was the international community — in particular, the U.S., the European Union, the United Kingdom and other democracies — averting its eyes. Need for a red line Here is where the international community can and must draw a red line. They should announce sanctions until the Taliban resume talks with Mr. Massoud and Mr. Saleh, as well as progress in talks with Mr. Karzai and Dr. Abdullah. They can push for a United Nations monitoring force to ensure that humanitarian aid is allowed into the Panjshir valley, along with restored services, as demanded by Afghan clerics and women’s groups. They can require that Panjshir be treated as a safe zone until negotiations yield the inclusive government that the Taliban promised. They can say that they will not deal with any Taliban government that does not abide by these conditions. During the novel coronavirus pandemic, UN Secretary-General António Guterres called on warring parties across the world to ceasefire. That call was not forcefully repeated for Afghanistan. The UN has called an emergency meeting for humanitarian aid, on September 13. But did the Secretary-General, UN Emergency Relief Coordinator, Martin Griffiths, even discuss the cessation of attacks on Panjshir, or restoration of its services, when he visited the Taliban a few days ago? Or will the September 13 meeting end in a meek acceptance that the Taliban’s war gains — which only soared following U.S. President Joe Biden’s announcement of full withdrawal by August 31 — can set the terms for peace? In most other conflicts in which the international community has intervened — whether militarily or through mediation — the victors have not been allowed to set the terms for peace. In both Bosnia and Kosovo, all sides had to accept some form of decentralisation and minority protection; as did the warring parties in Sudan. Government formation The key now is the Taliban’s government formation. Reportedly, the group has announced the first members of a Taliban-only ‘interim’ administration, to allow for further ‘changes and reforms’, according to Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid. Since it is highly unlikely that further ‘changes and reforms’ will involve an expanded administration with non-Taliban members in any meaningful number, that will put paid to the promise of an inclusive government. Yet, an inclusive government will benefit the Taliban too: it would allow them to plead inability to give sanctuary to their erstwhile partners. Without that restraint, there will be little to prevent Afghanistan from again becoming a sanctuary for al Qaeda, the Jaish-e-Mohamed, the Lashkar-e-Taiba, ISIS-K (Islamic State Khorasan), East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), et al. , whose members have already arrived in Afghanistan. There is leverage International and regional powers can still attempt to prevent such an outcome by announcing sanctions on the Taliban until an inclusive government is formed, without which financial aid will not flow and Afghan assets will not be de-frozen. Friends of the Taliban — foremost Pakistan, but also Qatar, China, Iran, Russia and Turkey — need to impress on Taliban leaders that an inclusive government, which accommodates regional and non-Taliban political leaders, is the best and speediest route to international recognition and the stabilisation of their rule. The international community is currently behaving as if it has next to no leverage. That is not true. Financial and humanitarian aid and recognition of a Taliban government are important not only to the Taliban but even more so to their supporters. Pakistan is looking to increased financial aid for the Afghan refugees it hosts, not to mention strategic importance as the key channel to the Taliban. China and Russia might think twice about cosying up to the Taliban if the rest of the international community sanction them. Iran has already called on the Taliban to hold elections. Qatar has invested years in bringing the Taliban to negotiate. They, too, are in a position to impose conditions, since they provide the first pillars of support for the Taliban. Regional powers, especially Afghanistan’s neighbours, have leverage too. They closed their borders against the refugee influx, but without open borders Afghan trade cannot resume. Moreover, a hold on financial aid and assets need not, indeed must not, prevent the humanitarian aid that Afghanistan so direly needs. Donors can insist that aid will be delivered by the UN and other accredited aid agencies, and not through the Taliban. Leaders can act It is not only the international community that has failed Afghanistan, for the second time. It is also civil society. Apart from women’s groups, few of us, whether in the U.S., Europe, West Asia/the Middle East or Asia, petitioned our governments to act with determination to protect our civil society kin in Afghanistan. It is still not too late to urge our political leaders to hold fast on an inclusive government. As then President Karzai found, regional political leaders are key to any government stability in the country. If it was a costly mistake to exclude the Taliban at the 2001 Bonn conference, it will be an equally costly, if not costlier mistake, to exclude the non-Taliban groups that were powerful in Afghanistan until the Taliban walk-in of a few weeks ago. After all, the Taliban did not achieve a military victory. They are in Afghanistan again because the U.S., NATO and the Ghani government left. Surrendering the conflict does not and should not mean surrendering the peace. Radha Kumar is a writer and policy analyst||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/do-not-surrender-the-peace-in-afghanistan/article36351717.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Refining the reservation policy||In February, just before the Election Commission announced the schedule of the State election, the Tamil Nadu Assembly adopted a Bill to provide 10.5% reservation for the Vanniyakula Kshatriyas within the quota of Most Backward Classes (MBCs) and Denotified Communities (DNCs). In May, relying on the 102nd Constitution Amendment, the Supreme Court reiterated the constitutional position that States did not have the power to identify “socially and educationally backward” classes (SEBCs) . This evoked a strong reaction from political parties, forcing the Centre to pass in August the 105th Amendment which again empowers States or Union Territories to prepare their own lists of SEBCs. From this year onwards, 27% of the all-India quota for admissions for medical and dental courses will be reserved for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and 10% for economically weaker sections (EWS). This was an outcome of the judicial intervention and legal battles of parties such as the AIADMK and the DMK. Breaching the cap All these developments have given a fillip to the demand for a caste-based census and removal of the 50% cap on reservation. Those advocating for this argue that only a caste-based census can bring to the fore the composition and numerical strength of various castes. Using this as the basis, the 50% cap on reservation can be breached. There have been a few attempts in the last 10 years at caste enumeration, but they did not yield the desired results. The 2011 Socio-Economic and Caste Census’s report was made public five years ago but without the data on caste. In Karnataka, a similar exercise was launched in 2015. The report is still not out. In Tamil Nadu, a one-man commission was constituted in December 2020 to collect data on castes. But six months later, the commission was wound up. It is natural that political parties will not agree with the findings of a caste-based census — however well it may have been conducted — if they think that their perceptions of the strength of certain castes do not tally with the findings of the census. Besides, any such data alone, particularly those concerning OBCs, cannot be used as the basis for breaching the 50% cap on reservation. This is because there is no provision in the Constitution to link the quantum of reservation to the population of the OBCs. A reading of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 15 and clause (4) of Article 16 of the Constitution reveals that the scheme of reservation for the SEBCs is permissible but meant only for those OBCs which are “not adequately represented” in the services in the State. As laid down in the Indra Sawhney case (1992), there must be extraordinary circumstances to justify the quantum to exceed the cap. Tamil Nadu is a classic case where the 50% ceiling was breached early. The State provides 69% quota for Backward Classes, MBCs, Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST). But the scheme of quota even in Tamil Nadu was not framed keeping in mind the population of the reserved communities. According to the Second Backward Classes Commission, the population of the Backward Classes, MBCs and the DNCs in the State was about 67%, a figure that the State government still uses. In addition, SCs and STs account for 21.11%, as per the 2011 Census. Several other States have breached the cap. They have adopted the 10% quota for EWS too. However, while highlighting the cause of the Backward Classes, political parties should keep in mind the rationale behind the cap. The Supreme Court, in the Maratha case of May 2021, said: “The 50 per cent ceiling limit for reservation laid down by [the] Indra Sawhney case is on the basis of principle of equality as enshrined in Article 16 of the Constitution.” Need for sub-classification At the same time, it is well known that the scheme of reservation suffers from anomalies. It needs to be refined. Primarily, if the benefits of reservation are equitably distributed among the OBCs, sub-categorisation is a prerequisite. While suggesting the creation of three sub-categories — extremely backward classes, more backward classes and backward classes — the National Commission for Backward Classes emphasised in 2015 more on the need for “classification of OBCs” than on streamlining the provisions on creamy layer to ensure fair implementation of the reservation policy. It is hoped that the Rohini Commission, constituted by the Centre in October 2017 for the purpose of sub-categorisation of communities in the Central list of OBCs, completes its work in three or four months. Some States and Puducherry have already completed the task of sub-categorisation. The parties should also take a dispassionate look at the concept of creamy layer. Fifty years ago, Tamil Nadu’s First Backward Classes Commission recommended that the “affluent sections” in the backward classes should be “precluded from reservation” for the reason of equity. The annual income limit is one of the parameters that determine the creamy layer. Since September 1993, this was revised only five times against the norm of revision every three years. In addition to frequently revising the income limit, the Central government should consider, while revising the limit, many factors such as the trend of rise in GDP, inflation, per capita income and rise in the cost of living. Even as there is a strong case for increasing the present limit of Rs. 8 lakh per annum for determining the creamy layer, the definition of income needs to change. At present, income from salary and agriculture are not considered but “income from other sources” is taken into account. This stipulation on the nature of source of income not only complicates the situation but is also unfair to candidates of those whose parents may earn marginally higher income “through other sources” than the ceiling. This has been amply illustrated in a communication sent in July by the Tamil Nadu government’s BC, MBC and Minorities Welfare Department’s Secretary to the Commissioner of Revenue Administration. According to the communication, for the purpose of issuing OBC certificates, District Collectors should take into account how the parents of candidates earn their annual income, apart from considering other parameters. If the parental income is Rs. 25 lakh through salary or Rs. 50 lakh through agriculture, such candidates will be given OBC certificates. But if the parents earn Rs. 8.1 lakh through “other sources,” their son or daughter will not get the certificate. Besides, the vacancies in the posts of OBCs have to be filled expeditiously. The parliamentary committee had said that as on January 1, 2016, OBC employees in 78 ministries and departments of the Central government constituted only 21.57% against the quota of 27%. In respect of Groups A and B services, the share of OBCs was much lower. This only underscores the need for the Centre to conduct special drives frequently to fill the vacancies. Such an approach will take care of concerns in certain sections that the enforcement of “stringent norms” of the creamy layer might not serve the objective of the 27% quota scheme. Instead of fighting over abstract issues, political parties should channel their energies to make substantive and qualitative changes in the way the reservation is implemented, if they are really concerned about social justice, inclusion of all and the plight of the underprivileged among the OBCs. ramakrishnan.t@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/refining-the-reservation-policy/article36351852.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The economic reforms — looking back to look ahead||The crisis caused by the novel coronavirus pandemic in the country and at global level has led to a debate about fresh thinking and new approaches to manage the economy and the future of humanity. Globally, it has underscored the need for policies to enable resilience in the economy and ensure a robust health system, together with research and development. In India, various efforts are under way to enhance economic growth. A critical reading of reforms History matters in the complex economic system. So, it is important to briefly look at the economic reforms of the last 30 years. Evidence shows that the economic reforms which were launched in a major way in 1991 — and from time to time, subsequent interjections for liberalisation of economy and trade — have enabled some credible gains for the country. Over a period of 30 years, burgeoning foreign exchange reserves, sustained manufacturing contribution in GDP, increased share in global exports (from a mere 0.6% in the early 1990s to 1.8%), robust information and communication technology software exports, and sustained economic growth in the range of 6%-8% are clear hallmarks of success. The economic reforms, so far, have been more focussed on the technical nature of the economy than the system, process and people. As a result, quite a few primary drivers of the economy — human capital, technology readiness, labour productivity, disposable income, capital expenditure, process innovation in setting up businesses, and institutional capacity — have not got enough recognition. In the context of a global competitive environment, some basic issues deserve close examination. The human resource capital (HRC) formation, a good determinant of labour productivity, has been found wanting over the entire period of reforms. The lack of quality education, low skilled manpower and inadequacies in basic health care have resulted in low HRC. The HRC rank for India stands at 103; Sri Lanka is at 70, China at 34, and South Korea at 27, as brought out by the Global Human Capital Report, 2017. As indicated in the World Bank database on GDP for 2019, the low per capita GDP in India, at $2,104 (at $6,997 in PPP terms, ranked 125th globally) against the world average of $11,429 (at $17,678 in PPP terms) has direct links to low per capita family income. Closely linked, the report by Deloitte (Global Manufacturing Competitiveness Index in 2016) reflects that the hourly wages in India have been $1.7; they are $38, $24, $20.7 and $3.3 for the United States, Japan, South Korea, and China, respectively. Low wages have a direct bearing on the disposable income of families and leave little room for the majority of households to have enough disposable income to purchase consumer durables or industrial products, affecting demand. Low research and development expenditure at 0.8% of GDP, vis-à-vis higher value for other fast emerging economies such as South Korea (4.5%), China (2.1%) and Taiwan (3.3%), is resulting in lower capacity for innovation in technologies and reduced ‘technology readiness’, especially for manufacturing. Labour productivity The lack of HRC and low technology readiness have impacted labour productivity adversely. In India, labour productivity in manufacturing is less than 10% of the advanced economies including Germany and South Korea, and is about 40% of China, as reflected in a World Bank publication of 2018, The Future of Manufacturing-Led Development . Low productivity has unfavourable consequences for competitiveness, manufacturing growth, exports and economic growth. In addition, due to a lack of capital expenditure and institutional capacity, and inefficiency in business service processes, there are difficulties in acquiring land for businesses, in efficient utilisation of economic infrastructure, and in providing business services, leading to a long time and more cost in setting up enterprises, resulting in a loss of creative energy of entrepreneurs. The fundamental deficiencies, as highlighted above, are at the heart of the problem. For years, the economy has been hit internally due to low consumer demand as a result of low household incomes as well as externally on account of lesser competitiveness and inadequacies in integration with global supply chains for trade. A Business as Usual (BAU) approach is resulting in diminishing returns. Paradigm shift In order to drive the economy, there needs to be fresh thinking to address the underlying issues comprehensively in an integrated manner. The new reforms will require a distinct departure. The approach should be systemic and address structural issues — HRC, skills, research and development (R&D), land management and institutional capacity. The focus should be on quality of business services, technology readiness, labour productivity and per capita income. First, to attract large investment in manufacturing and advanced services, at a basic level, investment in human capital and technology is a prerequisite. Raising HRC by way of enhanced public sector outlay to 8% of GDP, from current about 5%, for education, skill development (including for advanced technologies) and public health, is another first step. The reports (by McKinsey and the World Economic Forum) on advanced manufacturing suggest that Industry 4.0 will be defined by new technologies such as robotics, 3-D printing, artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet of things (IoT), etc., which could usher in rapid changes of a higher order up to 10X or more in speed, scale and scope; technology obsolescence will be much faster than ever before. Consequently, efforts for technology readiness are very essential to stay competitive. It demands enhancing public research and development expenditure to 2% of GDP over the next three years. There is a need to work on strategies to enhance per capita income by more wages for workers through higher skills and enhancing minimum wages, besides improving the social security net. This calls for a concerted calibrated approach through collaborative efforts of government, industry and workers’ unions. On the issue of increased cost of labour, it can be compensated by higher productivity, some tax-benefits in the initial period of wage reforms especially for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, besides reducing transaction costs in business and improving infrastructure utilisation efficiency. Systemic approach Using insights from the work of Nobel laureate (1993) Douglass C. North on the role of institutions in advancing the economy in a country, it is necessary to build the capacity of public institutions to create a good environment for business and industry. The process of reforms is as important as the content. Policy reforms should lay an emphasis on process innovation and promote a business-centric approach to implementing pre-determined service quality levels (SQLs), to create a friendly ecosystem by having a state-of-the-art plug-and-play model for new enterprises, and for efficient internal supply chain management to integrate with the global supply chain. Finally, largely absent in the 1990s, apart from rapid globalisation and rising aspirations, the future of the economy should be particularly viewed in the backdrop of a significant and irreversible shift in terms of a reliance on the global supply chain as a result of the knowledge-intensive nature of businesses and exponential effects caused by advanced technologies under Industry 4.0, since the 2010s. Therefore, the strategies adopted since the 1990s till now may not ensure adequate returns, and call for innovative approaches in public policymaking. In sum, it necessitates a systemic approach — encompassing inter-connected basic factors of the economic system — for policy reforms for setting the economic fundamentals right, in order to unlock creativity and innovation in the economic system, raise the total factor productivity (TFP), or a measure of productive efficiency, and to achieve higher growth. D.N. Gupta is a former IAS officer. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-economic-reforms-looking-back-to-look-ahead/article36351719.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Decoding asset monetisation||The National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) is a bold initiative. But let us first understand what the NMP is and what it is not. The NMP is not about the sale of government-owned assets. It is not about privatisation or disinvestment. The proposal is to offer infrastructure assets that will continue to be owned by the government under a long-term concession agreement to interested private bidders. Comparison with PPP model The NMP is also very different from the United Progressive Alliance (UPA)-I’s ill-fated public-private partnership (PPP) infrastructure development of the mid-2000s. That programme was about attracting private parties to build, operate and then transfer ‘greenfield’ or new infrastructure projects under build-operate-transfer (BOT) concession agreements. These enjoined the winning private bidder to take not only the operating risk, but also the development and construction risk of the project, such as a toll road, from scratch. This was a complex and messy process. It involved the acquisition of land. This process became controversial and was subject to delay. It involved securing environmental and other regulatory approvals. These proved challenging to obtain. It involved meeting construction and design standards. Compliance with these became a source of friction between the concessioning authority and the concessionaire. All this undermined trust between the public and private parties and led to a huge volume of disputes for which there was no readily available resolution mechanism. In contrast, the NMP is about leasing out ‘brownfield’ infrastructure assets (such as an already operating inter-State toll highway) under a toll-operate-transfer (TOT) concession agreement. In such an arrangement no acquisition of land is involved. Nor does the concessionaire need to take any of the construction risk. The process promises to be much simpler and cleaner than what was required in the PPP programme. It is also certain to attract a different class of private capital. To be successful in the BOT bids required a proven ability to navigate and manage the system. It thus attracted battle-hardened domestic entrepreneurs adept at finding creative ways of extracting value, including through ‘gold plating’ of project costs or through ‘negotiated settlements’ with demanding government inspectors or friendly bankers. On the other hand, for success under the bidding process of the NMP, what will be required is operational experience in running a particular class of infrastructure assets and a strong understanding of the potential cash flows generated over the life of the concession. This is certain to attract the largest global pension funds. Contract design and implementation That said, the success of the NMP is by no means assured. Bidding out and designing long-term concessions for assets that are already operating requires considerable skill. Given the long tenure of these concession agreements, they must be designed to allow for some flexibility so that each party has the opportunity to deal with unforeseen circumstances (such as climate-related disasters) and to prevent needless litigation. Contracts must also incorporate clear key performance indicators expected of the private party and clear benchmarks for assets as they are handed over by the government the start of the concession. This is key to avoiding disputes about potential additional capital expenditures that might be required to keep the asset operational. Two, no matter how well a contract is crafted, it still needs to be implemented effectively. Experience shows that there is a tendency for government departments to inject opacity into the implementation of concession agreements so that they have more power over the concessionaire. To avoid this, it would be useful if the responsibility for administering the concession agreements did not lie directly with the line ministries and/or their agencies. Three, it is vital to put in place a robust dispute resolution mechanism. For all these reasons there is a strong case to set up a centralised institution with the skills and responsibility to oversee contract design, bidding and implementation, separate from, but with appropriate assistance of, the concerned line ministries. An institution such as ‘3 PPP India’, first mooted in the 2014 Budget, is needed. It would also be advisable to set up an Infrastructure PPP Adjudication Tribunal along the lines of what was recommended by the Kelkar Committee (2015) to create suitably specialised dispute resolution capacity. Finally, it is always wise to under-promise and over-deliver. The government could start with sectors that offer greatest cash flow predictability and the least regulatory uncertainty before expanding the experiment. It could also ensure that resources raised from the NMP are used to fund new asset creation under the National Infrastructure Pipeline. This will ensure credibility. Rajiv Lall is Professorial Research Fellow, Sim Kee Boon Institute of Financial Economics, Singapore Management University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/decoding-asset-monetisation/article36351846.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Needed: A tribunal for CAPF||Over the years, there have been numerous cases of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officers overstaying leave. This prompted the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to issue orders to the CRPF headquarters on August 23, 2021, to “include the provisions of Security Force Court (SFC) as available in the Acts and Rules of other CAPFs (Central Armed Police Forces), for initiating disciplinary action against the delinquent officers, so that such cases are finalised within minimum time.” Delays in enquiries CRPF rules lay down the procedure for the conduct of departmental enquiries against non-gazetted ranks, and the officers are generally well versed with the procedure. As a result, most of the cases that are challenged in the High Courts are upheld. In normal circumstances, the departmental enquiries are completed within three to six months. But when gazetted officers are charge-sheeted, the time taken to order the enquiries is longer as other institutions like the Union Public Service Commission, the Central Vigilance Commission, the Department of Personnel and Training, and the MHA are also roped in for their views and legal opinion. When personnel overstay their leave for long durations, the delinquent officers must be directed to appear before the inquiring authority along with the presenting officer and the defence assistant of the charged official. Even if one of them fails to appear for the hearing, the conduct of enquiry must be postponed. Often, the enquiry is conducted ex parte (without the presence of the charged official). In such cases, the recorded statements and other documents must be sent to the charged official. Postal delays further aggravate the matter. Since most officers are busy in operational matters, which gain priority over everything else, the enquiries take a backseat. It is not just the inquiring authority who has to take time off his busy schedule to conduct the enquiry, but also the charged official and the presenting officer and defence assistant, if any. Quite often, delays occur in providing certain prosecution documents to the charged official who may demand them for preparing his own defence. There can be no gainsaying that such delays occur in all ministries and departments. While in the case of non-gazetted ranks, the enquiries are completed within a matter of few months, there can be no reason for undue delay in the case of officers. The monitoring system must be very stringent. Since most serving officers who are appointed as inquiring authorities are tasked to conduct enquiries in addition to their usual responsibilities, the enquiries are not given due priority. The solution The solution lies in appointing retired officers as inquiring authorities, who can afford to devote their time to the conduct of enquiries as is being done in most departments of the government. The difference between the SFC and the departmental enquiry is that while the former is a purely judicial process where the guilt must be proved beyond reasonable doubt and the charged official is at liberty to engage a legal practitioner to defend him, the latter is a quasi-judicial proceeding where the mere element of preponderance of probability is enough to determine guilt. Though the Central Reserve Police Force Act of 1949 provides for conducting judicial trial by a Commandant in his capacity as a Magistrate, seldom is it exercised as it gets into the realm of judicial process. Hence, the conduct of a departmental enquiry is the better option. With increasing cases being filed in the High Courts across the country in service matters, it is high time the government considered the setting up of tribunals for the CAPFs on the lines of the Armed Forces Tribunal for defence services. Retired officers of the rank of Inspectors General and Additional Directors General from the CAPFs could be part of these tribunals along with retired judges of High Courts. This would ensure speedy delivery of justice. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), CRPF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/needed-a-tribunal-for-capf/article36351847.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Nipah amidst a pandemic||India is far from being anywhere near the finish line with regard to the coronavirus pandemic, even as fears of a Nipah virus outbreak have surfaced in Kerala with one confirmed death in Kozhikode. While confirmed cases of the viral infection have been reported several times since 2001 in West Bengal and Kerala, it was the outbreak in 2018, in Kozhikode, that made headlines after 17 deaths and 18 confirmed cases, underlining the high infection-associated fatality. Outbreaks fanned by exotic viruses are not foreign to India: a glance at the weekly reports compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme shows the diversity of viral or bacterial outbreaks that flash by with barely a mention, unless they threaten India’s metropolises as outbreaks of dengue, H1N1, chikungunya or malaria sometimes do. However, the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic also draws attention to significant outbreaks that preceded it. Nipah in Kozhikode and Malappuram was the first outbreak where terms such as ‘contact tracing’, ‘RT PCR’, ‘antigen test’, and ‘PPE kits’ became part of the ordinary discourse in Kerala. The State’s public health system, earlier commended only for quality primary health care, earned appreciation for its ability to establish links between the infected and their contacts and to isolate them to prevent further spread. There are now established protocols — at the national level — for the three key aspects of a potential pandemic: infection control, treatment and vaccination. When a contagion hits, the world now understands what can and cannot be controlled within each geographic region’s context. It is these lessons from the coronavirus pandemic that must inform future outbreaks. It had become routine for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, at intervals, to report outbreaks of ‘mystery fevers’, when they were often easily diagnosable infections that were just a competent, accessible laboratory test away. Thus, while there is no knowing if the latest Nipah outbreak in India will peter out like in 2019 or be worse than in 2018, India must be heartened that the potential of an outbreak evokes national concern and an anticipatory response unlike the earlier and purely reactive approach. A standardised treatment for Nipah continues to be elusive and a spike in cases could spell disaster given the high mortality rate. However, some studies suggest that vaccines developed for the coronavirus, if adequately tweaked, may prove effective against the Nipah virus too. Another potential candidate vaccine is in early human trials. Because vaccination continues to be the best bet against the disease, the very fact that global attention and capital no longer need to be coaxed to developing vaccines for tropical infections is itself a key difference in how the world approaches outbreaks in the coronavirus era.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/nipah-amidst-a-pandemic/article36351711.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Making them pay||South Korea’s newest legislation, dubbed the ‘anti-Google’ law, is something that Indian lawmakers should consider emulating. Last week, its Parliament passed an amendment to its Telecommunications Business Act with the aim of preventing app store operators, such as Google and Apple, from forcing app developers to use their in-store payment systems, for which they charge exorbitantly. The new law is also a check on the unfair use of market position. With digital commerce becoming ubiquitous, and with the Googles and the Apples controlling this experience through their platforms, it has become imperative for government laws to regulate them. South Korea happens to be the first off the block. But a lot of other jurisdictions are not far behind. Australia, which only recently brought in a law to make Internet platforms pay media companies for displaying their content, is now reportedly thinking of bringing digital payment services such as Apple Pay, Google Pay and WeChat Pay under its regulatory ambit. The European Union’s draft law seeks to make these large platform companies, “gatekeepers” as it refers to them, comply with a set of dos and don’ts that gives the smaller companies a fair chance. The EU proposal is also centred around customers having more choice. But that is not all. In the U.S., last month, three Senators brought in a Bill much along the same lines. Introduced by Democrats Richard Blumenthal, Amy Klobuchar, and Republican Marsha Blackburn, it aims “To promote competition and reduce gatekeeper power in the app economy, increase choice, improve quality, and reduce costs for consumers.” All this is happening in the backdrop of the pending verdict in the well-known case in which Epic Games, the company behind ‘Fortnite’, sued Apple on this very issue. The legal move was triggered after Apple ousted Epic from its platform for putting up its own payment system, bypassing Apple’s. The app store operators are clearly on the back foot the world over. In India too, the angst of app developers has been evident in recent times. According to a report, Apple is facing an antitrust challenge in India from a Rajasthan-based non-profit called ‘Together We Fight Society’ on this issue. It remains to be seen if the regulator, the Competition Commission of India, orders an investigation. Last year, it started investigations into similar allegations against Google. A law to regulate app store operators is not a drastic departure from this government’s thinking on such issues. Only recently, it promoted the setting up of the Open Network for Digital Commerce to “democratise e-commerce” and “to provide alternatives to proprietary e-commerce sites”. The challenge, however, is to protect the smaller sellers and developers without undermining the ecosystem for technological innovation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/making-them-pay/article36351712.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Growth in allopathic drug companies||Commercial units manufacturing allopathic formulations and basic drugs have registered a ‘phenomenal’ growth during the 24 years after independence. Some 2,300 units are now making a turnover of Rs. 266 crores as against Rs. 10 to 15 crores in 1947. Disclosing this here to-day [Indore, September 6], the Union Minister of State for Petroleum and Chemicals, Mr. P.C. Sethi, said while the Government was largely satisfied by the progress in the field of manufacture, it was equally concerned to see that the formulations and drugs were sold to people at ‘reasonable’ price. Speaking at a reception arranged by a local drug manufacturing concern, Mr. Sethi said the Drug Control Act had proved to be an effective measure in checking the prices of drugs and other medicines. The Minister agreed that some of the drugs still continued to be sold at a higher price, but that was due to lack of adjustments at dealer level. Mr. Sethi had held talks on the matter yesterday with a number of manufacturers in Bombay and hoped to remove the disparity soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/growth-in-allopathic-drug-companies/article36351720.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. mulls allowing local sales by SEZ units sans import tag’||The government is considering a proposal to allow producers in Special Economic Zones (SEZs) to sell their output to the domestic market without treating them as imports. It is also reviewing the exclusion of export-oriented units (EOUs) and SEZs from the recently notified tax refund scheme for exports. Commerce Secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyam has also assured the Export Promotion Council for EOUs and SEZs (EPCES) of a resolution of the massive container shortages afflicting exports at a meeting on Monday, EPCES chairman Bhuvnesh Seth told The Hindu . He said freight rates and input costs had risen, but SEZ and EOU units had not been given benefits under the Remission of Taxes and Duties on Export Products (RoDTEP) scheme. Stressing that SEZs are governed by an Act of Parliament, not a scheme, and most benefits that were offered to units in these zones had expired, including the erstwhile export incentive schemes for merchandise and services (MEIS and SEIS), the EPCES has urged the Centre to bring them under the RoDTEP. “It will be absolutely harsh on industry when you start distinguishing the units producing the same thing approaching the same overseas customer, just because they’re located in an SEZ or outside. For an export market, a 4%-5% difference in price matters,” Mr. Seth said. “With the MEIS gone, it is a double whammy for SEZs ... if SEZs are not given the scheme, it will be against the AatmaNirbhar Bharat programme, because then, SEZ units are incentivised to import rather than procure domestically,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-mulls-allowing-local-sales-by-sez-units-sans-import-tag/article36351697.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Auto sales may be lacklustre this festival season: FADA||Even as total retail sales of vehicles grew 14.5% to more than 13.48 lakh units in August, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) has warned of a ‘lacklustre festive season’ with passenger vehicles witnessing demand-supply mismatch and two-wheelers facing a demand crunch. As per data from FADA, retail sales of passenger vehicles (PV) grew close to 39% to 2.53 lakh units, while two-wheeler sales rose 7% to 9.76 lakh. Commercial vehicles almost doubled to 53,150 units from 26,851. Sales of three-wheelers and tractors rose 80% to 30,410 units and 5.5% to 71,737, respectively. “With OEMs cutting down production due to unavailability of semiconductors and ABS chips... shortage of containers and high metal prices, customers for the first time may not get a vehicle of their choice and lucrative schemes during this festive season,” FADA said. It added that the “ultra-frequent” price increases was also keeping entry-level buyers at bay. “Customers, especially at the bottom of the pyramid, are shifting their priority... saving instead of spending,” it added. This, it said, may impact two-wheeler demand. “Every dealer by now starts planning for a bigger offtake in anticipation of a bumper festive season, but due to supply issues, inventory levels are at their lowest” this year, said FADA president Vinkesh Gulati. “The two-wheeler market is highly price sensitive. With multiple price hikes, increased fuel cost, coupled with educational institutions remaining closed, the impact could be” on the segment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-sales-may-be-lacklustre-this-festival-season-fada/article36351699.ece
08 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Screening tech firm Smiths Detection mulls unit in India||Smiths Detection, a global leader in detection and screening technologies for protection of people and assets, is exploring the possibility of establishing a manufacturing base in India to support global operations, a top company executive said. “All our group divisions are identifying synergies with the Indian government’s initiative,” said Vikrant Trilokekar, managing director, Smiths Detection India Pvt. Ltd. “Various possibilities are being evaluated, but Smiths understands that long-term success hinges on manufacturing facilities in this country,” he added. The company said it was also gearing up to introduce BioFlash, a device it had developed to deal with biological threats such as COVID-19, in India. BioFlash is a bio-aerosol collection system that uses Canary technology along with aerosol collection techniques to provide a low-risk, cost-effective biological sampling and identification solution for environmental monitoring. “The product has been tested and used in the U.S.,” Mr. Trilokekar said. “In India, it is available for demonstration purposes and can be used at a variety of places like government buildings, hotels and other important locations. It does not require a laboratory interpretation,” he added. The company, however, is yet to reveal the price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/screening-tech-firm-smiths-detection-mulls-unit-in-india/article36351695.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Crypto is not currency, must regulate it as asset’||Former RBI deputy governor R. Gandhi on Tuesday made a case for treating and regulating crypto as a separate asset class with a view to enabling governments around the world to effectively deal with illegal activities associated with virtual currencies. After quite a lot of debate over the years, people have fully understood that crypto cannot be a currency because the fundamental element of a currency — that it should be a legal tender — is missing in this case, Mr. Gandhi said. The former deputy governor said that in this case, one cannot compel a cryptocurrency to be accepted by another person as it is not a legal tender. The general consensus among many policymakers is that it should be deemed as an asset, not as a currency, not as a payment instrument and not as a financial instrument as there is no clear identified issuer, Mr. Gandhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/crypto-is-not-currency-must-regulate-it-as-asset/article36351701.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,||TVS Motor, ETGL ally for distribution in S. Africa||TVS Motor Company Ltd. has appointed ETG Logistics (ETGL) as its distribution partner in South Africa, strengthening its presence in the country. ETGL is a division of ETG (Export Trading Group) — a global conglomerate present in 48 countries with expertise across industries. The company will operate 30 dealerships for TVSM in South Africa as part of this partnership, TVS Motor said in a statement. ETGL will also support TVS Motor with dedicated sales, service, spares and customer relationship management, including the assembly setup and training centre in Johannesburg. “We are delighted to partner with the reputed global conglomerate, ETGL, to expand our presence in South Africa,” said R. Dilip, president, International Business, TVS Motor. ‘Key market’ “South Africa is an important market for us, and ETGL’s extensive distribution network, along with our shared ethos and values, makes them the ideal strategic partner,” he added. TVS Motor is planning to unveil the TVS Apache series, TVS HLX series, TVS NTORQ 125 and TVS Duramax Cargo in South Africa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-etgl-ally-for-distribution-in-s-africa/article36351704.ece
08 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Outlook remains ‘stable’ for banking, says Ind-Ra||Domestic ratings agency India Ratings on Tuesday maintained a ‘stable’ outlook on the banking sector for FY22. It also said it expected an increase in stressed assets in the retail and MSME segments by end-March. Gross non-performing assets (GNPAs) of the banking sector are estimated at 8.6% and stressed assets at 10.3% for FY22, the agency said in its mid-year outlook for banks, released on Tuesday. Banks will continue to strengthen their financials by raising capital and adding to provision buffers which have already seen a sharp increase in the last three to four years, it added. It estimated that the asset quality impact in the retail segment had been higher for private banks with a median rise of more than 100% in gross NPAs over Q1 FY21 to Q1 FY22, and about 45% for public sector banks. Ind-Ra said the MSME sector had been under pressure with demonetisation, introduction of GST and RERA, the slowing down of business at large corporates and now COVID-19. Gross NPAs for MSMEs are expected to increase to 13.1% by end-FY22, from 9.9% in FY21. Stressed assets would likely increase to 15.6%, from 11.7%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/outlook-remains-stable-for-banking-says-ind-ra/article36351706.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre assures ‘balanced’ step on e-com rules||The government will take a “balanced” approach while finalising the amendments proposed to the Consumer Protection (e-commerce) Rules as “wide and varied” comments have been received from stakeholders, a top official said on Tuesday. “We have received a lot of suggestions,” Consumer Affairs Secretary Leena Nandan said. “It would be difficult to give a timeline as many suggestions have come and all of them require deliberations and discussions. But it is certainly work in progress,” the Secretary told mediapersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-assures-balanced-step-on-e-com-rules/article36351692.ece
08 September 2021||MUMBAI,||IndiaRF to invest Rs. 615 cr. in Setco Group||India Resurgence Fund (IndiaRF), promoted by Piramal Enterprises Ltd. and Bain Capital Credit, along with affiliates, has announced an investment of up to Rs. 615 crore in Gujarat-based Setco Group, a maker of auto components. As part of the transaction, Setco Automotive will transfer its clutch business into a subsidiary, Setco Auto Systems Private Ltd. (SASPL), in which IndiaRF will invest through a senior debt facility and pick up 35% equity stake. “The proceeds will be used for growth capital and working capital,” IndiaRF said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indiarf-to-invest-rs-615-cr-in-setco-group/article36351693.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Indian firms to give 9.4% pay raise in ’22’||Notwithstanding the second wave of COVID-19 hitting the nation hard, Indian organisations have displayed resilience, and the salary increment is being projected to grow from an average of 8.8% this year to an estimated average of 9.4% in 2022, according to a survey by Aon. According to the Aon’s 26th Annual Salary Increase Survey which was released on Tuesday, most businesses have an optimistic view going into 2022, with 98.9% of the companies intending to give salary increases in 2022, as compared with 97.5% companies in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-firms-to-give-94-pay-raise-in-22/article36351702.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,||EID Parry to set up Rs. 92.5 cr. distillery in AP||EID Parry India Ltd. has announced the setting up of a 120 kilo litre per day capacity distillery at its Sankili unit in Andhra Pradesh. On Tuesday, the board approved the Rs. 92.5 crore project. The investment cost would be met through borrowings, the company said in a regulatory filing. The distillery would utilise sugarcane juice or syrup as principal feedstock during the crushing season. Grains like broken rice or maize would be used during off season to manufacture ethanol, which would have assured offtake from oil marketing firms, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/eid-parry-to-set-up-rs-925-cr-distillery-in-ap/article36351703.ece
08 September 2021||Hyderabad,||Dr. Reddy’s launches drug to treat hair loss||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories has introduced Minoxidil topical solution USP 2% and 5%, a prescription drug for the treatment of female pattern hair loss, following approval of an additional indication by CDSCO. It is approved for treatment of male pattern baldness, the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dr-reddys-launches-drug-to-treat-hair-loss/article36351691.ece
08 September 2021||Chennai,||Zoho invests in medical devices||Zoho Corp will be investing Rs. 35 crore in MRI technology start-up Voxelgrids in two tranches in 18 months and pick up 25% stake over two years. “Our mission is to invest in critical technology know-how in the country,” said Sridhar Vembu, CEO and co-founder, Zoho Corp. “This (investment) fits very well with the mission.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/zoho-invests-in-medical-devices/article36351705.ece
08 September 2021||GREATER NOIDA,||Velavan and Tanvi triumph again||Velavan Senthilkumar and Tanvi Khanna won once again, asserting their supremacy in undisputed terms, in the HCL PSA Challenger squash tournament at the Shiv Nadar University on Tuesday. Second seed Tanvi Khanna limped towards the end but executed an 11-7, 11-6, 11-9 victory over the top seed Sunayna Kuruvilla in the women’s final. Interestingly, Tanvi had beaten Sunayna 15-13 in the fifth game in the last final in Chennai. Tanvi capitalised on the two events at home after the pandemic to accumulate useful world ranking points. “It has been absolutely amazing playing two challenger events. This was yet another crucial match against Sunayna and I thoroughly enjoyed playing against her at this stage,” said Tanvi. In the men’s final, third seed Velavan was equally assertive in taming the fourth seed Abhishek Pradhan, who had ousted the top seed in the semifinals. Velavan had a similar scoreline, winning 11-7, 11-6, 11-9, for his second triumph in the current series. He did not drop a game in the tournament and was a notch above the rest. “These tournaments have helped me earn crucial PSA ranking points and improve my world rankings. Not just the rankings, these tournaments have given me the confidence and the match play that I needed,” said Velavan. At the presentation, Rajat Chandolia, Marketing Head of HCL, said that the organisation was committed “to improving the squash ecosystem in the country and will continue work with SRFI to design and implement efforts in that direction.” The secretary general of the Squash Rackets Federation of India (SRFI) praised the Shiv Nadar University for being a “great host and providing an amazing squash venue.”  The results (finals): Men: Velavan Senthilkumar bt Abhishek Pradhan 11-7, 11-6, 11-9.   Women: Tanvi Khanna bt Sunayna Kuruvilla 11-7, 11-6, 11-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/velavan-and-tanvi-triumph-again/article36351991.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Kohli’s team might be India’s best ever; has the results to show for it||India’s current team might be their greatest ever. They won the last two series in Australia and could win their first in England since 2007. In the ‘golden age’ — the Sachin Tendulkar era — India won two Tests in Australia and two in England. They have now matched that record in less than a year. Great teams must have the record to show for it. Other factors often enter the calculation too — impressive individual performances, manner of wins, consistency, ability to defend, even aesthetic elements. But in the end, the numbers matter, and this team has done enough in recent years to qualify as India’s best in nearly nine decades of Test cricket. There was a phase, 2002-2004, when India won Tests at Port of Spain, Leeds, Adelaide, Multan and Rawalpindi. But only in Pakistan did they win the series. That team had everything — the world’s best batsman in Tendulkar, opener Virender Sehwag, a middle order comprising Rahul Dravid, V.V.S. Laxman, Sourav Ganguly — veteran writer David Frith thought this might be the finest line-up in the history of the game — and Anil Kumble, Harbhajan Singh, Zaheer Khan, Javagal Srinath. There was both heft and elegance, a rare combination. Variety too. And yet, the combinations lacked the series wins abroad to show for all their power and range. The odd wins were celebrated, of course, as were the stunning individual performances. But in retrospect, that team did not live up to potential. This is one of the ironies of Indian cricket — that their most celebrated team did not dominate as they should have. With the exception of Virat Kohli and Jasprit Bumrah, the current team lacks the authority of the earlier one. It doesn’t matter. There is no Laxman who made on-lookers weep for the beauty of his batsmanship or a Tendulkar who made the opposition weep. No left-armer with the cunning of Zaheer. None of this matters, for it has steel. Again, Kohli apart, there is no player yet who is an automatic selection in an all-time squad, a fantasy team studded with players from the Tendulkar generation. Team with a heart What this team has is heart. Put into bat and down 127 for seven on the opening day at the Oval, they are pushed to the wall. But with amazing insouciance they wipe the writing off it. In the four victories in Australia and England, only one bowler, Mohammed Siraj, had a five-wicket haul. The wickets have been well shared. There have been only three centuries, and twice India have bounced back after being dismissed for under 100. That 36 in Adelaide and 78 in Leeds serve to highlight the temperament of players who can let bygones be bygones and remember only the good times. It is a rare quality in an individual, even rarer in a team. In the past, Indian teams always had a couple of outstanding individuals on whom everything rested. When Sunil Gavaskar was dismissed, that was half the team gone. If the great spinners were collared, there was no one to turn to till Kapil Dev came along, and if he had a bad day, that was that. For the first time, Indians can rejig an old ditty and say, ‘If Bumrah doesn’t get you, Shami must’. Or sit back assured that someone will make a significant score. And their most successful bowler hasn’t played yet! In the 1960s, India won only one series abroad, in New Zealand. That helped consolidate India’s biggest strength: spin bowling. That most romanticised generation led by a Nawab, with its essentially amateur spirit was necessary. Just as necessary was the one represented by Tendulkar, when India performed with greater consistency. All this before this Kohli-led bunch of professionals could emerge. When India first became No. 1 in 2009, they had not won a series in Australia, South Africa or Sri Lanka. Now only South Africa remain; India play three Tests there come December. We often bestow greatness only in retrospect; yesterday’s players become larger, their reputations grow as they get further embedded into history. It is one of cricket’s conceits that numbers do not matter, that a well-made 37 is greater than a scratchy century, whatever its impact on the game. But even fathers who tell their sons the players of their generation were great, were unwilling to admit this when they were actually playing. True greatness a fantasy Perhaps this is because true greatness is a fantasy in the mind, not a reality on television. With time you ‘remember’ things that never happened; the stories gain by repetition and myth-making takes over. False memory makes more sporting heroes than we care to admit. In the future, we might be talking of this team led by Kohli as India’s greatest. We are merely saving time here by saying this in advance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohlis-team-might-be-indias-best-ever-has-the-results-to-show-for-it/article36351708.ece
08 September 2021||Mumbai,||Compensation package on apex council agenda||The much-delayed compensation package for the domestic cricket season curtailed by the pandemic is set to be discussed during the BCCI’s apex council meeting on September 20. The issue is listed third on the meeting’s agenda. “Discussion on compensation to be given to First Class cricketers (men and women) for the 2020-21 season,” states the agenda, accessed by The Hindu . The agenda also lists an “update” on the upcoming domestic season, which is to be discussed. Working group meeting  The Hindu understands that BCCI secretary Jay Shah convened a meeting of the seven-member working group that had been formed to discuss domestic cricket last week. It is learnt that all seven members expressed their views and asked the office-bearers to devise the best possible mechanism for compensation. Since the COVID-19 outbreak resulted in the suspension of the Ranji Trophy, one of the options suggested was to compensate cricketers half of the average Ranji Trophy fees. A similar mechanism was also discussed for age-group and women cricketers. However, finalising the list of cricketers to benefit is the biggest challenge, which could be put forward to the apex council. The apex council is also set to discuss the international home season for 2021-22. New Zealand is scheduled to tour India for two Tests and three T20Is, with the Tests being a part of the World Test Championship, in November-December. The detailed itinerary, including venues, could be finalised by the apex council. The meeting is also set to discuss the preparation for the T20 World Cup, which the BCCI will host in the United Arab Emirates and Oman from October 17. In addition, it is also set to ratify the BCCI’s Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy.  The council is also set to discuss the international home season for 2021-22||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/compensation-package-on-apex-council-agenda/article36351925.ece
08 September 2021||Mumbai,||Shardul set to make T20 WC squad||Thanks to his recent exploits in England, Shardul Thakur is virtually assured of a place in India’s squad for the T20 World Cup, to be played in the United Arab Emirates and Oman from October 17 to November 14. The national selection panel, headed by former India pacer Chetan Sharma, is likely to pick the squad for the marquee event on Wednesday. Shardul’s consistent performances in the Test series in England — both with ball and willow — have given the selectors a ready-made option in the pace-bowling all-rounders’ department. The department is an area of concern, with Hardik Pandya’s back injury restricting his ability to bowl regularly. Shardul, who has proven himself as a handy bowler in the middle overs in T20s, will provide much-needed back-up. It will be interesting to see how many stand-bys the selectors decide to pick. The International Cricket Council, because of the pandemic, has put a cap of 30 individuals on the travelling contingent, which includes the 15-member squad. With India’s support staff extending to 16 or 17 members in the recent past, the selectors and the team management will have to decide whether the team requires more than three stand-bys. While Shreyas Iyer is set to be included in the squad after having recovered from the shoulder injury he suffered during the home series against England in March, it will be interesting whether the selectors consider Washington Sundar. Washington is understood to have recovered from the finger fracture he suffered in England but will not feature in the IPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shardul-set-to-make-t20-wc-squad/article36351937.ece
08 September 2021||New York,||Raducanu’s dream run continues, Sakkari stops Andreescu||British teen Emma Raducanu matched the deepest run by any qualifier in US Open history on Monday, rolling into the quarterfinals and mastering the nervy atmosphere of Arthur Ashe Stadium at the US Open. The 18-year-old defeated American Shelby Rogers 6-2, 6-1 and had US Open fans cheering her over a home-nation heroine as she booked a last-eight date with Swiss 11th seed Belinda Bencic. Raducanu, the Canada-born daughter of a Chinese mother and Romanian father, made her WTA debut in June and her Grand Slam debut with a fourth-round run at Wimbledon after a long lay-off in the COVID-19 pandemic. “I’m super appreciative of the moment,” Raducanu said. “To be here in the US Open quarterfinals after not playing for 18 months is absolutely just incredible.” Virginia Wade, the 1968 US Open champion and most recent British woman to capture the New York title, was cheering on Raducanu from the stands. Marathon Maria Sakkari, the No. 17 seed, made it to her first US Open quarterfinal after halting Bianca Andreescu’s 10-match winning streak in New York with a thrilling 6-7(2), 7-6(6), 6-3 result. The match lasted three hours and 30 minutes, setting a new US Open record for the latest finish of a women’s singles match. Sakkari, 26, now has nine top 20 wins this season, including a straight-sets win over 10th seed Petra Kvitova in the third round. In men’s action, Russian second seed Daniil Medvedev advanced to the semifinals on Tuesday, defeating 117th-ranked Dutch qualifier Botic Van de Zandschulp 6-3, 6-0, 4-6, 7-5. On Monday, Novak Djokovic struggled but advanced within three matches of completing the first men’s singles calendar-year Grand Slam in 52 years by outlasting American Jenson Brooksby. Djokovic rallied past 99th-ranked Brooksby 1-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-2.  The quarterfinal match-ups:   Men: Djokovic vs Berrettini, Zverev vs Harris, Auger-Aliassime vs Alcaraz.   Women: Sabalenka vs Krejcikova, Svitolina vs Fernandez, Belinda vs Raducanu, Pliskova vs Sakkari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/raducanus-dream-run-continues-sakkari-halts-andreescus-run/article36351934.ece
08 September 2021||London,||Root wary of Anderson’s workload||Joe Root said England must carefully manage James Anderson’s workload as it tries to avoid a series defeat by India in the fifth Test at Old Trafford starting on Friday. England great Anderson bowled 47 overs for just two wickets during a 157-run loss in the fourth Test at the Oval and sent down 33 overs during India’s second innings alone, which lasted more than 11 hours. The 39-year-old paceman’s heavy workload after playing in four back-to-back Tests has prompted concern about his fitness and ability to lead England’s attack at his Manchester home ground, with the hosts 2-1 down in a five-match series. And with a tour of Australia on the horizon, England will want the experience of Test cricket’s most successful fast bowler when trying to regain the Ashes ‘Down Under’. “You have to weigh everything up and take everything into account to make sure physically he (Anderson) is in the right place and feels he can get through it,” said England captain Root after Monday’s emphatic reverse. If he goes down injured, it leaves us in a difficult place for the rest of the game and for the winter,” he added. “Ultimately, we’ve got to find a way of winning — it’s a delicate balancing act.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/root-wary-of-andersons-fitness/article36351929.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,||TTFI requests SAI to get Madhurika for the National camp||India's top three women paddlers — Manika Batra, Sutirtha Mukherjee and Madhurika Patkar — are absent from the ongoing National table tennis camp at the Delhi Public School (Sonepat) for the Asian championships to be held in Doha from September 28 to October 5. Ayhika Mukherjee, Archana Kamath and Sreeja Akula are the only high-profile names at the camp now. With Manika refusing to take part and Sutirtha, India’s second best, opting out due to ‘personal’ reasons, the TTFI has requested the Sports Authority of India (SAI) to get Madhurika for the camp along with Krittwika Sinha Roy and Takema Sarkar. On the other hand, the Indian men's team will be in full strength in a few days’ time. While Sharath Kamal, A. Amalraj, Sanil Shetty, and Manav Thakkar have been training at Sonepat for the last few days, G. Sathiyan and Harmeet Desai are expected to join on September 9. “We are training hard for the Asian event,” Sharath told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ttfi-requests-sai-to-get-madhurika-for-the-national-camp/article36351994.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tokyo Olympians set to skip Nationals||The upcoming men’s National boxing championship is unlikely to feature any of the five pugilists who competed at the Tokyo Olympics, ruling them out of contention for next month’s Worlds in Serbia as well. Amit Panghal (52kg), Manish Kaushik (63kg), Vikas Krishan (69kg), Ashish Chaudhary (75kg) and Satish Kumar (+91kg) had competed at the Tokyo Games. All of them lost in the preliminary rounds barring Satish, who went down in the quarters.  Of these, Vikas, Satish and Ashish are nursing injuries and have withdrawn. There is no word yet on what Amit and Manish would do but a source said they might also skip the tournament due to “lack of practice”. “They have opted out of the Nationals because they haven’t been able to train well since coming back from Tokyo. One or two might still consider it closer to the tournament but in all likelihood, they wouldn’t compete,” a source close to the boxers said. The Nationals are due to be held from September 15. The Boxing Federation of India has stated that only the gold-winners from the Nationals will make the squad for the world event scheduled to start on Oct. 26 in Belgrade.  Panghal (52kg), Manish (63kg), Vikas (69kg), Ashish (75kg) and Satish (+91kg) competed at the Tokyo Games||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-olympians-set-to-skip-nationals/article36351978.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India favourite to finish on top of Group B||India begins as the favourite to top the 10-team Group B when the league phase in the top division of the FIDE Online Chess Olympiad begins on Wednesday. Seeded third Having shared the title with Russia last year, India is one of the favourites. Led by Viswanathan Anand, India is seeded third behind China and Russia. In the first phase of the league, 40 teams (25 seeds and 15 qualifiers) are placed in four groups of 10 teams. After the league, two teams from each group will qualify for the quarterfinals. India and Azerbaijan are the rating favourites to occupy the two qualifying spots from the group. Hungary has reasons to fancy its chances. France, Sweden, Slovenia, Shenzhen China, Belarus, Egypt and Moldova are the other teams. Each match will have six games featuring two men, two women, a junior boy and a junior girl. The time control is 15 minutes plus 5-second increment per move. With Anand, P. Harikrishna, Vidit Gujrathi and B. Adhiban around, the top two boards appear well served. The presence of spearhead K. Humpy, D. Harika, Tania Sachdev and Bhakti Kulkarni offers good options on the two women boards. In Nihal Sarin and R. Praggnanandhaa, India has a very strong presence in junior boys. R. Vaishali, a reserve among women, will be India’s first choice in junior girls, with debutant Savitha Shri as an option. IT major Microsense has come onboard to ensure there is no glitch in internet connectivity during matches. Moreover, the members of the Indian team have moved to a five-star hotel in Chennai. Harikrishna has chosen to play from his residence in Prague. Similarly, Humpy and Harika too have opted to play from home. As Anand acknowledged on Tuesday, these initiatives from the All India Chess Federation and Microsense have obviously made things better for the Indian contingent that is raring to go for the gold. On Wednesday, India begins its campaign against Egypt before taking on France and Sweden. On Thursday, India’s preparedness faces severe challenges from Shenzhen China, Azerbaijan and Belarus. On Friday, India will be up against Hungary, Moldova and Slovenia.  Top eight teams (as per average ratings): 1. Russia (2596), 2. China (2592), 3. India (2491), 4. Poland (2455), 5. Kazakhstan (2446), 6. Netherlands (2434), 7. Azerbaijan (2431), 8. Germany (2427).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-favourite-to-finish-on-top-of-group-b/article36351981.ece
08 September 2021||Johannesburg,||Haller double helps Ivory Coast down Cameroon||Former West Ham attacker Sebastien Haller scored twice in nine minutes to give the Ivory Coast a 2-1 World Cup qualifying win over Cameroon in Abidjan on Monday. Haller converted a penalty on 20 minutes and later outpaced a defender and fired into the far corner of the net. Moumi Ngamaleu pulled one goal back from another penalty, on 61 minutes, to set up a tense finish to the Group-D showdown. Meanwhile, South Africa edged Ghana 1-0 through a 83rd-minute Bongokuhle Hlongwane goal and replaced it as Group- G leader. Fielding a young, inexperienced side under recently hired Belgian coach Hugo Broos, the South Africans should have broken the deadlock earlier. Percy Tau, had a first-half headed goal wrongly disallowed for offside. Evidence Makgopa missed a sitter just after half-time, poking the ball wide of an unguarded goal. But with time running out and weakened Ghana looking like taking a point home, Hlongwane connected with a low cross and the ball rolled into the net via the far post. Niger equalled its record for the number of goal scored in a World Cup qualifier by coming from behind to trounce Djibouti 4-2 in Group-A with Victorien Adebayor bagging a brace.  The results: Group A: Djibouti 2 (Ali 32, Hassan 90) lost to Niger 4 (Adebayor 49, 56, Wonkoye 65-pen, Sabo 68); Group C: Central African Republic 0 lost to Liberia 1 (Sherman 86); Group D: Ivory Coast 2 (Haller 20-pen, 29) bt Cameroon 1 (Ngamaleu 61-pen); Group E: Uganda 0 drew with Mali 0;   Group G: South Africa 1 (Hlongwane 83) bt Ghana 0; Group J: Benin 1 (Adeoti 33) drew with Democratic Republic of Congo 1 (Mbokani 12) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/haller-double-helps-ivory-coast-down-cameroon/article36352100.ece
08 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Noguera and Devendra star for FC Goa||FC Goa defeated Army Green 2-0 in a Group B match of the Durand Cup here on Tuesday. Persistent rain made it difficult for the players and the ISL side took time to find its rhythm. Head coach Juan Ferrando fielded a side of young Indians and a single foreigner in an effort to assess the strength of the squad ahead of a gruelling season. The Army side exploited Goa’s early hesitancy to create a few scoring opportunities in the first quarter. It, however, failed to convert any of them. Goa started making meaningful forays late in the second quarter. It went ahead in the 35th minute when Makan Winkle Chothe’s through pass saw Spain’s Alberto Noguera find the target. Devendra Murgaokar sealed the issue in the 59th minute, cashing in on substitute Romario Jesuraj’s assist.  The result: FC Goa 2 (Alberto Noguera 35, Devendra Murgaokar 59) bt Army Green 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-goa-beats-army-green/article36351982.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gained a lot of confidence from Tokyo show: Salima||The Indian women’s hockey team has gained a lot of confidence after the stellar display at the Tokyo Olympics, according to midfielder Salima Tete, who feels the side showed signs of a bright future despite not finishing on the podium. The Rani Rampal-led team made history when it defeated three-time Olympic gold medallist Australia 1-0 in the last eight and played in its first-ever Olympics semifinal against Argentina. “Our Tokyo performance is slowly starting to sink in now. We were really dejected when we lost to Great Britain in the bronze medal match, but now we are seeing the positives from the Games,” Tete was quoted in a Hockey India release. “We may not have won a medal, but we certainly gained a lot of confidence from the way we played in Tokyo and it’s definitely going to help us to grow as a team and produce much better results in the future,” she added. Attack About the most important things that helped India perform exceedingly well at the Olympics, Tete said: “We always found a way to push the ball forward and attack our opponents. We created many goal-scoring opportunities and ensured that we utilised our penalty corners well. Also, we never gave up, no matter what the situation was.” The 19-year-old, who played an important role in India’s brilliant performance at the Games, added that she felt blessed to have received an opportunity to play in the Olympics at a very young age.  “I have learned a lot by playing in high-pressure situations and I am certainly going to use it in upcoming competitions. One learns a lot when playing against the best and we are very happy with the way we gave a tough fight to each of our opponents.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gained-a-lot-of-confidence-from-tokyo-show-salima/article36351984.ece
08 September 2021||Sao Paulo,||Pele says apparent colon tumour removed||Pele has had an apparent tumour on the right side of his colon removed in an operation. Albert Einstein Hospital in Sao Paulo said on Monday the 80-year-old football great is in an intensive care unit and will be transferred to a regular room on Tuesday. The operation was a "great victory,” Pele said on his social media channels on Monday. He went to the hospital for routine exams last week when the tumour was found. The hospital said in a statement the tumour was identified during routine cardiovascular and laboratory exams. It added it collected samples to be analysed for pathologies. “I thank God for feeling very well and for allowing Dr. Fábio and Dr. Miguel to take care of my health," Pele said. "Last Saturday I underwent surgery to remove a suspicious lesion in the right colon. The tumour was identified during the tests I mentioned last week. “Fortunately, I'm used to celebrating great victories alongside you. “I will face this match with a smile on my face, a lot of optimism and joy for living surrounded by the love of my family and friends."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pele-says-apparent-colon-tumour-removed/article36351927.ece
08 September 2021||London,||Buttler and Leach in team for fifth Test||England on Tuesday recalled left-arm spinner Jack Leach and wicketkeeper-batsman Jos Buttler to the squad for the final Test against India as the home team seeks to level the five-match series. The hosts trail 2-1 after their 157-run defeat at the Oval ahead of Friday’s decider at Old Trafford but head coach Chris Silverwood has made only minor alterations to his squad. Second spin option Leach, who gives England a second spin option alongside off-spinning all-rounder Moeen Ali, has not played a Test since March despite taking 28 Test wickets in six matches on tours of Sri Lanka and India. Buttler missed the fourth Test to attend the arrival of his second child but is ready to return and, if he reclaims his place as vice-captain, there may only be room for one of Jonny Bairstow or Ollie Pope.   The squad: Joe Root (Capt.), Moeen Ali, James Anderson, Jonny Bairstow (wk), Rory Burns, Jos Buttler (wk), Sam Curran, Haseeb Hameed, Dan Lawrence, Jack Leach, Dawid Malan, Craig Overton, Ollie Pope, Ollie Robinson, Chris Woakes and Mark Wood .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/buttler-and-leach-back-in-squad/article36351931.ece
08 September 2021||COLOMBO,||Theekshana spins it Lanka’s way in final ODI||Debutant off-spinner Maheesh Theekshana spun a web around the South Africa batsmen as Sri Lanka won the third ODI by 78 runs to clinch the three-match series 2-1 on Tuesday. The Proteas lost four wickets within the first 10 overs while chasing a modest target of 204 and were bowled out for 125 in 30 overs. The early damage was done by seamer Dushmantha Chameera, who accounted for Reeza Hendricks (1) and Rassie van der Dussen (5) before spinners Theekshana (four for 37) and Wanindu Hasaranga (two for 32) brought a swift end to the South African reply.  The scores: Sri Lanka 203/9 in 50 overs (Charith Asalanka 47, Dhananjaya de Silva 31, Keshav Maharaj 3/38) bt South Africa 125 in 30 overs (Maheesh Theekshana 4/37).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/theekshana-spins-it-lankas-way-in-final-odi/article36351933.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,||CFC signs up Ninthoi Meetei||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) has signed the young Indian attacking midfielder Ninthoi Meetei on a three-year deal, starting the 2021-22 Indian Super League (ISL) season. The Imphal-born footballer was part of the Indian team that participated in the FIFA U-17 World Cup hosted by India in 2017. In 2019, Ninthoi made the headlines after winning the ‘Best Player Award’ and guiding the Indian side to its maiden SAFF U-18 Championship title. He made his ISL debut in 2019-20 with NorthEast United FC and has 24 appearances for The Highlanders in his two-year spell. “I am really feeling very happy to be a part of this club and am looking forward to giving the team my best,” the 20-year-old said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-signs-up-ninthoi-meetei/article36352048.ece
08 September 2021||Cassis (France),||Ramkumar in second round||Qualifier Ramkumar Ramanathan beat Ernests Gulbis of Latvia 6-3, 0-6, 6-2 to reach the second round of the €44,820 Challenger tennis on Tuesday. In another Challenger, sixth seed Sumit Nagal beat Nicolas Alvarez of Peru 6-1, 6-2 to reach the second round.  The results: €44,820 Challenger, Banja Luka, Bosnia & Herzegovina: Sumit Nagal bt Nicolas Alvarez (Per) 6-1, 6-2.   €44,820 Challenger, Cassis, France: Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Ernests Gulbis (Lat) 6-3, 0-6, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo, Egypt: Louis Tessa (Fra) & Rishab Agarwal bt Krittin Koaykul (Tha) & Atharva Sharma 6-3, 6-3; Marlon Vankan (Ger) & Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Vladislav Ivanov (Rus) & Maxime Uzhylovskyi (Ukr) 5-7, 6-4, [12-10] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-in-second-round/article36351707.ece
08 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Gold for Payas, silver for Suhana||India’s Payas Jain and Suhana Saini bagged the gold and silver medal in the World Table Tennis (WTT) Youth Series tournaments held recently. Payas defeated Tom Fabian Schweig of Germany 5-11, 5-11, 11-7, 11-7, 11-8 in the under-17 boys' final of the Youth Contender Otocec (Slovenia). Meanwhile, Suhana lost to Bianca Mei Rosu of Romania 13-15, 6-11, 11-4, 11-8, 11-3 in the under-15 girls' final of the WTT Youth Contender Varazdin (Croatia).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gold-for-payas-silver-for-suhana/article36351996.ece
08 September 2021||Nyon,||UEFA lifts ban on fan travel||Ahead of the Champions League group stage starting next week, UEFA cleared the way for away team fans to travel and attend games internationally. UEFA cited vaccine programs across Europe for relaxing its rules. The opening Champions League games on Sept. 14 include Bayern Munich playing at Barcelona and Manchester United visiting Young Boys. UEFA said teams still must verify the rules in place at national borders before travelling for an away game.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uefa-lifts-ban-on-fan-travel/article36352125.ece
08 September 2021||Dubai,||Shafali retains top spot in T20I rankings||Indian teen star Shafali Verma maintained her number one position among women's T20 batters while New Zealand's Sophie Devine is the new joint top-ranked all-rounder in the latest ICC rankings issued on Tuesday. Shafali is holding on to her top rank with 759 ranking points, ahead of Australian Beth Mooney (744) and India T20 vice-captain Smriti Mandhana (716). Other gainers in the all-rounders rankings include India's Deepti Sharma, Australia's Ellyse Perry and West Indies' Hayley Matthews, who all gain a spot to jump to no 4, 5 and 6 respectively. Deepti Sharma also moved up to no 6 among the bowlers while Poonam Yadav remained at eighth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shafali-retains-top-spot-in-t20i-rankings/article36351932.ece
08 September 2021||Coimbatore:,||Saran stars in Young Friends’ big win||A. Saran Raj’s six for 16 enabled Young Friends register an eight-wicket win over Cosmo Village RBE SA in the CDCA fourth division league at the PSGIMS grounds here recently.  The scores:   I div.: Rainbow 153 in 49.4 overs (M. Sadiq Ul Ameen 55, N. Gopinath 3/27) bt Arumugam Eleven Patriots 113 in 36.2 overs (K. Rajesh 42, M. Sakthivel 3/14, S. Suresh Kumar 4/38).   II div.: Sir Robert Stanes MCC 96 in 29.5 overs (B. Kannan 37, R. Shanmugasundaram 4/17, N. Suryaprakash 3/11) lost to Rajasekar Mani MCC 97/3 in 18.2 overs (R. Manoj Wilson 38 n.o.).   RKS CA 141 in 44.4 overs (V. Madasamy 57, K. Praveen Kumar 3/31) lost to Jolly Rovers SC 142/6 in 45.5 overs (S. Ashok 31).   IV div.: Coimbatore Raiders CA 152 in 45.1 overs (G. Nagaraj 73, M. Imrankhan 3/40) lost to Magma 155/6 in 47 overs (G. Kalaivanan 57 n.o., S. Jeevanantham 48 n.o.).   Cosmo Village RBE SA 85 in 41.5 overs (A. Saran Raj 6/16) lost to Young Friends 86/2 in 15.2 overs (S. Rubak Kumar 33).   Kovai Comrades 140 in 40 overs (S. Gohul Moorthi 36, M. Rajasekar 39, Manish Ojha 3/27) bt Coimbatore Friends 103 in 42.2 overs (M. Rajasekar 3/9).    Ajith (5/30) and M. Murugan (5/25) played their part for Power and Youngwaves respectively in the Thoothukudi DCA league recently.  The scores:   I div.: Power 165 in 38.1 overs (Balan Anban 31, Deepan 30 Pradeep 4/27) bt Youth 132 in 30.2 overs (Ajith 5/30).   II div.: Seconds ‘A’ 180 in 40 overs (R. Sundar 3/30, T. Senthilkumar 3/41) bt Thirumurugan 112 in 26.5 overs (Sethu 3/12, Prem 3/31).   Ramesh Flowers 108 in 30.3 overs (T. Marimuthu 48 n.o., M. Murugan 5/25, S. Ganesh Kumar 3/24) lost to Youngwaves 109/3 in 19.1 overs (Ariram 50 n.o., Raj 37).   III div.: Ajay 229/7 in 40 overs (Anand 79, Saravanan 52) bt Lasa 158 in 38.4 overs (Vishnu 45, Stephen 4/28, A. Ramesh 3/35) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saran-stars-in-young-friends-big-win/article36352098.ece
08 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||KFA to admit new clubs in KPL||The Kerala Football Association (KFA) has decided to admit new clubs directly to 2021-22 season of Kerala Premier League (KPL) through corporate entry. The KFA has fixed Rs. 7.5 lakh as fees for corporate entry and interested clubs should pay the prescribed fees before September 30. The KFA will not entertain any requests from the clubs for corporate entry after the last date. The clubs can also take part in the KPL through the qualification tournament. The entry fee for the knockout qualification tournament is Rs. 25,000. However, teams which figure in the qualification tournament cannot later gain entry into the KPL through corporate category. The KFA is planning to hold the KPL in December and all teams which took part in the last season will get an opportunity to take part in this season's event.   Rohan Kunnumel’s valiant knock (89 off 49 balls) went in vain as Masters CC lost to Ernakulam CC by one run in the Byju's KCA Club championship here on Tuesday. Chasing 161 for a win, Masters slipped to 63 for six before Rohan added useful runs with the lower order to keep the contest alive. It boiled down to 16 runs in the final over bowled by Sreehari S. Nair and Rohan was run-out off the last ball trying to sneak the winning run. Earlier, Jolly Rovers defeated Tripunithura by 19 runs (VJD method) in a match reduced to 11 overs due to overnight rain.  The scores:   Ernakulam 160/6 in 20 overs (C.H. Abhiram 58, Aji Arjun 32, Sirajudeen 31) bt Masters 159/9 in 20 overs (Rohan S. Kunnumel 89).   Jolly Rovers 107/4 in 11 overs (Rabin Krishna 33) bt Tripunithura 92/8 in 11 overs (Mohammed Shafeeq 3/13).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kfa-to-admit-new-clubs-in-kpl/article36352293.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, I div., UFCC (T. Nagar) vs Nelson (Nelson Wahe Guru ‘A’); Young Stars vs MRC ‘A’ (SSN); Swaraj vs IOB (SRMC, turf); Grand Slam vs Vijay (IC-Gurunanak); Jolly Rovers vs India Pistons (IITM-Chemplast); Globe Trotters vs MCC (MAC Stadium), day one, 9 a.m. Harrington CA under-14 (1 p.m.), N.M. Greens, Medavakkam; CCCA-Jerrold Benjamin memorial (8.30 a.m.), CCA ground, Sittalapakkam; Elite NN & RPS Academy (CCA The Wall), 8.30 a.m.  Snooker: S.A. Faheem memorial 6-red all-India tournament, Eldarado Building, Nungambakkam High Rd, semifinals and finals, prize distribution, Anand Santhanam National Head, St. Gobain, chief guest, 10 a.m. & 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article36352050.ece
08 September 2021||Bengaluru:,||Snooker and billiards Nationals from Nov. 15||The National snooker and billiards championships will commence on November 15 at Madhya Pradesh, a Billiards and Snooker Federation of India (BSFI) official stated. The city venue will be confirmed at a later date. The championship will be held in sub-junior, junior and senior categories for boys, girls, senior men and women in snooker and billiards. The 6-red snooker national for senior men and women will also held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/snooker-and-billiards-nationals-from-nov-15/article36351992.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Trivikrama’s appearance||Despite warnings from his guru Sukracharya, Mahabali decided to go ahead and give Vamana what the latter had asked for. Mahabali’s wife Vindhyavali, poured water from a golden vessel on the feet of Vamana, and Mahabali washed the Lord’s feet. He then sprinkled on his head and on Vindhyavali’s head, the water used for washing His feet. Vamana grew in height and took on the appearance of Trivikrama. The directions, patala loka, the seven oceans, animals, birds, devas and sages were all seen in His body, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. On His palms, Mahabali saw patala loka. On His feet, he saw bhoo loka. On His knees, he saw hills. In His garment, he saw sandhya devi; in His stomach the seven oceans; in His chest stars and Mahalakshmi; in His manas the moon; in His neck Sama Veda and aksharas; in His hands Indra and the other celestials; in His ears the ten directions; in His head svarga loka; in His hair clouds; in His nose vaayu; in His eyes the sun; in His face agni; in His speech the three Vedas; in His tongue Varuna; in His nerves rivers; in His buddhi, Brahma; in His praana, devas and rishis; in His shadow Yama; in His smile Mayadevi; in His back adharma devatas. The Lord had all His weapons in His hands. On His head was a gem studded crown; in His arms He wore jewels; in His ears He wore kundalas; He also wore a belt, the Koustubha gem and vanamala. When Trivikrama measured the worlds, His foot went up to Satyaloka, the abode of Brahma. Present in Satyaloka were the four Vedas, adhishtana devatas for Ayurveda, dhanurveda, artha sastra, nyaya sastra, vyakarana, candas, nirukta, jyotisha and kalpa. All of them worshipped Him. Brahma washed His foot with water from his kamandala, and that water became the Akasa Ganga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/trivikramas-appearance/article36351890.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 08:25 IST,||Sudoku — September 8, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-8-2021/article36352730.ece
08 September 2021||September 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The sin of sameness||f there’s one thing that the video presentations at the recently-concluded India Couture Week said as one, it is that the designers have been thinking grand. From Falguni & Shane taking their collection to the Taj Mahal (a true feat, considering how famously inimical the babus at the ASI can be) to Gaurav Gupta’s Universal Love show shot at the Taj Falaknuma Palace in Hyderabad, this season was all about location, location, location. Shantanu & Nikhil shot their lineup, Oasis, at Suryagarh in Jaisalmer. Varun Bahl’s Memory / Mosaic came alive at the Andaz Aerocity and Anju Modi’s The Eternal Story unfolded at The Banyan Farm, both on the outskirts of the capital. Rahul Mishra’s Kam-Khab had its outing at a 300-year-old haveli in Mandawa, Rajasthan. The fact that so many of India’s most creative minds thought of such locations at the same time is significant. Especially when travelling is, to put it mildly, a little more difficult than before. Designers chose to focus on the idea of travel as their backdrop because such places now offer safe, luxurious locations, not to mention great wedding packages.  A hackneyed narrative   If you feel I’ve digressed from talking about fashion — this is, after all, an op-ed on a fashion week — you are absolutely right. Because while capturing the zeitgeist, while ensuring that they place their haute couture in the most luxurious settings, and showing how their clothes may be worn by brides, grooms, families, and friends, our designers have succumbed, collectively, to the sin of sameness. Setting aside a few, almost all chose to portray some version of the How-To-Luxury-Wedding theme, where the clothes fell into categories and the stories took centerstage. Nobody spoke about the craft of couture, except Tarun Tahiliani and Rahul Mishra. Which brings me to this: we are quick to take pride in our traditional crafts, textiles, and embellishments. But we tell stories that have nothing to do with what we have designed and made. The sin of sameness manifests in the narratives. Its devices are the following: long, lingering shots of beautiful models, their translucent dupattas flying. There are handsome men striding in slow motion, and courtyards filled with beautiful friends, dancing. Is the future of our most creative minds and skilled hands to be tied to the monopoly that is the shaadi economy? Smart businesspeople are innovative. They diversify and constantly create new markets. Look at designers who make haute couture that’s not remotely bridal or traditional. Whether they show at Couture Week or not, but they refuse to cater solely to old (and new) money and recognise the potential of the informed. If this were a regular, physical fashion presentation where only those who can afford wedding couture were invited, all that I have said would be irrelevant. But the migration to an all-access video format outed on social media has made it relevant to even those who can’t. And this means that designers now have an added responsibility — towards the continued growth of the artisanal sectors and craftspeople they work with. They have the power now to set the tone. With this in mind, we need to ask if the shaadi market, while it may sustain us economically, is enough.  Varun Rana is a fashion commentator and consultant, and is currently consulting with label Shantanu & Nikhil which is mentioned in this feature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-sin-of-sameness/article36352347.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Eminent citizens exhort DU to reinstate English syllabus texts||Over 1,100 writers, civil society members and academicians have written to the Delhi University urging it to reinstate texts written by Mahasweta Devi, Bama and Sukirtharini in the English (Honours) syllabus. The texts were dropped from the syllabus by statutory bodies of DU following recommendations by an Oversight Committee. Along with academicians and students from various universities across the country, the petition was endorsed by several writers, including Arundhati Roy, Vikram Chandra, filmmaker Anand Patwardhan, historians Romila Thapar and Ramachandra Guha and actors Shabana Azmi, Sharmila Tagore and Nandita Das.  Draupadi by Ms. Devi, Sangati by Bama and two poems by Sukirtharini were among the texts, which have been deleted from the English honours syllabus.   Dalit oppression “The deleted texts are seminally important as they help realise the systemic oppression of the Dalit and Adivasi communities that was prevalent, especially in gendered terms, and provide a better appreciation of our contemporary ethos and polity. Is this not something that the young men and women of independent India need to know and engage with? How else will a better and equal world be shaped? Or are we to relegate the protesting woman and the Adivasi to the peripheries of the syllabus of Delhi University 2021? What are we afraid of?” the petition read. Urging the university to revisit its decision, the petition further added, “Decades after 1947, Indian literature in translation and in English were allowed entry into the colonised precinct of English syllabus of Delhi University. Is the process to be halted in terms of caste, class and gender contours of authors and the worlds that they bring alive?” Earlier, English professors from several colleges across DU had objected to the statement issued by the varsity on the revised syllabus. In the statement issued, professors said that the English honours syllabus had been passed through a democratic process “until the entire process was flagrantly violated and bypassed by the Oversight Committee.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/eminent-citizens-exhort-du-to-reinstate-english-syllabus-texts/article36352141.ece
08 September 2021||JAIPUR,||‘Pvt. sector can help manage COVID-19’||With Rajasthan registering a steep decline in the number of active COVID-19 cases, health experts here have laid emphasis on evolving a policy for private sector’s engagement in the pandemic management. Public health specialists should also be sent to the rural healthcare system, according to the experts. Following the adoption of the CM’s Chiranjeevi Swasthya Bima Yojana as a universal health coverage measure, the State needs to increase the allocation to the health sector in its budget to more than 8%. The policy makers should select a “fit-for-purpose strategy” to involve the private sector in COVID-19 management ahead of an impending third wave, P.R. Sodani, president, Indian Institute of Health Management Research University, said here on Tuesday. The engagement could be in terms of space, staff and systems, Dr. Sodani said. A skilled workforce, use of digital health and regular advisories to the public could also help deal with the third wave. According to the experts, the COVID-19 experience has suggested revisiting the Indian Public Health Standards for district hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres. Dr. Sodani said the government should promote dialogue and collaboration between public and private sectors and develop a long-term strategic framework to strengthen the health systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pvt-sector-can-help-manage-covid-19/article36352354.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. launches entrepreneurial programme in schools||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday launched the Business Blasters programme of the Delhi government that gives Rs. 2,000 as seed money to students of Classes XI and XII of Delhi government schools to develop an entrepreneurial mindset. Mr. Sisodia said that the programme would revolutionise education in the country. “Business Blasters will form the foundation of a developed India. If we start Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum [EMC] and Business Blasters programme in all the schools of the country, then the day is not far when we will change the history in our textbooks that India is not a developing country but a developed country,” Mr. Sisodia said. The Minister said that the Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum will make India a country of educated and capable youth. “The job for which we are preparing our children today will be done by computers in the coming years. Instead of developing the entrepreneurial mindset in children, we are just teaching maths, physics, chemistry, language, social science,” Mr. Sisoida said.  Talking about unemployment, Mr. Sisodia said that today, there are about 25 crore people who are homeless in India, lakhs of civil engineers are walking unemployed and 180 million people still go to bed hungry in the country. Youth passing out of agriculture universities are saying that they do not have work. The biggest drawback with the education system, he said, is that we are imparting knowledge to our children but we have not inculcated an entrepreneurial mindset. “We are teaching them to work hard, making them talented but have failed to instil in them the courage to become an entrepreneur,” Mr. Sisodia said. Micro-research project The EMC also includes a micro-research project, under which children ask questions to five entrepreneurs and five working people related to their profession so that the children can understand the advantages and disadvantages of each profession, the Minister said. The Minister also announced that soon, an EMC carnival will be organised with 100 top projects from Business Blasters project under the EMC at zonal and district levels where the projects started by the students will be rated by renowned successful entrepreneurs and universities. He added that children included in the top 10 projects will be directly admitted to the BBA course in NSUT and DTU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-launches-course-to-encourage-entrepreneurship/article36352148.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||Court directs police chief to ensure quick, ‘proper’ probe into riots cases||A Delhi court has expressed displeasure at the Delhi police for failing to conclude the investigation in the north-east Delhi riots cases despite more than one and a half years having elapsed. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg remarked that “lackadaisical attitude” of the investigating agency in probing the riots cases was leading to accused “languishing in jail for over a period of almost one year” with no real progress in the actual trial. The court made the observation while hearing a case against one Dinesh Yadav, arrested for rioting, in which the police failed to submit the supplementary chargesheet till now. The judge noted that the accused is languishing in jail for about one year and the “court was unable to proceed with the case on merits along with other riots cases due to lackadaisical attitude of the investigating agency, including the supervising officers upto the rank of the DCP and above”. The court asked the Commissioner of Police, Delhi to take “appropriate action as per law so as to ensure proper and expeditious investigation/ further investigation in the present case as well as the other riots cases”. The court gave “last and final opportunity” to the police to file supplementary charge sheet within a period of three weeks, failing which, it will proceed further with the matter without giving any further opportunity to the police. On September 1, the court had directed the Commissioner of Police, Delhi to ensure the conclusion of investigation or further investigation in riots cases in a time bound manner not later than one month. The judge had said that this was necessary for the Court to proceed with the trial in the riots cases expeditiously “which is being lingered on due to inaction on the part of investigation agency since long”. In the north-east Delhi riots, about 750 cases were registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-directs-police-chief-to-ensure-quick-proper-probe-into-riots-cases/article36352135.ece
08 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two police officers held in extortion case||Two constables have been arrested for allegedly extorting money from businessmen in central Delhi’s DBG Road, the police said on Tuesday. A senior officer said the constables were posted in the first battalion of the Delhi Police. The police said allegations surfaced stating that three persons were involved in kidnapping and extorting money from businessmen. The accused used to impersonate other police officers from different departments and threaten the victims. They used to extort money on pretext of Copyright Act or Trademarks Act violation, the officer said. Third accused Two such cases were registered in Central district, police said, adding that the two have been arrested but efforts are being made to trace the third accused. Further investigation is under way, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-constables-arrested-in-extortion-case/article36352138.ece
08 September 2021||Chandigarh,||Report on ‘torture’ of farmers||A Punjab lawmakers’ panel, formed by the Assembly Speaker to probe into the alleged atrocities on farmers after their Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi this year, submitted its report. The committee comprised Kuldeep Singh Vaid (chairperson) and Kulbir Singh Zira, Fatehjung Singh Bajwa, Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra as members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/report-on-torture-of-farmers/article36352353.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||UKIBC to help upgrade U.P. policing||Aimed at strengthening Uttar Pradesh’s security mechanism, the U.K. India Business Council will work in collaboration with the State government to modernise and upgrade the security forces involving the use of technology, such as drones and predictive policing. A conference was held on Tuesday in which the government outlined its Homeland Security requirements and understood conditions under which U.K. firms will invest in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ukibc-to-help-upgrade-up-policing/article36352355.ece
08 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP MP booked for cheating developer of over Rs. 65 crore||The Delhi Police filed a case against BJP leader Kanwar Singh Tanwar for allegedly cheating a real state developer of over Rs. 65 crore, officials said on Tuesday. The Economic Offence Wing had registered the FIR against Mr. Tanwar on August 23 on the directions of a court, they said. He has been booked under IPC sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating), police said. According to the FIR, Brahma City Private Ltd was in the process of acquiring land in Gurugram in Haryana to develop an integrated township. To acquire the land the company had appointed Ranjan Gupta to act as a facilitator, it said. In 2008-2009, Mr. Gupta introduced Tanwar to the company and the accused elaborated his credentials and claimed that he and his companies and associates have a large chunk of land in the area, according to the FIR He represented that he could also arrange and negotiate with farmers for collaboration and development of the lands, it said. Mr. Tanwar offered to aggregate and transfer all rights of a total of 105 acres of land at Rs. 3.30 crore per acre in favour of the company, the FIR stated. According to an agreement, Brahma City Private Ltd paid Rs. 84,35,00,000 to the accused and his associate persons or companies for transfer of all rights of 63 acres of land, it said. The accused failed to perform his part according to the agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-mp-booked-for-cheating-developer-of-over-rs-65-crore/article36352139.ece
