09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Amid protests, Centre hikes MSP for rabi crops||The government on Wednesday increased the minimum support price (MSP) for wheat for the upcoming rabi season to Rs. 2,015 per quintal, a 2% hike from the Rs. 1,975 per quintal rate of last year. Oilseeds and pulses such as mustard, safflower and  masoor dal saw higher MSP hikes of up to 8% in a bid to encourage crop diversification, a statement on the decision of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs said. The MSP is the rate at which the government purchases crops from farmers. Currently, rates are fixed for 23 crops, including six crops during the upcoming rabi or winter season for which sowing will begin in October. In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the government had taken another big decision in the interest of farmers by increasing the MSPs of rabi crops. He said it would ensure maximum remunerative price for farmers and also encourage them for sowing operations. Govt. committed: Tomar Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the decision was proof that the government was committed to the MSP system. “Some people who are spreading the illusion that MSP will be abolished should also learn from this decision. After the passage of the new agricultural reform laws, not only have the rates of MSP increased but there has also been a continuous increase in the procurement by the government,” Mr. Tomar said. The protesting farm unions under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha pointed out that the rate of inflation was higher than the MSP hike for most crops, arguing that in real terms, the MSP for wheat has dropped 4%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-protests-centre-hikes-msp-for-rabi-crops/article36373596.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||SC rejects door-to-door vaccination plea||The Supreme Court shot down a petition to direct the Union government to immediately embark on a door-to-door COVID-19 vaccination policy, saying such pleas were a product of ignorance about the diversity of the country and complexity of governance. Change in policy? A Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, asked Youth Bar Association of India, the petitioner, whether it wanted the apex court to direct the government to scrap its current vaccination drive when more than 60% of the population had already received at least one dose of the vaccine and start down the path of door-to-door vaccination. “Do the same conditions prevail in Ladakh and Kerala, or Uttar Pradesh? Are the challenges same in urban parts of India and the rural areas? There is a lack of understanding about the diversity of the country, about the complexity of governance. You cannot ask the same thing, in one stroke of the brush, for the entire country… Over 60% of the population has taken one dose of the vaccine, it is not for us now to turn around and say scrap that and go for door-to-door vaccination,” Justice Chandrachud addressed the counsel on the petitioner’s side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-rejects-door-to-door-vaccination-plea/article36373604.ece
09 September 2021||Patna,||Chirag Paswan calls on Tejashwi Yadav||Lok Janshakti Party leader and MP Chirag Paswan on Wednesday met Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav in Patna to invite him to the first death anniversary of his father and founder of the LJP, Ram Vilas Paswan. The meeting triggered speculation over the forging of a new alliance in Bihar politics but Mr. Chirag said this was not “a moment to talk about politics”. When asked about RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s earlier suggestion that both the young leaders should come together, Mr. Yadav told mediapersons: “We can’t say anything after what Lalu ji has said.”    ‘Close family ties’ He added, “Late Ram Vilas Paswan ji had close family ties with Lalu ji .” Mr. Yadav also said, “I remember learning some of my early lessons in politics while campaigning with Paswan ji in the 2010 Assembly polls, which he had fought along with my father.” Mr. Chirag said he will go to Delhi on Thursday to meet Mr. Prasad. “Today, I have come to invite Tejashwi bhai on the first death anniversary of my father, which is going to be held on September 12. Had my father been alive, he would have liked Lalu ji and his family to be part of any function taking place in my family... I’m just carrying forward the tradition.” Mr. Chirag has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to the event. He has also extended the invitation to his estran-ged uncle and Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chirag-paswan-calls-on-tejashwi-yadav/article36373773.ece
09 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Kudubis deserve ST status, says Hegde||Chairman of the State Backward Classes Commission K. Jayaprakash Hegde said on Wednesday that the Kudubi community people deserve to get the Scheduled Tribes status. The State government should recommend to the Union government as a related report is before the government now, he said. He was speaking at a programme in Udupi organised by the Departments of Social Welfare, Backward Classes Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare to create awareness on different schemes of the departments. Mr. Hegde said that only the Union government enjoys the power of including communities/castes to the lists of Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. But the State government can make the necessary recommendations. He said that the commission will soon send handbooks to gram panchayats containing the list of communities included under Scheduled Tribes. It will help many local people. Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivasa Poojary said that the welfare schemes of the government should reach the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes to enable them to join the mainstream. The elected representatives should put in their best effort in this regard. The Minister said that the share of Backward Classes constituted 50% of the population in the State. The State had 1.27 crore people belonging to the Scheduled Castes and 42 lakh people representing Scheduled Tribes. Udupi MLA K Raghupati Bhat also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kudubis-deserve-st-status-says-hegde/article36373983.ece
09 September 2021||Mumbai,||NIA chargesheet reconstructs Antilia bomb scare||A visit of industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s wife Nita Ambani to Jamnagar in Gujarat was rescheduled and then cancelled on his and the zonal Deputy Commissioner of Police’s advice after the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV outside their house, Antilia, in south Mumbai in February this year, the security head of the residence has said in his statement to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Another security guard working near Antilia, in his statement to the NIA, said since that day, residents of nearby buildings “have not seen the same fear free atmosphere as before”. ‘Secret operation’ The NIA has in its chargesheet also said that the dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze, prime accused in the Antilia bomb scare case, told his official driver, who was with him on the day of the incident, that it was a “secret operation”. The statements are part of a chargesheet filed last week by the NIA before a special court here against Mr. Vaze and nine others in connection with the recovery of the vehicle with gelatin sticks near Mr. Ambani’s residence on February 25, and the murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren. The residence’s security head in his statement to the NIA said that after the vehicle with explosives and a threat letter were found, he had immediately brought it to the notice of Mr. Ambani. The security head further stated they had been receiving threats from various quarters, but all were related to farmers’ protest that began in October 2020. Hiren’s son’s statement Meanwhile, a day after a Scorpio with explosives was found, a statement by Meet Hiren, 20, in the NIA chargesheet, reads: “his father, Mansukh went to the Mumbai Police Commissioner’s office with Sachin Vaze on February 26 for three consecutive days”. He said his father sold the Scorpio to Mr. Vaze in November 2020, but it was returned in three months in February 2021 as he [Vaze] did not like the car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-chargesheet-reconstructs-antilia-bomb-scare/article36374001.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Women can join NDA, govt tells Supreme Court||The Union government on Wednesday gave the Supreme Court the “good news” that it had taken a decision to allow women entry into the National Defence Academy (NDA), so far a male bastion for recruitment into the armed forces. If this decision comes through formally on paper, women can prepare for a career in the armed forces immediately after Class XII. “There is good news. The forces at the highest level and the government has taken a decision last evening to induct girls for permanent commission through the National Defence Academy,” Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati informed a Bench led by Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/women-can-join-nda-govt-tells-supreme-court/article36373941.ece
09 September 2021||Belagavi,||Life of police personnel has improved: Araga||The State government is committed to modernising the police force, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said in Belagavi on Wednesday. He was speaking at the passing out parade of the first batch of constables trained at the Karnataka State Reserve Police Training School in Kangrali village. He said that the department is getting hi-tech equipment to solve crime. “We are also investing in vehicles and other amenities to maintain law and order. The quality of life of personnel has improved. Salaries and allowances of police officers and constables are comparable to those in IT companies,” he said. “As much as 40% of our personnel now have government quarters that are 2 BHK flats. “Personnel and family members have health insurance and other benefits. There are several welfare schemes for police and their families,” he said. The government will invest more to strengthen the cyber crime division, he said. The human resource in the department is continually improving, the Minister said. The first batch of 171 constables contained 85 graduates and 18 post-graduates and some ITI and diploma holders too, he said. He asked officers and personnel to be prepared to face modern day challenges in investigation and law and order. The job of the police is as sacred as that of the soldier on the border. While the soldier guards the border, the constable keeps society safe and peaceful, he said. The Minister gave away awards to Sharat S.V. and Ningappa Managavi who won the first and second prizes in outdoor events. Shreedhar Korti and Vishal Katti won the first two prizes in indoor events. Dharmesh Kumar and Chandan M.C. won the first two prizes in shooting. Ravutappa Kolkar won the all-round best trainee award. The Minister inaugurated a self-defence training course for women in the training school. Residents of the districts can approach the centre for such training, he said. The school faculty, in association with the Belgavi Karate Club, will train over 500 girls and women in Karate and Judo, he said. Additional Director-General of Police, KSRP, Alok Kumar read out a report. School principal Ramesh Borgave, Inspector-General of Police N. Satish Kumar, Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan, Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi, KSRP Commandant Hamza Hussain and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/life-of-police-personnel-has-improved-araga/article36373866.ece
09 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Guidelines for offline classes being finalised||With preparations afoot for partially reopening higher education institutions in Kerala on October 4, the Higher Education Department has commenced steps to finalise the guidelines for conducting offline classes in adherence with the COVID-19 protocol. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will hold an online meeting with college Principals and heads of institutions on Friday to discuss the modalities. The classes for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate batches will commence initially. According to her, the institutions will have to split their batches into two to limit attendance to a half. Classes can be held either on a shift basis or on alternate days to minimise the possibility of crowding.  Initially, classes will begin for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate batches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/guidelines-for-offline-classes-being-finalised/article36373909.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka top FDI recipient in Q1 at 48%||Karnataka attracted foreign direct investments (FDIs) of Rs. 62,085 crore in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, capturing 48% of the total such investments received by the country during the period, said Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani here on Wednesday. “Karnataka became a top recipient of FDIs in India in April-June. The State received Rs. 30,746 crore in FDIs in the whole of 2019-20 fiscal and was third in 2020-21 by attracting Rs. 56,884 crore,” the Minister said. Mr. Nirani said the Karnataka Udyoga Mitra, a single-window outfit for investments, has emerged as the country’s top investment promotion agency. “Its role in providing clear information to investors was very crucial. We have removed hurdles for investors by easing many policies,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-top-fdi-recipient-in-q1-at-48/article36373641.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,||No exam for 2nd, 4th semester UG students||Universities in the State have decided to promote second and fourth semester students in undergraduate programmes without conducting the examination as per the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines. However, they have decided to collect examination fees, a decision that has student organisations up in arms, given that fees can be as high as Rs. 1,800. As per the UGC guidelines, intermediate semester students should be assessed based on their internal evaluation marks of the current semester and previous semester marks. Final year students will have to appear for the exam. Universities, which have passed the resolution on the new evaluation process, defended their decision to charge examination fees. Ramesh B., Registrar (Evaluation), Bengaluru City University (BCU) said the varsity is collecting examination fees as it still has to process the results. “Conducting the examination is just one step in the process. We still have to tabulate internal assessment and previous semester marks, and collate their scores. So students will have to pay the fee,” he said. Amaresh Kadagada, State president, Students’ Federation of India, said several students and their families were in distress during the pandemic and were not in a position to pay examination fees. “Universities are charging up to Rs. 1,800 as examination fees. When colleges are not conducting examinations, why should students pay the examination fees,”he said. Many teachers and principals are of the opinion that examinations need not have been cancelled. “We conducted offline classes for students and the COVID 19 situation in Karnataka is under control. We will be able to conduct the examination by taking all the necessary precautions. Students will become lax as they did not give the even semester examination last year,” a college principal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-exam-for-2nd-4th-semester-ug-students/article36373644.ece
09 September 2021||MYSURU,||Gajapayana on Sept. 13||The Dasara Executive Committee, which met here on Wednesday, announced that the festival will be inaugurated atop the Chamundi Hills on October 7 between 8.15 a.m. and 8.45 a.m. However, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will consult representatives and announce later as to who will inaugurate the festivities. Jamboo Savari will be held on October 15 from 5 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. on the Mysuru palace premises and will entail only three tableaux as the events have been curtailed for the second consecutive year due to the pandemic. District in charge Minister S.T. Somashekar told media persons that Gajapayana, the march of elephants from jungle camps to the palace to participate in Dasara, will be held at Veeranahosahalli on the outskirts of Nagarahole on Monday.  The eight elephants led by Abhimanyu will be received with traditional honours at the Jayamarthanda Gate of the palace on September 16 marking the countdown to the commencement of the Nada Habba. In a first, the idol of Goddess Chamundeshwari, placed on the golden howdah and carried by the elephant during the Jamboo Savari, will be brought from Chamundi Hills to the palace in a procession. The procession route will be embellished and the idol decorated. This is to enable the public to get a darshan of the deity, said Mr. Somashekar. All these years, the idol used during inauguration would be brought to the palace ahead of the Jamboo Savari without fanfare. The cultural programmes will be restricted to the palace premises. The artistes for the cultural programmes will be finalised later and only those from Karnataka will be allowed to perform. However, the duration of the programmes will be short and the number of people who can witness it will be limited. But in case active cases continue to decline, a decision will be taken after September 25 on whether to open up the events to more people. The committee also decided to illuminate the city and nearly 150 roads spanning nearly 100 km and 77 circles from October 6 to 15. The Minister said the Dasara high-powered committee meeting had announced Rs. 8 crore for this year’s festival. The authorities have sought Rs. 50 lakh for the maintenance of the elephants that will take part in Dasara and even this will be sanctioned, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dasara-gajapayana-on-sept-13/article36373673.ece
09 September 2021||Guwahati,||1 dead, 35 missing after ferries collide in Assam||One person died and at least 35 are missing after two ferries collided on the flooded Brahmaputra river off Neamatighat in Jorhat district of Assam on Wednesday. The dead and the missing were on the smaller ferry, Maa Kamala, that capsized after the collision with the bigger vessel, Tipkai ,  around 3.30 p.m. Officials said 42 others onboard Maa Kamala, which had set sail from Neamatighat for Kamalabari ferry point in Majuli “island”, either swam to safety or were rescued. All passengers on Tipkai , which was en route to Neamatighat from Kamalabari, were rescued by the personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and the Sta- te Disaster Response Force . Jorhat’s Superintendent of Police Ankur Jain said the rescued included seven children. A few were admitted to local hospitals, but a 28-year-old woman among them died. “A communication error between the operators of the two boats perhaps led to the collision,” he told The Hindu . The ferries on the Brahmaputra operate under the Inland Water Transport Department. Passengers pay the fare onboard but since tickets are not issued, officials could not specify the number of passengers on the ill-fated ferry. The mechanised ferries have a capacity to carry 70-80 people along with vehicles, mostly two-wheelers. But locals claim most ferries haul 100-120 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1-dead-35-missing-after-ferries-collide-in-assam/article36373598.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Boys outshine girls in EAPCET engg. stream||Boys stole the thunder by elbowing out girls from the top 10 ranks in the engineering stream of the EAPCET-21 (Engineering Agriculture and Pharmacy Common Entrance Test). At a press conference, Education Minister A. Suresh said the results for the engineering stream were being released first and that the results of Agriculture and Pharmacy CET would be released on September 14. Of the total 1,75,868 candidates who registered for the Engineering stream, 1,34,205 (80.62 %) of them had qualified, he informed, adding that the students could download their rank cards from Thursday (September 9).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boys-outshine-girls-in-engineering-stream-of-eapcet/article36373553.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Women can join NDA, govt. tells Supreme Court||The Union government on Wednesday gave the Supreme Court the “good news” that it had taken a decision to allow women entry into the National Defence Academy (NDA), so far a male bastion for recruitment into the armed forces. If this decision comes through formally on paper, women can prepare for a career in the armed forces immediately after Class XII. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati informed the court, “There is good news. The forces at the highest level and the government has taken a decision last evening to induct girls for permanent commission through the National Defence Academy.” The Bench asked the government to file an affidavit in this regard by September 22, the next date of hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/women-can-join-nda-govt-tells-supreme-court/article36374002.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cabinet approves incentive scheme for textile sector||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday cleared an outlay of Rs. 10,683 crore on a production linked incentive scheme aimed at attracting fresh investments in the man-made fibre apparel, fabrics, and technical textiles sectors. The scheme, which the govern- ment expects will help draw new investment of more than Rs. 19,000 crore, aiding in the creation of 7.5 lakh direct jobs, is aimed at improving India’s ability to compete in the global textiles market.page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-approves-incentive-scheme-for-textile-sector/article36373599.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. Assembly urges Centre to repeal CAA||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Wednesday adopted a resolution urging the Cent- re to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. While the BJP walked out, its ally, the PMK, welcomed the resolution. AIADMK members were not present when the resolution was adopted as they had walked out over another issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-assembly-urges-centre-to-repeal-caa/article36373774.ece
09 September 2021||MYSURU,||Boy killed in tiger attack||A teenaged boy from Iyanakere Haadi in Muddanahalli forest reserve, a buffer area of Nagarahole National Park and in Hunsur taluk, was killed in a tiger attack on Wednesday. National park director Mahesh Kumar said the victim had gone out to answer nature’s call in the morning but did not return for a long time. A search operation was launched. The body of the boy – identified as Ganesh – was recovered late in the day and it had marks of being mauled by a tiger. The Forest Department has placed cages to trap the tiger and combing operations have been launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boy-killed-in-tiger-attack/article36373676.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS posts 321 COVID cases||The number of COVID-19 cases in the State, which had dropped to under 300 on Tuesday, increased marginally on Wednesday even as the number of tests climbed by nearly 10,000. With 78,421 samples being put to test, 321 infections were recorded. Two more patients succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 3,889.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-posts-321-covid-cases/article36373878.ece
09 September 2021||Vijayawada,||No Ganesh idols at public places: HC||Justice Cheekati Manavendranath Roy of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Wednesday refused to allow the installation of Ganesh idols at public places, but said it has no objection to setting up the idols in private precincts subject to compliance with COVID regulations. The court observed that more than five people should not be allowed in private premises. Justice Roy said Article 25 of the Constitution guaranteed the right to freedom of religion but it was subject to Article 21 (which says no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedures established by law) and public health, order and morality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-ganesh-idols-at-public-places-hc/article36373600.ece
09 September 2021||PATNA,||Jharkhand House clears Bill for 75% quota for locals||The Jharkhand Assembly on Wednesday passed a Bill, which provides 75% reservation for locals in private sector jobs with a monthly salary of up to Rs. 40,000. Once notified, Jharkhand will become the third State, after Andhra Pradesh and Haryana, to pass such a law. ‘The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021’ was tabled in the House in March but was later referred to a six-member select committee. The committee, chaired by Labour Minister Satyanand Bhokta, amended the Bill with a few changes. It was named ‘The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates in Private Sector Bill, 2021’ and the monthly salary cap was increased from Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 40,000. “Every employer shall register such employees receiving gross monthly salary as wages not more than Rs. 40,000 as the limit notified by the government from time to time on the designated portal,” said the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jharkhand-house-clears-bill-for-75-quota-for-locals/article36373940.ece
09 September 2021||PATNA,||Jharkhand House clears Bill for 75% quota for locals||The Jharkhand Assembly on Wednesday passed a Bill, which provides 75% reservation for locals in private sector jobs with a monthly salary of up to Rs. 40,000. Once notified, Jharkhand will become the third State, after Andhra Pradesh and Haryana, to pass such a law. ‘The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021’ was tabled in the House in March but was later referred to a six-member select committee. The committee, chaired by Labour Minister Satyanand Bhokta, amended the Bill with a few changes. It was named ‘The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates in Private Sector Bill, 2021’ and the monthly salary cap was increased from Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 40,000. “Every employer shall register such employees receiving gross monthly salary as wages not more than Rs. 40,000 as the limit notified by the government from time to time on the designated portal,” states the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jharkhand-house-clears-bill-for-75-quota-for-locals/article36373775.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Ceasefire agreement with NSCN(K) Niki group||The Union government on Wednesday entered into a one-year ceasefire agreement with the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (K) Niki Group. More than 200 cadres of the outfit, with 83 weapons, have joined the peace process. The agreed ceasefire ground rules were also signed. In a statement, the Union Home Ministry said the agreement would boost the Naga peace process, under the guidance of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, fulfilling Prime Minister’s vision of an insurgency-free and prosperous northeast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ceasefire-agreement-with-nscnk-niki-group/article36373942.ece
09 September 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata Banerjee begins campaign for bypoll||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chairperson Mamata Banerjee began her campaign on Wednesday for the Bhabanipur bypoll by addressing a meeting of party supporters. She targeted the BJP for indulging in political vendetta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-banerjee-begins-campaign-for-bypoll/article36373943.ece
09 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Talks fail, farmers to intensify Karnal sit-in||Leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Wednesday announced their intention to strengthen the sit-in agitation outside the mini-secretariat in Karnal after another round of talks between the farmer leaders and the district administration failed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/talks-fail-farmers-to-intensify-karnal-sit-in/article36373776.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Women can enter NDA, Centre informs SC||The Union government on Wednesday gave the Supreme Court the “good news” that it had taken a decision to allow women entry into the National Defence Academy. If this decision comes through formally on paper, women can prepare for a career in the armed forces after Class XII.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/women-can-enter-nda-centre-informs-sc/article36373778.ece
09 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||JD(S) demands Mayor post in Kalaburagi||The race for capturing power in Kalaburagi City Corporation took a new turn on Wednesday with the Janata Dal (Secular), which has just won only four seats, demanding the Mayor’s post. The party has made this the pre-condition to support the BJP or the Congress, since both need its help to capture power in the civic body. The JD(S), in fact, did worse than it did in the last council, by winning four seats against seven last time around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jds-demands-mayor-post-in-kalaburagi/article36373867.ece
09 September 2021||YADGIR,||Ensuring eco-friendly Ganesha festivities||To ensure that there is no water pollution due to immersion of Ganesha idols, a young artist from Kakalwar village in Gurmitkal taluk Lakshman Kumbar has chosen clay to make the idols this year. Mr. Kumbar has been making Ganesha idols every year during the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensuring-eco-friendly-ganesha-festivities/article36373869.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,||New deadline for track quadruple project||South Western Railway has now set 2023 as the deadline to complete quadrupling of railway tracks from the city centre to Whitefield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-deadline-for-track-quadruple-project/article36373643.ece
09 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Diseases noticed in some arecanut plantations||Bud rot and crown rot diseases along with fruit rot (mahali or kole roga) disease have resurfaced in some arecanut plantations in Dakshina Kannada. At present, the diseases have been reported from Kadaba and Moodbidri taluks. A three-member team of scientists from the Vitla regional station of CPCRI visited one of the affected plantations at Idala under Perabe village in Kadaba taluk on Tuesday for a study||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/diseases-noticed-in-some-arecanut-plantations/article36373986.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,||‘All Ministers must attend legislature session’||Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri has said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and all Ministers must be present on all the 10 days of the legislature session scheduled to begin on September 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-ministers-must-attend-house-session/article36373645.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||NDA will admit women: govt||The Union government on Wednesday gave the Supreme Court the “good news” that it had taken a decision to allow women entry into the National Defence Academy (NDA), so far a male bastion for recruitment into the armed forces. If this decision comes through formally on paper, women can prepare for a career in the armed forces immediately after Class 12. “There is good news. The forces at the highest level and the government has taken a decision last evening to induct girls for permanent commission through the National Defence Academy,” Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati informed a Bench led by Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh. The Bench asked the government to file an affidavit in this regard by September 22, the next date of hearing. It said the armed forces was a respected institution, but it had more to do regarding gender equality. The court admitted that it was not a happy situation for it to constantly nudge the authorities into taking action on bettering gender representation. The Bench said the authorities needed to act by themselves. The court commended Ms. Bhati for taking pro-active measures in favour of women interested in a career in the armed forces. Ms. Bhati urged the court for the time being to maintain status quo about the admissions to the NDA in the present academic year. She said the NDA exam, originally scheduled for September 5, had been postponed to November. “Consider granting status quo for this examination and let it continue, as it will need policy, procedure, training and infrastructure changes,” she submitted. On August 18, the court issued an interim order allowing women candidates to take the NDA exam, which was then scheduled on September 5. The court had also then questioned why “co-education is a problem” in the armed forces. It had orally observed that it was “absurd” that women were not allowed to appear for the exam even after the Supreme Court, in a judgment, directed permanent commission for women in the Army. Feb. 2020 ruling On February 17 last year, the court upheld permanent commission for women officers. It dismissed the government’s submissions that women were physiologically weaker than men as a “sex stereotype”. It declared that Short Service Commission (SSC) women officers were eligible for permanent commission and command posts in the Army irrespective of their years of service. “Women officers of the Indian Army have brought laurels to the force… Their track record of service to the nation is beyond reproach,” Justice Chandrachud had observed in a 54-page judgment in the Army case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-can-enter-nda-govt/article36373354.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Russia review Afghanistan situation||India and Russia conducted their first “detailed and extensive review” of the situation in Afghanistan, agreeing to coordinate their positions at the United Nations, as a delegation led by Russia’s Security Council Secretary General Nikolai Patrushev met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval in Delhi, officials said. During the meeting that came a week after Russia decided to abstain from a UN Security Council Resolution on Afghanistan under India’s presidency, the two sides stressed areas of “convergence”, including the need to hold the Taliban to their promises thus far, the threat of terrorism from international terror groups inside Afghanistan, flow of weapons, radicalisation and increase in opium production and drug trafficking under the new regime. “[Mr. Doval and Gen Patrushev] touched upon humanitarian and migration problems in [Afghanistan], as well as prospects for the Russian-Indian joint efforts aimed at creating conditions for launching a peaceful settlement process on the basis of an intra-Afghan dialogue,” a statement issued by the Russian Embassy in Delhi said, adding that the two sides “agreed to coordinate the approaches of Russia and India in multilateral formats on the Afghan settlement.” The Russian Security chief also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. Mr. Modi appreciated Gen. Patrushev’s visit “at a time when major changes are taking place in the region”. Sources said India raised the issue of Pakistan’s links with Taliban, international terror groups, and the Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad, believed to be operating in Afghanistan as well, in the talks with the Russian delegation. The Indian delegation also raised the “special responsibility that Pakistan bears to ensure that Afghanistan soil is not used to spread terrorism,” the sources said. Significantly, neither side gave any indication of talks on the status of the Haqqani Network, a UNSC-designated terror group that has carried out attacks on the Indian Embassy and consulates in Afghanistan, whose leader Sirajuddin Haqqani has been named the Interior Minister of the new regime. The talks followed a day after CIA Director William Burns flew into Delhi to meet Mr. Doval, reported by The Hindu . The U.S. has been discussing the issue of housing its Afghan evacuees who are being processed in other countries, the emerging terror threat from developments in Afghanistan and any future engagement with the Taliban government, now headed by Mohammed Hassan Akhund, who is also on the list of UNSC-designated terrorists. The Modi government has thus far maintained an independent posture from both the U.S. and Russian stands on the Taliban regime, deciding to close down its embassy in Kabul unlike Russia, China and other countries that kept their missions open. In an interview to RIA Novosti on Tuesday, Ambassador to Russia Venkatesh Verma said the results of the U.S.’s Doha Agreement and the Russia-led Troika plus talks which included the U.S., China and Pakistan had not been “matched by subsequent developments” in Afghanistan. On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will host Russian President Vladimir Putin and leaders of China, Brazil and South Africa for the BRICS summit in a virtual format.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-russia-review-afghanistan-situation/article36373360.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP announces poll managers||The BJP announced a slew of organisational appointments for the five States going to the polls early next year. Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has been put in charge of elections in Uttar Pradesh, along with Union Ministers Shobha Karandalaje, Arjun Meghwal, Annapurna Devi and Anurag Thakur as co in-charge. Saroj Pande and Captain Abhimanyu are part of the team. Mr. Pradhan has overseen important polls in the past, having held charge of States such as Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Karnataka during the Assembly polls. Uttar Pradesh has also been divided into six parts for organisational purposes, with Lok Sabha member Sanjay Bhatia in charge of western U.P., Bihar MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia in charge of the Brij region, national secretary Y. Satya Kumar in charge of Awadh, additional treasurer of the BJP Sudhir Gupta in charge of Kanpur, national secretary Arvind Menon for Gorakhpur and Sunil Ojha (sah prabhari for Uttar Pradesh) in charge of Kashi. Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has been given charge of Punjab, along with Union Ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and Meenakshi Lekhi and Lok Sabha member Vinod Chavda. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi has been asked to look after Uttarakhand along with Lok Sabha member from Bengal Locket Chatterjee and party spokesperson R.P. Singh. Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav has been put in charge of Manipur, along Union Minister Pratima Bhowmick and Assam State Minister Ashok Singhal. Former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who had held charge of the Assembly poll in Bihar in 2020, has been put in charge of Goa, along with Tourism Minister G. Kishan Reddy and Minister of State for Railways Darshana Jardosh. With this, the BJP seems to have put in place an organisational architecture to go into the very crucial set of polls next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-announces-poll-managers/article36373364.ece
09 September 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata begins campaign for bypoll||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chairperson Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday began her campaign for the Bhabanipur Assembly byelection by addressing a meeting of party supporters in the constituency. She targeted the BJP for allegedly indulging in political vendetta. “Just after the bypoll dates are announced, Trinamool Congress leaders are being summoned by Central agencies. Notices are being sent to Abhishek [party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee] and Partha [party leader Partha Chatterjee),” she said. She dared the agencies to investigate the allegations against Mr. Banerjee. Her remarks come after the Enforcement Directorate served a second notice on Mr. Banerjee in a coal pilferage case. The Chief Minister has to face the byelection as she lost the election at Nandigram by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes to BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari. “I have to contest a poll again due to a BJP conspiracy. We have gone to court over the issue. If there is no merit in the petition, the court would not have accepted it,” she said. Referring to the recent Assembly election in which the Trinamool registered a convincing victory over the BJP by winning 213 of the 294 Assembly seats, she said the Centre, all its agencies and “money and muscle power” of the BJP could not defeat her. There was a planned attack on her in Nandigram in which she suffered a foot injury and had to confine herself to a wheelchair during the campaign, she said. The Bhabanipur constituency will go to the polls on September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-begins-campaign-for-bypoll/article36373367.ece
09 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmers to intensify Karnal stir||Leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a conglomerate of hundreds of farmer unions, leading protests against the three farm laws, on Wednesday announced their intention to strengthen the sit-in agitation outside the mini-secretariat in Karnal after another round of talks between the farmer leaders and the district administration failed to break the deadlock. Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, at a press conference, said the protest outside the mini-secretariat would continue till their demands were met and more farmers from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh would join soon. He said that along with the ongoing sit-in agitations around Delhi, the protest at Karnal would be another front against the government. He, however, added that the farmers were willing to talk to the administration for a peaceful resolution and would ensure that the visitors to the secretariat were not inconvenienced. Jai Kisan Andolan leader Yogendra Yadav said there was not the slightest change in the “obstinate attitude” and “insensitivity” of the Haryana government, causing the talks to fail for the second day. Conduct of IAS officer He said farmers had been demanding registration of a case against IAS officer Ayush Sinhna on charges of murder and attempt to murder, but the government was unwilling. “Suspension of government employees pending inquiry is a routine in Haryana, but the government is not willing to even suspend this official. It shows that he was acting at the behest of the Chief Minister,” said Mr. Yadav. Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All-India Kisan Sabha, Haryana, said the conduct of the IAS officer Ayush Sinha was “unpardonable” and “unacceptable”, according to service rules and the criminal law, and the unions were firm on seeking action against him. “It is an important and a crucial matter for us,” said Mr. Singh. Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar said the agitating farmers were adamant on action against the officials for the baton charge, but no action could be taken without a probe. He said the administration was exhibiting patience, restraint and prudence and wanted an amicable solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-to-strengthen-karnal-stir/article36373371.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Keshav Desiraju placed focus on mental health care as basic right for all’||Even as growing evidence emerged on the links between physical and mental health and social disadvantage, Keshav Desiraju recognised poverty, deprivation and poorer social networks as predictors for poorer health and mental health outcomes. Therefore it wasn’t a surprise that as architect of India’s Mental Health Policy and Mental Health Care Act, he emphasised mental health care as a basic right for every citizen, placing the onus on the State to find both funding and developing a road map to ensure appropriateness and accessibility of care. This was his biggest win! Mental health care was no longer exclusively within the ambit of health care but was part of the broader development discourse and linked to how people lived, and to corresponding values of equity, dignity, universality and person-centredness. Keshav was a visionary not just in that he made landscape level changes in how he placed mental health care at the centre stage within the health agenda, but also in that, perhaps for the first time, he outlined precipitating and perpetuating factors linked to structural barriers such as caste, class and gender-related disparities. He therefore recommended convergence between health and social sectors in developing robust responses. Mental health was now also a social justice issue that in the absence of adequate care pathways churned out social crises ranging from higher mortality rates to homelessness and from rights violations to unemployment and segregation. Innumerable innovations This paved the way for innumerable innovations that promoted community inclusion and addressed mental health concerns across one’s life span. Besides ensuring that the person living with a mental health challenge could access care in spaces that were therapeutic and responsive and placing the needs of the person first, balancing care with rights and the pursuit of capabilities, the focus was always on participation and agency, key tenets of the recovery process. Further, innovations such as basic income, out of work allowances, family support structures and outreach services on the streets were entering mainstream mental health conversations. Gradually mental health and well-being also found their way into the sustainable development goals and rightfully so. It is our belief that Keshav and his ilk contributed significantly towards this. While advised by 10 members in drafting the Policy (including the first author), and by scientific evidence and ongoing practices in the mental health sector, he would always in parallel want to get a feel of what the real and messy world looked like. This was his most endearing quality both as a bureaucrat and policymaker. Strong empathy He would travel widely to hospitals, homes of impoverished persons, and always remain connected to those who may never have found their way into his life. We could see that he felt their suffering and in a sense that strengthened his sense of urgency to better understand issues and learn from people’s wisdom. There was no difference between an Ivy League contributor or an experiential expert’s insights since his brilliant mind saw the need for and importance of both. This grounding, respect and capability to listen to people whom he believed he ‘served’ made him one of our finest officers and a rare breed. In this is a tip for budding bureaucrats in a changing culture; to hold close to one’s heart, values of humility, integrity and a sense of conscientiousness and purpose. Post retirement he continued to work with civil society organisations to build organisational stability, good governance structures, value-based care approaches with focus on the advancement of the vision of equitable access to health in fields ranging from cancer care to mental health, women’s health to disability, palliative care to framing better health systems. Commitment to tasks A man committed to completing a task on hand, small or large, he ensured that the Policy and Act were seen through to their completion and how! Similarly, even a few hours before he passed, while the paramedics were by his side, he sent out mails to cancel appointments indicating that he would get back to those individuals/ institutions once he returned from the hospital. This same sense of determined commitment to serve his fellow citizens and ensure that those relegated to the margins on account of their disability, distress or social vulnerabilities would experience a better future inspired him in all that he did, and he strived to do his best with quiet and understated elegance. To honour his memory and celebrate his life, he would have liked many things to happen, and top on that list would have been the need for young Indians and budding public servants to pursue just one goal ardently — the need to work towards an equal, secular, inclusive, just and caring country. Better health and quality of life outcomes would be natural by-products.  (Vandana Gopikumar is co-founder, The Banyan and The Banyan Academy, and Ravi Chellam is a wildlife biologist and CEO of Metastring Foundation)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keshav-desiraju-placed-focus-on-mental-health-care-as-basic-right-for-all/article36373534.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel set up to draft Bill on drugs, cosmetics and medical devices||The Union government has constituted a committee for framing legislation regarding new drugs, cosmetics and medical devices. The eight-member panel, headed by Drugs Controller General of India V.G. Somani, is scheduled to submit a draft document by November 30. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in an order dated August 27, said the committee would prepare the New Drugs, Cosmetics and Medical Devices Bill. The other members of the panel are Rajiv Wadhawan (Director, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare); S.E. Reddy; A.K. Pradhan; the Drugs Controllers of Haryana, Gujarat and Maharashtra; and IAS officer N.L. Meena. The committee is allowed to co-opt one or more member if needed. The order further states that the committee shall undertake pre-legislative consultations and examine the present Act, previously framed Drugs and Cosmetics Bills and submit a draft document for a new Drugs, Cosmetics and Medical Devices Bill. ‘Keep pharma distinct’ Reacting to the move, Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator, Association of Indian Medical Device Industry, said medical devices have outgrown the “joint family home” shared too long with pharma. “The separate rules were a good step to allow us to have our own home but the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation [CDSCO] is not letting go. If food can have the FSSAI [Food Safety and Standards Authority of India], we need something similar for devices, which are engineering goods undergoing constant innovation,” Mr. Nath stated. The NITI Aayog Bill to regulate devices separately from drugs and decriminalise minor non-compliances was in the right direction, he noted. The composition of the committee was a serious conflict of interest and unprecedented, he said. “Involving stakeholders like manufacturers, scientists, doctors and patient groups would have been beneficial,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-set-up-to-draft-bill-on-drugs-cosmetics-and-medical-devices/article36373539.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Ceasefire with NSCN(K) Niki group||The Union government on Wednesday entered into a one-year ceasefire agreement with the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (K) Niki Group. More than 200 cadres of the outfit, with 83 weapons, have joined the peace process. The agreed ceasefire ground rules were also signed. In a statement, the Union Home Ministry said the agreement would boost the Naga peace process, under the guidance of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, fulfilling Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of an insurgency-free and prosperous northeast. The development came days after demands were again raised by some politicians and activists for a new interlocutor, in place of Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi, for the peace process, owing to the sharp disagreements between him and the Isak-Muivah faction of National Socialist Council of Nagaland or NSCN-IM. The Centre has already signed a framework agreement with the NSCN-IM and ceasefire agreements with other Naga groups, the NSCN (NK), NSCN(R) and NSCN(K)-Khango. In August 2019, the government had signed an accord with National Liberation Front of Tripura-Sabir Debbarma (NLFT-SD), under which 88 cadres along with 44 weapons joined the mainstream in Tripura. With the signing of the Bodo Agreement in January last year, over 2,250 cadres of insurgent groups, including all factions of National Democratic Front of Boroland, along with 423 weapons and a huge quantity of ammunition, had surrendered in Assam and joined the mainstream. On February 23, 1,040 leaders and cadres of various underground Karbi groups of Assam surrendered along with 338 weapons, which was followed by the signing of the Karbi Anglong Agreement on September 4. In December 2020, the government had accepted the offer of Niki Sumi to revive the ceasefire agreement after he floated a new faction of NSCN-Khaplang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ceasefire-with-nscnk-niki-group/article36373339.ece
09 September 2021||Lucknow,||Work to expand BSP’s base: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Wednesday instructed partymen to work on a war footing to expand the party’s base among the ‘sarv samaj’, a day after addressing a ‘prabudh varg sammelan’ aimed at garnering the support of intellectuals, especially Brahmins, before the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Reviews preparations Ms. Mayawati in a tweet in Hindi said she addressed senior office-bearers and district unit presidents of the BSP in an important meeting here. She reviewed the preparations of the party up to booth level in view of the challenges of the upcoming poll and the ongoing efforts to expand the party’s base among among all sections of the society. The former Chief Minister also directed partymen to work on a war footing in this direction. At the sammelan held on Tuesday in Lucknow, she assured that the Brahmin community will be treated right if her BSP forms the government in 2022. “Now when a BSP-led government is formed, my efforts will not go into building memorials, parks and statues. My whole energy will go into changing the face of Uttar Pradesh so that the entire country and world can say that the BSP chief has changed the face of the State,” Mayawati said. The former Chief Minister gave a call for forging strong unity among Dalits and Brahmins so that the results of 2007 could be repeated, when the party had formed a government of its own in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/work-to-expand-bsps-base-mayawati/article36373781.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Implementing social security code a priority, says Minister||Implementing the Code on Social Security, 2020, and bringing large numbers of workers within the ambit of social security schemes were the top priorities of the government, according to Labour and Employment Minister Bhupender Yadav. Mr. Yadav told The Hindu on Tuesday that the focus on expanding social security schemes would be discussed during the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation’s meeting on Friday. Mr. Yadav, who was inducted into the Cabinet during the expansion of the Modi Ministry in July, said the task ahead for him and the Ministry would be to ensure that the benefits of the Code on Social Security “reach the poor and downtrodden”. Among the features of the social security code is the expansion of benefits under the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) to gig and platform workers. “The need of the hour is that a large number of workers must come under the ambit of social security schemes,” Mr. Yadav said. The social security code, along with the codes on wages, industrial relations and occupational safety, is yet to be implemented as the rules framed under the Act have not been notified. Asked when the four labour Codes would be implemented, Mr. Yadav declined to comment on a timeline. According to Labour Ministry sources, the rules framed under the four Codes are ready to be notified and States are in the process of notifying their own rules for the same. Earlier in the year, Labour and Employment Secretary Apurva Chandra had said the rules would be ready before April 1. Officials have since then not commented on when the rules would be notified. A Ministry source said once notified, the rules would take some time to be executed and employers would likely be given three months to comply with the provisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/implementing-social-security-code-a-priority-says-minister/article36373376.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Outgoing U.S. envoy meets RSS chief, discusses ‘inclusivity’||U.S. Acting Ambassador Atul Keshap met RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday, in a meeting considered significant as it comes days ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit this month to the U.S., where he is expected to hold his first bilateral meeting with President Joseph Biden and attend the Quad summit. “Good discussion with Shri Mohan Bhagwat about how India’s tradition of diversity, democracy, inclusivity and pluralism can ensure the vitality and strength of a truly great nation,” Mr. Keshap tweeted. Mr. Keshap was on a round of farewell calls, and had also met Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday. He is expected to return to the U.S. shortly, after completing just over two months as Charge D’Affaires. “The U.S.-India relationship has never been better. Working together, our two great democracies will continue to advance human happiness around the world for years to come,” Mr. Keshap said in a statement announcing his departure. The Deputy Chief of Mission will officiate until Mr. Biden’s Ambassadorial nominee, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, receives confirmation in the U.S. Senate. U.S. Embassy officials declined to comment on whether the Ambassador’s words to Mr. Bhagwat were meant to carry any special import. During a visit to Delhi last month, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken had also mentioned the importance of “democracy, pluralism, human rights and fundamental freedoms”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/outgoing-us-envoy-meets-rss-chief-discusses-inclusivity/article36373588.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Asthana appointment: HC allows more time to Centre||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday allowed more time to the Centre to submit its response to a petition challenging the appointment of Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh permitted Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s plea for more time. The High Court will hear the case on September 16. The High Court issued a fresh notice to the IPS officer as it was not served on him due to want of payment of process fee by the petitioner. Last week, the High Court had allowed an application filed by a non-government organisation, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), seeking to be made a party in the case. The CPIL, in its impleading application, argued that the petition before the High Court filed by Sadre Alam was a “copy-paste” of its plea before the Supreme Court. The CPIL has stated that it got to know about the filing of Mr. Alam’s petition before the High Court from media reports and “was surprised to see some of the paragraphs of the writ petition, as quoted by media, to be copy-pasted from the applicant’s writ petition filed before the Supreme Court”. The NGO said his petition “seems to be only to defeat public interest by scuttling the genuine, bonafide and well-researched and deliberated PIL petition filed by the applicant [NGO] before the Supreme Court”. Mr. Alam’s plea said the 1984-batch IPS officer was appointed Delhi Police Commissioner just four days before his retirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/asthana-appointment-hc-allows-more-time-for-centre/article36373348.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC Collegium approves 12 names as permanent judges||The Supreme Court Collegium, led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana, has approved the names of 10 additional judges of the Karnataka High Court and two from the Kerala High Court for appointment as permanent judges of these courts. Elevation to the High Court Bench is followed by a period of work as an additional judge before the Collegium recommends for permanent judgeship. The Collegium recommendations were made on September 7, close behind August 24 and September 1 recommendations of a whopping 68 names for appointments to 12 High Courts. Last few weeks had begun on a historic note with the Collegium recommending nine judges to the Supreme Court in one go. One of these judges, Justice B.V. Nagarathna, is poised to be India's first woman CJI in 2027. Filling up vacancies The Collegium is pushing hard to fill up vacancies. There is likely to be a steady flow of recommendation of names for filling vacancies in the 25 High Courts, which have over 465 vacancies. This is over 41% of the total sanctioned judicial strength of 1,098 in the High Courts. The additional judges recommended for permanent judgeships in the Karnataka High Court are Justices Maralur Indrakumar Arun, Engalaguppe Seetharamaiah Indiresh, Ravi Venkappa Hosmani, Savanur Vishwajith Shetty, Shivashankar Amarannavar, M. Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai, and Justice P. Krishna Bhat. The Collegium has also recommended the appointment of additional judges of the Kerala High Court Justices M.R. Anitha and K. Nair Haripal as permanent judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-collegium-approves-12-names-as-permanent-judges/article36373362.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Late-running trains to cost Railways dear||The Supreme Court has held that the Railways will have to pay passengers compensation for the late running of trains if unable to establish or prove that the delay was due to reasons beyond its control. “These are the days of competition and accountability. If the public transportation has to survive and compete with private players, they have to improve the system and their working culture,” a Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and Aniruddha Bose observed in an order on Tuesday. The court upheld the compensation awarded to a passenger whose train was delayed by four hours while travelling to Jammu with his family in 2016. They missed their flight and had to take an expensive taxi to Srinagar. They also lost their booking of a boat on Dal Lake. The District Consumer Forum put it down as deficiency in service by the Railways. The forum ordered the North Western Railway to pay the disgruntled passenger Rs. 15,000 for taxi expenses and Rs. 10,000 towards booking expenses, along with Rs. 5,000 each towards mental agony and litigation expenses. Though the Railways went on appeal, the effort failed both at the State and National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commissions. The consumer fora, in the same voice, said the Railways had never explained why the train was delayed. Railways’ argument In the top court, Additional Solicitor-General Aishwarya Bhati, for the Railways, vehemently submitted that late running of trains could not be said to be a deficiency of service. She quoted Rules 114 and 115 of the Indian Railway Conference Association Coaching Tariff, which said there should not be any liability of the Railways to pay compensation for the late running of trains. “There may be a number of reasons for delay and late running of trains,” she argued. However, the court was not convinced. “No evidence at all was led by the Railways explaining the delay and/or late arrival of trains at Jammu,” it said. The court said “every passenger’s time is precious, they might have booked tickets for further journeys”. “Like in the present case from Jammu to Srinagar and thereafter further journey,” it noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/late-running-trains-to-cost-railways-dear/article36373352.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Australia to hold 2+2 meet||India and Australia will hold the inaugural ‘2+2’ Ministerial meeting here during the upcoming visit of Foreign Minister Marise Payne and Minister of Defence Peter Dutton. The meeting will be part of Australia's engagements with regional partners as the Ministers will visit Indonesia, India, South Korea and the United States for Indo-Pacific consultations. “These inaugural 2+2 discussions are a cornerstone of the Australia-India Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, which is founded on a shared commitment to a secure, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific region,” said Ms. Payne before starting the four country tour. A statement from the Minister said the bilateral relationship is at a “historic high” and the discussion between Ms. Payne and her Indian counterpart Dr. S. Jaishankar will cover, economic issues, cyber security, climate change, critical technology and supply chains. Mr. Dutton will hold the defence cooperation related meeting with his Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh.  The Sydney Morning Herald has reported that the discussion in Delhi is likely to include a bilateral free trade agreement. India and Australia have been in negotiation over a possible free trade deal, which has so far not yielded a positive result. The Ministerial meetings will be held in the backdrop of the evacuation of western forces from Afghanistan where Australia had a military presence. Australia has evacuated around 4,100 persons from Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-australia-to-hold-22-meet/article36373361.ece
09 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan farmers learn modern agricultural techniques from tours||Over 400 farmers from Rajasthan’s Rajsamand district have been exposed to modern agricultural techniques and progressive farming during the tours to different areas in the State. Farmers were taken to some of the leading institutions under a pilot project for skills development and environment protection. The project was based on the concept of “observe, learn and perform”, with the focus on growing crops with lesser input costs. Farmers were taken in several groups to the agricultural universities and institutions, where they interacted with experts and progressive agriculturists and observed the techniques being implemented in the fields. Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi, who represents Nathdwara constituency in Rajsamand district, flagged off the farmers groups at Damodar Stadium in Nathdwara last week. He said the tours were a step towards the empowerment of farmers living and working in the district’s remote villages. The knowledge and practice of new techniques would enable them to get remunerative prices for their produce, he said. Different groups were taken to Jaipur, Ajmer, Udaipur, Kota, Bhilwara, Sawai Madhopur, Jodhpur and Chittorgarh districts. The kits of improved varieties of seeds, vegetables and fertilisers were distributed to the farmers with small landholdings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-farmers-learn-modern-agricultural-techniques-from-tours/article36373946.ece
09 September 2021||Chandigarh,||Akali Dal swaps two seats with ‘ally’ BSP in Punjab||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday decided to swap two seats with the Bahujan Samaj Party, its alliance partner for the Punjab Assembly poll next year. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said his party has given two Assembly seats, Sham Chaurasi and Kapurthala, to the BSP and taken back Amritsar North and Sujanpur Assembly constituencies from it. The Akali Dal had last month declared its two candidates from Amritsar North and Sujanpur constituencies. At that time, Mr. Badal had said the decision was taken with the consent of the BSP. Both Amritsar North and Sujanpur were among the 20 seats given to the BSP as part of the seat-sharing arrangement between both the alliance partners. “SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced that it has taken Amritsar North and Sujanpur seats back from the BSP. In place, the BSP has been given Sham Chaurasi and Kapurthala Assembly seats,” senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akali-dal-swaps-two-seats-with-ally-bsp-in-punjab/article36373779.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Centre can extend ED Director’s term, says SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday did not intervene with the government’s decision to “retrospectively extend” the tenure of Sanjay Kumar Mishra as the Director of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), saying his tenure is anyway drawing to a close in November 2021. In a judgment pronounced on Wednesday, a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, however, said Mr. Mishra should not be given any further extension at the top of the specialised Central agency which investigates sensitive cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The court, however, upheld the power of the government to extend his tenure beyond two years. “As the tenure of appointment of Director of Enforcement is not a maximum period of two years, a person can be appointed as Director of Enforcement for a period of more than two years... The decision to extend the tenure of the respondent [Mishra] is pursuant to the recommendation made by the high-powered committee,” Justice Rao, who authored the 30-page judgment, interpreted the law on a petition by NGO, Common Cause, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan. However, the court said the power to grant extensions for a “reasonable period” to the ED Director should be done rarely and only after recording the reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-can-extend-ed-directors-term-says-sc/article36373341.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Amid protests, Centre hikes MSP for rabi crops||The unions are now in the tenth month of protest against the three farm reform laws, which they claim will hurt the MSP regime, and have also demanded a legal guarantee for MSP. The Agriculture Minister, in a statement, said, “Some people who are spreading the illusion that MSP will be abolished should also learn from this decision. After the passage of the new agricultural reform laws, not only have the rates of MSP increased but there has also been a continuous increase in the procurement by the government.” According to the Centre, the cost of production of wheat for the upcoming marketing season of 2022-23 is Rs. 1,008 per quintal, meaning that the new MSP of Rs. 2,015 will result in 100% returns. Rapeseed and mustard farmers, who saw MSP rise 8.6%, or Rs. 400 per quintal, to a rate of Rs. 5,050 per quintal can also expect 100% returns. Masoor dal also saw a Rs. 400 per quintal hike, which means MSP for the lentil will be 7.8% higher than last year, with 79% returns over the cost of production. Chana or gram saw a 2.5% hike in MSP, resulting in 74% returns. Mr. Tomar said the government had decided to fix the MSPs of all kharif and rabi crops at least 1.5 times more than their production cost and this has helped in enhancing the farmers’ income. The Centre’s decision to procure pulses and oilseeds apart from wheat and paddy is also benefitting farmers, he added. “The expected returns to farmers over their cost of production are estimated to be highest in case of wheat and mustard seed (100% each), followed by lentil (79%), gram (74%); barley (60%) and safflower (50%),” an official statement said. The government also said that concerted efforts were made over the past few years to realign the MSPs in favour of oilseeds, pulses and coarse cereals to encourage farmers to shift to a larger area under these crops and adopt best technologies and farm practices to correct the demand-supply imbalance. BKS welcomes hikes The RSS-affiliated farm union Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), which held a nationwide agitation on Wednesday, welcomed the MSP hikes, but pointed out that most farmers would not get the benefits as they were still unable to sell their crops at that rate. “We welcome this attempt to diversify crops and encourage pulses and oilseeds like masoor and sarson (mustard). The water and labour costs are lower for these crops, and since the MSP has been increased, profits should be higher for farmers,” said Badrinarayan Chaudhary, general secretary of the BKS. “ Our andolan remains because the government does not procure crops from all farmers. We still want a law which will guarantee remunerative prices for all,” he added.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-protests-centre-hikes-msp-for-rabi-crops/article36373344.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||1 dead, 35 missing after ferries collide in Assam||“A communication error between the operators of the two boats perhaps led to the collision,” he told The Hindu . The rescue workers were searching for the missing people carried away downstream by the river’s current, local officials said. The ferries on the Brahmaputra operate under the Inland Water Transport Department. Passengers pay the fare onboard but since tickets are not issued, officials could not specify the number of passengers on the ill-fated ferry. The mechanised ferries have a capacity to carry 70-80 people along with vehicles, mostly two-wheelers. But locals claim most ferries haul 100-120 people. About 30 two-wheelers on the capsized ferry sank. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Saddened by the boat accident in Assam. All efforts are being made to rescue the passengers. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being.” Union Home Minister Amit Shah called up Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to take stock of the situation. The Chief Minister is scheduled to visit Neamatighat on Thursday to assess the situation. Ports and Shipping Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who represents the Majuli Assembly constituency, expressed deep anguish over the mishap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1-dead-35-missing-as-ferries-collide-in-assam/article36373346.ece
09 September 2021||PATNA,||Jharkhand clears Bill on 75% quota for locals||The Jharkhand Assembly on Wednesday passed a Bill, which provides 75% reservation for local people in the private sector in jobs with a monthly salary of up to Rs. 40,000. Once notified, Jharkhand will become the third State in the country, after Andhra Pradesh and Haryana, to pass such a law. “The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021” was tabled in the Budget session of the Assembly in March but it was later referred to a six-member select committee. The committee, chaired by Labour Minister Satyanand Bhokta, amended the Bill with a few changes. It was named “The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates in Private Sector Bill, 2021” and the monthly salary cap was increased from Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 40,000. “Every employer shall register such employees receiving gross monthly salary as wages not more than Rs. 40,000 as the limit notified by the government from time to time on the designated portal within three months of the Act coming into force”, said the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jharkhand-clears-bill-on-75-quota-for-locals/article36373350.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Court rejects plea for door-to-door vaccination||The petition had sought a general order to the Centre to begin door-to-door vaccination for the disabled, the aged, those unable to approach vaccination centres, among others. It asked the court to direct the government to frame a Standard Operating Procedure for door-to-door administration of vaccines. It sought a 24X7 portal for this type of vaccination. “Vaccination is already under way. The court is monitoring it in a suo motu petition… The court has constituted a National Task Force. At this stage, it’s difficult to give a general direction considering the diversity of this country… We should not impinge upon the administrative power of the state to give vaccine, including door-to-door,” the court said. It, however, gave the petitioner liberty to approach the Ministry of Health with the suggestions. COVID-19 deaths In a separate case, the court admonished the petitioner for presuming that every death caused by the pandemic was due to the negligence of the State. “We cannot start with the presumption that every death was due to negligence… Our country has gone through an unprecedented pandemic,” Justice Chandrachud addressed petitioner Deepak Raj Singh’s counsel advocate Sriram Parakkat. This Public Interest Litigation petition had sought action against the authorities for “committing” gross negligence, leading to the deaths of patients in the second wave of COVID-19. It urged the court to direct the government to initiate a compensation scheme for those affected by the pandemic. Mr. Parakkat, however, said he had filed the petition in May, when the second wave reached its peak. “The petition was filed in the first week of May based on the situation then,” he stated, finally opting to withdraw the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-rejects-plea-for-door-to-door-vaccination/article36373355.ece
09 September 2021||Srinagar,||4 journalists detained, freed in Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir police conducted searches and detained four journalists in Srinagar on Wednesday. They were freed at night. Around 7 a.m., simultaneous searches were carried out by multiple teams of the police at the residences of Hilal Mir, Shah Abbas, aand Azhar Qadri, all freelance journalists, and Showkat Motta, editor of the Kashmir Narrator magazine, in different locations in Srinagar. “We were asleep when the police raided my house. Later, they took away my mobile phone and laptop. Even my wife was asked to hand over her mobile and laptop. Our passports were also seized,” one of the four detained journalists told The Hindu.  Another journalist said the mobile phones of all the family members were seized. Three of the four detained journalists contribute to foreign publications. “We were asked about our background. We were not told about the case in which we have been summoned nor intimated of any charges,” another detained journalist said. A senior police officer said the four were detained in connection with the FIR 82/2020 lodged last year. “They are questioned as part of the investigation in the case,” he said. Reporters Sans Frontières termed the detentions “crude intimidation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-journalists-detained-freed-in-kashmir/article36373586.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The Yamuna’s retreat||Many miracles occurred on the night of Krishna’s birth. Chains that bound Vasudeva fell off, the prison doors opened, the guards fell into deep sleep, and Vasudeva set off for Gokula. Adisesha and Garuda were with him, protecting and guiding him. But how was he to cross the Yamuna, which was overflowing its banks? Miraculously, the waters parted and made a path for Vasudeva. A river usually moves towards the ocean. Will a river ever reverse course and move upwards? That is what Yamuna seemed to be doing. While this was part of the marvels of Krishna’s birth, one can find a reason for this in the Ramayana, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Kumbhakarna tells Ravana that he should have asked his ministers and elders for advice, before hastily bringing Sita to Lanka. Instead, he was seeking advice after his act. This was not proper. The river Yamuna, when it comes down from a mountain, fills up the earth in its path. It does not go back in reverse to its point of origin. Seeking advice after the commission of an act was as ridiculous as expecting the Yamuna to go back. Maybe the Lord was impressed with Kumbhakarna’s analogy. He might have wanted to show that the impossible was possible with Him. So, the river, which should rush towards the ocean, moved aside so that baby Krishna could cross it safely. Vedanta Desika in his Yadavabhyudaya says that the Yamuna moved up so that it seemed as if she was trying to climb the Kalinda mountain, her father’s abode. So, one can imagine that she was like a bride who, on her way to her husband’s place, changes her mind and wonders if she should go back to her father! Desika’s poetic imagination makes Yadavabhyudaya a unique account of Krishna avatara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-yamunas-retreat/article36373372.ece
09 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||5 die as heavy rain lashes Gujarat||Five people have died in rain-related incidents in Gujarat, as parts of Saurashtra and a few other regions have come under heavy spell of monsoon rains since Tuesday. The five died in separate incidents of lightening strikes, as heavy rains battered Rajkot, Morbi and Amreli districts among others. According to the weather department, more than 10 districts have received moderate to heavy showers and this will continue till Friday. So far, Gujarat has missed good rains due in the absence of any system in the Arabian Sea, which normally brings good rains during the south western monsoon. However, this has changed since the beginning of September.  So far, the State’s monsoon deficit has been around 50%, but it is likely to reduce substantially after the present spell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-die-as-heavy-rain-lashes-gujarat/article36373343.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Minister calls Rahul Gandhi pseudo expert||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday hit back at Rahul Gandhi for demanding the postponement of medical entrance exam NEET, saying the Congress leader was a “pseudo expert” with an “overflowing vanity and a misplaced sense of entitlement”. Criticising Gandhi for “questioning the wisdom” of the Supreme Court and experts on the NEET schedule, Mr. Pradhan said that “yuvraj” (prince) should stick to “his expertise of concocting lies than issuing statements on matters he has no understanding of”. The Minister’s response came after the former Congress president called for the postponement of the NEET examination as many other examinations are scheduled around September 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-calls-rahul-gandhi-pseudo-expert/article36373358.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Don’t want press freedom muzzled: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it did not want press freedom to be muzzled even as it granted interim protection to journalists of a news website from any coercive action by the State of Uttar Pradesh. “We are aware of fundamental rights. We do not want press freedom to be muzzled,” Justice L. Nageswara Rao addressed advocates Nitya Ramakrishnan and Shadan Farasat, appearing for the Foundation for Independent Journalism, which runs The Wire website. The foundation and some journalists with the website had approached the court against FIRs registered against them by the State. The court, however, advised the petitioners to approach the Allahabad High Court first. The petitioners agreed to withdraw the plea from the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-want-press-freedom-muzzled-sc/article36373342.ece
09 September 2021||Agartala,||BJP workers set fire to CPI(M) office||BJP workers set fire to the CPI(M) State office in Agartala and burnt down several vehicles parked outside on Wednesday. The workers were protesting against a clash with CPI(M) cadres at Dhanpur in Sepahijala district recently. The activists also attacked the office of Pratibadi Kalam , a vernacular daily, and ransacked the building. The vehicle of its editor was vandalised and motorbikes of journalists were burnt. Three journalists were injured and two of them were admitted to hospital. The office of Daily Desher Katha , the CPI(M) mouthpiece, was also raided and ransacked. The CPI(M) alleged that police and paramilitary troops were mere spectators when the attacks were taking place. The party said senior leaders would speak about the incidents at a press conference later.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-workers-set-fire-to-cpim-office/article36373584.ece
09 September 2021||Patna,||Sadanand Singh passes away||Senior Bihar Congress leader Sadanand Singh (76) passed away on Wednesday. He had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Patna for two months. Mr. Singh was the Congress Legislature Party leader in the Assembly and nine-time MLA from Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur. He was a Minister and Assembly Speaker (2000-2005). He had been the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president twice. In his political life of five decades, he lost the Assembly polls only thrice- in 1985, 1990 and 1995. In the 2020 Assembly elections, he named his son, Subhanand Mukesh, as a candidate in Kahalgaon. But Mr. Mukesh lost to BJP’s Pawan Kumar Yadav. Mr. Singh’s cremation will be done at his native village in Kahalgaon with full State honours. All senior leaders of the State, cutting across party lines, condoled his death. His body was taken to the Assembly premises for legislators to pay homage. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said, “Congress leader Sadanand Singh was an experienced and popular leader while respected by leaders across party lines owing to his nature”. While referring him as one of his best friends, Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad said, “Sadanand Singh was a mass leader and blessed with great organisational skills. “His contribution to Bihar’s development and social awakening cannot be forgotten”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sadanand-singh-passes-away/article36373349.ece
09 September 2021||Patna,||Chirag Paswan calls on Tejashwi||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader and MP Chirag Paswan on Wednesday met Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav in Patna to invite him to the first death anniversary of his father and founder of the LJP, Ram Vilas Paswan. The meeting triggered speculation over the forging of a new alliance in Bihar politics but Mr. Paswan said this was not “a moment to talk about politics”. However, when asked about RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s earlier suggestion that both the young leaders should come together, Mr. Yadav told mediapersons, “We can’t say anything after what Lalu- ji has said.” ‘Good family relations’ He added, “Late Ram Vilas Paswan- ji had very good family relations with Lalu- ji .” Mr. Tejashwi Yadav also said, “I remember learning some of my early lessons of politics while campaigning with Ram Vilas Paswan- ji in the 2010 Assembly polls, which he had fought along with my father Lalu Prasad.” Mr. Chirag Paswan said that he would be going to Delhi to meet the RJD chief, Mr. Lalu Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ljp-leader-chirag-paswan-calls-on-tejashwi-yadav/article36373357.ece
09 September 2021||Srinagar,||‘Restore J&K’s Statehood before poll’||National Conference president Dr. Farooq Abdullah said the government must restore Statehood in Jammu and Kashmir before elections. He pledged to continue the fight for restoration of special status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restore-jks-statehood-before-poll/article36373365.ece
09 September 2021||Kolkata,||CPI(M) fields lawyer to take on Bengal CM||A day after the Congress decided not to field a candidate against West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chairperson Mamata Banerjee in the Bhabanipur Assembly bypoll, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Wednesday announced its candidate, Shrijeeb Biswas, a 31-year-old lawyer at the Alipore court, for the seat. Since the Congress will stay away from campaign, the candidate will not campaign under the banner of Samyukt Morcha, a front created before the Assembly polls with the Left Front, Congress and Indian Secular Front in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-fields-lawyer-to-take-on-mamata/article36373368.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||CBI takes over two more cases linked to death of Dhanbad Judge||The Central Bureau of Investigation has taken over two more cases linked to the death of Additional District and Sessions Judge Uttam Anand (in photo) in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad in July. Earlier lodged with the local police, the FIRs pertained to the theft of three mobile phones allegedly involving Rahul Verma, who is an accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-takes-over-two-more-cases-linked-to-death-of-dhanbad-judge/article36373336.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||IS: NIA files charge sheet against 3 persons||The NIA on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against three for allegedly being part of an Islamic State-inspired module that was involved in promoting violence. The accused have been identified as Mohammed Ameen, Mushab Anwar and Rahees Rasheed, all residents of Kerala. On March 5, the agency had registered the case against seven known persons and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/is-nia-files-charge-sheet-against-3-persons/article36373337.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Two Manipur extremist outfit cadre executed for deserting it||Two cadre of the Manipur extremist outfit, People’s Liberation Army (PLA), were executed at the Nanyang Wakathan camp of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Khaplang-Yung Aung) in Myanmar on August 16-17 for deserting the organisation, according to security agencies. The incident happened days after six members were killed in a factional fight, triggered by the decision of some cadre to desert the outfit, said an agency official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-manipur-extremist-outfit-cadre-executed-for-deserting-it/article36373340.ece
09 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||Modi to lay foundation stone for Mahendra Pratap varsity in Aligarh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for the Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University in Aligarh on September 14. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited Aligarh on Wednesday to take stock of preparations. The construction of the university was notified in November 2019. To be completed by January 2023, the university will grant affiliation to around 395 colleges in Aligarh, Hathras, Etah, and Kasganj districts. Right now, these colleges are affiliated with Agra’s Bhimrao Ambedkar University. According to sources, the university will be spread over 92.27 acres of land in the Lodha block of Aligarh district. Mr. Adityanath said the state university would become a “catalyst for development” in the Aligarh division by providing modern education and vocational training. Naming the university after Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh is being seen as an attempt to win over Jat voters ahead of the Assembly elections in the State. With the Aligarh Zila Panchayat recently forwarding the demand for changing the name of Aligarh to Harigarh, the foundation stone ceremony has more than just academic importance. Born in the ruling Jat family of Mursan estate in Hathras, Mahendra Pratap was an alumnus of Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College that later became Aligarh Muslim University. The BJP has been claiming that the AMU didn’t give Mahendra Pratap, who leased some of his lands to the institution, his due.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-mahendra-pratap-varsity-in-aligarh/article36373369.ece
09 September 2021||Guwahati,||Arunachal keen on oil palm cultivation||Contrary to some northeastern States such as Meghalaya, the Arunachal Pradesh government is keen on “reaping the benefits” of oil palm cultivation. Seeking to allay fears over the impact on forests, Chief Minister Pema Khandu clarified that the 1.33 lakh hectares identified for taking the National Mission on Edible Oils – Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) forward is wasteland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arunachal-keen-on-oil-palm-cultivation/article36373373.ece
09 September 2021||Guwahati,||Assam to phase out fossil fuel-based vehicles by 2030||The Assam government on Wednesday unveiled an electric vehicle (EV) policy for phasing out vehicles running on fossil fuels by 2030. The mission, approved recently, entails converting all government vehicles and fleet of public buses to electric and deploying 2 lakh EVs within the next five years. The policy also offers a set of incentives for people to switch to EVs. These include 100% exemption on registration charges and road tax. Entrepreneurs setting up EV charging stations have been assured of 90% exemption of electricity duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-to-phase-out-fossil-fuel-based-vehicles-by-2030/article36373374.ece
09 September 2021||Mumbai,||HC declines urgent hearing on plea by businessman Deepak Kochhar||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday refused to urgently hear the petition filed by Deepak Kochhar, businessman and husband of Chanda Kochhar, former CEO of ICICI Bank, that sought to quash the proceedings initiated against him by the Enforcement Directorate in the ICICI and Videocon bank scam. The matter will be heard on September 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-declines-urgent-hearing-on-plea-by-businessman-deepak-kochhar/article36373532.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Commission coming||The Tamil Nadu government will introduce a Bill in the ongoing session of the Assembly to establish an autonomous Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Commission, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Wednesday. He said orders had been issued to establish four more special courts for expediting the trial of cases registered under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The additional courts would be opened in Salem, Krishnagiri, Madurai and Tirunelveli districts, where cases were pending in large numbers. Huge pendency “Though special courts are currently functioning in Madurai and Tirunelveli districts, additional special courts are being established in view of the huge pendency of cases in these districts,” the Chief Minister said in a suo motu statement in the Assembly. The compensation granted to persons affected by atrocities would be increased to a minimum of Rs. 1 lakh and a maximum of Rs. 12 lakh, depending on the severity, he added. At present, a minimum of Rs. 85,000 and a maximum of Rs. 8,25,000 is being granted as compensation. In a bid to improve the educational standards at schools run by the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department, Mr. Stalin said the teachers at these institutions would be trained with guidance from the School Education Department. “But these schools would continue to be administered by the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department,” he added. Mr. Stalin said ‘model villages’ having common cremation grounds would be awarded a cash prize of Rs. 10 lakh for carrying out development projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adi-dravidar-and-tribal-welfare-commission-coming/article36373708.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ban on public celebration of Vinayaka Chaturthi upheld||The Madras High Court on Wednesday refused to interfere with a Government Order issued by Tamil Nadu on August 30 imposing a ban on installation of idols in public places to celebrate Vinayaka Chaturthi this year due to the threat of COVID-19. The court rejected the contention that such a ban violated the constitutional right to practise religion. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu wrote that the right to life was paramount and that only if a person survived, he/she would be able to exercise the right to religion effectively. They pointed out that the pandemic was yet to die down completely, and therefore the State was justified in imposing restrictions on all religious celebrations in public interest. The observations were made while disposing of a writ petition filed by ELA. Ganapathi of Tiruvallur district for quashing the G.O. He had also sought a consequential direction to the government to permit installation of idols in public places and processions to immerse the idols in nearby waterbodies, lakes and beaches by following physical distancing norms. In his affidavit, the petitioner stated that the government’s decision to ban installation of idols in public places and also the processions had hurt the sentiments of Hindus, who believed that Lord Vinayaka would bless the world with peace and prosperity if they celebrated the Chaturthi. He also stated to have filed the case to uphold the right to freedom of religion of crores of Hindus. Claiming that the celebrations provided a chance to forget the tough days of the COVID-19 lockdown and the resultant mental and economic stress, the litigant said the State should not act as an obstacle to such an occasion by imposing “unjust” restrictions. He said the government could very well ensure maintenance of physical distance in public places with the assistance of the police. “When the third respondent (Director General of Police) can make necessary arrangement for regulating the crowds in Tasmac (a government organisation that holds exclusive licence for wholesale and retail sale of liquor in the State) shops, then there should be no reason for not doing the same for regulating the devotees of Lord Vinayaka during the procession,” his affidavit read. The litigant added, “According to Hindu customs and the time-immemorial traditions/conventions, Vinayaka Chaturthi is celebrated in open places. Therefore, putting restriction to celebrate such an occasion inside the homes of citizens is itself defeating the very purpose of the festival, which is known for installation of idols and immersing them in sea or waterbodies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ban-on-public-celebration-of-vinayaka-chaturthi-upheld/article36373740.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Passenger traffic surge leads to chaos at airport||A chaotic scene awaits hundreds of international passengers when they arrive at the Chennai airport. After standing in long queues for testing and immigration clearance, they have to put up with overcrowding in violation of physical distancing norms as soon as they enter the terminal. C.L. Narasimhan, who arrived from the U.S. via Dubai, blamed lack of planning and coordination. He said the authorities should improve and scale up the arrangements to handle international traffic. “I waited for more than an hour to get tested, despite booking the slot online; after waiting in one queue, the staff told me that I have to stand in a different queue. We felt clueless. There should either be better signages or more staff guiding the passengers,” he said. Visalakshmi, another passenger, said hundreds of passengers stand close to one another violating physical distancing norms. She said there should be a monitoring mechanism to ensure that everyone followed the COVID-19 standard operating procedure. A similar situation prevails at the departure hall in the domestic terminal where physical distancing norms were thrown to the winds, sources said. Bunching of flights Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said they had reviewed the situation and were taking urgent steps to rectify it. “We have spoken to the immigration authorities and asked them to add more counters so that the waiting time of passengers is reduced.” “Crowding occurs sometimes, especially in the international terminal, because of bunching of flights wherein quite a few flights arrive at the same time; we have spoken to the airlines to alter their flight schedule to ensure that this doesn’t happen,” an official said. Sources said unless the terminal’s capacity is increased, it would be difficult to implement physical distancing norms as the passenger traffic had been rising continuously after the lockdown norms were relaxed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passenger-traffic-surge-leads-to-chaos-at-airport/article36373715.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temple property retrieved||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department on Wednesday took possession of land measuring 3,627 sq ft on CTH Road in Villivakkam belonging to Sri Agatheeswarar Temple. The land had been rented out and the tenant had sub-let it to another person. The rent arrears totalled Rs. 50.34 lakh to the temple. The second party had constructed a G+2 structure with four shops, a gym, a party hall and an office space on the land worth Rs. 5 crore. “Since the person defaulted on payment of rent, we filed a case for retrieving the land under Section 78 of the HR and CE Act, and the Joint Commissioner’s Court had directed us to remove the encroachment. However, the tenant filed a case in the Madras High Court, which directed us to approach the Commissioner’s court. The party filed more cases, refusing to vacate. The High Court directed us to immediately remove the encroachment and report to it,” said an official in the department. On Wednesday, officials from the department, along with those from the Revenue Department and the police, sealed the building. Survey taken up Meanwhile, work to physically measure and survey around 4.78 lakh acres of land belonging to temples under the control of the HR and CE Department has begun. HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, who inspected equipment to be used in the survey, launched the work from Kapaleeswarar temple in Mylapore, whose master plan for development has commenced. He told presspersons that the process would take about one year to complete, and the Revenue Department had provided 50 DGPS - RTK rovers worth Rs. 4 crore for this purpose. The department had requisitioned another 50 devices and a few more would be sought, if needed. Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran, in a recent order, said that around 200 licenced surveyors had been roped in on a temporary basis on consolidated payment for the purpose. Using rover equipment and by using latitude and longitude coordinates, the properties would be marked digitally and physically, he said. Temples that did not have funds for the purpose could apply to the Commissioner for releasing the same under the Common Good fund. “We will use boundary marking stones that are part of any land survey. Each team of surveyors and assistants can cover up to 10 acres of land in a day if it is a continuous property. Smaller properties with houses and other structures will take time. We are roping in retired tahsildars and deputy tahsildars so that we can complete the work as soon as possible. We will approach respective District Collectors for assistance,” said Sukumar, special officer-cum-DRO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-property-retrieved/article36373722.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMAY-U panel approves five major rental housing projects||The State-level Sanctioning and Monitoring Committee in Tamil Nadu for the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban (PMAY-U) on Wednesday gave the formal approval for five major rental housing projects, involving public and private players, in Chennai, Sriperumbudur and Hosur. These projects, the first of their kind in Tamil Nadu, will have 45,841 housing units and dormitories, primarily to meet the housing needs of migrant workers and the urban poor. The projects will be executed under Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC), introduced as a sub-scheme of PMAY-U last year after COVID-19 broke out, as part of the Union government’s vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India)’. Projects under ARHC can be taken up unde two models. The first involves conversion of the existing houses, built with government funds but lying vacant, into rental houses. The second involves construction, operation and maintenance of rental houses by public or private entities on their own land. The five projects fall under the second category. Of the five, two are executed by public players. One involves the construction of 18,720 dormitories by the State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT) in Chennai. The other involves the construction of 840 dormitories and 200 single bedroom units by Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL). The remaining three will be executed by private entities. One will be done by Tata Electronics Power Limited in Hosur. It will include 1,500 single bedroom units, 500 double bedroom units and 2,000 dormitories. SPR City Estates Private Limited will construct 18,112 dormitories at Sriperumbudur. SPR Construction Private Limited will construct 3,968 dormitories and one double bedroom unit as part of another project, also at Sriperumbudur. Under the scheme, the agencies building the houses and dormitories should ensure provision of all amenities and rent them out to workers. The buildings should be operated for the intended purpose for a minimum of 25 years. The scheme’s guidelines say the double bedroom units can be of size 60 sq m and the single bedroom units of 30 sq m. Dormitories can be four or six bedded halls. The Union government will partially subsidise the cost of construction through the Technology Innovation Grant (TIG), if these projects adopt innovative technologies. For instance, four of these projects will use monolithic concrete technology, while another will use the pre-engineered steel structural system or 3D printing technology. Consequently, the five projects together will receive a total of Rs. 114.5 crore. The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has already accepted the projects. At the last meeting of the Central Sanctioning and Monitoring Committee held in August, the Ministry reportedly lauded Tamil Nadu for having the highest number of projects lined up under the ARHC.  The projects will be executed under Affordable Rental Housing Complexes, a sub-scheme introduced last year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmay-u-panel-approves-five-major-rental-housing-projects/article36373742.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu records 1,587 fresh cases||Tamil Nadu logged 1,587 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. The State recorded 18 deaths, but no fatalities were reported in 24 of the 38 districts. Coimbatore’s daily tally rose to 232 cases from 217 the previous day. In Chennai, 179 persons tested positive, while Erode and Chengalpattu recorded 117 and 115 cases respectively. There was a small increase in the number of cases in Thanjavur as 85 persons tested positive as against 53 on Tuesday. Among the other districts, Tiruppur recorded 81 cases and Namakkal 66 cases. The State’s overall tally of cases stands at 26,27,365. A total of 35,073 people have died of COVID-19. Of the 18 deaths reported on Wednesday, Chengalpattu, Chennai, Mayiladuthurai and Salem recorded two deaths each. There was no death in Coimbatore. Among the deceased was a 32-year-old man from Salem. He had pulmonary tuberculosis and was admitted to Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on September 2. His sample returned positive the next day. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on September 6. Another 1,594 people were discharged after treatment. This took the total number of recovered patients to 25,76,112. There are 16,180 active cases in the State. Of them, Coimbatore accounts for 2,194 cases, followed by Chennai (1,835), Erode (1,254) and Chengalpattu (1,102). As of September 7, the State’s overall positivity rate stood at 1%. In 24 hours, 1,60,303 samples were tested. The State received 4,00,000 doses of Covishield on Wednesday, while 1,37,780 doses of Covaxin were expected. Another 3,44,977 persons were vaccinated in the State on Wednesday. This took the overall coverage at government vaccination centres to 3,45,36,454. Of them, 2,14,043 persons were in the 18-44 age group and 98,841 were aged 45-59. The cumulative coverage of private vaccine centres since May 1 stood at 22,35,846. The total coverage of government and private vaccination centres reached 3,67,72,300.  Of the 18 deaths, Chengalpattu, Chennai, Mayiladuthurai and Salem recorded two deaths each. There was no death in Coimbatore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-records-1587-fresh-cases/article36373702.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Regulatory panel allows Tangedco to procure 1,000 MW solar power||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has allowed Tangedco to procure 1,000 MW of solar power from the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) under the manufacturing-linked Inter-State Transmission System (ISTS) scheme. The power is to be procured at the rate of Rs. 2.61 per unit, including SECI’s trading margin of Rs. 0.07 per unit. However, the TNERC has directed Tangedco to hold negotiations with SECI to reduce the trading margin, before signing the agreement. The commission said it had issued an order fixing trading margin as Rs. 0.04 paise per unit in cases where the sale price was less than or equal to Rs. 3 per unit. Since the quantum approval had been issued and the price was competitive, market aligned due to the payment securities issued by SECI, the Tangedco might sign the power supply agreement, in accordance with the outcome of the negotiation, the order said. A few years ago, Tangedco stopped the practice of procuring renewable energy on its own following tepid response to its tenders and had handed over the task to the SECI. In its petition, Tangedco said its solar power purchase obligation was 10.5% or 9,398 MW on total consumption for the financial year 2021-22. It said that to meet the solar power purchase obligation, the approximate requirement was 7,126 MW, and the current available capacity was 4,268 MW. About 2,856 MW of solar power was required to meet the renewable purchase obligation and considering the upcoming capacity, there was a shortage of 1,850 MW, Tangedco said. As per data, Tangedco has not achieved the solar energy purchase obligation target set by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy in the last three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regulatory-panel-allows-tangedco-to-procure-1000-mw-solar-power/article36373828.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Singaperumal Koil station made third auto rail hub||Singaperumal Koil railway station is set to become a busy auto rail hub with the Southern Railway on Tuesday despatching the first consignment of Renault-Nissan cars to Nepal. Located on the Tambaram-Chengalpattu section, the station is set to become the third automobile rail hub of the Chennai division, after Walajabad and Melpakkam. A senior official of Southern Railway said that as several automobile companies were located in the Oragadam belt in Kancheepuram district, the Walajabad and Melpakkam railway stations were used for transporting cars through trains. Similarly, the Chennai division’s Business Development Unit (BDU), as part of its “Hungry For Cargo” mission, bagged the order from Renault-Nissan company to transport 125 cars to Nepal. The BDU identified Singaperumal Koil railway station to be the best loading point for which 25 new modified goods coaches were made and loading infrastructure work was completed in quick time. JKTI, a private company, is handling the consignment of the cars to Nepal, covering a distance of 2,244 km at a cost of Rs. 18.25 lakh. The cars would be transported by rail from Chennai to Ramgarhwa in Bihar and from there, they would be taken by road to Nepal. Ramgarhwa is the closest point to the Nepal border, the railway official said. Renault-Nissan had assured the Southern Railway that it would increase the share of railway transport from 20% to 35% in future, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/singaperumal-koil-station-made-third-auto-rail-hub/article36373730.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps planned in city on September 12||As part of the Statewide mass COVID-19 vaccination drive planned on Sunday, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will hold inoculation camps at 1,600 places across the city. Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi chaired a meeting on Wednesday with senior officials to discuss arrangements for the programme. Mr. Bedi said that each of the 200 wards would have a camp at two locations for half-a-day each, covering 400 places. Apart from these, 400 mobile vaccination units would be deployed with two units at each ward. Each unit would cover three places by staying put at a spot for four hours. Consequently, these units will cover 1,200 places. Details about all the 1,600 locations and timings would be made known ahead of the drive, the officials said. They said 600 teams, comprising doctors and nurses, were being formed. To create awareness and mobilise the public for vaccination, 5,800 staff, comprising workers drafted for malaria control, fever survey workers and anganwadi workers, would be deployed. The Corporation organised a mega vaccination camp on August 26 at 400 locations. Record vaccinations About 1.35 lakh people were vaccinated that day, which is the highest number for a day in the city. Senior officials said that they were hoping to surpass the record on Sunday. A total of 43.63 lakh doses of vaccines have been administered in the city till Tuesday, which included 29.89 lakh first doses and 13.74 lakh second doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-planned-in-city-on-september-12/article36373725.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bill to speed up acquisition of land for industrial purposes||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday tabled a Bill in the Assembly, seeking to delegate more powers to Collectors to speed up land acquisition for industrial purposes. The Bill, introduced by Industries Minister Thangam Thenarasu, said the government had decided to delegate the power to issue notices for acquisition of land under Sub Section (1) of Section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997, to the Collector. Another Bill, introduced by Minister for Human Resources Management Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, sought to give statutory effect to the executive orders passed in 2016 and in 2017, retrospectively, over the conduct of second-class language test by the TNPSC to test the basic Tamil language skills of candidates. In view of the special reservation for Vanniakula Kshatriyas within reservation for MBCs and Denotified Communities, and in view of the change in nomenclature of the Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department into the Human Resources Management Department, Mr. Rajan tabled another Bill that sought to amend the Tamil Nadu Government Servants (Conditions of Service) Act, 2016. A Bill tabled by the Agriculture Minister sought to validate the action of having continued/appointed special officers to manage 14 market committees under the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1987. The Bill also sought to extend the tenure of these officers for a year on and from November 30, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bill-to-speed-up-acquisition-of-land-for-industrial-purposes/article36373709.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister lauds recipients of Best Teacher awards||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin held a virtual interaction on Wednesday with the teachers who have been given the Dr Radhakrishnan award for the 2020-21 academic year. This year, 389 teachers which included 171 Primary and Middle school teachers, 171 high and higher secondary school teachers, and 33 Matriculation school teachers among others were selected for the awards. “Teachers are always held in high regard by students and even after they complete their studies, they are remembered. During the pandemic, there has been an increased attention on government schools from parents and teachers should come together and work towards strengthening these schools,” Mr Stalin said. The Chief Minister said that during the pandemic, several teachers, including some of the awardees, had gone to the houses of students and ensured that learning continued through various initiatives. ‘ Lead by example’ “To take this to many more rural areas, the State government is planning to start an initiative and we want good teachers like all of you to lead this by example,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-lauds-best-teacher-awardees/article36373741.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK stages walkout ahead of CAA vote||The AIADMK on Wednesday staged a walkout from the Assembly, ahead of voting on the resolution against CAA, citing the DMK government disbanding a number of projects implemented by the AIADMK regime. Speaking to the media after the walk out, the Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, said the party wanted to raise the issue of the DMK disbanding a number of schemes launched by the previous government. “We had got permission, the Governor’s assent and finalised a Vice-Chancellor for the Dr. J. Jayalalithaa University in Villupuram, but elections were announced and we could not proceed because to that. The DMK government is now merging the university with Annamalai University solely because it has Amma’s [former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa] name,” Mr. Palaniswami said. He said Villupuram was a backward district and the university would have given poor students in the region an opportunity to get quality higher education. “But even this aspect was not considered by the DMK,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami said the DMK government had removed the ladder from Jayalalithaa’s statue on the Higher Education Department’s premises, on Kamarajar Salai, and this was preventing people from garlanding it. “We wanted to raise these issues. But the Speaker did not allow it. He also expunged whatever we spoke,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami added that the DMK government had introduced a number of conditions for the ‘ Thaaliku thangam ’ marriage assistance scheme. When asked about COVID-19 cases in schools, Mr. Palaniswami said the government should tread carefully on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-stages-walkout-ahead-of-caa-vote/article36373704.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Early treatment vital to prevent mucormycosis complications’||In the post-COVID-19 period, mucormycosis, an invasive fungal infection, can manifest through sudden mobile (loose) teeth. Those who have recovered from the contagion recently should seek medical attention at the earliest to prevent complications from mucormycosis, doctors say. Deepak Nallaswamy, director of Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, said mucormycosis was an old disease and became more relevant during the pandemic. “Persons who have recovered from COVID-19 recently can experience mobile teeth. This is misunderstood as a gum disease. There is no pain. There is swelling of gums. This is not localised, and may affect one or two teeth. In two to three weeks, three to four teeth might be involved,” he told reporters on Wednesday. It has a high spreading potential, if not treated in time especially in diabetic patients, a press release said. As this is a fast progressing disease, he stressed the importance of early detection. “So far, we have treated 30 patients affected by mucormycosis. Of them, three have received custom implants,” he said. The hospital has put in place a custom implant titanium printer to offer implants to patients. “Time is of great essence in mucormycosis. In the post-COVID-19 period, any symptom of mobile teeth should be checked as soon as possible,” he said. To mark the completion of 10,000 dental implants, Saveetha Dental College and Hospital is launching ‘Smiling Faces’, a free awareness and screening campaign for implant treatment.  Time is of great essence in mucormycosis. In the post-COVID-19 period, any symptom of mobile teeth should be checked as soon as possible||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-treatment-vital-to-prevent-mucormycosis-complications/article36374071.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmhouse, said to belong to Sasikala, attached by officials||The Benami Prohibition Unit, Chennai, on Wednesday attached a farmhouse at Paiyanur, said to belong to V.K. Sasikala, under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act. The property, measuring 28.17 acres, located on Old Mahabalipuram Road, could be worth Rs. 100 crore, sources said. The officers of the Benami Prohibition Unit visited the premises near Thiruporur and stuck a copy of the provisional order at the entrance after tom-toming. U.N. Dilip, Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax (Benami Prohibition), Chennai, said in the provisional order that the proceedings under the Act were in progress with a show-cause notice issued to Ms. Sasikala, a close associate of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Given the facts and circumstances of the case, the benamidar/beneficial owner would be aware of the consequences of the proceedings. The property might be alienated during the period specified in the notice issued to the benamidar. “Therefore, it is considered expedient and necessary to provisionally attach the property...” “It is ordered that you are hereby prohibited and restrained, until further orders or 90 days from the end of month from the date of the notice (or) whichever is earlier, from transferring or changing the property in anyway,” the order read. Copies were also sent to the office of the sub-registrar, Thiruporur, and Jayalalithaa’s legal heirs J. Deepak and Deepa, the sources said. Amaran’s testimony This property was bought from film director and composer Gangai Amaran in 1994. At the special court which heard the disproportionate assets case against Ms. Sasikala, Mr. Gangai Amaran deposed that he knew Baskaran, son of Ms. Sasikala’s sister Vanitha. He took him to Poes Garden to meet Jayalalithaa. There he also met Ms. Sasikala. She told him that the Chief Minister had visited the Paiyanur land and liked it and she was very much interested in buying it. But he replied that the house was useful in music-composing and story-writing and he did not want to sell it. Thereafter, Ms. Sasikala’s nephew Sudhakaran talked to him daily on the phone or came to his house. Initially, his family was unwilling to sell the land but changed their mind later. Sudhakaran and some officers came to his house and got the signatures of him and his wife on October 7, 1994. They gave two demand drafts for Rs. 13,10,000, the court order read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmhouse-said-to-belong-to-sasikala-attached-by-officials/article36373706.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pulamaipithan, poet and MGR’s image-builder, passes away||Poet Pulamaipithan, whose songs gave a fillip to the films and political career of AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran, died here on Wednesday. He was 87, and is survived by his wife. He was born at Pallapalayam in Coimbatore as Ramaswamy. He pursued the now-defunct four-year ‘Pulavar’ course to become a Tamil scholar. His in-depth knowledge of Tamil and its ancient literature manifested in his film lyrics. He adopted the pseudonym Pulamaipithan. He was also active in politics and served as Deputy Chairman of the Legislative Council between 1980 and 1983. Pulamaipithan was also chairperson of the AIADMK presidium for a few years, until 2003. He had also served as the poet-laureate of the State government. According to MGR’s biographer R. Kannan, Pulamaipithan replaced poet Pattukottai Kalyanasundaram, after his death, in the creative team that boosted the career of the matinee idol with tailor-made songs. The others were music director M.S. Viswanathan and playback singer T.M. Soundararajan. His first song for MGR, ‘ Naan Yaar Naan Yaar Nee Yaar ’, in Kudyiruntha Koil (1968) brought out his potential as a lyricist. His next song for MGR, ‘ Aayiram Nilave Vaa ’, was featured in Adimai Penn (1969). ‘ Neenga Nalla Irukkonum Naadu Munnera ’, a song in Idhayakkani (1975), crystallised MGR’s political stature. Ahead of the 1977 Assembly election, Pulamaipithan penned the propaganda song, ‘ Vaasal Engum Rettai Ilaik Kolamidungal ’, which was played after MGR’s public speeches, Mr. Kannan said, recalling that Pulamaipithan had told him that the song was an important element in the AIADMK’s victory. Pulamaipithan was also an ardent supporter of the Sri Lankan Tamil cause. “It was he who drew MGR towards the cause. MGR, while being the Chief Minister, gave financial assistance to the LTTE,” recalled P. Dhileepan, grandson of Pulamaipithan. “He was very close to LTTE leader Prabhakaran and named me after Dhileepan, one of the martyrs of the movement,” he added. His career as lyricist extended beyond the MGR era. While his songs for MGR are packed with political and social messages, what he wrote for others became renowned as some of the finest songs in the film world. Two of them — ‘ Thirunirai Selvi Mangayarkarasi ’ and ‘ Poomazhai Thoovi ’ — were considered auspicious and played at marriages after the tying of ‘mangalsutra’. He had a penchant for breathtaking imagery, as exemplified in ‘ Raathiriyil Poothirukkum Thamaraithaan Kanno ’ set to Ilaiyaraaja’s music. ‘ Uchi Vaguntheduthu Pichipoo Vacha Kili ’ in Rosapoo Ravikkaikari captured the agony of a husband in response to tongues wagging about his wife. Pulamaipithan would say it was easy for him to write songs to tunes as it helped unleash his imagination to find suitable words. He would explain how he spontaneously wrote the lines ‘ Amuthe Tamile ’ and ‘ Vedam Nee Iniya Natham Nee ’ to the tunes of Ilaiyaraaja for ‘ Kovilpura ’. ‘ Then Pandi Seemaiyile ’, the theme song for Kamal Haasan-starrer Nayagan , is another song that speaks of his calibre as a lyricist who could capture the whole idea of a film. Beauty, aesthetics and messaging come together in ‘Punjai Undu Nanjai Undu ’ in Unnal Mudiyum Thambi directed by K. Balachander.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pulamaipithan-poet-and-mgrs-image-builder-passes-away/article36373714.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||File written undertakings against manual scavenging: HC to officials||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Commissioners of all municipal corporations as well as municipalities across the State to file written undertakings before the court to the effect that no manual scavenging will be permitted to be undertaken, even by private individuals, within their territorial jurisdiction. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu issued the interim directions on a public interest litigation petition filed by Safai Karamchari Andolan in 2017 complaining about several deaths having been reported across the State due to manual scavenging despite the practice having been banned by way of law. On Wednesday, the judges expressed satisfaction over no manual scavenging death having been reported in the State since they passed their last interim order making it clear that the Commissioners of civic bodies would be held personally responsible if any manual scavenging activity is detected or if any mishap occurs within their jurisdiction. Reiterating their order, they directed the government to make every endeavour to procure cleaning machines and improve the sewer lines so that manual scavenging need not be resorted to at all. “It will also be the responsibility of heads of corporations and municipalities to ensure that no private person indulges in manual scavenging activity,” they said. The Bench, further, granted six weeks to the State government to come up with a template of critical guidelines with regard to prohibiting manual scavenging in toto. They also stated that a decision would be taken later on making every new Commissioner of a civic body to file an undertaking in court against manual scavenging immediately after assuming office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/file-written-undertakings-against-manual-scavenging-madras-hc-tells-officials/article36373767.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy work to be taken up at night in more areas||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Wednesday announced that it would be moving more of its conservancy operations to be undertaken at night to avoid hindrance to the public and traffic during the day. Cleaning of bus route roads, interior roads, market places and lifting of garbage from the bins at these places were done predominantly at night. A press release said that in the five zones of Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Ambattur, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar, and Anna Nagar, where it directly carried out conservancy work, 134 bus route roads and 55 interior roads were cleaned at night. An additional 123 more bus route roads and 106 interior roads will be covered at night in these five zones from Thursday. While 1,520 garbage bins were cleared in these five zones, an additional 580 bins would be added to the operation from Thursday. A similar expansion of conservancy operations at night would be introduced in the remaining 10 zones, where the work was being done by private contractors, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-work-to-be-taken-up-at-night-in-more-areas/article36373726.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Apart from mother tongue, it is essential to learn Hindi’||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday stressed on the need for learning Hindi apart from one’s mother tongue. Inaugurating the Moturi Satyanarayana Centre for Advanced Study in the Humanities and Social Sciences at Krea University (KU), he said the key purpose of knowing a language was to communicate and a large number of people in India spoke Hindi. “If you are not able to communicate with the larger sections of the country in the language known to them, then what is the purpose,” he asked. Recalling his student days when he took part in the anti-Hindi agitations and applied tar on a name board in Hindi, Mr. Naidu said he realised later in life after reaching Delhi that the he had in fact applied tar on his own face, metaphorically speaking, by not learning Hindi. “Later, I picked up Hindi. I could reach this position. If you want to grow, if you want to communicate your ideas to a larger section of the people, you must know their language,” Mr. Naidu said. Simple principle His simple principle when it came to controversies surrounding languages in India was “no imposition, no opposition.” He said neither should any language be imposed on children, nor should there be any opposition to a language. He said it was most important for everyone to learn their mother tongue first. Apart from that, they should learn as many languages as possible, including Hindi. Acknowledging the importance of learning English in a globalised world, Mr. Naidu, however, said that there was a misconception that it was not possible to come up in life if one did not get educated in English. Citing the examples of the present President of India, the Prime Minister, the Chief Justice of India and himself, he said all of them got educated in their mother tongue in modest schools. Quality of legislators Lauding late Moturi Satyanarayana for his contributions as a freedom fighter, member of the constituent assembly, legislator in the Rajya Sabha and in the promotion of Hindi and Telugu languages, Mr. Naidu said he maintained the highest standards in public life. Stating that calibre, character, capacity and content were the qualities of leaders earlier, he said these had now been replaced largely with caste, community, cash and criminality. The functioning of the legislative houses, including the Rajya Sabha, was of late disturbing. Pointing out that the National Education Policy focussed on a holistic approach by breaking rigid barriers between professional and liberal education, he appreciated KU for adopting a similar vision. The centre has been launched with an endowment by the family of Moturi Satyanarayana. Prem Kumar, his son-in-law, elaborated on the late leader’s contribution in promoting Hindi and Telugu. Highlighting his key role in the construction of Nagarjuna Sagar dam, Mr. Prem Kumar said this was often not recollected. Mahesh Rangarajan, Vice-Chancellor, KU, said the creation of the centre was timely and far-sighted, in keeping with the institution’s mission of preparing humanity for an unpredictable world. Kapil Viswanathan, chairman, executive committee, KU, said the university shared common values with the Vice-President, which included passion for continuous learning, creation of new knowledge and deep commitment to public service and nation building. Mukund Padmanabhan, former Editor of The Hindu and visiting Professor of Practice at KU, said Mr. Naidu had made his office more accessible to the public.  If you are not able to communicate with the larger sections of the country in the language known to them, then what is the purpose||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apart-from-mother-tongue-it-is-essential-to-learn-hindi-venkaiah/article36373728.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for harassing woman||The police on Wednesday arrested a 34-year-old man for harassing a woman on Tuesday night. The victim was at a prominent junction in Anna Nagar when a car overtook her and stopped her. The man inside the vehicle tried to engage her in conversation, but she did not respond and proceeded on her two-wheeler. He followed her and came in front of her vehicle. He kept asking her why she was not talking to him and abused her when she tried to pull out her phone. When she took a photo of the vehicle, he fled. Later, she lodged a complaint with the police and narrated her ordeal on Twitter. Her post was tagged to Tiruvallur SP R.V. Varun Kumar and forwarded to Deputy Commissioner (Anna Nagar), Deepa Ganiger. The social media team of the Greater Chennai Police told her the accused had been secured. A senior officer said the man was identified as M. Karthik, a software engineer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-harassing-woman/article36373738.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Insolvency proceedings ordered against KPN||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai, has ordered insolvency proceedings against KPN Travels India Ltd., in a case filed by TVS Automobile Solutions Pvt. Ltd. In its petition, TVS Automobile Solutions Ltd., said it supplied automobile spares, such as filters, brakes, linings, clutch plates, gear box components, tyre and tubes to KPN Travels Ltd. based on the latter’s indent. After receiving the goods, KPN failed to pay an outstanding of about Rs. 3.94 crore for supplies made from August 31, 2017 to December 31, 2019. Along with interest of 18% a year, the total outstanding worked out to Rs. 5.27 crore. The NCLT rejected the arguments of KPN and appointed Ramachandran Balachandran as the interim resolution professional. With this, the board of directors of KPN is superseded, the NCLT added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insolvency-proceedings-ordered-against-kpn/article36373717.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for GST fraud of Rs. 20.35 cr.||The Headquarters Preventive Unit (Express Cargo Manifest) of Chennai North GST and Central Excise Commissionerate arrested a 36-year-old man from Kodungaiyur for alleged GST fraud of Rs. 20.35 crore. The arrested man allegedly floated 11 fake companies and passed on illegal, fraudulent and ineligible input tax credit of Rs. 20.35 crore with taxable value of over Rs. 118.17 crore, according to a release. The fictitious companies issued tax invoices to various other business establishments, for a commission, to facilitate claim of GST credit. The accused was produced before the additional chief metropolitan magistrate, Egmore, and remanded in judicial custody till September 21. The arrested man was under investigation in another case of fake input tax credit of Rs. 263 crore, and he had been evading investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-gst-fraud-of-rs-2035-cr/article36373724.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC permits litigant to request UPSC, SSC exams in regional languages||The Madras High Court on Wednesday permitted a public interest litigant to make a fresh representation to the Union Home Ministry with a request to conduct all Union Public Service Commission as well as Staff Selection Commission examinations in all regional languages enlisted in the eighth schedule to the Constitution, apart from in English and Hindi. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu directed the litigant, R. Thiyagarajan of Tiruvallur district, to make his representation in four weeks and ordered that an officer in the rank of Under Secretary in the Home Ministry should dispose of the plea within eight weeks thereafter. The order was passed without going into the merits of the petitioner’s contentions. The judges also recorded the submission of the Central government standing counsel V. Chandrasekhar that the request made by the petitioner was against Article 343 of the Constitution, which states that Hindi in Devanagari script shall be the official language of the Union and that English would also be continued to be used for all official purposes for a specific period of time. Counsel also stated that the request to conduct central service examinations in regional languages would be contrary to the Official Languages Act of 1963. In his affidavit, the litigant claimed that candidates from southern, eastern and northeastern parts of the country found it very difficult to clear the UPSC and SSC exams conducted in non-regional languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-permits-litigant-to-request-upsc-ssc-exams-in-regional-languages/article36374073.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cong., VCK welcome resolution||The resolution passed against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in the Assembly on Wednesday will create awareness and gain support at the national level, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said. Mr. Alagiri praised Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for bringing in the resolution. “The CAA, brought in by the Modi government, goes against the Constitution of India, and the basic rights of the citizens of this country. The Constitution provides the right to follow and propagate any religion to every citizen. The CAA snatches away this right and is unconstitutional,” he said. VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan also supported the State government’s move on the resolution. “The Union government has been stating that it will implement a National Register of Citizens based on the CAA. It is arguing that every citizen in India should prove that they are indeed citizens by showing the documents of their forefathers. Several crores of Indians do not have any land or property in India, and could end up losing their citizenship. Therefore, the State government must urge the Union government to stop the NRC exercise,” he said. State BJP president K. Annamalai, in a series of tweets, said: “The CAA is about giving an opportunity to illegal immigrants from three Muslim countries — Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan — who are in our country now because of severe religious persecution there. This is applicable to Hindu, Jain, Sikh, Parsi, Christain and Buddhist communities.” “It is not against Muslims or other religious minorities who have been a part of this country for years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-vck-welcome-resolution/article36373768.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Adi Dravidar, tribal schools to get facilities||New classrooms and laboratories will be developed at 150 schools run by the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department at a cost of Rs. 100 crore, Minister for Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj said in the Assembly on Wednesday. Now, 83,259 students are studying at 1,138 schools run by the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department. The Minister said the government would increase the maintenance allowance granted to students under the State’s Special Post-Matric Scholarship on a par with that given under the Union government’s Post-Matric Scholarship. “The State government will incur an additional expenditure of Rs. 4.63 crore. This scheme will benefit 26,024 students.” Minister for Backward Classes Welfare S.S. Sivasankar announced that the condition that one should be a ‘first graduate’ to avail oneself of the special scholarship granted to students of the Backward Classes, the Most Backward Classes and the Denotified Communities would be amended as the ‘first generation graduate’ so that many from the same family could benefit from the scheme. Mr. Sivasankar also announced that libraries would be opened at 259 college hostels run by the Department at a cost of Rs. 2.59 crore. The libraries would be named ‘ Semmozhi Noolagam ’. The government would provide gym and sports goods to 259 college hostels at a total cost of Rs. 1.44 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adi-dravidar-tribal-schools-to-get-facilities/article36373710.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Put off mega vaccination camp: DASE||The Doctors’ Association for Social Equality (DASE) has requested the State government to postpone the ‘mega vaccination camp’ scheduled to be held on September 12 as several government doctors would be appearing for NEET-PG on September 11. The doctors would face difficulties in travelling to their respective primary health centres and government hospitals as some of them had been allotted distant exam centres. G.R. Ravindranath, general secretary of DASE, said nearly 6,000 government doctors would be appearing for NEET-PG. A majority of them worked in primary health centres in the State. “Preparations will be affected. They will have to take two days’ leave to appear for the exam and return. They will have practical difficulties in travelling immediately if the camp is held the next day,” he said. ‘Centres far away’ In a statement, he said many candidates had been allotted NEET centres located in faraway places. Mr. Ravindranath appealed to the State government to reschedule the vaccination camp, keeping in mind the welfare of government doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/put-off-camp-doctors-association-urges-govt/article36373719.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drunk lorry driver mows down biker||The Traffic Investigation Police, Poonamallee, on Wednesday arrested a lorry driver on charges of driving the vehicle under the influence of alcohol and knocking down a motorist in a road accident. The lorry hit a battery-operated vehicle. Three persons standing near the vehicle were injured. The police said the accused, P. Karthikeyan, 26, of Perumbakkam, Kancheepuram district, was driving a sewage tanker at noon on Tuesday under the influence of alcohol. T. Dhamodharan, 42, of Porur, who was riding his two-wheeler on Kundrathur and Porur Main Road, was hit and killed on the spot. The police arrested Karthikeyan and remanded him to judicial custody. The injured persons were admitted to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drunk-lorry-driver-mows-down-biker/article36373716.ece
09 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||System to help govt. make data-based decisions||Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj on Wednesday annnounced the introduction of the Tamil Nadu Decison-Support System (DeTN) to enable the government to make decisions and effectively implement them based on data. Replying to the debate on the demand for grants for his department, he said in the current year, it would involve an expenditure of Rs. 10 crore. The government will allot Rs. 5 crore for the next four years. Mr. Thangaraj also announced that government would launch the Departmental Office Digitisation Programme (DoTN) under which all departments in the Secretariat and the districts will be digitised in a phased manner. The objective is to achieve paperless governance in the manner that the government has already done in the Assembly. “The programme will bring down the use of paper, save trees and reduce the impact of climate change,” the Minister said. He also said the State would start the Digital Tamil Nadu Programme (DITN) to ensure speedy and transparent administration. Pointing out that Tamil Nadu has been attracting global capability centres, Mr. Thangaraj said a global capability centre policy would be evolved to make Tamil Nadu a global capability terminal. The Minister said a virtual reality museum would be created in three years at a cost of Rs. 7.5 crore. He said the government would host an annual technology leadership summit in various tourist centres of the State. The first summit would be held in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/system-to-help-govt-make-data-based-decisions/article36373711.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State to buy 2,213 diesel buses||As part of its plan to modernise State Transport Corporations, the government will buy 2,213 diesel buses, conforming to BS-VI standards, and 500 electric buses, Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan said in the Assembly on Wednesday. “The KFW Development Bank of Germany will offer finance to buy the buses,” he said, replying to the debate on demand for grants for his department. 10 fuel outlets The Minister also announced 10 petrol and diesel retail outlets to increase the revenue of the transport corporations. “It will be extended to other places, depending on patronage,” he added. Mr. Rajakannappan said solar panels would be erected in the depots of transport corporations to bring down electricity costs. He said vacancies in transport corporations would be filled. The Minister, who announced a contact-less service, said people could renew learners’ and driving licences, and change addresses by using their Aadhaar cards as a document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-government-to-buy-2213-diesel-buses/article36373744.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BoI celebrates Foundation Day in city||The Bank of India (BoI), Chennai zone, celebrated its 116th Foundation Day on Tuesday in a grand manner. The celebrations began with the planting of 116 saplings in BOI branches across the city. A press release said that Zonal manager and deputy general manager S.K. Roy, and deputy zonal manager Ashok V. Padiyar participated in the event in which retired employees were felicitated. Mr. Roy said that BoI, Chennai Zone, had two retail business centres to fast track retail loan applications, one SME city centre and a Star Krishi Vikash Kendra to boost agriculture growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boi-celebrates-foundation-day-in-city/article36373720.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tanuvas begins UG admissions from today||The Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Tanuvas) will open the admission process from Thursday for undergraduate programmes — B.VSc.; B.Tech (food technology); B. Tech (dairy technology); and B. Tech (poultry technology) for the academic year 2021-22. The process will begin at 10 a.m. on September 9 and end at 6 p.m. on October 8. NRI candidates/wards of NRIs/NRI-sponsored and foreign national candidates should submit their applications online. Candidates must fill and upload the necessary documents and certificates, and pay the prescribed fees as specified by the university on the website. Prospectus, eligibility and mode of selection and other details are available atwww.tanuvas.ac.inand www2.tanuvas.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tanuvas-begins-ug-admissions-from-today/article36373723.ece
09 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Demand for CB-CID probe into Ottarpalayam incident||Thirteen rights organisations and political outfits that claimed to have investigated the Ottarpalayam incident involving a Dalit village assistant and a farmer have sought a CB-CID probe into the incident. At a press meet held here on Wednesday morning, the representatives of Adi Tamizhar Peravai, Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, Social Democratic Party of India, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, Dravida Tamizhar Katchi, Dravidar Viduthalai Katchi and a few others accused the AIADMK and BJP of fronting farmers’ organisations to blame the State Government on the issue. The issue involves village assistant Muthusamy, a Dalit, slapping farmer K. Gopalsamy at the Ottarpalayam village administrative officer’s office and then falling at Gopalsamy’s feet on August 6. Part of footage Though the entire incident was recorded, those who shot the video first released only that part of the footage that showed Muthusamy falling at Gopalsamy’s feet. A protest over this led to the police registering a case against Gopalsamy. Later, when the footage showing Muthusamy slapping Gopalsamy was released, farmers’ organisations demanded action against Muthusamy and Village Administrative Officer Kalaiselvi. Question police probe At the press meet, the representatives said their findings showed that the police had not taken complete cognisance of the complaint lodged by village assistant Muthusamy. The police had wanted him to restrict his complaint only to the incidents that happened at the village administrative officer’s office. Claiming that Gopalsamy had been abusing Muthusamy using his caste name, they said that the incident that took place in the office was premeditated and the video recording was planed as a sting operation. It was only while overpowering Gopalsamy, who was charging towards the village administrative officer, Muthusamy had slapped him, they said, and asserted that a situation was created where Muthusamy was forced to act. They further said that there was no evidence to prove that Gopalsamy was a farmer, and that there was no reason for those who recorded the incident to be at the office at that point in time. The police not acting against those who recorded the incident and released it parts only strengthened the argument that it was premeditated. It was wrong on the part of the police to buckle under pressure from dominant forces and farmers to not arrest Gopalsamy, against whom they had registered a case under the provisions of the SC,ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, and instead act only against the village administrative officer and Muthusamy. Therefore, the organisations demanded the arrest of Gopalsamy, and the dropping of departmental action against the two Revenue staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-cb-cid-probe-into-ottarpalayam-incident/article36373748.ece
09 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation collects samples at random from school students||Coimbatore Corporation has started collecting swab samples from students, teachers and non-teaching in its schools. The Corporation has embarked on the sample collection exercise ever since schools reopened on September 1, and students and teachers had turned positive in a few places in the State, said sources. On the first day, the Corporation medical teams visited 27 schools to screen 4,083 students and teachers. On the second day it was 39 schools and 6,907 screenings, the third day 17 schools and 2,908 screenings and as of September 6, the Corporation teams had visited schools 113 times to screen 15,552 persons. Of those screened none had tested COVID-19 positive but a teacher and 45 students had shown influenza like infection symptoms, the sources said and added that the Corporation had advised a person to remain in isolation until the test result was out. Even as it went about collecting swab samples at random, the Corporation had asked the heads of schools to follow all the State government-given instruction to safely run schools. The Corporation was also collecting samples at random in colleges. In the last few days of sample collection, the Corporation had four students from three private colleges report COVID-19 positive. As far as schools were concerned, the Corporation was facing objections from parents who had questioned managements on random sample collection. The Corporation was addressing the issue through the District Collector and Chief Education Officer. As per the mandate the Corporation had received from the Government, it would collect samples at random in schools and through the Collector had asked the Chief Education Officer to write to school managements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-collects-samples-at-random-from-school-students/article36373753.ece
09 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textile industry looks at Rs. 3000 crore additional investment in T.N.||The textile and clothing industry in Tamil Nadu hopes to attract Rs. 3000 crore additional investment in man-made fibre (MMF) and technical textile segments with several schemes announced by the Central and State governments. S.K. Sundararaman, chairman of the Indian Technical Textile Association and vice-chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association , said the Production Linked Incentive Scheme approved on Wednesday by the Union government for the textile sector will make the MMF sector in the country more competitive and will the other incentives now made available, it is expected to attract investments. “People will expand more in their current area of operation,” he said. The technical textiles segment is a new age textiles with huge potentials in the infrastructure, water, health and hygiene, defence, etc. The PLI Scheme and the National Technical Textile Mission already launched by the Government with the budget outlay of Rs. 1,480 crores will give enormous opportunity for this segment. According to the Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, through the PLI Scheme, the Union government wants to scale up the capacity of the textile and clothing industry 10 times. The Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council said the incentives under the scheme are based on the fulfilment of the prescribed minimum investment and turnover limits. The broad objectives of the scheme is to help Indian textile companies to become global champions and to regain India’s dominance in global textiles trade. The Apparel Export Promotion Council said with the scheme, Indian apparel exports are likely to double in three years. The PLI scheme will strengthen the Indian manufacturing capacity of MMF fabric and will thus increase the share of MMF-based garments. It is currently 20 % of the total apparels produced in India. According to the Indian Texpreneurs Federation, the PLI scheme will help India build a strong fabric manufacturing eco system for the growth of apparel exports. Apart from apparel, the MMF fabrics included in the scheme will help the industry invest in this sector. The Tiruppur Exporters’ Association said the scheme will promote production of high value MMF fabrics, garments, and technical textiles. Larger companies will get into production of these products, promoting exports and employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-industry-looks-at-rs-3000-crore-additional-investment-in-tamil-nadu/article36373765.ece
09 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Maoist’ booked under UAPA||The Coimbatore City Police on Tuesday booked an alleged Maoist under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) based on his remarks on being associated with the Communist Party of India (Maoist), a banned outfit. The Big Bazaar Street police registered a case against C. Veeramani under Section 20 (Punishment for being member of terrorist gang or organisation) of the UAPA.  Interview In a September 2020 interview to an online YouTube channel run by a Tamil magazine, he allegedly claimed that he was a member of CPI (Maoist) and continued to support its activities, police sources said on Wednesday. Aged around 72, Mr. Veeramani was released from Coimbatore Central Prison on August 24, 2020 after spending five years in judicial custody in eight different cases. He was one of the five suspected Maoists arrested in Karumathampatti in the district in May 2015. Police sources said he was booked under UAPA after the video came to the attention of the police. A senior police officer said the transcript of Mr. Veeramani’s interview was being analysed by the Coimbatore City Police and further investigations were on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maoist-booked-under-uapa/article36373751.ece
09 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Board takes action against tea factories||The Tea Board India, Coonoor, has suspended the registration certificate for two estate owned tea factories in Valparai for serious violations. A press release from the Board said that it conducted inspections in estate owned tea factories across the southern region in March and served show cause notices to 100 factories in April for violations such as lack of quality leaf procurement, average/poor hygiene standards, non-production of records pertaining to sale, holding of tea waste beyond permissible level, procurement of bought leaf beyond the permissible limit; purchase of teas from other factories and non adherence to Price Sharing Formula. M. Balaji, Executive Director of the Board, Coonoor, told The Hindu that the units were given 15 days time to reply and some sought additional time. That was also provided and enquiries were conducted in July at 34 factories based on the gravity of the deviation. Of these, registration certificate was cancelled for two factories in Valparai for abnormal usage of reconditioned teas in their production without green leaf, non-submission of records pertaining to sale, transfer/sale of teas to unregistered buyer/other tea factories and purchase, and possession of huge quantity of unauthorized tea stocks in the factory. The two factories can resume operations after a month and should comply with all the norms then. These are treated as violations under para 5 (1)(b)(C)(d) (g) of the Tea (Marketing) Control Order 2003. The Board had earlier issued 140 notices to Bought Leaf Factories and 30 notices to tea waste processing units and cancelled 46 licences for violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/board-takes-action-against-tea-factories/article36373754.ece
09 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IIF award to Coimbatore company||Peekay Steel Castings has received Institute of Indian Foundrymen (IIF) awards for Casting of the Year, Export Excellence and Foundryman of the year (2020). According to a press release, the company, which has plants in Kozhikode, Coimbatore, Hindupur, and Bengaluru, got the Casting of the Year award for developing casting and machining for ultrasonic flow meters. It got the Export Excellence award for highest steel casting exports in the large-scale steel castings manufacturer category. Sabeesh, COO of the Kozhikode plant of the company, got the Foundryman of the year award for his contribution in increasing production and cost savings. The press release added that Peekay Steel Castings is striving to become an engineering and manufacturing conglomerate that will become a one-stop solution provider to its customers,the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iif-award-to-coimbatore-company/article36373749.ece
09 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pillion rider killed in accident||A 17-year-old boy, who was riding pillion on a two-wheeler, was killed, while the rider escaped with injuries after a private bus hit them from the front near Kuniamuthur in Coimbatore on Tuesday. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Rasith. The incident occurred on Palakkad Main Road near Edayarpalayam, police said. The Traffic Investigation Wing - West police registered a case against the bus driver Jayakumar (42) on charges of rash driving and causing death by negligence, according to the police. Further investigations are on. Detained under Goondas Act Tiruppur City Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha on Tuesday ordered the detention of couple under Goondas Act. They were arrested on charges of running a prostitution racket under the guise of a massage centre in Tiruppur. The Tiruppur North police said that the couple - Rajesh (36) and his wife Anu alias Jothi Reddy (28) - were arrested on August 23 and were remanded in judicial custody at Coimbatore Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pillion-rider-killed-in-accident/article36373750.ece
09 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Principal of private school tests positive||The principal of a private higher secondary school in Annur, Coimbatore district tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, according to the Health Department. Sources said that she was around 50 years old and had not come to the school since Monday after experiencing symptoms. With her RT-PCR test result returning as positive on Tuesday, she self-isolated at her residence. Following this, the private school voluntarily called off classes this week and physical classes are expected to resume on Monday, according to the sources. So far, eight school students in Coimbatore district have been confirmed to have tested positive since the schools reopened for Classes IX to XII on September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/principal-of-private-school-tests-positive/article36373757.ece
09 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SIEMA plans to boost pump exports||The Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association (SIEMA) plans to form an export cluster here to market pumpsets globally. K.V. Karthik of Deccan Industries, who was re-elected president of the Association at its annual meeting on Wednesday, said an export cluster will be formed under the SIEMA banner to market pumps to the United States, West Asian countries, Africa, Latin America, South East Asian countries and Australia. The global pump market is worth $ 800 billion and India has very less share in it. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced a one district one product scheme to target $ 400 billion total exports. Coimbatore contributes to 55 % of pump production in the country. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has included pumps as one of the products for the project for Coimbatore district. This will pave way for establishing common facilities for pump industry here. Further, the SIEMA plans to submit a proposal to the government through Si’Tarc and establish a test laboratory here for CB (international certification of electrical and electronic products) marking for pumps. CB certification is already mandated by some countries and in a few years it is set to become the global norm. At present, there are no labs in India to test pumps for CB marking. Indian Pump Manufacturers have to send their products to China for CB certification testing and this is expensive and time consuming. Vignesh of Ellen Pumps, Mithun Ramdass of Mahendra Pumps and Ma.Sendilkumar, founder of Supertec Industries were re-elected vice-presidents of the Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siema-plans-to-boost-pump-exports/article36373764.ece
09 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Horticulture Dept. sites get ISO certifications||A total of four sites maintained by the Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops in the Nilgiris district recently received International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) certifications. Government Botanical Garden and Government Rose Garden in Udhagamandalam, Sim’s Park in Coonoor and State Horticulture Farm in Burliar received ISO 14001:2015 certifications, the Department announced on Wednesday. The Botanical Garden received the certification for the scope of activities to serve as an aesthetic and recreational place for the public by landscape gardening maintenance of various gardening components in an effective manner and the Rose Garden for its display and collection of various types rose varieties, according to the citation. Sim’s Park The Sim’s Park received the certification for its display of various exotic species of ornamental trees and plants for students, scientists and general public, while the State Horticulture Farm in Burliar was certified to produce pedigree planning materials of sub-tropical fruits to supply for various schemes and to demonstrate various horticulture activities through farmers participation [and] technology infusion. Joint Director of Horticulture Shiva Subramaniam Samraj said that the inspection for these ISO certifications took place in 2020. “We will try and maintain [these sites] in an even better manner,” he said. With four out of the 12 State Horticulture Farms in the Nilgiris district having received ISO certifications so far, efforts to get certifications for the remaining farms will be taken, Mr. Samraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/horticulture-dept-sites-get-iso-certification/article36373756.ece
09 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kovai Courtallam to remain closed for four days||The Forest Department said that Kovai Courtallam will remain closed for visitors for four days from Thursday to Sunday. Due to heavy inflow to the waterfall following rain in the catchment areas of Western Ghats, visitors cannot safely take bath at the eco-tourism centre, a statement from the Forest Department said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kovai-courtallam-to-remain-closed-for-four-days/article36373762.ece
09 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 232 COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district reported 232 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 2,37,863. Tiruppur district reported 81 cases, taking the tally to 90,982 cases. The overall toll went up to 935 following the reporting of one new death. The Nilgiris district reported 30 cases taking the tally to 31,986 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-232-covid-19-cases/article36373761.ece
09 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant dies||A 15-year-old male ailing elephant that ventured out of a reserve forest within Periyanaickenpalayam forest range in Coimbatore district died during treatment on Wednesday. The autopsy will be carried out on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-dies/article36373758.ece
09 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||1,500 kg ration rice seized, two held||Civil Supplies - Criminal Investigation Department (CS-CID) on Wednesday seized 1,500 kg of ration rice meant for supply under the public distribution system from a mini van and arrested two persons in this connection. Acting on a tip-off, a team conducted vehicle check on the Veppur-Salem Road when they intercepted a mini van near the Kanchirankulam bus stop. The team searched the vehicle and found 50 rice bags, each weighing 30 kg. Investigation by the police revealed that the accused identified as S. Chitravel, 59, of Veppur, and V. Vignesh, 24, of Thittakudi, had purchased the rice from family cardholders to convert it into poultry feed and market the same to poultry units in Salem district. The duo were arrested and remanded to custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1500-kg-ration-rice-seized-two-held/article36374069.ece
09 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs one death||Cuddalore district reported one more COVID-19 death and 49 new cases on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 62,635. The official death toll stood at 843. The district saw 61,372 recoveries and 420 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 22 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases to 45,001. Kallakurichi district reported 44 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 30,330.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-one-death/article36374070.ece
09 September 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Auspicious day brings traffic to standstill||Hundreds of vehicles queued up on the By-pass Road junction connecting Madurai, Tiruchi and Karur highways near the Collectorate on Wednesday. Bumper to bumper traffic movement was witnessed at the roundabout as hundreds of vehicles from all the three highways tried to enter the town in view of various functions, including marriages since Wednesday was an auspicious day. The traffic congestion that lasted for more than an hour did not spare even ambulances that got stuck amidst hundreds of vehicles. Amidst the utter chaos, the riders and drivers of all vehicles added din by continuously honking to find their way towards their destinations. However, additional traffic police personnel were deployed at vantage points to ease the movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auspicious-day-brings-traffic-to-standstill/article36373842.ece
09 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||A boon for residents of three hamlets in Bargur hills||For over 30 years, the 70 ration card holders of Onnagarai hamlet in Bargur hills, were covering six km distance on foot, including one km forest road, to reach the ration shop at Osur and carrying essential commodities as head load back to their hamlet. Now, people heave a sigh of relief as the district administration deployed a mobile ration shop to distribute essentials to the card holders in the hamlet. In the absence of a public distribution system (PDS) outlet, people traverse through one km forest road and five km mud road to reach Osur where a part-time ration shop is functioning. Since vehicles could not be operated on the road, they carry the commodities as head load which is a Herculean task for elderly people. Likewise, 119 card holders of Ondanai hamlet walk four km to reach Eratti to buy essentials every month. Since mobile connectivity is absent in the hill, communicating with people in Osur and Eratti to check whether ration shops were open was also difficult for the people. On July 13, District Collector H. Krishnanunni conducted a camp at the hill area during which people of Kongadai wanted a full-time ration shop while people of Ondanai and Onnagarai hamlets wanted part-time and mobile ration shops respectively. A meeting was held to study the feasibility after which the Collector asked officials to fulfil their demands. Mr. Krishnanunni told The Hindu that people seeking the facility at their hamlets was a long-pending demand and added that shops have started functioning to serve them. Anthiyur MLA A.G. Venkatachalam in the presence of R. Prabhu, Sub-registrar (Cooperatives, Anthiyur), inaugurated a full-time shop at Kongadai that earlier functioned only on Sundays while a part-time shop was started at Ondanai hamlet that earlier had no shop. At Onnagarai, a mobile ration shop started visiting the area on the third Wednesday of every month. All the three shops were being operated by Bargur Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-boon-for-residents-of-three-hamlets-in-bargur-hills/article36373861.ece
09 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||College bags award for clean campus||Bannari Amman Institute of Technology in Sathyamangalam has been awarded the first prize in the national-level “Clean and Smart Campus Award 2020” by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) under the category of ‘Indian Knowledge Systems’. The council selects the best colleges in the country for maintaining cleanliness in universities and colleges and appreciates the best campus with the award every year. The clean campus focuses on cleanliness in and around the campus and waste minimisation, water conservation, environment-friendly activities adopted and practised by the campus and greenery within the campus to provide pollution-free air. The smart campus emphasises the impact of deployment of digital technology in the campus so as to reduce the consumption of natural resources like paper, gas and energy and also alignment of the latest digital trends to achieve various aspects of sustainability in the campus. The institute submitted a report, based on which an expert committee from the AICTE inspected the campus to verify the claims made by the college. Awards were announced recently in which the college bagged first prize in the country. At a function held at AICTE auditorium in New Delhi on September 5, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan presented the award to the institute which was received by V. Sasikumar, Assistant General Manager, Bannari Amman Sugars Limited. Anil D. Sahasrabudhe, chairman of AICTE, and M.P. Poonia, vice-chairman, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-bags-award-for-clean-campus/article36373855.ece
09 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Install mobile tower in Gundri panchayat, Collector urged||With lack of mobile connectivity causing hardship to the residents and students of Gundri panchayat in Kadambur hills, people urged the district administration to install a mobile tower. About 6,200 persons live in 15 habitations in the panchayat that comes under the Sathyamangalam Panchayat Union. People traverse the 15 km road from Kadambur, including a 9.5 km road that passes through the Guthiyalathur Reserve Forest in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve to reach their habitations. Since mobile connectivity is not available in the panchayat, people and students travel 2 km on the forest road and arrive at a spot where connectivity is available. Their demand for mobile connectivity remains unfulfilled all these years. On Tuesday evening, people from the panchayat led by K. Ramasamy, secretary, Communist Party of India, Kadambur block, met District Collector H. Krishnanunni and submitted a petition. The petition said that there are 3,500 families in the habitations while a government high school, private high schools, panchayat union primary school and special training centres, run under the National Child Labour Projects, are functioning in the habitations. About 650 school students and 120 college students are in the habitations. The petition said that in the absence of internet connectivity, students face hardship as they could not attend the online classes conducted due to COVID-19 from May, 2020. The petition said that people cannot communicate with their relatives or call the ambulance service during emergencies. “Travelling 2 km to a spot and making phone calls are dangerous as wild animals are present in the area”, the petition said and added that attending online classes continue to be a challenge for the students. Mr. Krishnanunni told them that a private mobile operator was asked to conduct a feasibility study for installing a tower in the habitation so that the long-pending demand of the people is met.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/install-mobile-tower-in-gundri-panchayat-collector-urged/article36373859.ece
09 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination for those above 18 years begins||Vaccinating persons above 18 years commenced at all the primary health centres (PHCs) and urban primary health centres (UPHCs) here on Wednesday. Collector H. Krishnanunni said that a total of 98,636 persons were affected in the first and second COVID-19 wave in the district. Vaccination camps were being held to administer vaccines at free-of-cost to prevent spread of a third wave. A total of 10,45,130 persons above 18 years were vaccinated while 10,32,906 persons above 18 years are yet to be vaccinated in the district. So far, camps were held only at polling stations and government hospitals. To ensure easy access to vaccines, COVID-19 vaccines will be available in all the PHCs and UPHCs in the district from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. every day, he addd. Mr. Krishnanunni said that the vaccine is available round-the-clock at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai and asked people to utilise the opportunity and get vaccinated. On Wednesday, a total of 25,480 vaccines were available at 198 locations, including schools, PHCs and UPHCs in the district. Officials said that sufficient stock of vaccines were available and camps would be held continuously to enable all the people above 18 years receive both their first and second doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-for-those-above-18-years-begins/article36373863.ece
09 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two dengue cases reported||Two dengue cases were reported in the corporation limits as officials expedited anti-dengue operations in all the wards here on Wednesday. A girl at Vettukattuvalasu and a woman at Annai Sathya Nagar were found infected. Both were found with mild symptoms and were hospitalised. After treatment, they returned home. The corporation deployed its machinery to destroy mosquito-breeding sources and carried out fogging operations in the two areas. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan visited the areas and inspected the anti-dengue operations. He said that medical camps were conducted and no further case was reported in the areas. Since its rainy season, people have to take all precautionary measures to ensure there is no source for breeding of mosquitoes and close the lid of water storage containers properly. He added that health workers also educate the residents by asking them to remove all obsolete items as water could stagnate in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-dengue-cases-reported-in-erode/article36373857.ece
09 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||New COVID-19 restrictions for weddings||As a precautionary measure against a possible third wave of COVID-19, the district administration has restricted the gatherings at marriage halls and receptions at hotels to a maximum of 50 persons. A release said that as per the instructions of the Health and Family Welfare Department, only 50 persons were allowed at wedding receptions. While consuming food at the function, physical distancing should be ensured and wearing mask is mandatory. Also, soap and sanitiser should be placed at the entrance. If the norms were not followed, the marriage organiser would be held responsible, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-covid-19-restrictions-for-weddings/article36373862.ece
09 September 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Kerala HC poser to govt. on RT-PCR test every 72 hours||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday asked the State government why there should be an insistence on taking the RT-PCR test every 72 hours or getting vaccinated with at least one dose before one goes out to work or other activities when there was no scientific or empirical data indicating that the unvaccinated were likely to transmit the infection. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar put the question before the government pleader during a hearing on a writ petition filed by Lalu V., an employee of the Kerala State Tourism Development Corporation, challenging the State government order requiring persons who want to go out for work or shopping to get vaccinated at least with one jab or to possess a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours. The court asked whether an unvaccinated person could be forced to undergo an RT-PCR test every 72 hours before going out to work, especially when he/she did not pose a threat of infecting others. The court orally observed that the issue raised by the petitioner was a “delicate” one that had pan-India implications and the issue could be decided only after getting the views of the Union government. The petitioner contended that he had chosen not to get himself vaccinated. When he did not pose a threat to others and vaccination was optional, he could not be forced to undergo an RT-PCR test every 72 hours. He said it was very difficult to take the test every 72 hours as it costs him dearly. Taking a COVID-19 vaccination was voluntary. The efficacy of the vaccine was doubtful as even the vaccinated were getting infected. Therefore, the government order restricting movement of unvaccinated persons was violative of Article 21 of the Constitution, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-hc-poser-to-govt-on-rt-pcr-test-every-72-hours/article36373548.ece
09 September 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Panel clarifies on celebration of Holy Mass||The Syro-Malabar Media Commission has slammed what it calls efforts by some people to deliberately spread falsehood on social media regarding the implementation of a uniform mode for the celebration of the Holy Mass. The Synod of Bishops of the Catholic Church, which met in August, unanimously accepted the call of Pope Francis and the Congregation for Eastern Churches to implement the uniform mode for the celebration of the Mass. The uniform mode of celebration consists of three parts where the celebrant (priest) faces the people at the beginning of the Mass up to the recitation of the Creed, then turns to the altar up to the Communion and after the Communion turns to face the people until the end of the celebration, says a communication from Fr. Alex Onampally, secretary of the Media Commission. The change of the position of the celebrant is the only change to be effected and is quite evident to the faithful. However, a misconception is being spread that along with the introduction of the uniform mode of the Mass, sanctuary veil, St. Thomas Cross, and Crucifix are going to be introduced in all eparchies (dioceses). The current practice in each eparchy, as decided by the bishops of the eparchies, will continue. The propaganda that it has been decided to change the structure of the churches and the position of the tabernacle with the implementation of the uniform mode of Mass celebration is untrue. The current position of the tabernacle in churches will remain the same. There are also “rumours” that the adoration of the blessed sacrament, the Way of the Cross, the rosary, the novenas, the Holy Week ceremonies and the use of statutes will be stopped. All the practices of devotion will continue as they are practised now in the Syro-Malabar Church, the communication adds. The false propaganda is “a deliberate move by some to dissuade the clergy and the faithful from implementing the uniform mode of celebration” of the Mass, the communication adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-clarifies-on-celebration-of-holy-mass/article36373555.ece
09 September 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Lab sealed for conducting COVID tests without licence||A private laboratory near the Edappally toll junction in Kochi, Kerala, was sealed on Wednesday after a surprise inspection led by District Collector Jafar Malik found that the management was conducting COVID-19 tests in violation of rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lab-sealed-for-conducting-covid-tests-without-licence/article36373736.ece
09 September 2021||Kozhikode,TAMIL NADU||Nipah scare eases as 46 test negative in Kerala||The concerns over Nipah infection seem to be fading away in the State as 46 people on the contact list of Mohammed Hashim, the 12-year-old from Chathamangalam in Kozhikode district who had succumbed to it earlier this week, have tested negative for the virus. They include 17 persons symptomatic of the infection, such as Hashim’s parents, relatives and health-care workers who attended to him at various levels. This was declared by Health Minister Veena George on Wednesday. While the results of 20 samples were declared on Wednesday morning, those of 16 others were announced in the evening. The other results were made public on Tuesday. Ms. George said that though there was no need to get scared, people should remain alert. The samples are tested at the National Institute of Virology in Pune and a special facility set up at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode. The results of 15 more samples would be made available by Thursday. Meanwhile, the number of people on the contact list had risen to 265. This follows the publication of an institutional route map of Hashim, who had visited five health-care institutions between August 29 and September 1. Condition stable  The Minister said those who had turned negative for the virus could go home in three days, but they should be in quarantine for some more days. A total of 62 people were under isolation at the MCH, Kozhikode. Right now only 12 people are symptomatic of the infection, but their condition is stable. The head of an expert team from the National Institute of Virology, Pune, had reached Kozhikode, Ms. George said, adding his colleagues would join him in the coming days. COVID-19 vaccination would continue in all places in Kozhikode district except areas declared as Nipah containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nipah-scare-eases-as-46-test-negative-in-kerala/article36373547.ece
09 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest highlighting demands||Bharatiya Kisan Sangh-led farmers staged a protest demonstration here demanding remunerative prices among a raft of demands, on Wednesday. Staging the protest outside the Collectorate here, the farmers called upon the governments at the Centre and the States to announce minimum support price (MSP) for all agricultural produce in order to provide remunerative prices for farmers. The farmers also demanded that the MSP be given statutory backing to make it mandatory for the governments to implement it. According to the protesters, the MSP be determined based on the cost of production incurred by farmers. A demand was also made to include a variety of crops under the ambit of MSP. They also called for insurance coverage for all farmers; pension for farmers; and insurance coverage for livestock owned by farmers at a subsidy. A raft of other demands included subsidised agricultural implements for farmers; expedite the Enekolputhur irrigation project in Krishnagiri; free bus rides for men over 60 years akin to the State government's free bus rides for women; and cold storage facilities for horticultural crops among others. The protesters also demanded a halt to the Mekadatu dam project in Karnataka. The farmers called upon the Union and the State governments to fulfil the demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-protest-highlighting-demands/article36373853.ece
09 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Jail term for three Bangladeshi nationals||Three Bangladeshi nationals were sentenced to two years imprisonment by a court here for illegal stay. The accused Iqbalmullah(36), his wife Thasleema (25) along with their two infants and a relative Lucky (19) were residing in K.A. Nagar in Venkatapuram panchayat near Krishnagiri illegally without valid documents. Case registered Based on a complaint by the Village Administrative Officer, a case was registered and the three adults were arrested under various sections of the Passport Act and the Foreigners Act. Iqbalmullah was ailing and had arrived in Mumbai and later to Krishnagiri with the help of a friend hoping for treatment, according to the police. Passing the verdict in the case, the additional sessions court here also imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 on the three.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jail-term-for-three-bangladeshi-nationals/article36373864.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic has hit special children the most||The COVID-19 pandemic has been a worrisome period for parents and teachers of children with intellectual disabilities. They fear that the children’s physical and mental health are affected due to lesser mobility, as they have not been going to school for over a year. At the same time, parents also have reservations over sending them to school over fear of them contracting the virus, though there is no official word about reopening of special schools yet. Parent of a special child, K. Vijayalakshmi, says that keeping the child at home without taking her outdoors puts the child under stress. “My daughter is tensed and irritable. It is a challenge to control her behaviour, though we try taking her for a walk or make her exercise every day,” she says. Another issue is that the special children gain weight due to absence of lesser movement and physical activities. “They become anxious while staying indoors all the time. Not being able to meet their friends and teachers is affecting their mental health. As a result, my son has started having more food and has gained weight,” says another parent, Usha Thirumalai. Though there are a few online classes, he is missing out on physiotherapy and sports sessions at school, she says. A Jeyapal, founder and coordinator of Bethshan Special School, says, “We give the children basic life skills and vocational training. They are taught using specific objects and equipment to improve their sensory skills. This is not possible through online classes. We conduct them anyway for shorter span, like 45 minutes, to keep them engaged. We hear from parents that some children are glued to television and some do not even take bath on a daily basis. Even if special schools are asked to function after a month or so, it will be a challenge to bring them back on track and to ensure that they sticked to COVID-19 guidelines,” he says. Andavar P. Jaidev, founder of Sparks Vidyalaya Special School, says, “Among special children, regression is faster than improvement. Many become obese and their skill levels come down. There is no way we can give them individual attention through online classes.” Parents also have the fear that even if they send their children to school again they might not understand the seriousness of the pandemic. G. Rajem, a mother says, “We are not yet ready to send our child to school. It will be difficult to make the child follow the COVID-19 protocols. We can stick to online classes until the infection rate comes down.”  Trapped at home Not being able to meet their friends and teachers affects them Teaching sensory skills using objects is impossible through online classes Parents fear that if they are sent to school, they can’t understand seriousness of pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-has-hit-special-children-the-most/article36373976.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tribal families in Madurai get electricity after two decades||After having suffered in darkness for close to two decades, Kaatunayakkar families in J.J. Nagar in Thiruparankundram got electricity connection, thanks to the intervention of Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan recently. Most of the tribal families were ‘kudukudupukarars’ or soothsayers. They had settled down at the rear side of Thiruparankundram hill, commonly referred to as the Thenparankundram region in the 1950s. “Our families moved to J.J. Nagar in 2004. A portion of it comes under the Madurai Corporation limits. Though pattas were given to 22 families in phases since 2004, no electricity connection was given to us,” said M.R. Murugan, leader of the Kaatunayakkar families. Only two street lights helped the students here study after sunset. The people had suffered snake bites during the nights on several occasions, he added. The residents were elated as electricity connection has now been given for six huts in J.J. Nagar. “We finally feel some light in our lives that had remained dark so far. The officials have promised that more huts will get connections once they have proper structures.” Mr. Murugan said. P.R. Vishwanath, who leads the volunteering group Thirunagar Pakkam, played a role in bringing the issue to the notice of Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. He said the group had been taking efforts to provide solar powered lights to the homes there when it found out they had no electricity for about 20 years. “When we took the issue to the notice of the Minister, he immediately intervened and sent officials from Tangedco to do the needful,” he said.  Thoughpattaswere given to 22 families in phases since 2004, no electricity connection was given to us||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-families-in-madurai-get-electricity-after-nearly-2-decades/article36373746.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SRMU protest against Centre’s plan to monetise PSUs||Members of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union on Wednesday staged a demonstration against the Centre’s move to monetise public sector units. The union divisional secretary, J.M. Rafi, condemned the BJP Government for selling the public sector units that were built with the sweat of the citizens in the last 75 years. The Centre should give up privatising railway that has grown with the contribution of the people. The Centre was planning to privatise 400 railway stations across the country and also privatise 10 routes and 90 trains. They pointed out that railway workshops, Niligiri mountain train, Konkan railways and 762 km of express freight corridor were also among the privatisation plan, said its assistant divisional secretary, V. Ramkumar, who led the protest. It was not just the public sector units, but also the permanent employment of lakhs of workers was at stake, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srmu-protest-against-centres-plan-to-monetise-psus/article36373978.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A hobby of growing microgreens at home||With just a small bowl, some soil, coco coir and readily available kitchen ingredients like mustards, fenugreeks or green grams, one can start their journey of growing microgreens, in their homes. These are nothing but young greens that can be harvested within one or two weeks of sowing seeds and used as nutritional garnishes for foods. Beginners interested in gardening and individuals interested in putting additional efforts towards healthy eating can try their hands with microgreens, say experts. Archana Deiva, an experienced terrace gardener from the city, says, “Microgreens are quicker and easier to grow. In simple terms, they are just plants harvested in their first or second week of growth. Seeds available in our kitchen like mustards, fenugreek or wheat can be grown in small bowls or containers, with soil and manure of your choice. Once they grow for about 2-3 inches, they can be cut using scissors and used as garnishes for food like sandwiches or salads.” Watering usually needs to be done once or twice in a day, in the form of spraying and they can be kept indoors as they are shade-tolerant. A. Aravindhan from SweetNSpicy Microgreens that has been making different varieties of microgreens available in the market says that beginners would enjoy harvesting microgreens that come with different flavours. “Most people quit gardening when they do not get results in a month or so. With microgreens, the job is easier. Most varieties can be grown in 5-10 days. Some of them are extra flavourful. Beginners can try their hand with sweet and tasty ones like sweet corn and coriander. They can even go for wheat grass from which a healthy juice can be made.” If one does not have the time to buy things like vermicompost or coco coir for boosting leaf growth, they can even use Themor karaisal, a mixture of fermented buttermilk and coconut milk for about 5-6 days, he suggests. Mr. Aravindhan also tells that while microgreens are already popular among health-conscious people and fitness enthusiasts in cities like Chennai and Bengaluru, people in Madurai are slowly showing interest towards it. Nutritionists believe that microgreens are also dense in nutritional value. V. Suganya, Senior Clinical Dietician at the Apollo Hospital, Madurai, says, “If they are homegrown, they are going to be fresh and that is an advantage on any given day. When eaten raw, they are very nutritious, just like sprouts. They can be used as a garnish to add taste and nutritional value to some food varieties.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-hobby-of-growing-microgreens-at-home/article36373980.ece
09 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Need to uphold scientific temper in judicial interventions stressed||The All India People's Science Network (AIPSN) has taken umbrage at the judgment pronounced in the Allahabad High Court that cites religious and mythical scriptures as culture of our nation and makes observations on cow without any scientific basis. The court was hearing the bail plea of Javed who was accused of stealing a cow and later slaughtering it. The single judge bench of Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav, observed "cow is the only animal that inhales and exhales oxygen; the panchagavya is made of cow's milk, curd, ghee, urine and dung and helps in several incurable diseases." The AIPSN members have objected to the lack of scientific temper and secularism in the observations given in the 12-page judgment dated September 1. They condemned the ruling for utilising a subset of scriptures of a specific religion as the culture of India and using it to deny bail to a human being. "India is a country with religious, linguistic, cultural, social, ethnic diversity; our freedom struggle united all against colonial oppression and helped us to have our own Constitution. It is the duty of every citizen and those who take public office to uphold the Constitution to develop scientific temper, spirit of inquiry and humanism," read a statement from the AIPSN office-bearers. "We are shocked at the scientific fallacies in the judgment and worried that these unscientific observations would be cited in later cases and may create disharmony in our society. A rationalist and scientific approach is always essential in a legal document," said general secretary P. Rajamanickam. B.R. Ambedkar and V.R. Krishna Iyer were vocal in their opposition to pseudoscience and our judiciary needs to follow the same path. In the last few years, a significant number of pseudoscientific statements has been made by government functionaries, both at the Centre and various State governments. The anti-science atmosphere created in such a process is reflected in judgments that are devoid of legal arguments and based only on faith, said S. Krishnaswamy, retired professor of Madurai Kamaraj University. It goes against the secular fabric of the Indian Constitution, he added. Stating that one community’s supposed beliefs cannot be foisted upon the entire country and all its diverse cultures, the AIPSN has called for appropriate corrective action. It has appealed to the scientific community and the people to raise their voice against such unscientific proclamations aimed at disturbing the secular fabric of the country and pre-empt the danger of creating further divisions in the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-to-uphold-scientific-temper-in-judicial-interventions-stressed/article36373846.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Remove road laid on temple land: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered removal of a road that had been laid on a temple land in Pulankurichi in Sivaganga district within a month. The court took note of the State’s submission that it would take necessary steps. Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the order in the petition filed by retired Judge of the Madras High Court Justice A. Selvam. The court directed the authorities to take steps. In his petition, Mr. Selvam said that the temple land was known as ‘Sri Uruman Aalayam’ or the resting place of the God. The petitioner said that his father and forefathers had served as the temple priest. The petitioner said that they followed customary practices that included prohibition of use of footwear on the temple premises and commercial activities, including laying of roads, on the temple land. There were a large number of trees around the temple, he said. The temple was taken over by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department in 1975. Nobody could lay a road on the land without the permission of the department. But, a road was laid on the land, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-road-laid-on-temple-land-says-hc/article36373838.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Follow guidelines at eco-tourism sites’||The Karankadu ecotourism site in Ramanathapuram district was reopened to the tourists on Wednesday. The Pichaimoopanvalasai ecotourism site will reopen on September 13. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden ordered to reopen the ecotourism sites based on recommendations of Doctors and Public health experts and the directives of the Central and State governments. The standard operating procedure would be strictly adhered to in the view of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a press release issued on Tuesday by the Wildlife Warden, Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park, Ramanathapuram, a list of guidelines were issued for the visitors to strictly follow at the ecotourism sites in Ramanathapuram. The visitors would be screened by thermal scanners and any symptomatic visitors with fever, cold and cough would not be allowed into the site. Anyone having temperature above normal would be immediately isolated in the nearest health centre. Face masks are mandatory to enter the ecotourism site. Persons above 65 years, pregnant women, children below 10 years and persons with co-morbidities would not be allowed into the site. Visitors should maintain physical distancing and use the sanitisers at the entrance. Number of visitors on a boat per ride has been restricted to six persons. Only 10 persons at a time are permitted inside the cafeteria. All visitors have to submit their self reporting forms, age proof documents and also carry a sanitiser. Arogya Setu Application will be mandatory. Penalty of Rs. 500 to Rs. 1000 per head would be imposed for violation of the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karankadu-ecotourism-site-reopens-to-public/article36373831.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Olympian promoted||Veeramani Revathi who took part in recently-concluded Tokyo Olympics has been promoted. Ms. Revathi, who took part in the 4x400 metres mixed relay was working as a commercial clerk in Madurai. Southern Railway has promoted her as Staff Welfare Inspector and retained her in Madurai. She has been promoted three stages higher from the pay scale 3 to 6 as per the pay scales of VII Central Pay Commission, a press release said. The present posting would be more convenient for her to continue her sports activities. Divisional Railway Manager, P. Ananth, and Senior Divisional Personnel Officer, C.Sudhagaran, congratulated her for the promotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-promotes-olympian/article36373834.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report in financial fraud case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday sought details from the State on the total extent of the financial fraud committed by the ‘Helicopter Brothers’ M.R. Ganesh and M.R. Swaminathan of Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. Taking a serious view of the offence, Justice B. Pugalendhi sought a report from the State. The judge sought to know the properties owned by the main accused in the case and the steps taken to attach them. The judge also sought details on the foreign investments made. The court was hearing two connected bail petitions filed by Akilandam, wife of M.R. Ganesh and S. Venkatesan, a priest. Both the accused said that they were innocent and had played no role in the financial fraud committed by the two brothers. The State submitted that several complaints were lodged against the main accused and the steps were being taken to hand over the probe in the case to the Economic Offences Wing (EOW). The two brothers are accused of cheating the residents of Kumbakonam of several crores of rupees Investors cheated The brothers had claimed that they were into diversified businesses that induced helicopter service, dairy farms, gold investments and financial companies. They cheated the investors of several crores and were arrested based on the complaint lodged by the investors. The accused are remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-report-in-financial-fraud-case/article36373830.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Severed head of baby found in Madurai||Severed head of a baby was found carried by a stray dog near Income Tax Office at Bibikulam here on Wednesday. A boy who got curious about a dog carrying something strange chased it after which the dog dropped the head and fled at around 1 p.m., the police said. The police suspect that the head could be that of a baby that could have been buried in a shallow pit and it got exposed. Or else, the body could have been dumped among garbage by someone. Based on a complaint of the village administrative officer, Bibikulam, Tallakulam police have registered a case and handed over the head to Government Rajaji Hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/severed-head-of-baby-found-in-madurai/article36373816.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||“Treat special educators on par with regular teachers’||Special Educators (Educators who teach and train special needs children) should be treated on a par with the regular teachers, Madras High Court Judge Justice G.R. Swaminathan said, pointing to the fact that they played a big role in the overall development of such children. Justice Swaminathan was speaking at the Teachers’ Day Event organised by the Tamil Nadu Council of Special Schools (TCSS), here on Saturday. The event was held to felicitate the Special Educators who were working in various special schools for the development of the special needs children. In his address, Madras High Court Judge Justice B. Pugalendhi urged the council to take up the plight of the Special Educators with the government. The judges were told at the event that the Special Educators received meagre salary. Not only do the teachers train and teach the children at schools, but also they would go visit the children at their homes to train them, the judges were told by the organisers. Moved by the contribution made by the Special Educators and taking note of the plight of the teachers, the judges asked the council to take up their cause and write to the government so that they are provided with a respectable salary. Advocate K. Samidurai spoke on the important role played by the Special Educators and the Madurai District Differently abled Welfare Officer R. Ravichandran briefed the gathering on the facts regarding the Special Educators and children with special needs. A free COVID-19 vaccination camp was held as part of the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/treat-special-educators-on-par-with-regular-teachers/article36373974.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s response sought on plea for aptitude test in regional languages||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Centre on a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to conduct the aptitude test of Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY) fellowship in Basic Sciences, in all regional languages in the interest of the students who studied in the regional languages. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought the response in the petition filed by G. Thirumurugan of Ramanathapuram. Apart from conducting the test in the regional languages, the petitioner also sought a direction to increase the number of test centres in South India and to reduce the application fee for the aptitude test. The petitioner said that the objective of the KVPY fellowship was to identify the students with talent and aptitude for research, help them realise their academic potential, encourage them to take up research careers in science and ensure the growth of the best scientific minds for research and development in the country. The ongoing National Programme is initiated and funded by the Department of Science and Technology. The aptitude test is scheduled to be conducted on November 7, in English and Hindi. This is injustice to the students who studied in the regional languages. Many talented students are placed at a disadvantage, the petitioner pointed out. He said that all India examinations such as UPSC, NEET and others are conducted in the regional languages. Therefore, the KVPY aptitude test should also be conducted in the regional languages for the benefit of the students. He pointed out that Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan had also appealed to the Centre to conduct the aptitude test in Tamil in his letter dated August 25. The court adjourned the hearing in the case to October 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-centres-response-on-plea-to-conduct-aptitude-test-in-regional-languages/article36373837.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Medical equipment from GH stolen||A computer and three multi-parametre monitors were stolen from the New Super Specialty Block of Government Rajaji hospital. In his complaint with Tallakulam police station on Tuesday, GRH Dean Rathnavel said properties worth Rs. 7.47 lakh were stocked in a room at the emergency department in the Super Specialty Block. The theft happened a few months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-equipment-stolen-at-gh/article36373827.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Cracker shops: applications invited||The Virudhunagar district administration has invited online applications for setting up temporary cracker shops in the district ahead of Deepavali, which falls on November 4. In a statement, District Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said interested traders could submit their online applications till September 30. They can be uploaded through e-service centres. The applicants should submit six copies of site map and construction plan along with five copies of the building ownership document or rent agreement and the original receipt of having deposited Rs. 500 in the government account, the statement said. The applicant should produce a proof of identity (Aadhaar or PAN card or ration card) and receipt for payment of property tax paid to the local body. Besides, they should produce two passport-size photographs. The applications would be considered as per Indian Explosives Act 1884 and Explosive Substances Rules 2008, and would be given a temporary licence valid for 30 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cracker-shops-applications-invited/article36373981.ece
09 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 131.80 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 1,309 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 61.06 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 780 cusecs and a discharge of 1619 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 7730 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36373845.ece
09 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,TAMIL NADU||IUML dissolves Haritha committee in Kerala||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has dissolved the State committee of the Haritha, the party’s women student wing. A meeting of the party high-power committee here on Wednesday took the decision on the ground that it had “continually refused to abide by the party discipline.” IUML State general secretary P.M.A. Salam told media persons that the State leadership of the Haritha had refused to obey the directives of the party. The IUML leadership had asked Haritha leaders to withdraw a complaint to the State Women’s Commission against leaders of the Muslim Students Federation (MSF). Haritha State general secretary Najma Thabsheera and nine others had complained to the SWC against MSF State president P.K. Navas and Malappuram district general secretary V.A. Wahab for allegedly making indecent and sexually vulgar remarks. The complaint of sexual harassment was the flashpoint in a long-drawn stand-off between the leaders of the MSF and the Haritha. IUML working secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, said that there would be no more talks with the Haritha. Mr. Salam said that the disbanded State committee of the Haritha had come into existence in 2018. He said the party would soon nominate a new State committee of the Haritha. Meanwhile, the Haritha leadership said it would seek legal help against the decision. Haritha leaders said they had more faith in the court and that they expected legal justice. Report on poll debacle The meeting also discussed the action plan prepared by a 10-member committee formed in the wake of the recent electoral defeat for the United Democratic Front in the State. The report will be submitted before the party State committee to be held on September 26. The meeting decided to launch a month-long subscription campaign for popularisation of the party mouthpiece, Chandrika .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iuml-dissolves-haritha-committee-in-kerala/article36373549.ece
09 September 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Velankanni Feast ends||The Velankanni Annual Feast 2021 concluded on Wednesday with the celebration of the birth of St. Mary at the Shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Health in Velankanni here. The Nagapattinam district administration had announced that the feast would take place without the participation of pilgrims keeping in mind the COVID-19 protocol. The celebration of the annual feast was telecast live by the shrine management and was watched by thousands of pilgrims from across the country. The feast began on August 29 with the hoisting of the flag on the church premises. Following daily mass and prayers, the celebrations concluded with a car festival on September 7 and the lowering of the flag on September 8. Bishop of Thanjavur Diocese M. Devadass Ambrose consecrated the special mass where a special prayer was held for the well-being of the people of the world affected by COVID-19. This is the second time in a row that the feast was held in a subdued manner due to COVID-19 pandemic. Rector Rev. Fr. A.M.A. Prabakar thanked the district administration, police personnel and volunteers for the smooth conduct of the feast this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/velankanni-feast-ends/article36373811.ece
09 September 2021||Palani,TAMIL NADU||Rope car service resumes at Palani||Rope car service at Sri Dhandayuthapani Swamy Temple here resumed on Wednesday after nearly two months of annual maintenance. A special puja was performed before the rope car service resumed from the East Giri Street. The facility was suspended on July 16 for taking up the annual maintenance under which the shaft and the steel rope were replaced. The cars were also given a fresh coat of paint. The entire system was overhauled. The facility was introduced in 2004 after the winch service proved to be inadequate for the huge crowd of devotees thronging the hilltop temple. The temple, one of the six abodes of Lord Murugan, is located around 300 metres high. There are eight cars that could carry over 250 passengers in an hour. Though the services were previously available on all days, the facility would not be operated on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays due to the ban on entry of devotees to the temple on weekends, owing to COVID pandemic. It is operated between 7 a.m. and 9 p.m. with one hour break from 1.30 p.m. The temple authorities were collecting Rs. 15 per head for one way trip. The car would take less than three minutes for the devotees to reach the hilltop temple from the foothills. A second rope car facility has been planned for the temple to prevent wait for longer duration for devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rope-car-service-resumes-at-palani-temple/article36373833.ece
09 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Notification for local body polls shortly||The notification for the long pending local body polls could be issued very shortly. Notwithstanding the objections raised by a section of legislators, including those belonging to the ruling BJP in the recent Budget session of the Assembly, the State Election Commission is going ahead with the schedule as directed by the Supreme Court. A few legislators had sought a postponement of the polls due to COVID-19 and also citing anomalies in the delimitation exercise. As per the Supreme Court order, the SEC is scheduled to complete the local body polls by October 4. The Supreme Court had directed the Commission to conduct the polls on the basis of a contempt petition filed by a lawyer from Mahe, Ashok Kumar, citing the delay in holding the local body elections. “We are going ahead with the plans. The notification announcing the schedule of local body polls will be issued very shortly,” said an official. The Commission had already procured 2,000 Electronic Voting Machines from Telangana and another 1,300 machines from Karnataka. In addition, the SEC had also brought 500 more ballot units from Karnataka as the number of machines to be used for the local body polls are higher due to the number of votes to be cast by the voters in the municipality and village panchayats. The machines procured are in addition to the 1,100 units already with the Election Commission of India, Puducherry, the official added. Unlike in the Assembly poll, voters would have to exercise two votes for the municipality and three at the panchayat-level. So, each EVM would have three ballot units and one control unit, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/notification-for-local-body-polls-shortly/article36374064.ece
09 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects tenements||Adi Dravidar Welfare Minister Chandira Priyanga undertook a surprise inspection of tenements under the Slum Clearance Board, the Puducherry Adidravidar Development Corporation and the Adidravidar Welfare Department. The Minister, who was accompanied by department officials, visited sites in Lawspet, Reddiarpalayam Lambert Saravanan Nagar. Ms. Priyanga enquired about the status of welfare programmes and shortcomings in these tenements, an official press note said. The Minister, who also holds the Transport portfolio, flagged off a PRTC mini bus service from Puducherry to Ousteri via Gopalan Kadai off Moolakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-tenements/article36374067.ece
09 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 125 new COVID-19 cases||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory while 125 new cases were confirmed on Wednesday. Puducherry accounted for 80 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,156 tests, followed by Karaikal (23), Yanam (7) and Mahe (15). The test positivity rate was 2.42%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.75%. The cumulative toll stood at 1,819 — Puducherry (1433), Karaikal (239), Yanam (105) and Mahe (42). With 113 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory aggregated to 986. Of this, 188 were in hospitals and 798 in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded 1,24,436 cases against 1,21,631 recovered patients. Of an estimated 16.82 lakh tests administered so far, over 14.28 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 3,176 persons took the jab against Covid in the last 24 hours, to take the total vaccinated population in the Union Territory to 8,46,050. Cuddalore reported one more COVID-19 death and 49 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 62,635. The official death toll stood at 843. The district saw 61,372 recoveries and 420 were active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/125-fresh-positive-cases-recorded-in-puducherry/article36373835.ece
09 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New heads for health institutions in Union Territory||S. Jayanthi, Dean of the Mother Theresa Postgraduate and Research Institute of Health Sciences, has been repatriated and appointed Director of the Indian System of Medicine and Homoeopathy. The appointment was part of the key repatriation/postings approved by the Lt. Governor. Other postings In other developments, V. Ravichandran, specialist in radiodiagnosis at the Indira Gandhi Government Hospital and Post Graduate Institute, has been appointed on a deputation basis as Dean of the Mother Theresa Institute. S. Sevvel has been posted as Medical Superintendent of the General Hospital. According to the office memorandum notifying the postings, the terms and conditions of the deputation of Dr. Ravichandran would be issued separately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-heads-for-health-institutions-in-union-territory/article36374065.ece
09 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Protest over murder||Cadres of Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamat and Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam staged separate protests here on Wednesday seeking action in the murder of civil defence volunteer in Faridabad. Alleging that the woman was gangraped and her body parts were badly mutilated, TNTJ State deputy general secretary Abudl Kareem said that the Centre had failed to ensure safety for the women in the country even after ‘statistics showed that India was not a safer place for women.’ Crime against women was on the rise and the Faridabad incident had brought shame to the country, he said. District president, Mohammed Ayub Khan, and secretary Arifkhan were among those who were present. TMMK cadres also staged a massive protest where State office-bearers S Salimullakhan, M. Sathik Batcha and district functionaries M. Sherif, S. Mohammed Iqbal and M. Pattani Meeran took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-over-murder/article36373844.ece
09 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Prohibitory order imposed in Ramnad district||Ramanathapuram district administration has clamped prohibitory order under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure for two months from Thursday. Collector, J.U. Chandrakala promulgated the order that prohibits any public meeting, assembly of five or more people and processions ahead of the guru pujas for leaders, Immanuel Sekaran (September 11) and Muthuramalinga Thevar (October 30). With COVID-19 pandemic, the administration has allowed only representatives of political parties to pay homage at the memorial of Immanuel Sekaran with prior permission. “We have been receiving applications from the political parties and each party would be given a time slot,” Ms. Chandrakala said after inspecting the security arrangements at Paramakudi on Wednesday. She was accompanied by Superintendent of Police E. Karthik. Ms. Chandrakala said that over 4,800 police personnel would be deployed in the district for the Immanuel Sekaran guru puja. One executive magistrate will be posted in each taluk and 56 sectoral magistrates deployed at vantage points. Entry of vehicles without pass will be banned and adequate number of checkposts put up. Elaborate security arrangement has been made to ensure smooth maintenance of law and order, she added. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that all the TASMAC shops and FL2 and FL3 bars along the routes across Virudhunagar district towards Paramakudi would remain closed on September 11. Stringent action would be taken against those who violate the order, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prohibitory-order-imposed-in-ramanathapuram-district/article36373840.ece
09 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Video of youth being attacked goes viral||A video of a young man being attacked by unidentified persons has gone viral on social media. The video of a semi-naked man being attacked by a few unidentified persons has been doing the rounds on the social media platforms. On inquiry, police identified the victim as Pradeep (26) from Nethimedu here. According to the police, Pradeep has been working as a truck driver and the transport operator reportedly came to know recently that he was stealing fuel from vehicles. Pradeep reportedly told the owner that he would pay for the stolen fuel. However, later, other drivers of the company who came to know about the theft attacked Prakash near Nethimedu and shot a video, police said. The attackers were identified as Prakash, Hari and and Srinivasan from Nethimedu and the Salem City police are on the lookout for the accused. Further probe is on into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/video-of-youth-being-attacked-goes-viral/article36373865.ece
09 September 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||3 killed in road accident||Three passengers of a Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV), including a 10-year-old girl, K. Shanmugapriya of Sivakasi, were killed when the speeding vehicle plunged into a stream after hitting the iron railings on Tirunelveli-Madurai highway near here on Wednesday. The other two deceased were identified as M. Avudaiyammal (45) and M. Dhanalakshmi (50). The police said that the victims were returning home at Saradha Nagar in Sivakasi after attending a domestic function in Kayathar. G. Shamugavel (50) was behind the wheel, when he lost control of the speeding vehicle and it dashed against the railing ahead of a culvert near Pulvaipatti junction and fell into the stream. All the three female passengers were killed on the spot at around 3 p.m. The injured were taken to the Government Hospital in Sattur. Sattur Taluk police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-road-accident/article36373817.ece
09 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Rising fuel costs have made essential goods more expensive: CPI(M)||The prices of essential commodities have increased due to the skyrocketing fuel cost, G. Ramakrishnan, Central Committee Member, Communist Party of India (Marxist), said on Wednesday. Talking to reporters after participating in a campaign to highlight the Centre’s ‘anti-people’ activities at Kumbakonam, the veteran leader blamed the Union government for the rise in prices of petrol and diesel despite considerable drop in cost of crude oil in the international market. The CPI(M) had urged the Centre to give up the practice of levying cess on petrol and diesel and embarked on a campaign to mobilise public support on the issue, he said. Later, addressing party cadre at Thenparai near Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district, Mr. Ramakrishnan sought the support of the locals, who were instrumental in formation of Vivasayigal Sangam, for the all-India bandh call given by the party on September 27 to protest against the enactment of three farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rising-fuel-costs-have-made-essential-goods-more-expensive-cpim/article36373818.ece
09 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Kerala to offer incentives to vaccine units||The Kerala government will offer attractive incentives, including long-term loans, subsidised power and water supply, single window clearance and fast track approval within 30 days, to industrial units willing to launch vaccine- manufacturing enterprises inside the Life Sciences Park at Thonnackal here. The Cabinet meeting on Wednesday decided to offer special packages to anchor industries for starting vaccine-manufacturing units and to allow lease on land for 60 years with 50% subsidy on lease premium. Stamp duty and registration duty would be avoided for the lease agreement executed with the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation. Subsidy to be given A subsidy of up to 30% in the cost of equipment, plant and machines would be offered as capital aid, within Rs. 1 crore for fill-finish units and within Rs. 5 crore for vaccine-manufacturing units. Attractive long-term loans with a repayment period of 20 years would be offered through the State government’s financial institutions. The eligible loan amount would be capped at Rs. 20 crore for the fill-finish unit and within Rs. 30 crore for vaccine-manufacturing units. The total loan amount eligibility would be limited to Rs. 100 crore. For vaccine-manufacturing ventures, subsidy would be offered on the total power bill at Rs. 2 per unit. A subsidy on water bills would also be offered for the first two years of operation. The choice of the vaccine to be manufactured, the technology to be utilised and the basic infrastructure required would be left to the companies. If the 85,000 sq ft building being completed at the Life Sciences Park meets with the approval of vaccine-manufacturing firms, it would be given on annual lease. The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation would construct a common waste water treatment plant, solar plant and bio-waste treatment plant for all companies inside the park. Two different expression of interest documents would be readied and subject to the scrutiny of the technical committee, companies with necessary qualifications would be considered as anchor industries and invited to set up manufacturing units inside the park Vijaykumar Sisla of HLL Biotech Ltd., also a member of the vaccine production unit working group, would be appointed as the consultant for setting up the vaccine-manufacturing unit, while the experts’ team chaired by B. Ekbal would be tasked with the development of a vaccine policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-to-offer-incentives-to-vaccine-units/article36373735.ece
09 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Work on ESIC Hospital to begin shortly||Work on the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital, for which the foundation stone was laid in 2014 and subsequently abandoned indefinitely, will commence soon, Member of Parliament Kanimozhi has said. During informal chat with the reporters here on Wednesday, Ms. Kanimozhi, after inspecting the site for the proposed hospital, said work on the ESI Hospital in Thoothukudi, which was started in SIPCOT Industrial Estate following appeals from the trade unions, remained abandoned after then Union Minister of State for Labour Kodikunnil Suresh laid foundation stone on February 22, 2014. Following appeals from the trade union representatives, steps had been taken to start the work on the 100-bedded ESI Hospital, which would be built at a cost of Rs. 120 crore. “Since Union Minister for Labour Welfare and Employment Bhupender Yadav has given assent for starting the work, the ESI Hospital will come-up in Thoothukudi in near future,” she said. Regional Deputy Director of ESIC Arul Raj was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-esic-hospital-to-begin-shortly/article36374128.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||4.45 tonnes of ration rice seized||Ration rice weighing about 4.45 tonnes was seized in separate operations in Tiruchendur and Azhikkaal in Kanniyakumari district on Wednesday. When a police team was patrolling along the Tiruchendur – Kulasekarapattinam on Wednesday, they saw a jeep overturned on the road leading to N. Muthiahpuram. As the police team saw rice bags laden in the overturned jeep, they checked the rice bags and found that the vehicle had met with the accident when it was carrying 1.45 tonnes of ration rice packed in 29 bags. After taking the overturned jeep to Tiruchendur police station, the police team handed over the seized ration rice to Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies CID police. Steps are on to nab the driver of the jeep. In Kanniyakumari district, a flying squad seized 3 tonnes of ration rice stocked in a playground at Pillaithoppu near Azhikkaal on Wednesday. Further investigations are on to identify the smuggler behind this attempt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rice-seized/article36373850.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh plan for new bus stand at Srirangam hits roadblock||A fresh proposal to set up a bus stand in Srirangam by acquiring private land seems to have hit a roadblock with the Tiruchi Corporation expressing its inability to meet the financial implications. There has been a long-pending demand from residents of Srirangam and pilgrims for a proper bus stand cum parking lot for tourist vehicles. Sensing the imminent requirement, the civic body mooted a proposal about 10 years ago to estalish a bus stand in Srirangam. It invariably found its place in the annual budget of the Corporation for many years. The successful election of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa to the State Assembly from Srirangam constituency in 2011 gave an impetus to the proposal. The Corporation identified 6.6 acres of land at Panchakarai on the banks of the Kollidam and began preliminary works to formalise the plan at a cost of Rs. 9 crore in 2012-13.. The proposal remained on paper after her disqualification as MLA. However, the civic body again revived the proposal in 2019 and prepared a fresh Detailed Project Report (DPR). It sought to build the bus stand at a cost of Rs. 23 crore under the Smart City Mission. This, too, hit a roadblock as the civic body could not source funds from the Smart City Mission. For, the proposed area did not come under the area plan of the Smart City. The move to get funds from Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation could not materialise as it raised several objections to the project. The civic body yet again revived the plan after the DMK returned to power. This time, the Corporation sought to establish the bus stand by acquiring lands from private landholders. It identified about 5 acres of land on Salai Road. But this proposal too has lost its sheen due to the huge amount projected for land acquisition.It is estimated that the land acquisition would entail an expenditure of Rs. 60 crore. Sources in the Corporation said the civic body did not have the funds to meet the cost towards land acquisition. It required another Rs. 25 crore to build the bus stand. Hence, the proposal had been put on hold temporarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proposal-for-new-bus-stand-at-srirangam-too-hits-roadblock/article36373822.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. re-organises work of DCPs, re-defines ranges under Tiruchi City Police||The State government has accorded sanction for re-designating the posts of the Deputy Commissioner (Law and Order) and the Deputy Commissioner (Crime Traffic) in Tiruchi City Police Commissionerate and for re-defining the police ranges falling under the Commissionerate jurisdiction. The Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) will be re-designated as Deputy Commissioner of Police (North), while the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) will be re-designated as Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). Both Deputy Commissioners of Police would be allocated with Law & Order, Crime and Traffic Duties related works. The number of Ranges falling under the Tiruchi City Police Commissionerate will increase from four to six under the re-arrangement, which has also been accepted by the State government. The six re-defined Ranges would be: Thillai Nagar, Gandhi Market, Srirangam, K. K. Nagar, Cantonment and Ponmalai. Each Range would be headed by an officer in the rank of an Assistant Commissioner of Police. An order to this effect has been issued by the Home Department based on the request and the proposal of the Director General of Police for effective functioning and to improve the performance of both Law and Order and Crime Units in Tiruchi City Police Commissionerate. As per the re-arrangement, the Thillainagar Law and Order and Crime police stations; Woraiyur Law and Order and Crime police stations; Government Hospital Law and Order and Crime police stations; Srirangam Law and Order and Crime police stations, Palakkarai Law and Order and Crime police stations; Fort Law and Order and Crime police stations; Fort and Srirangam All Women Police stations, Traffic Investigation North; Woraiyur and Palakkarai Traffic Control will come under the Deputy Commissioner of Police (North). The K.K. Nagar Law and Order and Crime Police stations; Cantonment Law and Order and Crime police stations; Sessions Court Law and Order and Crime police stations; E.Pudur Law and Order and Crime police stations; Ponmalai Law and Order and Crime police stations; Ariyamangalam Law and Order and Crime police stations; Airport Law and Order and Crime police stations; Cantonment and Ponmalai All Women Police Stations; Control Room, Cantonment Traffic Control, Ariyamangalam Traffic Control and Traffic Investigation South and Highway Patrol will come under the Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). The existing post of Assistant Commissioner of Police, Ponmalai Crime, is to be re-deployed as Assistant Commissioner of Police, Nallur in Tiruppur City and the existing post of Assistant Commissioner of Police, Fort (Crime) is to be re-deployed as Assistant Commissioner of Police, Anupperpalayam, also in Tiruppur City, according to the government order issued recently. The Director General of Police had informed that there was no financial implication involved in the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-re-organises-work-of-dcps-re-defines-ranges-under-tiruchi-city-police/article36373812.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SRM Institute offers scholarships to 300 students from Perambalur constituency||SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), Kattankulathur, has announced scholarships to 300 students from the Perambalur constituency. Announcing the scholarships, SRMIST Founder Chancellor and Perambalur MP T. R Paarivendhar told mediapersons that he was fulfilling his promise to the people of the constituency by extending free education to 600 students in the last two years to students intending to pursue Engineering, Technology, Science and Humanities, Agricultural Sciences, Management, Health Sciences, and Hotel Management programmes. Applicants from economically weaker sections would be selected for the free education at the SRM group of institutions based on their performance in their board examinations. The scheme would only cover full tuition fees and be renewed on basis of academic performance. In view of COVID-19, hostel facilities would not be provided, Mr. Paarivendar said. Deserving students would get suitable placements. Eligible students were required to submit their applications on or before September 18. Applications must be sent to Director (Admissions), SRM Nagar, Potheri, Chengalpattu District - 603203. Application forms could be downloaded fromhttps://admissions.srmist.ed u.in/srmisto nline/Peram ba lur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srm-institute-offers-scholarships-to-300-students-from-perambalur-constituency/article36373815.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bishop Heber College conducts ‘reading drive’||The Postgraduate and Research Department of Library and Information Sciences and the library of Bishop Heber College organised a ‘reading’ drive in commemoration of International Literacy Day on Wednesday. Students were encouraged to read the day's newspaper to help revive the reading habit. Addressing an audience of students from various departments at the college auditorium, Principal D. Paul Dhayabaran highlighted the importance of the reading habit as they reflected the thought process of young adults. J. Franklin, Head, Postgraduate and Research Department of Library and Information Sciences, outlined the benefits of reading. Reading improves one’s vocabulary, develops imagination and relaxes the mind and body, he said. R. Selvaraj, Assistant Professor, said the reading drive was aimed at creating a platform to read at one place, to promote and cultivate the reading habit among young adults and to improve the desire to read and learn. The students were given The Hindu newspaper to read for 45 minutes and a quiz was conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bishop-heber-college-conducts-reading-drive/article36374123.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Railway union protests centre’s national monetisation plan||A section of employees of the Golden Rock Railway Workshop owing allegiance to Southern Railway Mazdoor Union (SRMU) staged a demonstration here on Wednesday condemning the Rs. 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline for infrastructure assets announced by the Centre last month. The union claimed that the move was aimed at handing over the assets of sectors, including railways ,to private parties and termed it as ‘disastrous’. A group union assembled in front of the Armoury Gate of the workshop and staged the demonstration in the afternoon. The demonstration was headed by Southern Railway Mazdoor Union assistant general secretary S. Veerasekaran. The demonstrators also condemned the Centre for its proposed move to hand over important railway stations, colonies, stadiums, important superfast express trains and many goods sheds to private parties and demanded that the move to privatise the railway sector be withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rly-union-condemns-national-monetisation-plan/article36373813.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Anna Universty Research Excellence Award for Tiruchi Professor||K. Ruckmani, Director, Center for Excellence in Nanobio Translational Research, and Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Anna University, Tiruchi, has won the Research Excellence Award 2021, given to faculty members who made exceptional research and outstanding contributions in science. Md. Ruckmani was recognised for her research contribution comprising more than 100 research publications in Scopus Indexed journals and creativity, innovation and level of scientific inquiry in her projects. At the Grand Awards Ceremony in Anna University earlier this week, Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi presented the prestigious award to her. As the first women Ph.D. holder of Pharmacy in Tamil Nadu, Ms. Ruckmani established two national facilities supported by DST with state of art instrumentation. Other prestigious awards bagged by her included Distinguished Researcher Award 2019, Tamilnadu Senior Scientist Award 2018, Tamilnadu Scientist Award 2014, Tamilnadu Young Women Scientist Award 2006, Best Innovation Award, and Women Achiever Award. The distinguished academic also had to her credit over 150 refereed publications, and three granted patents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-universty-research-excellence-award-for-tiruchi-professor/article36374120.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 286 fresh cases||The central region reported 286 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. The region witnessed a slight drop in fresh cases registered compared to the last few days. Meanwhile, four deaths due to the viral infection were reported in the region. Two deaths each were recorded in Mayiladuthurai, and one death each was reported in Ariyalur and Thanjavur districts. Thanjavur reported 85 fresh cases of COVID-19, while Tiruchi recorded 48. Both districts witnessed a slight drop in the number of fresh cases reported per day. Tiruvarur district reported 39 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday. Mayiladuthurai reported 29 fresh cases and Nagapattinam, 27. Pudukottai district witnessed a slight dip with 21 fresh cases. Meanwhile, 17 fresh cases were reported in Karur and 12 in Ariyalur districts . In Perambalur district, eight patients tested positive for COVID-19. Student tests positive A Class 9 student of a school in Kulamangalam in Tirumayam Block reported COVID-19 positive on Wednesday. The Department of Education along with the Health Department began random sampling of students at various schools across the district after a class 10 student of Adi Dravidar Welfare School at Mullankurichi village reported COVID-19 positive on Monday. Official sources here said that the classmates, teachers and primary contacts of the student would be tested for the viral infection. Meanwhile, the classroom had been disinfected, they added. The student showed no symptoms and would be home-quarantined, officials of the Health Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-286-fresh-cases/article36373824.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Digital mapping of trees begins||The district administration, in association with Department of Forest and a non-governmental organisation, has started the mapping of trees on public and the temple lands here. Collector V. Vishnu, who recently started the digital mapping and restoration of water bodies with the help of private sponsors and non-governmental organisations, put in motion the census of trees on public and the temple lands. “Tirunelveli district which encompasses the Tamirabharani river and countless wetlands is a place of great natural beauty. Adding to this beauty is regal presence of the heritage trees, the silent chroniclers of the changes of the landscape. Religious places, roads, towns and villages all feature towering trees that represent the rich history, culture and heritage of this place besides providing shade, food and homes for the diverse wildlife. In a bid to conserve these trees, we’ve started the census,” he says. Many of the district’s heritage trees traces their association with the reign of Nayak and Mangammal dynasties and are several hundred years old. Trees such as neem, tamarind, palmyra, arjun, mahua, jamun, banyan, peepal, bael etc. are abundant along the banks of the Tamirabharani and its tributaries, irrigation tanks, temple ‘nandavanams’, educational institutions, highways and other public places. “These trees need to be mapped for the better management and conservation. Recently Tamil Nadu Government’s Environment, Climate Change and Forest Department issued a Government Order for constitution of ‘Green Committee’ in every district to regulate the tree cutting and to take up the tree planting activities in public lands and public spaces,” he says. The Tirunelveli District Green Committee has been formed under the chairmanship of Collector and District Forest Officer as its member secretary with 15 members drawn from various government departments and non-governmental organisations. Its first meeting was held here a month ago and discussed various aspects on tree conservation and improving green cover of the district. The district administration, Tamil Nadu Forest Department, Tirunelveli division along with ATREE’s Agasthyamalai Community Conservation Centre (ACCC), Manimutharu, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan and Nellai Nature Club, Tirunelveli started the Nellai Tree-Mapping exercise on Wednesday. Mr. Vishnu inaugurated the exercise in the presence of R. Murugan, District Forest Officer, Tirunelveli, S.Muthukumar, District Science Officer, District Science Centre, Tirunelveli, Amaravel Babu, President, Nellai Nature Club and Mahalakshmi, Deputy Collector, Tirunelveli. Researchers A. Saravanan and S. Thalavaipandi from Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE) trained the volunteers on conducting tree survey through digital platform by using Android mobile phone. “In the first phase, the volunteers will do the surveys in temple ‘nandavanams.’ The tree mapping exercise will be carried out in all other public lands and offices in successive phases. The data about the trees including the health status will be updated in ‘Nellai Neervalam’ website so that anyone can get the details about the trees in the public and temple lands,” says M. Mathivanan Coordinator, ATREE’s Agasthyamalai Community Conservation Centre (ACCC), Manimutharu and Project Coordinator, Nellai-Tree Mapping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digital-mapping-of-trees-begins/article36374131.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Special drive to vaccinate leprosy patients launched||Collector V. Vishnu on Wednesday inaugurated the vaccination of leprosy patients against COVID-19 at their doorsteps. Flagging off the vehicle at the Collectorate, he said the special vehicle with a doctor, two nurses, an assistant and two officials from the Department of Leprosy Eradication would visit the 200-odd leprosy patients at their homes to vaccinate them within next three days. Since the leprosy patients would hesitate to come to the vaccination centres to guard themselves against the viral infection, this vehicle had been launched to vaccinate them at their doorsteps. He said 4,90,800 persons had been vaccinated in the district. Of this, 98% teachers and the non-teaching staff of the schools and 99% of the anganwadi workers had been vaccinated. Moreover, special vaccination camps were being conducted in the areas where the number of vaccinated residents was low. “A special vaccination drive will be conducted on September 12 to vaccinate 1 lakh people by organising camps at 800 places across the district,” he informed. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal, District Revenue Officer (Disciplinary Proceedings) M. Suganya, Deputy Collector (Training) Mahalakshmi, and District Supplies Officer Kuzhanthaisamy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leprosy-patients-to-be-vaccinated/article36374121.ece
09 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in the Papanasam Dam on Wednesday stood at 86.55 feet (maximum level is 143 feet). The dam had in inflow of 958.68 cusecs and 1,204.75 cusecs is discharged. The level of Manimuthar dam (maximum level is 118 feet) stood 62.90 feet. The dam had an inflow of 41 cusecs and 100 cusecs of water is discharged.    Severed head of a baby was found carried by a stray dog near Income Tax Office at Bibikulam here on Wednesday. A boy who got curious about the dog carrying something strange had chased it after which the dog dropped the head and fled, the police said. The police suspect that the head could be that of a baby that could have been buried in a shallow pit and it got exposed. Or else, the body could have been dumped among garbage by someone. Based on a complaint of the village administrative officer, Bibikulam, Tallakulam police have registered a case and handed over the head to Government Rajaji hospital for post-mortem.    Three passengers of a Sports Utility Vehicle including K. Shanmugapriya, 10, of Sivakasi, were killed on Tirunelveli-Madurai highway near here on Wednesday. The other victims were identified as M. Avudaiyammal (45) and M. Dhanalakshmi (50). The victims were returning home at Saradha Nagar in Sivakasi after attending a domestic function in Kayathar. G. Shamugavel (50) was behind the wheel when he lost control of the vehicle and it dashed against the railing ahead of a culvert near Pulvaipatti junction and fell into a stream. The injured were taken to the Government Hospital in Sattur. The police are investigating.      Veeramani Revathi who took part in recently-concluded Tokyo Olympics, has been promoted. Ms. Revathi, who took part in the 4x400 metres mixed relay was working as Commercial clerk in Madurai. Southern Railway has promoted her as Staff Welfare Inspector and retained her in Madurai. She has been promoted three stages higher from the pay scale 3 to 6 as per the pay scales of VII Central Pay Commission, a press release said. The present posting would be more convenient for her to continue her sports activities. Divisional Railway Manager, P. Ananth, and Senior Divisional Personnel Officer, C.Sudhagaran, congratulated her for the promotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36374133.ece
09 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Digital mapping of trees||The district administration, in association with Department of Forest and a non-governmental organisation, has started the mapping of trees on public and the temple lands here. Collector V. Vishnu put in motion the census of trees on public and the temple lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digital-mapping-of-trees/article36373982.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Two more students test positive for COVID-19 in Tiruvannamalai district||Two more Class 10 students in Tiruvannamalai tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday taking the total number of cases among staff and students in the district to seven, including four teachers, a week after schools and colleges were re-opened on September 1. Wednesday's results related to two 15-year-old Class 10 students of the Government High School in Kallikulam, in Kilpennathur block, around 15 km from Tiruvannamalai. Both belong to the same class in the school. Six persons — three teachers and three students — have tested positive in the district since Monday. However, the first case among educational institutions staff and students in the district since the re-opening of schools and colleges was reported last Friday when a 38-year-old teacher from the same school in Kadaladi village tested positive for Covid-19. Subsequently, five members in his family including two children tested positive on Sunday. “A major reason for the spread of the infection among students and staff is due to the spread in the family. More samples are being collected every day in the district,” R Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services (DDHS), Tiruvannamalai, told The Hindu . In a circular to schools, colleges and the district authorities a week ago, the Collector, B. Murugesh, directed them to conduct swab tests of students, teachers and staff of educational institutions in the district on a rotational basis every day. Further, the district education officer was also asked to submit a status report of such swab tests taken in schools and colleges to the district administration every fortnight. Accordingly, on an average, 3,800 swab tests among students and teachers have been done in the temple town since the opening of the educational institutions since September 1. No positive cases among students, teachers and staff in educational institutions in Vellore and the newly carved districts of Ranipet and Tirupattur have been reported so far. In Vellore, the district administration and the Corporation organised a special vaccination camp for traders at the British era Netaji market near Old Bus Terminus on Wednesday with more than 500 wholesale traders taking the jab. Currently, the Corporation has vaccinated 25,000 traders and shopkeepers within its limits since April. Of 3.5-lakh eligible beneficiaries for vaccination above 18 years of age within the Corporation limits, around one lakh, mainly homemakers and senior citizens, have to be vaccinated. Every day, on an average, 60 vaccination camps were being held with 3,000 persons covered within its limits. “So far, no positive cases among students and teachers have been reported in the district. On an average, 8,000 persons are vaccinated in 175 camps everyday in the district. We are also taking swab tests for 2,200 persons daily,” said Tirupattur DDHS Dr. Senthil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tiruvannamalai-district/article36374061.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Pay premium by Sept. 15’||The last date for insuring the banana crop in Aavur hamlet range in Valangaiman Taluk is September 15. In a press release, Joint Director (Agriculture), Tiruvarur district, Sivakumar said the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PM Crop Insurance scheme) for the kharif season-2021 would be implemented by Agriculture Insurance Company of India in Tiruvarur district. Banana cultivators aspiring to insure their crop under PMFBY should remit a premium of Rs. 3,180 per acre. They could remit the premium while availing a crop loan through cooperative institutions, or by submitting relevant documents at the cooperative or banking institutions along with the premium if they took up cultivation with personal funds. Further details could be had from the Assistant Director (Horticulture) – 84893-64388 or from the Assistant Horticulture Officer – 79757-31586, Valangaiman Block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-premium-by-sept-15/article36373819.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||More students test positive||Two more school students in the district tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. The students studied in the same school as the four who tested positive earlier. Also, a third year MBBS student and an MS student at Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruvarur, tested positive on Wednesday, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-students-test-positive/article36373820.ece
09 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris district receives 19 mm rainfall||The Nilgiris district recieved 19 mm average rainfall on Tuesday. As per the report from the district administration for 24 hours ending at 8 a.m. on Wednesday, Pandalur received the maximum rainfall of 92 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nilgiris-district-receives-19-mm-rainfall/article36373759.ece
09 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 18 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,969 with 18 new cases reported on Wednesday. While a total of 47,675 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 182. The district's death toll is 1,112. In Ranipet district, 12 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 42,683. In Tirupattur district, 15 new cases were reported on Wednesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,669. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 29, taking the total number of cases to 53,629. Of this, 52,620 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 353.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-18-new-cases/article36374137.ece
09 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Three including school teacher arrested for real estate scam||The District Crime Branch police have arrested three persons, including a government school teacher, for allegedly duping investors to the tune of Rs. 2.63 crore in a real estate scam. The accused, identified as Ramasamy, 49, Chemistry teacher of a government school, Sakthivel, 43, of Kancheepuram, and Kousalya, 40, of Koliyanur, were arrested by a police team and remanded to custody. According to the police, the complainant, R. Prakash, 31, of Alankuppam near Marakkanam, got to know the accused through mutual acquaintance. Ramasamy suggested to the victim to invest in real estate so that he could earn high returns. The accused introduced him to Sakthivel and Kousalya and claimed that they were the directors of a private firm. The trio persuaded the victim with a bait of Rs. 18,000 as returns per month for every lakh. The trio allegedly assured clients that they were investing the money in real estate business and were making huge profits which they would share with them. Believing it, the victim and his friends transferred Rs. 2.36 crore at different intervals and finally realised that they had been cheated. The fraud came to light after Prakash lodged a complaint with the DCB police. The police arrested the trio and a hunt is on to arrest Kousalya’s son Kaviarasan who is at large. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-including-school-teacher-arrested-for-real-estate-scam/article36374068.ece
09 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Celebrate Chaturthi at home’||The district administration has banned installation of Lord Vinayaka idols in public places, related celebrations and procession of idols for immersion in water bodies. The decision was taken at a meeting on COVID guidelines on Friday’s Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations held here on Wednesday, where Collector J. Meghanath Reddy and Superintendent of Police, M. Manohar, participated. However, the administration has permitted individuals to install Lord Vinayaka idols in their houses and take out for immersion in nearby water bodies. People have been asked to celebrate Vinayaka Chathurthi inside their homes. In a press release, “the permission is confined only to individuals and does not apply to any organisation,” the Collector said. After the celebrations in their houses, people can also leave the idols outside the nearby temple premises. Officials of Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Trust would take them for immersion. Since the permission has been restricted to individuals, any groups violating the order would face legal action, the Collector warned. People have been asked to maintain social distancing and wear masks while going out to buy goods for the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/installation-of-vinayaka-idols-in-public-places-banned/article36373849.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Assembly calls for repeal of CAA||According to the established democratic principles, a country should be governed on the basis of the aspirations and concerns of all sections. “But it is clear the Act was passed in such a way that it does not accord a warm support to the refugees, considering their plight, but discriminates against them on the basis of their religion and country of origin,” said the resolution. Therefore, to protect India’s unity and communal harmony and uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution, “this august House resolves to urge the Union government to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019”, it said. After a voice vote, Speaker M. Appavu said the resolution was being adopted “unanimously”. Before staging the walk-out prior to the adoption of the resolution, BJP floor leader Nainar Nagenthran (Tirunelveli) contended that the CAA was not against the Muslims living in India. While India was protecting the rights of minorities living in the country in line with the Liaquat-Nehru Pact of 1950, the status of minorities in Pakistan was not the same. While 20% of the population in Pakistan was Hindus during Partition, it stood at a mere 3% now. The Chair intervened and pointed out that even people from the same community could not co-exist in Afghanistan. The BJP has four MLAs in the 234-member House. PMK floor leader G.K. Mani (Pennagaram) urged that the Act favour the Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living in India too. Since Leader of the Opposition and AIADMK floor leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami had earlier led his party members out over another issue, AIADMK MLAs were not present when the resolution was moved and adopted. ‘Religious bigotry’ Leader of the House Duraimurugan said the CAA went against the principles enshrined in the Constitution. Allowing only one section of people based on religion into the country and denying entry to another group was nothing but “religious bigotry”. While moving the resolution, Mr. Stalin said, “We feel that the Union government must stop the preparation of the National Population Register and the Register of Citizens.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-assembly-calls-for-repeal-of-caa/article36373712.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Golden horizon||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/golden-horizon/article36374125.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Divine intervention||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/divine-intervention/article36373557.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 117 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 117 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday taking the total number of cases to 99,312. While 107 persons were discharged, 1,254 continue to be under treatment. Fifty-four positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 53 cases were indigenous and 12 were reported in corporation limits. In Namakkal, 66 cases were reported. As per bulletin, two deaths were reported in Salem. Krishnagiri recorded 36 cases, and 28 cases discharged. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 201 cases as of Wednesday. Dharmapuri recorded 19 fresh cases, and 19 cases discharged with one death registered. The total number of cases was 236.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-117-cases-in-erode/article36373856.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COIMBATORE today||Molecular Diagnostics, Counselling, Care and Research Centre: World Duchenne Awareness Day celebrations, 9 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Orientation programme, 10 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Kavithanjali - Tribute to M.S. Subbulakshmi, 3.15 p.m.  POLLACHI   Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College: Inauguration of NDLI Club, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article36373760.ece
09 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two men crushed to death||Two workers were crushed to death in a trash separator machine in the solid waste management unit in Vijayapura on Wednesday. Rafiq Babusab, a pourakarmika, and Ayub Sheikh, a driver on contract, died when they were caught in the two arms of the skid roller machine that they were trying to repair, officers said. The two workers had not brought to the notice of the higher authorities the malfunctioning of the machine. The incident will be investigated, municipal officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-men-crushed-to-death/article36373870.ece
09 September 2021||BELAGAVI/MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Almatti dam nearing FRL; KRS yet to attain full level||Parts of north Karnataka experienced moderate to heavy rain in the last few days, with Bidar, Vijayapura, and Belagavi witnessing downpour on Monday and Tuesday. But the rain subsided by Wednesday. Bidar seemed to be the worst hit, as heavy rain has led to crop loss. Standing crops on an estimated 23,000 hectares of land have been affected in the district. The first week of September saw 92 mm of rainfall as against the annual average of 40 mm. The three mid-range reservoirs — Karanja, Chulki Nala, and Mullamari — are all full. Vijayapura registered 34 mm of rainfall in a week. Belagavi district had around 31 mm and Bagalkot had around 25 mm of rainfall in the week ending Wednesday, officials said. Meanwhile, rain in south-east Maharashtra, Belagavi, and Bagalkot districts has led to increased inflow in the Krishna. The Lal Bahadur Shastri Reservoir across the Krishna at Almatti village is nearly full. The reservoir level as on Wednesday was 519.57 m as against the FRL of 519.6 m. The Narayanpura dam level was at 491.83 m as against the full reservoir level of 492.25 m. Notwithstanding the recent rains, the overall rainfall pattern across the State remained uniform in both north and south interior Karnataka for the period of June 1 to September 8, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre. In south interior Karnataka regions, the normal rainfall for the June–September 8 period is 258.1 mm against which it has received 349.5 mm. North interior Karnataka received 423.5 mm rainfall as against a normal of 365.3 mm for the above period. Deficient rainfall But the coastal belt and the Cauvery catchment region have received deficient rainfall so far. As against a normal of 2,900 mm, the coastal belt comprising Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Utttara Kannada districts have received 2,421.6 mm, which is 16% below normal. The districts of Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, and Kodagu, comprising the Cauvery catchment area, have received below normal rainfall this year. As a result, the Krishnaraja Sagar in Mandya district has failed to attain the FRL of 124.8 feet this year. The reservoir level was hovering at 115.91 feet and the live storage was 38.11 tmcft as against the gross storage capacity of 49.45 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/almatti-dam-nearing-frl-krs-yet-to-attain-full-level/article36373688.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Domino effect of fuel price rise puts dampener on festive spirit||The rise in fuel prices has adversely impacted most essential commodities, whose rates are increasing in the city. This, coupled with an almost unprecedented increase in the prices of LPG cylinders and edible oils, has further squeezed household budgets and the festival season seems to have only made it worse. This fiscal alone, petrol (Rs. 104.7 per litre) and diesel (Rs. 94.04 per litre) have seen a hike of 11.8% and 9.6% respectively, which has had a cascading effect. “Transport charges have obviously shot up by over Rs. 50 per quintal, for wholesale traders. Hence, the transport costs for farmers and retailers have also shot up and it is transferred to customers,” said Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, chairman, APMC Committee, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) The fuel price hike alone had contributed to a nearly Rs. 2 per kilo price hike of almost all commodities, industry sources said. Most of the pulses and cereals have seen a rise in this range. As a result, households are finding it difficult to budget resources. “My fuel bill was around Rs. 4,000 per month before the pandemic and now it is Rs. 6,500. Other expenses have all risen. I am fortunate that I still hold a job, though my salary has been cut by 20%. Many have lost jobs during the same period,” said Sukumar B., working with a private firm and who lives in Banaswadi. The LPG cylinder (14 kg) has seen a 44.4% hike in the last 10 months, from Rs. 597 per cylinder in November 2020 to Rs. 862.5 today. The costs of all edible oils have almost doubled over the last year, while seeing a hike in the range of 30-45% since April this year. “It has shot up because of crop failures in Ukraine and Malaysia,” said Shailesh S. Ladhad, a leading oil merchant in the city. While there is a hue and cry over the rising prices of branded refined edible oils, there has not been much difference in the prices of edible oils produced by local mills using cold-pressed technology. Kirankumar of Chetana Oil from Challakere told The Hindu that barring slight variations in prices owing to the cost of groundnut, there has not been much of a hike in the prices of cold-pressed oil. Presently, 1 kg of cold-pressed groundnut oil costs between Rs. 250 and Rs. 260. However, various oil brands by big companies have seen a steep hike. Another senior trader said the edible oil sector was dominated by a handful of corporate firms. “They have become a cabal, like in steel and cement, and are artificially driving up prices. The recent farm laws, where edible oils were removed from the essential commodities list, has only helped these firms,” he said. The price rise seems to have definitely dampened the festive spirit in the city. “Given the prices of oils, we have to think twice about even frying kadubus , a staple for Ganesh Chaturthi. With salary cuts and price rise, there is not much enthusiasm for the festival,” said Aishwarya, a homemaker from the city. The only saving grace this festive season is that the prices of all vegetables and fruits are declining. However, the same cannot be said of flowers. While chrysanthemums, roses, and other flowers are affordable, jasmine and kanakambara are trading at Rs. 800 and Rs. 1,200 a kilo, respectively.  (With inputs from Girish S. Pattanashetti)   Given the prices of oils, we have to think twice about even frying kadubus , a staple for Ganesh ChaturthiAishwarya,homemaker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/domino-effect-of-fuel-price-rise-puts-dampener-on-festive-spirit/article36373667.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All Ministers must attend 10-day session of legislature: Speaker||With the Karnataka legislature session scheduled to begin on September 13, Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri has said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and all Ministers must be present on all the 10 days. Sharing the agenda of the session, Mr. Kageri on Wednesday said Ministers should not submit applications seeking permission for absence during the session. “It is not right on the part of Ministers to stay away from the session on the pretext of attending programmes in their constituencies. Ministers can remain absent during the session only on health grounds,” the Speaker said. The absence of Ministers in the House has been raised by the Opposition frequently over the last few legislature sessions. This has led to questions related to multiple departments being fielded by one or two Ministers who were present. He said that a best legislator’s award had been instituted to encourage legislators to actively participate in the session. Officials too should discharge their duties without seeking leave during the session, he said. Citizens would be allowed to witness the proceedings of the House. However, considering the precautions in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19, he appealed to schools not to bring children to witness the proceedings. In the earlier sessions, public had not been allowed to witness the House proceedings from the gallery owing to precautions related to COVID-19. The session would comply with all COVID-19 protocols. A total of 18 Bills, including Ordinances promulgated by the government, would come up for discussion.  A joint session of both the Houses would be convened on the last day of the session on September 24 to discuss ways for prevention of disruption of proceedings. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla would be invited to speak on conduct and discipline, Mr. Kageri said. A committee for drafting rules has been set up for ensuring peaceful conduct of the House proceedings. Mr. Bommai and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah are members of the committee, he said.  It is not right on the part of Ministers to stay away from the session on the pretext of attending programmes in their constituencies. Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri,Legislative Assembly Speaker   Highlights Ministers can stay away from the session only on health grounds Citizens can witness House proceedings, but schools cannot bring children 18 Bills to be tabled Last day to be dedicated to discussion on preventing disruptions Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to address joint session||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-ministers-must-attend-10-day-session-of-legislature-speaker/article36373686.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2023 is deadline to quadruple track from Cantonment to Whitefield||The inordinate delay — by more than two decades — in executing the quadrupling of railway tracks from the city centre to Whitefield has resulted in the project cost rising by over 250%. South Western Railways has now set 2023 as the deadline to complete the project, but at an estimated cost of Rs. 490 crore. This is despite reducing the length of line that has to be quadrupled. When the project was conceptualised in 1997-98, Railways had proposed to quadruple the track from KSR-Bengaluru-Whitefield (23km) at an estimated cost of Rs. 137.64 crore. However, it failed to take off and faced several hurdles. One was the acquisition of buildings, including a high-rise between KSR-Bengaluru and Cantonment. Over time, the traffic density increased on the existing tracks and SWR revisited the project in 2018. It was then decided to quadruple the line from Cantonment to Whitefield (18km), but the estimated cost increased to Rs. 492.87 crore. In the 2021-22 Budget, Rs. 78 crore was allotted for the project, which is fully funded by Railways. Rail Infrastructure Development Company (Karnataka) Limited (K-RIDE) is implementing the project. The preliminary work of constructing the retaining wall and bridge is in progress between the Cantonment and the Baiyappanahalli stretch. In the first phase, Railways will complete the work on the stretch between Cantonment and Baiyappanahalli by December 2022. The second part of the stretch, from Baiyappanahalli to Whitefield, will be completed by 2023. According to Railway officials, prior to COVID-19, the existing line was carrying more traffic than its capacity. Over 70 trains were operated, including a few MEMU services. SWR also operates around 15 good trains on this line. “The additional lines will contribute to enhance operational capacity and reduce the detention,” said Aneesh Hegde, Chief PRO, South Western Railways. When asked about whether required land was available, the official said that barring a plot of government land, measuring 1,320sqm of ITI near K.R. Puram, no other other land is required. The upgrading of infrastructure will provide SWR the scope to integrate it with the proposed suburban rail network. As part of the project, there is a proposal to build a rail network between Kengeri-Whitefield. If the tracks are quadrupled, it will avoid duplication and reduce redundancy in spending. According to Mr. Hegde, once the additional lines are operational, it will also help in the integration of the suburban rail that connects the city with various points, such as Hosur and Kempegowda International Airport via Baiyappanahalli and Whitefield. “There will be minimal detention or delays as the lines will have automatic signalling. Upgradation of infrastruture will help in operating more trains to Whitefield from the city points.” said Mr. Hegde. Rail activist Sanjeev Dyamannavar said, “The project will help people in Whitefield and surrounding areas. The integration of these stations with other modes of transport is very crucial. Once railway overbridge works are completed at Baiyappanahalli, there will not be any level crossing on this section.” He added that SWR should make sure that after the quadrupling work is completed, it fences the entire line to avoid trespassing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2023-is-deadline-to-quadruple-track-from-cantonment-to-whitefield/article36373657.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court directive to IRDA on unclaimed insurance amount||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDA) to ensure that insurance companies transfer the unclaimed insurance amount after a period of 10 years as per the mandate of the Senior Citizens’ Welfare Fund (SCWF) Act, 2015. Also, the court said the IRDA can take periodical reports from insurance companies to ensure proper transfer of unclaimed insurance amount as per the provisions of the 2015 Act, the SCWF Rules, 2016, and the master circular issued by the IRDA on transfer of unclaimed amounts. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction while disposing of a PIL petition filed by The Legal Attorneys and Barristers, Bengaluru. The petitioner had sought a direction to frame a policy to trace legal heirs or relatives of the insured persons to disburse unclaimed amount and for utilisation of unclaimed amount after certain period. While terming that the petition was filed with a misconception that there was neither a regulating body nor mechanism for unclaimed insurance amounts, the IRDA has submitted to the court details of the SCWF Act, which was specifically enacted for transfer and utilisation of unclaimed insurance amounts, and the mechanism of transfer of unclaimed amount to the SCWF by insurance companies. Appearing for the IRDA, advocate Sriranga S. pointed out to the court that the IRDA is keeping a regular watch on the insurance companies on transfer of unclaimed amount and a total amount of Rs. 81.65 crore in 2018 and Rs. 398.66 crore in 2019 was transferred to the SCWF by the companies by following the procedure laid down for transfer of unclaimed insurance amount. The IRDA also informed the Bench that the SCWF Act and Rules lay down a complete framework for the insurance companies to trace the insured persons or their legal heirs using multiple communication mode for disbursement of insurance amount besides publishing the details of unclaimed insurance on their websites by preparing a list of such accounts by September 30 of every financial year. Also, the IRDA denied the allegations made in the petition that there are thousands of crore of rupees lying with the insurance companies in the form of unclaimed insurance amount while pointing out that overall death claim settlement ratio of life insurance industry for the financial year 2018-19 was 97.64%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-directive-to-irda-on-unclaimed-insurance-amount/article36373683.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sugarcane growers threaten protest if FRP is not revised||Sugarcane farmers of Karnataka have threatened to lay siege to the Vidhana Soudha if the Union government does not revise the fair and remunerative price (FRP) for sugarcane. The threat comes ahead of the legislature session scheduled to begin on September 13. The Union government had recently increasedthe FRP for sugarcane by Rs. 50, taking it to Rs. 2,900 per tonne. However, this amount is lower than even the cost of cultivation, claims Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of the Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association. “The Union government had not revised the FRP for sugarcane for three years, keeping it constant at Rs. 2,850 per tonne. Meanwhile, fuel and fertilizer costs have almost doubled. Now, the government has colluded with sugar barons and increased the FRP by only Rs. 50, which is absolutely unacceptable,” he said. The association has argued that the cost of cultivation is around Rs. 3,200 per tonne. “The Narendra Modi-led government claims to have implemented the Swaminathan committee report and that it will double farmers’ income. These claims ring hollow and are even laughable when the FRP is lower than even the cost of cultivation.As per the Swaminathan committee recommendations, the FRP would be cultivation cost plus 50% profit for farmers, which will take the amount to Rs. 4,600 per tonne. That is our demand: increase the FRP to include a profit for farmers as well,” Mr. Shanthakumar said. He added that all farmers’ organisations in the State would support the Bharat Bandh called by Samyukta Kisan Morcha on September 27. “All farmers’ organisations will soon meet to discuss on the modalities of the protest and the bandh against not only the farm laws but also fuel price hike and other anti-people policies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sugarcane-growers-threaten-protest-if-frp-is-not-revised/article36373687.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Withdraw last-minute height restrictions on Ganesha idols’||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has asked the State government to withdraw the restriction placed on the height of Ganesha idols – two feet tall in houses and four feet in public places. The restriction makes things hard for idol-makers, he said, and demanded its withdrawal immediately. “Millions of Ganesha idols have already been made in the last two months,” Mr. Shivakamar said. If the government imposes such a restriction so close to the festival, it will impact the business of idol-makers and sellers. “Idol-makers have had no income due to the pandemic. If the restriction is imposed at the last minute, where should they go? The government has so far not paid any money to them,” the Congress leader said. He demanded to know if people who have placed the restriction will purchase idols that have already been made. Mr Shivakumar urged authorities to either withdraw restrictions or give relief to idol-makers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/withdraw-last-minute-height-restrictions-on-ganesha-idols/article36373671.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Face-recognition technology helps find missing woman||The pilot testing of face-recognition technology backed by Artificial Intelligence, helped the Railway Protection Force (RPF) police trace a 41- year-old woman with disabilities, who was recently reported missing. She was wearing a mask, which would have made manual identification difficult. After the woman’s family, who live in Basavanagudi, reported her missing, the police, as per protocol, had shared her photos with agencies concerned, including the RPF. Her photo was fed into the system at the RPF control room. On Monday at midnight, the missing woman entered the KSR railway station and started walking towards a platform. CCTV cameras captured her photos and the images were run through the face-recognition software at the RPF control room. The moment the system confirmed the match, personnel concerned were alerted. Within 10 minutes the woman was traced, and later reunited with her family members. Chief PRO of South Western Railway (SWR) Aneesh Hegde said, “The missing woman was wearing a mask while entering the station. The software equipped with Artificial Intelligence could match her photo.” Though the primary objective of face-recognition technology at railway stations is to identify criminals entering or leaving the station, it can also be used to help identify missing persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/face-recognition-technology-helps-find-missing-woman/article36373653.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Former Minister Abdul Samad passes away||A.K. Abdul Samad, former Health Minister, passed away on Tuesday morning in Bengaluru due to age-related ailments, his family sources said. He was 87. Mr. Samad, a businessman, joined the Congress and was elected to the Legislative Assembly from Ramanagaram in 1978. He served as the Minister for Health and Family Planning in the D. Devaraj Urs government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-minister-abdul-samad-passes-away/article36373681.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: HC asks govt. to spell out action taken to publicise mechanism||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State government to spell out the action taken on suggestions to publicise the mechanism set up to examine the grievances on the rates charged and the treatment provided to COVID-19 patients in private hospitals. A Division Bench, comprising Justice Aravind Kumar and Justice Pradeep Singh Yerur, issued the direction while hearing PIL petitions related to the issues, through which the court has been monitoring the steps by the government to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and the treatment of infected patients. It was pointed on behalf of the petitioners that more publicity is required to create awareness on the mechanism available to the public to redress their grievances against private hospitals, particularly excess rates charges beyond what is fixed by the government. The Bench also noticed from an order in January this year that some of the petitioners had suggested affixing banners in State transport buses on the mechanism. Though the government has set up a grievance redressal mechanism to look into complaints, it is required to spell out the manner in which it had publicised it, including suggestions put forward by the petitioners, the Bench said. The government this January informed the court that publicity on the mechanism was given through advertisements in newspapers. Meanwhile, the government assured the Bench that it will strictly implement the advisory in relation to travellers to and from Kerala, the restrictions and guidelines issued for the public celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-hc-asks-govt-to-spell-out-action-taken-to-publicise-mechanism/article36373648.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drive-through counter set up at BBMP’s mega vaccination centre||As part of its plan to increase vaccine coverage in the city, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has set up the first of the three mega vaccination centres, Bruhat Lasika Kendra, at Dr. B R Ambedkar Bhavan in Yelahanka. In a press release on Wednesday, BBMP said it will function from 6 a.m. onwards daily. A separate counter has been established for those who wish to drive to the vaccination site. People can drive in to the session, get registered, verified, and vaccinated in their own vehicle and wait at the parking lot designated for observation for 30 minutes. A dedicated registration counter (pink counter) has been set up for the elderly, the women, and persons with disabilities and also four vaccination booths. The other two kendras have been planned at the Epidemic Disease Hospital behind Swami Vivekananda Metro Station in East zone and the Youngsters Kabaddi Club Ground at Malleswaram in the West zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drive-through-counter-set-up-at-bbmps-mega-vaccination-centre/article36373651.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Learning loss higher among lower primary students, finds ASER survey||While studies over the last year have flagged the extent of learning loss and its impact on students, the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) survey on Karnataka, released earlier this week, showed that children in lower primary classes were the worst affected. Following this, education experts and school managements are urging the State government to reopen classes for students in standards I to V immediately. ASER 2020-2021 found reading and arithmetic levels dropped significantly across all classes from I to VIII. But the dip in learning levels was far higher in lower primary classes. For instance, 56.8% of the class I students surveyed in 2021 could not read letters. In 2018, the percentage of class I students who could not read letters was 40.3% of those surveyed, a decline of 16.5 percentage points. On the other hand, the percentage of class VIII students who could not read a standard II-level text was lower at 33.8% in this year’s report. In other words, 66.2% could read a standard II- level text; this is only a 4.1 % decline compared to 2018. Similarly in arithmetic skills, 42.6% of class I students surveyed could not recognise numbers one to 9. In 2018, it was 29.7% of students surveyed, which is a 12.9 percentage point decline. However, the percentage of class VIII students who could divide this year stood at 38.7%, a 0.3 % decline compared to 2018. K. John Vijay Sagar, Professor and Head of the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), said that younger children will be more affected as they are in their formative years in terms of learning. “It is difficult for both students and teachers to be involved in the teaching-learning process through the online mode when basics and foundational skills are being imparted,” he said. Gurumurthy Kasinathan, National Coalition for the Education Emergency, said that evidence from many studies reveal that young children with no or just two to three years of schooling have been the most impacted. “These children have regressed on basic learning skills such as paying attention and being able to remember what has been taught to them. Online education would have absolutely the least impact on younger children, so these harms will not be restricted only to those from the marginalised groups in society,” he said. He said upper primary and high school level students may have higher resilience and may be able to manage transition better, although they would have also regressed from their basic foundational skills.  It is difficult for both students and teachers to be involved in the teaching-learning process through the online mode when basics and foundational skills are being imparted. K. John Vijay Sagar, Professor and Head of Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, NIMHANS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/learning-loss-higher-among-lower-primary-students-finds-aser-survey/article36373655.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prime accused and four others held for attempting to kill Shashi Kumar||The city police have arrested the prime accused behind the assault and attempted murder of D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools, who was attacked on July 29. According to the police, the accused, identified as Ravi, is a habitual offender and extortionist. “He headed a self-styled Karnataka Vidyarthi Poshakara Jagruta Vedike and had allegedly given a hit against Mr. Shashi Kumar and even rented a house near the target’s residence for the assailants,” said the police. He was arrested along with four other associates over a month after he absconded fearing arrest. The police have recovered two country-made pistols, three empty magazines, and weapons from them. Five persons, part of the gang of assailants, were arrested shortly after the attack, in which Mr. Shashi Kumar miraculously escaped with minor injuries. According to the police, Ravi has a total of nine cases against him, including the abduction and extortion of a member of a school management in 2019, pertaining to which he was arrested and recently released on bail. He allegedly held a grudge against Mr. Shashi Kumar. “He believed that his changing fortunes were due to Mr. Shashi Kumar and decided to kill him, to ensure that his extortion business went unhindered,” the police added.  He [Ravi] believed that his changing fortunes were due to Mr. Shashi Kumar and decided to kill him. The police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prime-accused-and-four-others-held-for-attempting-to-kill-shashi-kumar/article36373656.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown on Sept. 11 and 12||In view of emergency works in the areas serviced from 66/11 KV Nelagadaranahalli, there will be no power supply from 4 p.m. of Saturday to 8 p.m. of Sunday . According to a press release from Bescom, West Circle, the areas affected are: Thigalarapalya, Thigalarapalya Colony, Vinayakanagara, Raghavendranagara, Raghavendra Industrial Estate, Balajinagara, Kariobanahalli, Indira Nagar, Blue Joy Layout, Gangondanahalli Main Road, Annapoorneshwari Layout, SLV Industrial Area, Nandagokula Industrial Area, Chetan Circle, Sapthagiri Layout, Venugopalanagara, Doddabidarakallu, Suvarnanagara, Maranna Layout, Thippenahlali, Andanappa Layout, Muneshwara Layout, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-on-sept-11-and-12/article36373661.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||11 kg of ambergris seized, four held||Acting on a tip-off, the Chikkajala Police conducted a surprise raid on Tuesday night and arrested four persons who were allegedly trading ambergris. Around 11 kg of the whale product was seized during the raid. The solid, waxy substance from the intestine of the sperm whale commands exorbitant rates with the Bengaluru police putting its cost at Rs. 1 crore per kilo globally. It is often referred to as floating gold, as it is usually found floating in the sea. Ambergris is extensively used in the perfume industry to make fragrances and has high demand in West Asian countries, sources said. This is the third such case reported in the city in three months. In August, the Central Crime Branch police arrested five persons and recovered 80 kg of ambergris worth around Rs. 80 crore. In June, the K.G. Halli police recovered 6.7 kg of ambergris from four dealers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/11-kg-of-ambergris-seized-four-held/article36373662.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka HC stays verdict on KMC election||A Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka has stayed till September 22 the single judge verdict setting aside elections held to the Karnataka Medical Council (KMC) stating that they were vitiated owing to a fraud by the Returning Officer (RO), who was a Joint Registrar of the Department of Cooperative Societies. A Division Bench comprising Justice K.S. Mudgal and Justice Jaibunnisa M. Khazi passed the order at the Kalaburagi Bench of the High Court while hearing an appeal filed by Madhusudhan Kariganoor and others questioning the correctness of the findings in the June 7, 2021, verdict. The judge had also directed the Lokayukta to conduct disciplinary proceedings against D. Pandurang Garag, Returning Officer, on his lapses while observing that it would be futile to entrust inquiry to the State government which had supported his contentions before court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-hc-stays-verdict-on-kmc-elections/article36373679.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Develop 26-km tunnel in Shiradi Ghat’||The State has urged the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to take up construction of a 26-km tunnel bypass in Shiradi Ghat section between 237 km and 263 km on a joint venture, in association with the Japanese government. The ghat section of the highway is key to connecting the route between Mangaluru and Bengaluru. The region receives heavy rainfall during the monsoon and is susceptible to landslips, disrupting traffic movement. To mitigate this problem, the Ministry has assigned the task of preparing the feasibility report to JICA, which in turn assigned it to the Ministry of Economic Trade and Industry of Japan, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai informed Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari. The Ministry of Economic Trade and Industry of Japan conducted a feasibility study on tunnel bypass and estimated the cost of the project at Rs. 10,146 crore in 2015. The Union Ministry for Road Transport and Highways has already included the project under ‘Capital Development Project in Mountain Region’ being implemented by JICA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/construct-26-km-tunnel-in-shiradi-ghat/article36373689.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,102 fresh cases in State||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,102 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number to 29,58,090. Bengaluru Urban reported 338 cases and five deaths. Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts saw 200 and 133 cases respectively. With 17 deaths across the State, the toll rose to 37,458. This is apart from 27 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,458 persons were discharged on Wednesday. With this, the total number of recoveries is 29,03,547. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.64%, the case fatality rate was 1.54%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1102-fresh-cases-in-state/article36373649.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru to get 200 EV charging stations||With demand for electric vehicles (EV) expected to pick up, firms are lining up to provide the necessary infrastructure. Bengaluru is set to get 200 EV charging stations in the next six months. EVRE, an electric vehicle charging infrastructure firm, announced on Thursday that it will set up the stations in partnership with MoEVing, an electric fleet startup for urban mobility. They aim to set up 1,000 EV charging stations across India The first 200 such EV charging stations will come up in Bengaluru while the rest will be spread across Hyderabad, Kolkata, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Chandigarh, Pune, and Mumbai. “MoEVing and EVRE will be able to establish an ideal EV charging ecosystem that will eventually help bring down the CO2 emissions by 5.4 MT and save 2.4 million litres of fossil fuel annually,’’ said Krishna K. Jasti, co-founder and CEO of EVRE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-to-get-200-ev-charging-stations/article36373663.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Future bleak for other sectors||The fuel price hike has impacted other sectors as well, especially those in the transport sector, like cab operators, and the hotel industry. “Before the pandemic, diesel was around Rs. 68 per litre. Today it is over Rs. 94 per litre, just in a matter of over a year. Driving cabs is increasingly becoming unviable in the city. This coupled with loss of work has pushed many drivers into debt traps. Many cabs have been seized in lieu for loans, many have quit the profession, and some have even committed suicide,” rued Tanveer Pasha, Ola and Uber Drivers and Owners’ Association. G.R. Shanmugappa, president, Karnataka Lorry Owners and Agents’ Association, advocates for States to follow in Tamil Nadu’s footsteps and offer tax cuts on fuel. The hotel industry, too, is struggling with what appears to be the new normal. “Business is already down and the price rise is only making it unviable. Unless there is a correction, we will be forced to hike prices of all items on our menus shortly. It may not be a wise decision to charge more when the business is already down, but we will be left with no other option,” said Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotels and Restaurants Owners’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/future-bleak-for-other-sectors/article36373668.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Conference||Garden City University will hold a national-level ‘NEP 2020 Implementation Conference’ Thursday at 11.30 a.m. at the varsity auditorium. Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan will inaugurate the event. Former ASSOCHAM president Jacob Crasta will deliver a speech on bridging industry-academic for better professional output, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conference/article36373670.ece
09 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Charaka co-op. launches ‘Pavitra Vastra Abhiyan’||The Charaka Women’s Multi-purpose Cooperative Society of Bheemanakone in Sagar taluk has launched “Pavitra Vastra Abhiyana”, a campaign to reach “sacred fabric” (as they call handloom products) to the public. The society took to campaign after returning Rs. 33 lakh sanctioned by the State government under the Pavitra Vastra Project. The campaign will cover many cities across Karnataka, seeking people’s support for the handloom products. The campaign, planned to span over three months, began at Ashok Pai Memorial Institute in Shivamogga on September 6. The society is displaying the products of its weavers attached to the All India Handloom Weavers’ Federation and those interested can purchase them as they travel across cities. “For the last two days, we received a good response from the public in Shivamogga. Through this campaign we are reaching the public, seeking their support for the weavers’ community,” said Prathibha M.V., secretary of the society. Money not released The Charaka Society had joined hands with the State government to implement “Pavitra Vastra”, aimed at supplying handloom products to religious institutions in the State. As part of the project, the government had announced grant of Rs. 33 lakh to the society. “However, we could not get the amount released for our society. The amount was deposited in a joint account with an officer. Even after submitting relevant documents, we did not get the money,” Ms. Prathibha said. The organisation submitted the records of the amount to the Deputy Director of the Department of Handloom and Textiles in Shivamogga on August 12. However, there has been no response from the State government to the society’s gesture. “We are going to different places with products worth over Rs. 90 lakh, including Charaka products worth Rs. 60 lakh. From Shivamogga, we will go to Manipal, Sirsi, Vijayapura and Bengaluru till October 10,” she said. As part of the campaign, the society will hold seminars, discussions and talks wherever they go. This exercise is expected to help 800 families of weavers. Apart from Charaka products, the campaign carries terracotta jewellery, grass bags, jute products, banana fibre products, organic food produces and books. “Some organisations in cities have offered space free of cost. However, the society, which has refused the government’s funds, has decided not to take that offer, but give them our products, appreciating their gesture,” Ms. Prathibha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/charaka-co-op-launches-pavitra-vastra-abhiyana/article36373669.ece
09 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Burglars flee with valuables from house||Burglars broke open the doors of a house that belonged to a businessman and took away cash and diamond jewellery at Vishweshwaraiah Extension in Hassan on Tuesday evening. The incident happened between 6.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m., when T.N.Raghu, owner of the house, had been to shop with his wife. T.N.Raghu, the complainant, got to know about the incident when his brother-in-law, who lives nearby, called him to inform him that the entrance door was broke open. After returning home, he noticed that the wardrobes in his three bedrooms were also broke open. The items stolen include 2.025 kg of gold jewellery worth over Rs. 81 lakh, four kg of silver items worth over Rs. 2.2 lakh, four diamond necklaces worth over Rs. 21 lakh and Rs. 24 lakh in cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/burglars-flee-with-valuables-from-house/article36374009.ece
09 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Only five-day Ganesha festivities now in Dharwad district||Public celebrations of Ganesha festival in Dharwad district which used to be a grand 11-day affairs have been restricted to five days this time by the district administration on account of the pandemic. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has issued an order stating that Ganesha festival should be celebrated in a simple and meaningful manner and it would be strictly a five-day event this time as per the decision taken by the State government. The Deputy Commissioner has clarified that the usual practice of carrying the idols of Lord Ganesha for installation and subsequent immersion, has been prohibited this time. And, no crowding of people at Ganesh pandals and public places will be allowed. Limited entry As per the order, the pandals to be erected in public places should accommodate only 20 persons and it is the responsibility of the organisers to ensure that only 20 persons are allowed at a time to have darshan of Lord Ganesha. Banned In the order, the Deputy Commissioner has said that all kinds of entertainment programmes, including DJ music and traditional dance and singing, have been banned. Meanwhile, mobile tanks will be introduced by the municipal corporation authorities to facilitate immersion of idols installed in households. This apart, the State Pollution Control Board will construct artificial ponds for the immersion of idols installed as part of public celebrations of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-five-day-ganesha-festivities-now-in-dharwad-district/article36373874.ece
09 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||JD(S) demands Kalaburagi Mayor post||The race for capturing power in Kalaburagi City Corporation took a new turn on Wednesday with the Janata Dal (Secular), which has emerged “kingmaker” despite winning only four seats, demanding the Mayor’s post in the civic body. They have made this the pre-condition to support the BJP or the Congress, since both need their help to capture power in the civic body. The JD(S), in fact, did worse than it did in the last council, by winning four seats against seven last time around. All four members, along with the party’s local leader Nasir Hussein, met leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy in Bengaluru on Wednesday and discussed the next course of action. “We want the Mayor’s post and we are persistent with our demand. We will go with anyone who supports us. Our leader has asked elected members of the party to be united and persistent,” Mr. Hussein told The Hindu over phone. Kedaralingaiah Hiremath, district president of JD(S), expressed a similar opinion. “We are not in a hurry. The date for election to Mayor and Deputy Mayor has not been declared. We will wait and see who comes forward to support us. The party leadership has made it clear that the decision to go with the BJP or the Congress in Kalaburagi civic body is left to local leaders,” Mr. Hiremath said. The elections for all 55 wards of Kalaburagi City Corporation were held on Friday and results declared on Monday. It was a hung council with no party winning enough seats to get a clear majority. The Congress emerged the single-largest party with 27 seats followed by BJP (23). The JD(S) emerged “kingmaker” with four seats. With one MLA and one Rajya Sabha member, the Congress would have 29 members on the floor. The BJP will match the Congress tally with three MLCs, two MLAs, and a Lok Sabha member. Even if it gets support from an Independent candidate who, after being denied the party’s ticket, contested and won, it cannot touch the magic figure of 32. The JD(S) has, thus, emerged, as a key player as the support of its four members is required for assuming power in the civic body. The Kalaburagi Mayor post is reserved for a woman from a general category and the JD(S) has member Vijayalakshmi Ramesh C. from ward 16.  The polls to Kalaburagi City Corporation were held on Friday and results declared on Monday. The Congress emerged the single-largest party with 27 seats followed by BJP (23). The JD(S) emerged “kingmaker” with four seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-demands-kalaburagi-mayor-post/article36373678.ece
09 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sharnbasva University convocation tomorrow||A combined first and second convocation of Sharnbasva University will be held in Kalaburagi on Friday. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, the eighth Peetadhipathi of Sharnbasaveshwar Samsthan, Sharnbaswappa Appa, who is also the Chancellor of Sharnbasva University, said that the Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Bhagwant Khuba has consented to be the chief guest of the first and second convocation held simultaneously at the newly renamed Poojya Basavarajappa Appa Memorial Hall at the Appa Public School complex here. Dr. Appa said that Vice-Chancellor of Davangere University Sharanappa V. Halse and Vice-Chancellor of Gulbarga University Dayanand Agasar have agreed to deliver the first and second convocation addresses, respectively. Kalaburagi Lok Sabha MP Umesh Jadhav and Chairman of the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board Dattatreya Patil Revoor will be the guests of honour on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharnbasva-university-convocation-tomorrow/article36373871.ece
09 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Diseases noticed in some arecanut plantations||Bud rot and crown rot diseases along with fruit rot (mahali or kole roga) disease have resurfaced in some arecanut plantations in Dakshina Kannada. At present, the diseases have been reported from Kadaba and Moodbidri taluks. A three-member team of scientists from the Vitla regional station of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) visited one of the affected plantations at Idala under Perabe village in Kadaba taluk on Tuesday to study and recommend disease control measures to the plantation owner Suresh. According to CPCRI, the three diseases are caused by the Phytophthora fungus. It attacks adult areca palms during south-west monsoon causing fruit rot (mahali or kole roga). The fungus also attacks the growing bud and the crown resulting in bud and crown rots, respectively. “The later two diseases (bud and crown rots) are fatal if they are not noticed and treated in time,” one of the team members scientist Bhavishya told The Hindu . In case of fruit rot (mahali or kole roga), only the crop is lost. Whereas in case of severe bud and crown rots, the palm itself is lost. Hence, farmers should notice early symptoms, when leaves and the outermost leaf sheath turn yellow, of the latter two diseases carefully and report them to farm scientists and take disease control measures suggested, he said. The scientist recalled that an arecanut grower in Bantwal taluk lost about 70 % of palms in his plantation about four years ago to bud and crown rots as he either failed to notice the symptoms early or had ignored them till the infection became severe. Mr. Bhavishya said that about two weeks ago, two more farmers from Moodbidri area contacted CPCRI seeking disease control measures. He said that in case of the plantation in Perabe village, the symptoms of the diseases were noticed in 2018. But the farmer concerned did not take any disease control measure. Now, it has resurfaced to the full extent. The farmer told the team that the diseases were noticed this July itself. The scientist said that in many plantations, the fungus may remain in dormant state. It becomes active when weather and atmosphere becomes conducive. The other team members which visited Perabe comprised scientists Nagaraja N.R. and Thawa Prakas Pandian. General Secretary of All India Areca Growers Association Puttur Mahesh Puchchappady, who accompanied the team, said that there are every chance of many farmers not reporting the symptoms of bud and crown rots to farm scientists or the Horticulture Department. They should report the symptoms to prevent the spread of the diseases to a vast track of plantations in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/diseases-noticed-in-some-arecanut-plantations/article36373992.ece
09 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Seer says he will organise another satyagraha if there is no quota||Lingayat Panchamasali Mahapeetha seer Sri Basava Jayamrutyunjaya Swamiji on Wednesday said that he will lead another satyagraha if the government does not provide reservation under backward class category 2A for all sub-communities of Lingayat. Speaking to reporters in Udupi during his visit for Pratijna Panchayat, Sri Jayamrutyunjaya said that the government had sought time till September 15 to consider the community’s demand. If the demands are not met by October 1, another satyagraha will be launched at Freedom Park in Bengaluru, he said. Stating that there were three crore Lingayats in the State, the swamiji said that many of them have not seen social and economic facilities. As such, there is demand for reservation in education and employment for all sub-communities of Lingayat. Of the 110 sub-communities among Lingayats, 34 come under Category 2A and 12 come under Category 3B reservation. The remaining sub-communities do not have any reservation, the swamiji said and added that all should be brought under Category 2A. The seer said that the government has sought the opinion of the Karnataka State Permanent Backward Classes Commission on the economic and social status of all communities. The Union government too has authorised the State governments to accord reservation under backward classes. Therefore, the government should get the report from the commission at the earliest and provide reservation, he added. District Sharana Sahitya Parishat president U.C. Niranjan and Udupi Basava Samithi president Siddaramanna and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-says-he-will-organise-another-satyagraha-if-there-is-no-quota/article36373988.ece
09 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||The diseases explained||Fruit rot disease is characterised by rotting and heavy shedding of immature nuts. In case of bud rot, the fungus can attack the bunch stalk or the tender portion of the stem. It can enter directly through the outer leaf sheath into the tender growing point leading to crown rot. Bud rot and crown rot can occur frequently in fruit rot-affected palms either independently or following severe fruit rot. Bud rot is characterised by rotting of growing bud and the surrounding tissues. The initial visible symptom is yellowing of the spindle leaf. The affected spindle loses its natural green colour and in the advanced stages, turn to yellow and can be drawn out with a gentle pull. When the infection becomes severe and spreads to adjacent leaves, they turn yellow, droop and drop off ultimately leaving a bare stem. In case of crown rot, infection initiates from the base of outermost leaf sheath or from the stalk ends of infected areca bunches or developing inflorescence and slowly spread to the internal tissues of the stem. The first visible symptom is yellowing of the outermost leaf sheath. When the infection becomes severe, internal tissues of the crown rots, leaves turn yellow and finally, the palm dies. ( Source: Arecanut, book published by the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kasaragod, Kerala .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-diseases-explained/article36373991.ece
09 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Flybus reintroduced||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation will reintroduce the Flybus service between Bengaluru airport and Kundapur on Thursday. The bus will leave the Bengaluru airport at 9 p.m. to reach Kundapur at 8.30 a.m. via Hassan and Mangaluru. In the return trip, the bus will leave Kundapur at 7 p.m. to reach the airport at 5.15 a.m. The fare is fixed at Rs. 1,210 per head, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flybus-reintroduced/article36373990.ece
09 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Award for Sanskrit translation||Chomasya Dhakka , which is the Sanskrit translation of Jnanpith award winner Kota Shivaram Karanth’s Kannada novel Chomana Dudi , has been selected for the Grantha Puraskara 2019 by Karnataka Sanskrit University, Bengaluru. The award carries Rs. 10,000 in purse with a citation for the translator, a well-known scholar late Sri Kokkada Anantha Padmanabha Shastry. It will be presented at Gayana Samaj, Bengaluru, on Thursday. The Sanskrit version published by Manipal Universal Press under its Indian Literature in Translation Series has already caught the attention of scholars in the field of Sanskrit Studies, a release said on Wednesday. The Sanskrit University has been giving away awards to outstanding works of translations into Sanskrit from various languages with an objective of recognising and supporting Sanskrit writers, it said. Responding to the award, Chief Editor of Manipal Universal Press Neeta Inamdar said: “We feel encouraged to put in more efforts towards the series – Indian Literature in Translation. Narrating Choma’s story in Sanskrit was not an easy task. It is the translator’s scholarship and sensitivity that made it possible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-for-sanskrit-translation-of-novel/article36373675.ece
09 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Woman flees with jewellery||A woman fled from her parents house with jewellery worth about Rs. 2.1 lakh that was gifted by her fiancé’s family. She had also transferred Rs. 90,000 in her parents bank account to another person before fleeing. Complainant Yashoda told the police on Tuesday that her daughter Reshma (21) was engaged to a man from Bommanahalli in Bengaluru on August 21. Her daughter’s fiancé gifted a gold necklace and other jewellery together worth Rs. 2.1 lakh to her. She transferred Rs. 90,000 from a bank account to Akbar Ali, Ms. Yashoda told the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-flees-with-jewellery/article36373989.ece
09 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Artisans slash Ganesha idol production||Traditional aritsans engaged in making Ganesha idols for a living have reduced their output to less than a third of their normal output owing to the pandemic. The Gowri-Ganesha festival will be celebrated on Thursday and Friday and the artisans aver that there is no demand for large and life-size idols which used to adorn every street corner in the pre-pandemic times. The government restriction on displaying Ganesha idols in public also resulted in the demand fizzling out. But there is a demand for eco-friendly idols used by devotees for worship in their respective homes. They account for almost 80 per cent of the total output. Puttaswamy, a traditional artisan, said eco-friendly idols constitute the bulk of their production but the overall sales of Ganesha idols are relatively less. “There was no order from organisations and Ganapathi Sanghas or bhakta mandalis for large-sized idols this year.’ A number of artisans endured a loss last year as they had produced the life-sized idols but there were no takers. Hence this year they have desisted from making such idols, according to Revanna of K.T. Street, another artisan. Belonging to a family that has been making Ganesha idols since generations, he said as against nearly 2,000 idols that he used to make every year during pre-pandemic times, he is content with about 500 idols this year. There are about 150 to 200 families who belong to the traditional artisan fraternity but a majority of them have quit the profession in search of alternative jobs. But for those who have persisted with the traditional vocation, making Ganesha idols keeps them occupied for almost 7 to 8 months a year. “We take a break soon after the festival but the work for the following year’s festivities commences soon after Ayudha Puja and Dasara’’, according to Puttaswamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/artisans-slash-ganesha-idol-production/article36374011.ece
09 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet approves biomining of legacy waste||The city’s cleanliness quotient is set to rise consequent to the Cabinet approval for bio-mining or bioremediation to treat and clear the legacy waste accumulated over a period of many years. Nearly 3.08 lakh tonnes has accumulated at the sewage farm in Vidyaranyapuram which had resulted in air pollution in the area and local residents hitting the streets to protest the foul odour. The mountain of garbage was also an eyesore for the city which is vying for the top honours under the Swachh Bharat clean city rankings. After years of discussion on the best method to treat and eliminate the waste the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) decided to adopt the Indore model which cleared nearly 15 lakh tonnes of waste in three years. The accumulated waste in Mysuru is 3.08 lakh tonnes and hence is expected to be completed much earlier. The MCC’s decision was approved by the government and the detailed project report received Cabinet approval on Saturday, according to Mysuru MP Pratap Simha. The project will cost around Rs. 14.38 crore. Though the project had received approval in the past, the government had split it into three works and had called for 3 tenders. But this was opposed by the stakeholders, and MCC officials expressed concern that coordination among three different contractors would be difficult. Hence the project was re-submitted to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-approves-biomining-of-legacy-waste/article36374012.ece
09 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Ensuring eco-friendly festival||To ensure that there is no water pollution due to immersion of Ganesh idols, a young artist from Kakalwar village in Gurmitkal taluk Lakshman Kumbar has chosen clay to make the idols this year. Mr. Kumbar has been making Ganesh idols every year during the festival. But, due to water pollution caused by immersion of plaster of Paris idols and those with chemical paints, he has opted for clay to make the idols this time. He has also created awareness among people to buy and establish Ganesh idols made only of clay. “Being a citizen first, it is my duty to create awareness among people to choose clay Ganesh idols instead of those made of plaster of Paris or those painted with chemicals which when immersed will cause water pollution,” Mr. Kumbar said and added that there is a demand for clay Ganesh idols this time when compared to last year. Considering the pandemic situation, the State government has imposed certain conditions on public festivities of Ganesh Chathurti.  Normally, public celebrations of Ganesh Chathurti see Ganesh idols made of plaster of Paris or those painted in chemical colours being installed in public places. But, this time they have to celebrate the festival in an eco-friendly way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensuring-eco-friendly-festival/article36373873.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Gajapayana on Sept. 13||The eight elephants led by Abhimanyu will be received with traditional honours at the Jayamarthanda Gate of the palace on September 16 marking the countdown to the commencement of the Nada Habba. In a first, the idol of Goddess Chamundeshwari, placed on the golden howdah and carried by the elephant during the Jamboo Savari, will be brought from Chamundi Hills to the palace in a procession. The procession route will be embellished and the idol decorated. This is to enable the public to get a darshan of the deity, said Mr. Somashekar. All these years, the idol used during inauguration would be brought to the palace ahead of the Jamboo Savari without fanfare. The cultural programmes will be restricted to the palace premises. The artistes for the cultural programmes will be finalised later and only those from Karnataka will be allowed to perform. However, the duration of the programmes will be short and the number of people who can witness it will be limited. But in case active cases continue to decline, a decision will be taken after September 25 on whether to open up the events to more people. Illumination The committee also decided to illuminate the city and nearly 150 roads spanning nearly 100 km and 77 circles from October 6 to 15. The Minister said the Dasara high-powered committee meeting had announced Rs. 8 crore for this year’s festival. The authorities have sought Rs. 50 lakh for the maintenance of the elephants that will take part in Dasara and even this will be sanctioned, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gajapayana-on-sept-13/article36374015.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Gathering support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gathering-support/article36373659.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A grand fest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-grand-fest/article36373996.ece
09 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Estates face threat from wild elephants||Wild elephants have destroyed the vegetable cultivation on land near residential areas of estate workers in Munnar. Estate workers say nearly an acre of cabbage and garlic cultivation has been destroyed by the elephants. The Kanan Devan Hills Plantation Ltd had allowed the workers to cultivate vegetables in the uncultivated areas close to the workers quarters. Latest incident The latest incident was in the west division of the Aruvikkara estate where vegetables cultivated by M. Priya, N. Kennady, Daivom, Anthoni, Reena Rose, Viswanathan, Tamil Selan, and Rajankam were destroyed. The workers say two elephants entered the area and destroyed nearly an acre of cultivated land. For the past two weeks, when the presence of wild animals was there even during the daytime, they lived in fear, the residents claim. In the Kanthallur grama panchayat also, wild elephants destroyed houses and store rooms. The presence of elephants was also seen at Peridipallom, Anchuveed and Ollavayal. The structures damaged included a store room at Peradipallom. House damaged In another case, a house was damaged when a wild elephant uprooted a palm tree. The scare is much that people have been moved out to Marayur, local people say. A lemon grass extracting unit was also damaged due to the wild elephant attack in Kanthallur panchayat. In the Babu Nagar area of Marayur grama panchayat, a banana cultivation was totally destroyed by the wild elephants. The wild elephants also blocked the main road on Tuesday creating panic among the people of the area. Rapid Action Force A rapid action force has begun functioning under the Adimali forest range office to drive away wild elephants that enter the residential and cultivated areas. The five-member team is equipped with a sound system and high-voltage light to safely drive the wild animals, says a forest official. The team is based at the forest section office at Machiplavu. Contact 04864 299455, 04864 223642 and 8547601381.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/estates-face-threat-from-wild-elephants/article36373961.ece
09 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||ILGMS launched in 12 more panchayats||Public Works and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohammad Riyas said on Wednesday that technology would be used to nurture the tourism sector, and as part of it, an app would be launched soon. The Minister was speaking at the district level announcement of the Integrated Local Governance Management System (ILGMS) software being implemented in the second phase in 12 grama panchayats in the district. With the help of technology, it was possible to inform the outside world about the tourist destinations of the State. The app included photos and videos of tourist destinations provided by local bodies and would help boost the tourism sector in crisis due to COVID, he said. Action plan Doorstep services such as ILGMS could help speed up administrative services included in the 100-day action plan of the State government. People can submit applications and complaints online without having to go to offices. Services would be made faster and more time-bound, he said. Peralassery, Dharmadam, Kolayad, Malur, Kelakam, Narath, Kannapuram, Muzhappilangad, Munderi, Irikkur, Peravoor, and Cherukunnu panchayats were included in the second phase of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ilgms-launched-in-12-more-panchayats/article36373914.ece
09 September 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CUK restrains faculty members from ‘anti-national lectures’||The Central University of Kerala (CUK) has issued a circular, asking its faculty members not to give provocative or anti-national lectures and statements. The circular said that faculty members and employees should “abstain from giving any type of provocative lectures or statements that are anti-national and will be against the interests of the nation”. Strict disciplinary action would be taken against those who indulged in such activities in the future, said the circular, which was signed by the Registrar and issued with the approval of Vice-Chancellor H. Venkateshwarlu. The Vice-Chancellor told The Hindu that the decision was taken by the executive council by taking into account previous controversies, which had created unnecessary resentment on the campus. “We expect the faculty members to stick to their curriculum. To deviate from it and express their views or political opinions will create unnecessary resentment or friction among the students and workers,” he said. “Let the students have an open debate or seminar, where they can express their opinions and view on various issues. However, the faculties should stick to their curriculum in the classes,” the Vice-Chancellor said. Assistant Professor Gilbert Sebastian’s statement on April 19 that the RSS-BJP was a proto-fascist organisation and his criticism of the Union government’s policy of exporting COVID vaccines, had stirred a controversy. One of the students raised a complaint against him with the university and also wrote to the Ministry of Human Resource and Development. Following this, an inquiry committee formed to inquire about the issue suspended him. The Vice Chancellor, however, revoked his suspension on June 10 after he expressed regret that his views in the class were misconstrued by others and brought unnecessary and unfavourable attention to the university. However, the executive council expressed concern over the Vice Chancellor’s decision to withdraw the suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cuk-restrains-faculty-members-from-anti-national-lectures/article36373913.ece
09 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Thrikkakara Chairperson seeks police protection to enter office||Thrikkakara Municipal Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan has filed a writ petition in the Kerala High Court seeking police protection for entering her office and discharging duties as Chairperson of the Municipality. In her petition, she alleged that the Opposition councillors had created a “dreadful situation” whereby criminal forces had been used against the petitioner to deter her from discharging her lawful duties as Chairperson. She further alleged that P.C. Manoop and three other Opposition councillors incited other members to form unlawful assembly and resorted to assault with an intention to outrage her modesty in public. They had also insulted her “racially by raising humiliating, insulting and annoying slogans” referring to her caste and ridiculed her for being a member of the scheduled caste community. Besides, they had forcibly restrained and confined the petitioner wrongfully in her official chamber with an intention to torture her from 3 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. on September 1, said the petition. It had now become impossible for her to enter the office and discharge her official duties without fear because of the threats to her life from the Opposition councillors. The police had refused to take action on her complaints, facilitating the continuance of the high-handed behaviour of the Opposition, the Chairperson added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrikkakara-chairperson-seeks-police-protection-to-enter-office/article36373915.ece
09 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi metro launches passenger survey||In order to gauge what the commuters want, Kochi metro has kick-started a passenger survey. The survey, in google form, has been made available on the website of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) and on the metro company’s social media platforms. A communication said that the survey remains open to all existing and potential passengers of the metro train service. KMRL managing director Loknath Behera said the survey is the first step towards taking the metro ridership to two lakh by November this year. Pitjack, a train-lifting facility, was inaugurated at Kochi metro’s Muttom depot by Mr. Behera. The device, set up below the floor, is capable of lifting the metro train without uncoupling individual metro cars in one go. The facility will be used for train underframe inspection and repairs with ease and speed. The mechanism consists of six bogie support, 12 car body support and one control panel. Once the train is lifted, bogie removal, under frame equipment removal and replacement can be done easily, said a release. After lifting the train, individual bogies can be lowered and replaced without any other support facility. The jack was installed by M/s Windhoff Bahn-und Anlagentechnik GmbH, a German firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-metro-launches-passenger-survey/article36373918.ece
09 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Bonus marks help them secure UG admission||Students enjoying bonus marks for their participation in programmes like National Cadet Corps (NCC) and National Service Scheme (NSS) have gained an upper hand compared to those not having it in the rank list for admission to various undergraduate programmes offered by colleges affiliated to Mahatma Gandhi University in the new academic year. The findings assume significance as many meritorious students had echoed concerns about not figuring in the first allotment list published by the university last week. Aspirants who had scored more than 99% marks in the qualifying examination, but not having any bonus marks to claim were either found at the bottom of the rank list or out of it, according to official data. A candidate having NCC certificate at the Plus Two level will get 15 bonus marks. An additional five bonus marks will be provided to those holding the ‘B’ certificate in the NCC. An assessment of the first 15 ranks in the allotment for B.Com. programmes showed that the first 15 positions in four colleges were won by students having bonus marks. Only two students without any bonus marks had figured in the first 15 positions for the B.Com. course in three colleges. Students having bonus marks had won nine of the first 15 positions in the rank list for B.A. programmes in two colleges. In five colleges, the corresponding number was eight followed by seven in another eight colleges. Six students who had the advantage of bonus marks had figured in the first 15 in the rank list for admission to eight affiliated colleges. Four colleges had eight students with bonus marks figuring in the first 15 ranks for B.Sc. courses. The university authorities pointed out that bonus marks would make an impact when the difference between the first and the last rank was around five marks. However, they rejected the claims made by a section that CBSE students were losing out to aspirants belonging to State boards in view of liberal valuation. There will be no loss as marks secured by candidates belonging to various boards are standardised to 1,200, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bonus-marks-help-them-secure-ug-admission/article36373920.ece
09 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Friend of Nellikuzhi murder accused held||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the fatal gunning down of a dental surgeon at Nellikuzhi near Kothamangalam has arrested Adithyan, friend of the prime accused Rakhil. Twenty-four-year-old Manasa, a fourth-year student pursuing dentistry, was killed on July 30 after Rakhil, a resident of Kannur shot her using a country-made 7.62 mm pistol. The assailant later shot himself dead. Two Bihar natives had been arrested by the investigating team for supplying the firearm to Rakhil. Adithyan, a close friend and business partner of the key accused, was held for travelling with Rakhil to buy the pistol illegally from Bihar. The SIT has taken him to Bihar as part of the follow-up investigation. The police have not yet confirmed whether Adithyan had prior knowledge about Rakhil’s intent to commit the murder. He had earlier informed the team that Rakhil had never told him about any such motive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/friend-of-nellikuzhi-murder-accused-held/article36373923.ece
09 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cochin Port Protection Council formed||A Cochin Port Protection Council has been formed to protect the interests of the port and its activities. The initiative came from Mayor M. Anilkumar, who was later elected as the chairman of the council. The council has decided to seek compensation for the loss suffered by the port on account of the dredging in the shipping channel. The council has also resolved to work for regaining the lost glory of the Cochin Port and to take the initiative for addressing the issues faced by it. The meeting also decided to appoint a committee to hold a scientific study on the ecological impacts of dredging. The meeting elected C.D. Nandakumar as the general convener of the council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cochin-port-protection-council-formed/article36373919.ece
09 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Lab sealed for conducting COVID tests without licence||A private lab near the Edappally toll junction was sealed on Wednesday morning after a surprise inspection led by District Collector Jafar Malik found that the management was conducting COVID-19 tests in violation of rules and regulations. The inspection followed the district administration’s decision to initiate stringent action against labs conducting COVID tests without the approval of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “The inspections revealed that the Cochin Healthcare Diagnostic centre was conducting COVID tests without valid licence and approval from the ICMR. The PPE kits meant for people who turned up for the tests were used repeatedly for over a month,” said Mr. Malik.  The Collector said that action will be taken against the owner of the facility based on the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lab-sealed-for-conducting-covid-tests-without-licence/article36373922.ece
09 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Caprolactam production resumes at FACT||Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore has restarted production of caprolactam after a gap of nearly nine years years, making it a "momentous" event for the public sector company. While restarting caprolactam will add about Rs. 600 crore to Rs. 700 crore to the turnover of the company, the product from FACT will also be a major import substitution. The restarting of caprolactam production comes as the country is celebrating “Azadi Ka Amrith Mahotsav” in line with the nation’s vision of achieving self-sufficiency, said a communication from FACT here. FACT has a capacity to produce 50,000 tonnes of caprolactam per year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caprolactam-production-resumes-at-fact/article36373921.ece
09 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Govt. opposes CBI probe into Karuvannur bank fraud||There is no need to transfer the investigation into the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank fraud to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as the Crime Branch is probing the case in an effective and fair manner, according to an affidavit filed by the State government before the Kerala High Court on Wednesday, Opposing a plea for a CBI probe in the case, the State government submitted that if the investigation was handed over to the Central agency, it would adversely affect the morale of the police as a whole. The petition seeking a CBI probe was filed by M.V. Suresh, a former employee of the bank, alleging that as the bank was managed by a committee owing allegiance to the CPI(M), an investigation by the police or the Crime Branch would not be fair. In fact, around Rs. 300 crore had been siphoned off from various accounts of the bank at the behest of the managing committee of the bank, the petitioner said.  The State government submitted that the Crime Branch was a specialised agency, fully competent and authorised, to investigate serious economic offences such as cyber and bank frauds amounting to Rs. 5 crore and above. The fact that the management of the bank owed allegiance to a particular political party or ruling party was not a ground to change the investigation agency. Efforts were on to find out other persons who were involved in the offence and their respective responsibilities, the affidavit said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-opposes-cbi-probe-into-karuvannur-bank-fraud/article36373924.ece
09 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3,611 fresh infections||As many as 3,611 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Wednesday. The test positivity rate was 16.57%. Thrikkakara recorded 107 new cases while Elamkunnapuzha had 90, Njarakkal 86, and Thripunithura 82. The district has so far administered 36.11 lakh doses of COVID vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3611-fresh-infections/article36373916.ece
09 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Arms seizure case: Lankan national held||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested Arasaratinam Ramesh, a Sri Lankan national, in connection with the Vizhinjam arms seizure case. The case was originally registered by the Vizhinjam police against six Sri Lankan nationals following their arrest and seizure of 300 kg of heroin, five AK-47 guns and 1,000 live rounds from their a boat by the Indian Coast Guard on March 18, 2021. The NIA took over the investigation and arrested Suresh Raj and Soundarajan on August 2, 2021. A communication from the agency said Mr. Ramesh is the brother of Suresh Raj. The special court for NIA cases in Kochi remanded him in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arms-seizure-case-lankan-national-held/article36373938.ece
09 September 2021||KOllam,KERALA||Kollam has 2,717 fresh cases||The district reported 2,717 new cases of COVID-19 and 2,077 recoveries on Wednesday. While 2,707 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include 10 health workers. At present, the district has 33,385 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 23,07,837. While 2,369 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 3,44,208 primary and 19,676 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in the district is 18.1%. Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 2,214 persons testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 2,187 persons including 11 health workers contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 17.58%. With 192 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kanjirappilly panchayat, which recorded 96 cases. As many as 2,198 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 8,914. Meanwhile, 49,883 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 1,181 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 1,169 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 15.8%. With 82 cases , Pathanamathitta reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kottanad, which reported 50 cases. Meanwhile, the decease claimed eight more lives in the district. With 1,182 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 11,235.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)   Test positivity rate in Kollam is 18.1%, in Kottayam 17.58%, and in Pathanamthitta 15.8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-has-2717-fresh-cases/article36373964.ece
09 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Police officer suspended for misbehaviour||Ajith Kumar, grade sub-inspector at the Kulathupuzha station, has been suspended for misbehaving with a two-wheeler rider. A case has been filed against him for stopping a woman in an inebriated state and seizing her licence. The suspension order has been issued by District Police Chief (Kollam Rural) K.B. Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-officer-suspended-for-misbehaviour/article36373969.ece
09 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||No-trust motion at Erattupetta||The Opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) has decided to move a no-confidence motion against the chairperson of the United Democratic Front (UDF)-led Erattupetta municipal council. The IUML-Congress coalition also appears to be in trouble, as one of its councillors has gone into hiding. The LDF approached the Municipal Affairs Department regional director in Kollam and served a notice for a no-confidence motion against chairperson Suhara Abdul Khader last week. The notice, served with the backing of Congress councillor Ansalana Pareekkutti, is slated for discussion on September 13. In the 28-member council, the UDF has 14 members, the LDF has nine, and the Social Democratic Party of India has five members. To get the motion adopted, the LDF needs to secure at least 15 votes, making the stance of the SDPI all the more significant. “With just nine members, it is still difficult for the LDF to wrest power even if it brings down the chairperson with the support of the SDPI. During the previous period, the LDF member who had been elected as chairperson resigned shortly after the election stating that the Left coalition did not want to be in power with the support of the SDPI,” pointed out a senior Congress leader. The latest developments, meanwhile, has triggered a controversy with the UDF alleging the involvement of Poonjar legislator Sebastian Kulathungal behind the vanishing of its councillor and even organised a protest march to his office. Mr. Kulathungal, on his part, has now challenged the UDF to prove the allegations. During the 2015-20 period, the municipality witnessed the adoption of five no-trust motions, pushing the civic body administration into utter chaos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-trust-motion-at-erattupetta/article36373965.ece
09 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Join fight against Nipah, Veena urges parties||Health Minister Veena George has sought the help of political parties in leading the preventive measures against Nipah. At an all-party meeting in Kozhikode on Wednesday, the Minister said that parties could play a key role in creating general vigil and awareness among the public in the backdrop of both Nipah and COVID. She said that fake news was making rounds due to the lack of awareness about the diseases. Warning the people against attacking bats due to some misunderstandings about them, she urged party activists to prevent large gatherings. Public Works Minister P.A.Mohammed Riyas said that there were several misconceptions about Nipah and that people were hesitant to admit it when they showed symptoms of any disease. He said that the local people were cooperating well with the preventive measures. District Collector N.Tej Lohit Reddy and District Medical Officer V.Jayasree took part in the online meeting. Directives issued Later in the day, Ms. George visited the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, and directed the authorities there to take precautions to avoid infection among healthcare workers. She told the officials to hold a meeting of the hospital medical board on the treatment of people symptomatic of Nipah infection and submit a report to the State Medical Board. Ms. George said that the treatment of COVID, non-COVID, and Nipah infections should be taken forward simultaneously. She also held talks with experts from the National Institute of Virology, Pune, and its unit at Alappuzha. She inspected the functioning of the special lab facility set up at the hospital to test samples of suspected patients after the death of a 12-year-old boy due to Nipah infection. At another special meeting to discuss the development of the medical college hospital, the Minister gave instructions to strengthen the cardiology department. Steps should be taken to operate the cath lab round-the-clock. Priority should be given to organ transplant surgeries and a mechanism for liver transplant should be installed soon, she instructed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/join-fight-against-nipah-veena-urges-parties/article36373911.ece
09 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Flight fares to Gulf countries skyrocket||With the Gulf region slowly opening up to tourists, airfare charges have skyrocketed for one-day travel to various destinations. Foreign airline companies have hiked ticket rates, which many believe would help them to narrow their losses. However, genuine flyers planning to return to various Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations, especially the United Arab Emirates (UAE), are feeling the pinch. Previously several expatriates were forced to book tickets on charter flights at an exorbitant price between Rs. 2 lakh and Rs. 4 lakh to rejoin their workplace. A reason cited for the jacked-up prices now is that commercial international passenger flights remain suspended in the country till September 30. The ban was to end on August 31 after a 17-month gap. At the same time, India has formed air-bubble pacts with 28 countries. Thus international flights will operate to about 50 cities in September. The tariffs The tariff for an outbound Kochi-Dubai Emirates flight has just one option in the first class on September 10. The lowest price for the 4.30 a.m. non-stop flight is Rs. 1,31,031. Similar is the option and fare for the next day. The following days, the Dubai-based airline offers business class tickets either from Kochi or Thiruvananthapuram in the range between Rs. 35,000 and Rs. 92,000. However, an economy class ticket costs Rs. 40,211 on September 30. Etihad Airways, the second flag carrier of the UAE, has one-way economy class tickets from Kochi to Abu Dhabi priced at Rs. 70,200, Rs. 25,906, and Rs. 84,165 on September 10, 11 and 12 respectively. The economy airfare for a Kozhikode-Doha Qatar Airways flight is Rs. 68,285 on September 10. Likewise, the charge is Rs. 80,098 for September 11 and 12 .However, the fare is Rs. 55,134 on September 15 and Rs. 94,285 on September 19. Air India Express The tariff of an Air India Express flight departing from Kozhikode to Dubai is priced between Rs. 18,000 and Rs. 20000 this week. But lower fares are available at Rs. 11, 000 towards the last week of the month. However, its Kozhikode-Damman flight on Saturday is priced at Rs. 34,439 and Rs. 37, 939 on September 17. The Air India Kozhikode-Dubai rate is Rs. 23,853 on September 10, Rs. 20,703 on September 13 and Rs. 23,853 on September 17. Its economy class fare is Rs. 18,603 on September 24. Air Arabia, the Emirati low-cost airline, offers tickets from Kerala sectors at Rs. 11,000 to Sharjah . Go First, the Indian ultra-low-cost airline, offers tariffs in the range of Rs. 11,000 and Rs. 14,000 in several sectors.  A reason cited for high prices is that commercial international passenger flights remain suspended in the country till September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flight-fares-to-gulf-countries-skyrocket/article36373926.ece
09 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||COVID awareness campaign for children launched in city||Health Minister Veena George on Wednesday launched a 17-day COVID awareness campaign for children designed by the Education Standing Committee of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation in view of the third wave of COVID, which is likely to affect children more. The programme is being planned and organised in association with teachers, Deputy Director of Education, Regional Deputy Director of Higher Secondary Education, Additional Director of Vocational Higher Secondary Education and the Samagra Shiksha Keralam and implemented in 126 high schools and higher secondary schools in the city. Mayor Beena Philip had introduced the programmes as an effort to impart knowledge related to COVID among children in order to protect them from infection as well as develop social and scientific consciousness among them. It also aims at developing a project to cater to the post-COVID needs in children (mental, physical, and nutritional) and to soothe the anxieties and worries in them at the time of crisis. It will also create a favourable environment for the overall development of the children and build their confidence, the Mayor said. Education Standing Committee Chairperson C.Rekha said that the first stage of the campaign was an online survey using the Google form to understand the number of COVID affected children and if their family members had been vaccinated. The survey would be conducted through all schools in the city. The corporation has identified 17 schools in the city to take a lead in this project. Each school will select one programme and develop interactive tools to effectively convey the WHO recommendations to children in a diverse and engaging manner. The materials thus created, including plays, short films, mono act, dance, lectures or any other creative work, will be made available to the public through the corporation’s Youtube channel and web page. 3,058 test positive Meanwhile, the COVID test positivity rate in Kozhikode remained below 19% for the second day in a row. On Wednesday, 3,058 people tested positive for SARS COV2 virus when 17,047 people were tested and the TPR was 18.24%. District Medical Officer V.Jayasree said that 3,001 got infected through local contact while the source was unknown in 36 cases. Eleven people, who had come from abroad, four from other States and six health workers turned positive on Wednesday. A total of 3,265 persons were discharged from various treatment facilities in the district. The active caseload in Kozhikode as on Wednesday was 33,724 while 1,01,258 were under observations. So far, 2,310 COVID deaths have been reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-awareness-campaign-for-children-launched-in-city/article36373912.ece
09 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Jaleel fails to find support||Former Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel finds himself isolated with the government and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] disowning him in his fight against Indian Union Muslim League general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty. At a press briefing here on Monday, Dr. Jaleel said the Cooperative Department had detected the transaction of illegal funds to the tune of Rs. 1,021 crore in the A.R. Nagar Service Cooperative Bank. “Mr. Kunhalikutty and his benami and former bank secretary V.K. Harikumar are the kingpins of this fraud,” he said, seeking an investigation by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). However, the government rejected his demand for an ED inquiry. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the ongoing investigation by the State agency would be enough. Displeasure The CPI(M) is learnt to have expressed its displeasure at Dr. Jaleel’s allegations against Mr. Kunhalikutty. CPI(M) secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said the demand for an ED investigation was against the party stand. It was not fair to target one person in connection with irregularities in a cooperative bank. Meanwhile, Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan said that the government machinery should not be used for personal vendetta. He said it was too early to say if there were irregularities in the A.R. Nagar Service Cooperative Bank. The inquiry report by the Cooperative Department had not reached him. Meanwhile, IUML State general secretary P.M.A. Salam said the party had not given any importance to Dr. Jaleel. Although Dr. Jaleel described the Chief Minister as a guru to him, he said he would continue his fight against Mr. Kunhalikutty. He denied that he had asked for an ED investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jaleel-fails-to-find-support/article36373928.ece
09 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||TDB seeks aid for Sabarimala pilgrimage||With just a couple of months left for the annual pilgrim season at Sabarimala to take off, a financially constrained Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has once again approached the State government seeking an assistance of Rs. 100 crore to prepare for the event. Confirming the move, TDB president N. Vasu said a request to this effect had been submitted to Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal through Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan. The restrictions imposed due to COVID-19 had a drastic effect on its revenue sources with the board suffering a loss of over Rs. 600 crore since March last year. “The average daily expenditure on Sabarimala when it is open to devotees during the monthly pujas is around Rs. 30 lakh. The cost is even higher during the Mandalam-Makaravilakku days as the arrangements have to be foolproof irrespective of the declining footfall. Given our current financial profile, there is no way we can go ahead with the plan without the State’s support,” said Mr. Vasu.  Decreased income The income from Sabarimala, which used to be the board’s main stay for long, fell to Rs. 21 crore during the last pilgrimage season as against Rs. 270 in the previous year. The uncertainty over the length of the pandemic-induced disruptions has only exacerbated the fears of next season also becoming a financial disaster. As per estimates, the restrictions imposed due to COVID-19 are having a drastic effect on the revenue source of the TDB with the board suffering a loss of about Rs. 600 crore since March 2020. During the previous fiscal, the TDB had received a financial assistance of Rs. 90 crore from the State government in two instalments. In July this year, it received yet another tranche of Rs. 10 crore as short-term assistance. In view of the regulations on the entry of pilgrims this season, the TDB has also sought to curb the cost of preparations by bringing down the official deployment. “Last year, when the daily number of devotees was fixed at 1,000, we had around 12,000 policemen on duty at Sabarimala, besides officials from various other departments including the revenue and public works. Rationalising this number in proportion to the daily limit of pilgrims will help bringing down the cost and reduce the risk of a pandemic spread as happened last year,” pointed out a senior TDB official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tdb-seeks-aid-for-sabarimala-pilgrimage/article36373962.ece
09 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Case against social media celebrity||The Thiruvalla police have launched a probe into the episode in which a social media celebrity entered the Puthukulangara palliyodam (snakeboat) with her footwear on. Officials said here on Wednesday that a case has been booked against Nimisha Bijo, a native of Erattupetta, and her friend Unni, a native of Puliyoor, under Section 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) of the Indian Penal Code. The case follows a complaint lodged by the Palliyoda Seva Sangham. The police are now slated to summon the accused for collecting their statements. As per the case, the woman entered the Palliyodam owned by the Puthukulangara Palliyoda Seva Samithi, docked at a boathouse called Palliyodapura, without permission and in violation of the tradition. Pictures posted The incident came to light when the woman posted her pictures on board the palliyodam in the social media. The pictures have since been deleted following protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-social-media-celebrity/article36373966.ece
09 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Medical college gets own STP||A sewage treatment plant (STP) will become operational on the Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, campus on Thursday, offering a long-term solution to the disposal of waste generated on the vast campus. Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan is set to inaugurate the facility at 3 p.m. The STP has the capacity to treat 5 million litres (mld) a day. The STP will treat the large volume of waste generated in all the institutions situated on the campus. With its commissioning, the medical college will no longer have to depend on the STP at Muttathara for treating waste. AMRUT funds The plant has been constructed with funds from the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). The work was taken up by the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) as part of expanding the sewerage network in the city Corporation limits. The plant has the distinction of being the first decentralised plant of the KWA in the State and the second biggest STP, after the 107-mld unit at Muttathara. It is also equipped for the tertiary treatment of wastewater, which can then be used in construction sites and for watering the medical college garden. The KWA had awarded the Rs. 14.38-crore project to Tuticorin-based Sainath Envirotech. ''The STP has been designed with the requirement for the next 50 years in mind. We have been carrying out trials over the past one month,'' said an official of the KWA Projects Division, Thiruvananthapuram. Effluent treatment The sewage treatment plant employs the moving bed bio reactor (MBBR) technology. It also comes with 12 effluent treatment units for the treatment of waste with chemical content generated in the hospital laboratories, operation theatres, laundries and canteen. At present, liquid waste from the medical college and the allied institutions are collected in two tanks and pumped to the Muttathara STP for processing through the Kannamoola pumping station. However, the collection tanks had developed defects over time, causing the wastewater to seep into the water sources in the region. This had led to protests, prompting the government to initiate measures to process the waste within the campus itself. The KWA had prepared a detailed project report for the STP, which obtained administrative sanction on December 2017. The technical sanction was issued in September 2018. Sainath Envirotech bagged the project for Rs. 14.38 crore in September 2019. Mayor Arya Rajendran will preside over the inauguration.  Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan is set to inaugurate the facility today||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-gets-own-stp/article36374107.ece
09 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||An exchange programme for inmates of zoo||Instead of spending money to buy animals, a project to exchange animals that are in excess numbers in the State zoos for those lacking them is being planned, Minister for Zoos and Dairy Development J. Chinchurani has said. She was speaking after inaugurating four new projects — an office-cum-store complex, butterfly garden, exotic bird enclosure and a mobile app — at the capital city zoo here on Wednesday. The projects were inaugurated as part of the 100-day action plan of the State government. The Minister said the public have been waiting for the city zoo and the museum to reopen. With the COVID-19 situation not as grave, both the museum and the zoo could reopen soon. Safety of the zoo employees would be ensured. The office-cum-store would help officials and employees, particularly women, work in a comfortable environment. While the butterfly park would be of benefit to students, the mobile app would provide necessary information to those unable to visit the zoo in the current pandemic situation, said Ms. Chinchurani. Staff honoured She also honoured zoo employees for their exemplary work. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, presided over the function, while zoo director S. Abu delivered the welcome address. The two-storey office-cum-store complex features some modern facilities such as large-scale storage of animal food such as grains and vegetable, besides a freezer, food preparation area, cooking area and a slaughterhouse on one floor. On the floor above is the office with rooms for supervisors, curator and superintendent, lockers for staff, lunch area, resting area and changing rooms. The butterfly garden, designed under the guidance of the Travancore Nature History Society’s members Kalesh Sadasivan and Baiju, has both host and larval plants to attract butterflies and encourage their breeding. A waterfall and a bridge enhance the aesthetics of the park, aimed at increasing the butterfly population.  The four projects undertaken as part of zoo modernisation cost Rs. 3.53 crore in all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-exchange-programme-for-inmates-of-zoo/article36374103.ece
09 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tight controls against illegal parking to ease RTC services||A high-level meeting chaired by Transport Minister Antony Raju on Wednesday decided to impose strict controls to prevent illegal parking in order to ease the flow of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation’s (KSRTC) new circular bus services set to be launched in the city. All the necessary steps for the launch of the service to improve public transport connectivity in the city and introduce KSRTC services to places where there is no existing service, have been completed. In the initial phase, the circular services will ply along seven routes. Colour-coded buses will ply these routes in the clockwise and anti-clockwise directions all through the day. Public can avail themselves of any number of trips in the circular bus routes upon obtaining a pass. New facilities The meeting decided to take action against illegal parking, especially in the routes taken by the circular services, considering the possibility of traffic jams due to haphazard parking. Traffic police officials said steps would be taken to tow away such vehicles. Mr. Raju has requested the public's cooperation for the services, which is expected to vastly improve connectivity. The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation officials said the multi-level car parking lot located at its main office premises in Palayam will be opened to the public soon. More parking facilities are also being arranged in the city. Transport secretary Biju Prabhakar, Thiruvananthapuram Subcollector M.S. Madhavikutty and officials of the city Corporation, police, Public Works Department and the road safety authority were among those who participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tight-controls-against-illegal-parking-to-ease-rtc-services/article36374104.ece
09 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sudhakaran asks Congress workers to close ranks||Newly appointed District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents convened for a leadership training camp against the verdant backdrop of the Neyyar Dam here on Wednesday, days after the contentious nomination of office-bearers threatened to deepen fissures in the Congress in the State. Wrangling The bitter inner-party wrangling saw senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, who head the traditional ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups respectively, pitting their wits against the emergent official group led by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan. Nevertheless, the four leaders shared the stage in an atmosphere of open friendliness at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute if Development Studies overlooking the reservoir, signalling a temporary easing of hostilities. Mr. Sudhakaran and Mr. Satheesan appeared to have achieved a détente to some measure by reaching out to the veterans. Mr. Satheesan and Mr. Sudhakaran reportedly promised to consult Mr. Chandy and Mr. Chennithala more closely on organisational matters and drop the "no group-only party" mantra. The "old guard" had complained that the incumbent KPCC leadership had kept them in the dark about DCC reorganisation and arbitrarily appointed the DCC chiefs to banish the established A and I factions to organisational irrelevance. Mr. Sudhakaran pointedly urged Congress workers to close ranks against those who sought to weaken the party by creating divisions. Congress workers are not a gagged group. Nevertheless, they should confine their criticism to party forums and not provide ammunition for enemies. Roadmap for rejig Mr. Sudhakaran also laid out the roadmap for future reorganisation. The Congress is going through a transformational phase. Leaders said that the CPI(M) and the BJP are in cahoots with each other in the State to undermine the Congress. The stasis in the investigation in the gold smuggling case and the reluctance of the State police to prosecute BJP State president K. Surendran in the Kodakara hawala heist case are proof of the quid pro quo. Hence, the Congress should gird itself to fight a two-pronged battle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sudhakaran-asks-congress-workers-to-close-ranks/article36374059.ece
09 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cases go up again||The State’s COVID-19 case graph which showed signs of a decline again went up on Wednesday. The State logged 30,196 new cases when 1,71,295 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) also increased to 17.63%. Current ICU occupancy was more or less steady at 2,479, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support was steady at 1,021. The active case pool has more or less stabilised, with 2,39,480 patients now. On Wednesday, the State had one of the highest number of recoveries in recent times, with 27,579 persons reported to have recovered from the disease. There seems to be no let-up in COVID deaths, with an average of at least 100-120 persons succumbing to the disease every day. 181 deaths The official cumulative case fatality now stands at 22,001 with the addition of 181 recent deaths. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,587, while the hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe COVID stood at 32,817. Among districts, Thrissur again came on top with 3,832 cases, followed by Ernakulam 3,611, Kozhikode 3,058, Thiruvananthapuram 2,900, Kollam 2,717, Malappuram 2,580, Palakkad 2,288, Kottayam 2,214, Alappuzha 1,645, Kannur 1,433, Idukki 1,333 Pathanamthitta 1,181, Wayanad 894 and Kasaragod 510.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-go-up-again/article36373931.ece
09 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Now, Sainik School welcomes girl cadets||Three years after Sainik School, Chhingchhip, Mizoram, became the first in the country to admit girl cadets, Sainik School, Kazhakuttam, the sole Sainik School in the State, has admitted its first batch of girl students. The students took admission to the school, founded in 1962, after clearing the All India Sainik School Entrance Examination 2021 for Class VI and Class IX. A special assembly was held in the school auditorium to welcome the first batch comprising seven girls from the State, two from Bihar and one from Uttar Pradesh. Col. Dhirendra Kumar, Principal, conveyed to the new cadets his wishes for their stay in the one-of-its-kind school in the State, a statement here said on Wednesday. The school infrastructure has seen significant changes in the past year to welcome the girl students. Construction of a new house and dormitory was completed by the beginning of the academic year. Admission of girl cadets to Sainik Schools proved a successful experiment by the Sainik School Society in Mizoram in the 2018-19 academic year, Subsequently, other States also took the initiative of admitting girls to their Sainik Schools, a move aimed at improving women’s participation in the Armed forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-sainik-school-welcomes-girl-cadets/article36374101.ece
09 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Expert team inspects Jalasamrudhi projects||An expert team led by former Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac visited areas in Vilappil and Malayinkeezhu grama panchayats under the Jalasamrudhi water conservation project, as part of the preparation of an action plan for the second phase of the project. The team visited St. Xavier's School at Peyad to oversee the functioning of the automatic weather detection system, well recharging and organic farming as part of the project. At Alakunnam ward, the team inspected the Cherukodu-Kunchukonam canal, which was revived after more than 30 years. They also visited the mini drinking water project at Karode, and the revived pond with an automatic water level monitoring system at Nelliyode ward. Following the site visits, a meeting of people's representatives of the panchayats was held at the Government Upper Primary School at Vilappilsala. Future activities I.B. Satheesh, MLA, presided over the meeting in which the future activities to be taken up under the Jalasamrudhi project were discussed. Later, the team, which included Mr. Isaac, Mr. Satheesh and Land Use Board Commissioner A. Nizamudeen, visited the project areas at Malayinkeezhu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expert-team-inspects-jalasamrudhi-projects/article36374105.ece
09 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hotels seek resumption of dine-in services||The Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association (KHRA) is embarking on an agitation from September 16 demanding permission for dine-in. In a press note issued here on Wednesday, the association said eateries across the State were facing a crisis ever since the government declared a ban on dine-in in the wake of a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases more than 100 days ago. It said the denial of permission was unfair when the government had opened up other sectors such as public transport, retail trade and tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hotels-seek-resumption-of-dine-in-services/article36374110.ece
09 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM to launch digital services of Revenue dept.||Queuing up at village offices to pay land tax is now set to be a thing of the past. The Revenue Department has come up with a mobile app for making the payment online. The e-payment feature is one of the seven digital services of the department that will be launched by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday, said Revenue Minister K. Rajan on Wednesday. Apart from enabling online land tax payment, the public will be informed about the tax details every year via SMS. Tax receipts can also be downloaded online, the Minister said. The Chief Minister will also launch a digital service through which the field measurement sketch 'thandaper' account and location map can be applied for and downloaded online. The department is also introducing a module for filing applications online for the conversion of land. The Chief Minister will also launch the websites for all village offices, a module for disbursing social security pension online for patients with cancer, leprosy and tuberculosis, quick-pay service and digitisation of basic tax register and thandaper account in all village offices. Pattaya mela Mr. Vijayan will inaugurate the State, district and taluk level pattaya melas on September 14. The melas will be held simultaneously in all 14 district centres and 77 taluks. In all, 13,500 pattayams are ready for distribution, according to the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-launch-digital-services-of-revenue-department/article36373967.ece
09 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital logs 2,900 cases||The capital district reported 2,900 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest daily caseload in recent weeks. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district remained high at 16.9% and active case pool stood at 17,548. While the district reported 1,646 recoveries, 2,199 persons were newly prescribed quarantine, taking the total number of people in quarantine to 42,219. Meanwhile, the district administration has declared ward no. 39 of Nedumangad municipality a containment zone. The Lakshamveedu colony and Nettarachira in ward no. 2 of Aruvikkara panchayat have been declared micro-containment zones. Stringent lockdown measures have been imposed in these regions, said District Collector Navjot Khosa. Shops selling provisions, fruits and vegetables, milk products, fish, meat, and bakeries, will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Ration shops, Maveli stores, Milma booths and Supplyco outlets will be open till 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-logs-2900-cases/article36374109.ece
09 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC exam certificates on DigiLocker||Certificates of students who cleared the SSLC examinations this year are available on DigiLocker. The facility has been made available by Pareeksha Bhavan under the General Education Department with the support of the Kerala State IT Mission, e-Mission, and the national e-Governance division. To get SSLC certificates on DigiLocker, log into DigiLocker and click ‘Get more now.’ In the Education section, select ‘Board of Public Examination Kerala’ and then ‘Class X School Leaving Certificate.’ Enter register number and year and follow the instructions to get the SSLC certificate. In case of any difficulties, contact the Kerala State IT Mission’s citizen call centre on 0471-155300 (toll-free), 0471-2335523 (toll-free).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-exam-certificates-on-digilocker/article36373932.ece
09 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4.64 lakh applications for Plus One||More than 4,64,012 students have submitted applications for admission to Plus One higher secondary courses under the single-window system. Wednesday was the last date for submission of applications. Of the total applicants, 4,20,774 are students who have cleared the SSLC examinations, while more than 30,757 are from the CBSE stream, 3,303 from ICSE, and more than 9,178 from other streams. The maximum number of applicants is from Malappuram – over 77,668. The total number of applicants this year is nearly 12,000 fewer than the number last year. The General Education Department recently converted community quota seats in 11 aided higher secondary schools to merit quota. Trial allotment will be held on September 13. The first allotment will be on September 22. Admissions will begin on September 23. Main allotment will conclude on October 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/464-lakh-applications-for-plus-one/article36373933.ece
09 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EML takeover is complete||The State government has taken over the Central public sector undertaking Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited-Electrical Machines Limited (BHEL-EML) located in Kasaragod. Making the declaration at an online conference on Tuesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government would try to open public sector units in every possible sector in which it could intervene. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, who presided, said the government aim was to turn all PSUs into profit-making companies through diversification and modernisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eml-takeover-is-complete/article36373934.ece
09 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for unique Thandaper||The Revenue Department has received the approval from the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for implementing the Aadhaar-linked 'Unique Thandaper' system. This will enable the registration of all properties held by an individual under a unique Thandaper, said Revenue Minister K. Rajan on Wednesday. It will help detect and end land-related irregularities and benami holdings, he said. A 12-digit unique identification number will replace the Thandaper, he said, adding that the department is preparing an action plan for the implementation of the unique Thandaper mechanism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unique-thandaper-centre-gives-nod/article36373968.ece
09 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Whirlwind havoc in Puthur||Widespread damage occurred in a whirlwind that wreaked havoc in the Puthur area, near Ollur, in Thrissur district in the wee hours of Wednesday. Around ten houses were damaged and many trees were uprooted. Electric lines got snapped and power supply was disrupted. No casualties have been reported. Whirlwind was reported at Vettukad, Thampuratti Moola and Maangeri, near the Puthur Zoological Park, around 4.45 a.m. on Wednesday. Seven houses were damaged in Maangeri alone. Many teak and rubber trees were uprooted. As the uprooted trees fell over power lines, supply was disrupted. The traffic also was blocked. The traffic resumed after the Fire and Rescue Services removed the trees from the road. Around 3,000 nendran plantain trees in a leased land near the Syrian Church at Maanchery were destroyed in the whirlwind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/whirlwind-havoc-in-puthur/article36374056.ece
09 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||SIB launches credit card||The South Indian Bank, in association with OneCard, has launched the SIB – OneCard Credit Card. A premium metal card, the SIB – OneCard has a unique app-based onboarding process, which is in line with the bank’s vision of digital transformation. The internationally valid credit card on the Visa Signature platform can be fully controlled through the OneCard App. The SIB – OneCard comes with exciting features such as lifetime validity with zero joining and an annual fee, 100% digital customer onboarding process, instant virtual card issuance, instant issuance of reward points and easy redemption within the app, etc. The premium metal-based card on the Visa Signature platform having NFC facility offers contactless easy management of EMIs from the EMI dashboard in the app. It has the lowest forex fee in the market at just 1%. “Digital Banking being one of the focus areas for the South Indian Bank, this next generation credit card is the best product to offer to India’s young population. More tie-ups with fintech companies are in the anvil and we are happy to associate with OneCard to launch a truly next generation credit card,” said Murali Ramakrishnan, MD & CEO of South Indian Bank. OneCard has been launched by FPL Technologies - a fintech start-up, which aims to digitally revolutionise credit and payments in India. On the occasion of the launch Anurag Sinha, Co-founder & CEO, OneCard said “Our partnership with South Indian Bank fits perfectly with our vision to drive ‘smart banking’ through a mobile-first approach among the tech-savvy Indians. At OneCard, besides offering flexibility and visibility on spends, we offer the customer full control of every aspect involved in credit and payments.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sib-launches-credit-card/article36374054.ece
09 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Responsible investment and industry needed: Minister||Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve has said that ‘responsible investment and responsible industry’ is the policy of the government. He was addressing a Meet-the-Minster programme held here on Tuesday to interact with entrepreneurs and those who aspire to start business. “A three-member committee has been appointed to study and check whether we need any modifications in the existing rules related to industries. The committee will submit the report in three months,” the Minister said adding people can present their suggestions before the committee. Necessary changes will be made according to the report.  Even amidst the COVID-19 pandemic challenges, 3,247 small and medium industries have registered in the State after the new government took charge. They have generated an investment of Rs. 373 crore and job opportunities for 13,209 people in the State. It proves that an industry-friendly atmosphere prevails in the State. Such adalats have to be conducted by the Minister when officials fail to function effectively. Already such adalats have been held in six districts, he said. An amount of Rs. 1.23 crore for 18 people were distributed as subsidies for industries at the function. The Minister released ‘Enterprising’, a project report of the Department of Industries for the coming five years in Thrissur district. The Minister considered 92 complaints at the adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/responsible-investment-and-industry-needed-minister/article36374058.ece
09 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Black fever case reported in Thrissur||A black fever (leishmaniasis) case has been reported from Vellikkulangara at Mattathur grama panchayat in the district. The 77-year-old man who had tested for visceral leishmaniasis (first stage of black fever) in 2019 was detected now with post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Black fever, transmitted through sand fly infected with the parasite leishmania donovani, causes emaciation, enlargement of spleen and liver, anaemia and fever. The next stage leads to darkening of the skin, so the name black fever. Eradication bid The case was identified during a survey conducted in the State as part of elimination of the disease by 2030, according to M.S. Sasi, Additional Director (Entomology), Directorate of Health Service, Thiruvananthapuram. The first case of black fever in the State was detected in 2001 in a six-year-old child from Varantharappilly in Thrissur. Cases had been reported from various parts of the district, including Puthur, Mullurkkara, Kondazhy, Deshamanglam and Mattathur before. The patient has been shifted to the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/black-fever-case-reported-in-thrissur/article36373929.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Majestic moves||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/majestic-moves/article36373972.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The truth of the matter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-truth-of-the-matter/article36374100.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Norms for offline classes being finalised||Key among the government’s priorities would be to ensure at least a dose of COVID-19 vaccine for each student prior to the resumption of the physical classes. A call on resuming offline classes for lower batches will be taken later, Dr. Bindu. To be expedited Meanwhile, Health Minister Veena George said arrangements would be made to expedite vaccination among undergraduate and postgraduate students. In a statement, Ms. George advised all students to obtain at least one dose of the vaccine prior to the college reopening. Students can get in touch with ASHA workers or health workers for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norms-for-offline-classes-being-finalised/article36373937.ece
09 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur student bags first rank||Koyi Sri Nikhil from Anantapur district topped the Andhra Pradesh Engineering, Agriculture, and Pharmacy Common Entrance Test (APEAPCET) the results of which were declared on Wednesday. Hailing from Kodiganahalli village in Parigi mandal, Nikhil completed his primary education in the LRG Public School in Hindupur. He studied 6th and 7th standards in Narayana High School and K.K.R Goutham Schools. He studied intermediate in Sri Chaitanya Junior College in Vijayawada. Nikhil’s father Koyi is a teacher at the Hindupur Residential School for the visually impaired, and mother Sujatha is teaching at the Municipal School, Hindupur. Expressing happiness on Nikhil’s achievement, the parents said they had expected good results, but never expected him to top the test, which came as a pleasant surprise for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-student-bags-first-rank/article36374042.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take up satellite ring road under Bharatmala project: State asks Centre||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday called on Union Minister for Road Transport and HighwaysNitin Gadkariand urged him to instruct the National Highways Authority of India to take up development of the remaining part of the Satellite Town Ring Road around Bengaluru under the Bharatmala Pariyojana. The State government has agreed to bear 30% of the cost of land acquisition, which is around Rs. 1,560 crore. The development of the road would mitigate traffic congestion in the city, the Chief Minister said in a memorandum. The Chief Minister also urged the Centre to upgrade several key roads in north Karnataka as national highways for providing economic impetus in the region by connecting industries and historical temples and places. The Karnataka government has also sought funds of Rs. 184.85 crore from the Centre for repairing Arabail Ghat road in Yellapur, Uttara kannada district, and other ghat section roads which were damaged owing to heavy rain in July. A sum of Rs. 125 crore was needed to repair Arabail ghat road, the memorandum stated. The Chief Minister called on Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Minister for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar and Minister for Ayush, Ports and Shipping and Waterways Sarbananda Sonowal and held discussions on pending projects in the State. Minister for Housing V. Somanna, Public Works Minister C.C. Patil, and Revenue Minister R. Ashok accompanied the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-up-satellite-ring-road-under-bharatmala-project-state-asks-centre/article36373546.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. Assembly calls for repeal of CAA||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Wednesday adopted a resolution urging the Union government to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. While the BJP walked out, its ally, the Paattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), welcomed the resolution. All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) members were not present when the resolution was adopted as they had walked out earlier over another issue. The resolution said: “This august House considers that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act is not in tune with the secular principles laid down in our Constitution, and also not conducive to the communal harmony that prevails in India.” According to the established democratic principles, a country should be governed on the basis of the aspirations and concerns of all sections. “But it is clear the Act was passed in such a way that it does not accord a warm support to the refugees, considering their plight, but discriminates against them on the basis of their religion and country of origin,” said the resolution, moved by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Therefore, to protect India’s unity and communal harmony and uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution, “this august House resolves to urge the Union government to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019”, it said. After a voice vote, Speaker M. Appavu said the resolution was being adopted “unanimously”. Before staging the walk-out prior to the adoption of the resolution, BJP floor leader Nainar Nagenthran (Tirunelveli) contended that the CAA was not against the Muslims living in India. While India was protecting the rights of minorities living in the country in line with the Liaquat-Nehru Pact of 1950, the status of minorities in Pakistan was not the same. While 20% of the population in Pakistan was Hindus during Partition, it stood at a mere 3% now. The Chair intervened and pointed out that even people from the same community could not co-exist in Afghanistan. PMK floor leader G.K. Mani (Pennagaram) urged that the Act favour the Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living in India too. Since Leader of the Opposition and AIADMK floor leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami had earlier led his party members out over another issue, AIADMK MLAs were not present when the resolution was moved and adopted. While moving the resolution, Mr. Stalin said, “We feel that the Union government must stop the preparation of the National Population Register and the Register of Citizens.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-assembly-calls-for-repeal-of-caa/article36373544.ece
09 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI suspended for ‘unofficial’ memo on festival curbs||Sub-inspector of Irala police station S. Lokesh was suspended on Wednesday in connection with an “unofficial” memo on restrictions on Vinayaka Chavithi’s celebrations in public places. On Tuesday, a memo with the signature of the official went viral on social media, which attracted the attention of senior officials, leading to his suspension. A senior police officer said the suspension of the sub-inspector, who recently took charge on probation, was unfortunate. Sources said that as the famous Lord Varasiddi Vinayaka Swamy temple at Kanipakam is located in Irala mandal, the official had issued a written note to caution individuals and social groups to stay away from celebrating Vinayaka Chavithi as a community festival, and limit the festivities within households in view of the threat of COVID third wave. Chittoor district witnesses a high profile celebration of Vinayaka Chavithi in Tirupati, Srikalahasti and Chittoor, apart from the border towns and villages with Tamil Nadu. The Kanipakam temple administered by the Endowments Department is also celebrating the annual Brahmotsavams in a low-key without public gatherings for the second consecutive year due to the pandemic. At many places, the municipal authorities cautioned people not to celebrate the festival in public places, while the police denied permissions for erecting pandals in public areas. ‘Political colour’ “The restriction on celebrating the festival with community gathering has assumed political colour now. The officials at the mandal and circle levels should obtain prior permission from the superiors if they want to issue any circular to impose the restrictions,” a senior police officer observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/si-suspended-for-unofficial-memo-on-festival-curbs/article36373606.ece
09 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor worth Rs. 6 lakh seized, five held||The Chittoor police on Wednesday arrested five persons and seized liquor bottles being allegedly smuggled from Karnataka along with a mini-van, on the outskirts of Chittoor. The accused were identified as Pachipalyam Sainath (21) of Pakala; Darshi Madhu (42), Putta Chiranjeevi (34), Saikrishna Reddy (21) and Venuru Manikantan (32) from Puthalapattu. Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said gang hailing from Pakala and Puthalapattu mandals used to allegedly smuggle liquor of some of the popular brands from Karnataka, particularly from Bengaluru and surroundings, and sell them for a price to potential customers. The gang had fetched stocks worth Rs. 6 lakh and was on its way to Pakala, when the police nabbed them. The police also conducted searches at the houses of the accused. The Deputy SP said that in spite of the surveillance on the national and state highways connected to Karnataka and the urban roads, some gangs still smuggled the liquor from Karnataka through rural roads. He said that random checks would be intensified all over the district to tackle the menace of liquor smuggling. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-worth-rs-6-lakh-seized-five-held/article36373608.ece
09 September 2021||guntur,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTR Stadium remains out of bounds for walkers||The only public sports stadium in Guntur remains out of bounds for walkers. NTR Municipal Sports Stadium Complex located at Brundavan Gardens is a popular place for sports lovers. Even though the Guntur Municipal Corporation has lifted several restrictions on the sports facilities, the walking track remains out of bounds. Worse, the walking track is in a shambles as the GMC set up a vegetable market during the first and second waves of COVID-19. The situation is no different at the Tennis Courts Complex as the stink from the market is putting off players. For the Guntur Municipal Corporation struggling with pressing issues over providing basic amenities to the teeming population, maintenance of the sports facilities might not be a priority, but the residents of the city continue to be deprived of basic facilities at the stadium. “We want to do more, but revenue generation is poor and we cannot afford to spend lakhs when we are tight-strapped for funds,” said a senior official. There are calls for hiring a sports officer to man the stadiums and nurture talented children with the help of 14 coaches. Regular competitions would add luster to the stadium, say locals. A proposal to have a tie-up with private schools and collect user fees is hanging fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntr-stadium-remains-out-of-bounds-for-walkers/article36373610.ece
09 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to speed up housing projects in Guntur||Special Chief Secretary, Housing, Ajay Jain has said that all efforts should be done to ensure the grounding of 1.11 lakh houses registered online as part of the ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ scheme in Guntur district. Reviewing the status of the project along with Collector Vivek Yadav, Mr. Ajay Jain said it was heartening to note the high number of registrations in Guntur district, where more than 3 lakh house sites were given away this year. Guntur division tops the list with 46,680 registrations, followed by Tenali (41,202) and Narsaraopet (23,208) units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-speed-up-housing-projects-in-guntur/article36374146.ece
09 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celebrating hundred years of Gandhi donning the loincloth||A hundred years ago, on September 22, 1921, Mahatma Gandhi took the decision of shedding his suit and tie and donning a loincloth, which remained his attire till his death. Gandhi’s decision was inspired by his desire to completely boycott British goods and to popularise the idea of ‘swadeshi’ by making khadi more accessible to the poor. Forum For Better Bapatla, announcing its plans to celebrate the centenary of the Mahatma’s momentous decision this month, released a pamphlet on Wednesday. Agricultural College Associate Dean Dr. G. Ramachandra Rao, Forum secretary P.C. Sai Babu, and Agricultural College Farm Superintendent Pratibha Sri attended the meeting. The history The forum members explained the events leading up to Gandhi’s decision to don the loincloth. While travelling by train from Chennai to Madurai, Gandhi saw local people wearing mostly foreign clothes. After talking to them, he realised that the people could not afford to buy khadi, which is why they were unwilling to burn their western attire. This inspired Gandhi to popularise khadi by making the loincloth his permanent attire in order to boycott British goods and make efforts to get khadi widely manufactured in India so that it became more accessible to the poor, and to popularise the idea that ‘swadeshi’ is everything. On September 22, 1921, at 251 A West Masi Street in Madurai — the house of one of his followers — Gandhi donned the khadi loincloth and went with his followers to address a public meeting. On the way, he stopped at Kamarajar Salai to accept the greetings of the public. ‘Gandhi Pottal’ This place is where he first made his public appearance in a loincloth, and is referred to as ‘Gandhi Pottal’ now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/celebrating-hundred-years-of-gandhi-donning-the-loincloth/article36373611.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Why should institutions be given to Telangana?’||Why should the Central government give more institutions to Telangana State when the latter was treating a prestigious central institution like University of Hyderabad (UoH) shabbily with regard to dispute over 25 acres of land, observed Telangana High Court Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao on Wednesday. Before passing an order to maintain status quo over 25 acres of land located in Gopanapally of Ranga Reddy district, the Acting Chief Justice remarked that the State government should support UoH in the land matter “instead of being hostile” towards it. “This is something astonishing...no government does treat a prestigious Central institution in this shabby way,” he observed. A bench of the Acting CJ and Justice T. Vinod Kumar was hearing a writ appeal filed by UoH challenging a single judge order dismissing its petition questioning G.O. Ms. No 1473 of 2008 allotting 25.31 acres of land to private persons. The bench issued notices to the respondents in the matter and directed them to file counter affidavits. The counsel for the respondents in the appeal petition informed the bench that earlier the UoH had agreed to allot 21 acres of land to his clients. They were objecting to part with 25 acres of land now even after a single judge dismissed their writ petition challenging the land allotment by the State government, he said. “You should be happy that University of Hyderabad had agreed to give away 21 acres of land...never seen a prominent Central institution being treated so shabbily,” the Acting Chief Justice noted. The matter was posted to November 7 for next hearing. In 1975, the then unified Andhra Pradesh government had allocated 2,324.05 acres of land to UoH under survey numbers 1 to 9 and 14 to 24 and 25 of Kancha Gachchibowli village of Serilingampally mandal in Rangareddy district. The State government subsequently took back nearly 700 acres of that land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-should-institutions-be-given-to-telangana/article36373542.ece
09 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pavitrotsavam’ under way at Vontimitta temple||As part of the ‘Pavitrotsavam’ ritual currently under way at the TTD’s Sri Kodandarama temple in Vontimitta, garlands made of silk thread were adorned to various shrines, towers and idols on Wednesday. Pavitrotsavam is a periodical ritual performed to sanctify the premises and idols due to the blemishes occurred due to the commission and omission of certain acts by the employees, priests or even visiting devotees. The garlands known as ‘Pavitra Mala’ are offered to the deities as a form of purification. Homam and Sathumora were performed in the evening at the temple. Assistant Executive Officer Muralidhar, Superintendent Venkatesh and ‘Kankana Bhattar’ (officiating priest) Rajesh Swamy were among those who took part in the religious programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pavitrotsavam-under-way-at-vontimitta-temple/article36373617.ece
09 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. will take every step to ensure agriculture remains profitable’||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu has said that the State is poised to witness a green revolution, thanks to the reformative measures initiated by the State government. The Minister was speaking at a programme in Proddatur organised to distribute 23 tractors worth Rs. 71 lakh to Rythu Bharosa Kendras in Rajupalem mandal on Wednesday. He handed over the tractors to the Kendras along with Member of Parliament (Kadapa) Y.S. Avinash Reddy, chief whip G. Srikanth Reddy and advisor to government S. Ramakrishna Reddy in the presence of local legislator Rachamallu Sivaprasad Reddy, who presided over the programme. Envisaging ‘good days’ ahead for the farming sector, the Minister said the Kendras were meant to take care of every farming activity right from ‘tilling to selling’. “We have spent Rs. 83,000 crore so far to make farming lucrative. The government will take every step to ensure that agriculture remains profitable,” he asserted. Admitting the minor hassles in the sanction of agricultural equipment to farmers during the last two years, he said drip irrigation sets worth Rs. 1,200 crore would be distributed this year. He thanked the nature for extending cooperation in the form of copious rains, due to which the water bodies had reached their brim. Mr. Avinash Reddy said the free crop loan, remunerative prices and the steps to ensure price stabilisation as some of the measures to make the farmer feel comfortable with agriculture. Jammalamadugu Revenue Divisional Officer G. Srinivasulu and Joint Director (Agriculture) Murali Krishna also took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-take-every-step-to-ensure-agriculture-remains-profitable/article36373618.ece
09 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Villagers seek change in NH alignment||Families belonging to the three villages of Tekisettipalem, Rameswaram and Antarvedipalem in Sakhinetipalli mandal appealed to the officials on Wednesday to change the alignment of National Highway-216 Sub-Line to prevent the demolition of hundreds of homes and shops in Konaseema region of East Godavari district. The National Highways Authority of India’s (NHAI) alignment of the Sub-Line to connect West Godavari district at Rajulapalem village would require demolition of many homes and shops. On Wednesday, Amalapuram Revenue Divisional Officer Vasanatha Rayudu conducted an inspection of the area that will have to be acquired for the NH-216 road project in Sakhinetipalli mandal. The affected families have appealed to the revenue authorities to realign the highway project and gather agricultural land, sparing the existing residential areas and shops along the stretch of two kilometres in Sakhinetipalli mandal. Field inspection completed However, the revenue officials have completed the field inspection of the area and said the issue would be taken to the notice of the State government and NHAI authorities who will explore the possibilities of changing the alignment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/villagers-seek-change-in-nh-alignment/article36374077.ece
09 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AP Biodiversity Board to develop park in Kakinada||The Andhra Pradesh State Biodiversity Board, in collaboration with Adikavi Nannaya University (AKNU), will develop a biodiversity park on the university’s MSN campus at Kakinada in East Godavari district. On Wednesday, AP Biodiversity Board Member secretary Dr. Nalini Mohan and Collector Ch. Hari Kiran discussed the action plan to speed up the project during a meeting held at the Collectorate. Mr. Hari Kiran said that the biodiversity park would be developed on an area of seven acres. The park will have plant species of herbs and a butterfly park. At the meeting, officials discussed the project cost, tender process and development of various facilities in the park. Forest Department authorities were told to extend their support to develop the park. Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha, Kakinada Municipal Corporation Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar, District Forest Officers (Social Forest and Territorial wings) were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-biodiversity-board-to-develop-park-in-kakinada/article36374075.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor Rana Daggubati appears before ED in drug racket case||Telugu actor Rana Daggubati appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Wednesday after being summoned as part of the ongoing money laundering probe in connection with a high-end drugs racket busted in the city in 2017. The actor along with a chartered accountant arrived at the ED office around 10 a.m. He was questioned by ED officials till 6 p.m. While the actor was inside, the ED authorities brought Kelvin, who was among the prime accused in the drugs racket. The ED authorities remained tight-lipped on the outcome of the interrogation of Kelvin. On July 2, 2017 the Excise department had busted a drug racket by arresting a three-member gang including Kelvin Mascrenhas, a musician, for allegedly peddling narcotic drugs such as LSD and MDMA. Subsequently, several cases related to the drug trafficking were registered and over 20 people were arrested. According to the officials, the gang’s clientele included nearly 1,000 customers including students of city-based schools and colleges, people associated with Tollywood, senior officials of MNCs and employees of IT firms in Cyberabad. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Telangana’s Prohibition and Excise department, as part of its investigation had also probed the alleged drug-links with Tollywood, and had then questioned 11 people connected to the Telugu film industry including actors and directors besides the driver of one of the actor and had also collected hair and nail samples. Since August 31 this year noted filmmaker Puri Jagannadh, actresses Charmee Kaur and Rakul Preet Singh, actor Nandu have appeared before the central agency. The SIT quizzed them to ascertain if they had any links with the racket as consumers or suppliers, or with those arrested.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-rana-daggubati-appears-before-ed-in-drug-racket-case/article36373541.ece
09 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP threatens to go ahead with public celebrations despite curbs||Activists of the Bharatiya Janata Party laid a siege to the Prakasam Bhavan here on Wednesday demanding that the authorities withdraw the restrictions on public celebrations of Ganesh Chaturthi announced to prevent gatherings in public places in view of the threat of a possible third wave of the pandemic. A high drama was witnessed as the activists, led by its district vice-president Nagendra Kumar, tried to gatecrash into the Collectorate in protest against what they called an “anti-Hindu” Jagan Mohan Reddy government. It was unfortunate that the YSR Congress Party government had now announced a series of curbs which had not been put in place during the religious festivals of other communities, they said. “Come what may, we will go ahead with community celebrations despite the curbs by adhering to the COVID safety norms,” asserted BJP leader Chinna Yogaiah Yadav. “When cinema halls are permitted to screen films, it is unfair to ban Ganesh immersion processions,” he opined. Police had a tough time dispersing the assembled activists of the saffron party who came in a big procession with Ganesh idols to the Church Centre and remained at the closed gates of the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-threatens-to-go-ahead-with-public-celebrations-despite-curbs/article36373614.ece
09 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties to lead protest against true-up power charges||The Left parties will spearhead a protracted struggle to bring pressure on the YSRCP government to scrap the hefty ‘true-up’ charges in electricity bills, CPI leader K. Ramakrishna has said, adding that the government mover would further burden the people who are already reeling under the impact of the economic crisis triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. “The YSRCP came to power after categorically declaring that the power tariff would not be hiked. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had no moral rights to ask the DISCOMs to collect hefty true-up charges to the tune of over Rs. 19,000 crore for the period between 2014-15 and 2018-19 from the consumers. The consumers would be charged on an average Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 5,000 each,” Mr. Ramakrishna told the media here on Wednesday. Pointing out that the YSRCP government has hiked power tariff four times after it came to power, Mr. Ramakrishna said the Chief Minister had reneged on the poll promise. “The CPI and other Left parties will continue protest till the true-up charges are withdrawn,” he said. Apart from BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh was the only State which went ahead with fixing power meters for connections given to the farm sector and the move was aimed at phasing out subsidies being given to farmers, he said. “We will thwart the move with all our mite,” he said. Mr. Ramakrishna alleged that Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy and his other Cabinet colleagues were indulging in extravagant expenses at a time when the State was enduring a ‘severe financial crisis’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-to-lead-protest-against-true-up-power-charges/article36374045.ece
09 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(ML) opposes Centre’s PSE policy||Activists of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here on Wednesday in protest “large scale” privatisation of public sector enterprises by the BJP-led Government at the Centre. Leading the protest, its district secretary Lalitha Kumari said all sections of people should come together to stop the “privatisation spree” of the Narendra Modi government, which was all out to sell Public Sector Enterprises, including the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, lock stock and barrel. Terming them as “national assets”, she alleged the Centre was bent on selling everything in the public sector including sea ports, airports, railways, mines to curry favours with a select group of captains of industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpiml-opposes-centres-pse-policy/article36373612.ece
09 September 2021||RAMACHANDRAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. will spend Rs. 5,000 cr. on repairing roads: Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Wednesday said that the State government was preparing to repair roads across the State at an estimated cost of Rs. 5,000 crore. “A majority of the roads laid during the last few years need repairs, which has exposed the poor quality of work done by the previous government,” he said while addressing the media during his visit to a government high school in Ramachandrapuram on Wednesday. Blaming the previous government (TDP) for the poor condition of the road network, the Minister said that the opposition parties that were campaigning on the issue should introspect the reality. “We appeal to the opposition parties to support the State government or be calm on the road network system. However, they are out to defame the State government, despite huge financial allocation for the welfare programmes,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna. The Minister also inspected the food being served to students under the Jagananna Gorumudda programme at the government high school here. Midday Meal The Minister had lunch with the students and enquired about the weekly menu. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna also inspected distribution of the ‘Vidya Kanuka’ kits and the works done under the Naadu-Nedu programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-spend-rs-5000-cr-on-repairing-roads-minister/article36374044.ece
09 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||ISRO centres told to stop manpower intake||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has been directed to put on hold the recruitment of scientific and technical personnel until further orders in the light of the space sector reforms initiated by the Central government. In a September 3 letter to the directors of the various ISRO centres, the Department of Space (DoS) stated that the manpower requirement in the scientific and technical categories was being reassessed in view of the sectoral reforms, highly placed sources said. Multiple modes The DoS decision is applicable to recruitments made via multiple modes, including direct recruitment by the centres, centralised recruitment and campus recruitments through the Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT). The centres have also been directed to cease the hiring of personnel on contract until further orders. The decision is binding on all ISRO centres and units, including the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), the Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC), ISRO Propulsion Complex (IPRC) and the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) at Sriharikota. Reorganisation of staff A senior ISRO official said recruitments had been ‘temporarily’ put on hold as the establishment of the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) and NewSpace India Limited (NSIL) under the DoS had necessitated reorganisation of existing staff. “A committee has been formed to study the reassessment of manpower, and the recruitment will be resumed as per its recommendations,” the official said. Protests Meanwhile, the DoS directive has sparked off protests, with the ISRO Staff Association strongly denouncing the move to privatise the space sector. The association staged demonstrations outside the VSSC and the ISRO Inertial Systems Unit (IISU) in Thiruvananthapuram, and the Ammonium Perchlorate Experimental Plant (APEP) at Aluva, on Wednesday. The “recruitment ban is the second stage of the privatisation process in the ISRO, akin to other public sectors,” the association said, adding that it would adversely impact space missions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/isro-centres-told-to-stop-manpower-intake/article36373552.ece
09 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to offer incentives to vaccine units||The government will offer attractive incentives, including long-term loans, subsidised power and water supply, single window clearance and fast track approval within 30 days, to industrial units willing to launch vaccine-manufacturing enterprises inside the Life Sciences Park at Thonnackal here. The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to offer special packages to anchor industries for starting vaccine-manufacturing units and to allow lease on land for 60 years with 50% subsidy on lease premium. Stamp duty and registration duty would be avoided for the lease agreement executed with the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation. Subsidy A subsidy of up to 30% in the cost of equipment, plant and machines would be offered as capital aid within Rs. 1 crore for fill-finish unit and within Rs. 5 crore for vaccine-manufacturing unit. Attractive loans with a repayment period of 20 years will be offered through the State government’s financial institutions. The eligible loan amount would be capped at Rs. 20 crore for the fill-finish unit and within Rs. 30 crore for vaccine-manufacturing units. The total loan amount eligibility would be limited to Rs. 100 crore. For vaccine-manufacturing ventures, subsidy would be offered on the total power bill at Rs. 2 per unit. A subsidy on water bills will also be offered for the first two years of operation. The choice of the vaccine, the technology to be utilised and the basic infrastructure would be left to the companies. Water treatment If the 85,000 sq ft building being completed at the Life Sciences Park meets with the approval of vaccine-manufacturing firms, it would be given on annual lease. The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation will construct a common waste water treatment plant, solar plant and bio-waste treatment plant for all companies inside the park. Two different expression of interest documents would be readied and subject to the scrutiny of the technical committee, companies with necessary qualifications would be considered as anchor industries and invited to set up manufacturing units inside the park Vijaykumar Sisla of HLL Biotech Ltd. would be appointed as the consultant for setting up the vaccine-manufacturing unit, while the experts’ team chaired by B. Ekbal would be tasked with the development of a vaccine policy for the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-to-offer-incentives-to-vaccine-units/article36373550.ece
09 September 2021||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man kills parents in Thrissur||In a gruesome incident under the influence of alcohol, a man bludgeoned his parents to death at Avinissery in Thrissurd istrict, Kerala. The deceased have been identified as Karuthedath Ramakrishanan and wife, Thankamani. The Nedupuzha police arrested their son, Pradeep, in connection with the incident that happened on Tuesday night. Pradeep, in an inebriated state, had an argument with his parents over property earlier in the night. Following the argument, he attacked them with an iron rod. Neighbours, who found the aged couple in a pool of blood, took them to hospital. Though both of them were rushed to the Thrissur district hospital first and then to the Government Medical College Hospital, Ramakrishnan died on Tuesday night itself. Thankamani succumbed to her injuries on Wednesday morning. According to the neighbours, Pradeep, a daily wage worker, used to quarrel with his parents and his wife quite often under the influence of alcohol. Fed up with his alcohol abuse, Pradeep’s wife along with their daughter had gone to her house. Thankamani and Ramakrishnan have one more son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-kills-parents-in-thrissur/article36373554.ece
09 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC nod for festivities in private places a relief, but confusion persists||With the High Court giving permission for conduct of Vinayaka Chavithi festival in private premises by duly following the COVID-19 protocols, the huge idol makers of Bommala Colony on the outskirts of Tirupati are heaving a sigh of relief, but there is still confusion on how to distinguish a private place from public space and over the disposal of huge idols. Huge idols made in this colony are sold even to the neighbouring States of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, to be erected in street corners and gated communities. The idol business was almost on the brink of collapse when the State government hinted at slapping a total ban on public celebrations, but the court verdict exempting private places offered a respite. Terming the verdict the ‘victory of Vinayaka’, Congress leader P. Naveen Kumar Reddy appealed to the MCT authorities to make arrangements at ‘Vinayaka Sagar’ for the immersion of idols. Ahead of the Vinayaka Chavithi festival, various political parties, social and charitable organisations have come forward to distribute clay idols to the public to encourage them to go for eco-friendly alternatives and also to make them install the smaller idols at home, rather than gathering at street corners. YSR Congress student wing Chittoor district president Ch. Mohith Reddy has distributed 75,000 statues to the people of Chandragiri constituency on Wednesday. “The clay idols measuring one foot in height are designed with the intention of easy disposal (immersion) at the individual level, instead of making people gather at water bodies,” said Mr. Mohith Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-nod-for-festivities-in-private-places-a-relief-but-confusion-persists/article36373616.ece
09 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan alerts officials over third wave of COVID-19 pandemic||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to focus on ways to contain the possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic and to be prepared with medicines that give better results without having side effects. During a review meeting on the pandemic situation in the State on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the officials and the people must remain alert to the lurking danger of resurgence of the pandemic which has wrecked a havoc on the economy and killed thousands. He wanted a concerted effort to complete the vaccination drive. The Chief Minister asked the officials to focus on bringing down the infant mortality rate (IMR), prepare guidelines for the family health doctor concept and to start postgraduate courses in new medical colleges and courses on public health administration. He ordered that blood testing facilities should be set up at the village clinics and health data, dates of testing and treatment and medical histories made available online along with the patients’ identities. Officials informed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that there were 14,452 active COVID-19 cases across the State and the recovery rate stood at 98.60%. There were no active cases in the purview of 10,494 secretariats and 3,560 patients were being treated in hospitals. A total of 926 people were undergoing treatment in COVID Care Centres and 9,966 people were in home isolation. Oxygen pipeline Further, the officials said that 20,964 oxygen concentrators and 27,311 D-type oxygen cylinders had been made available and oxygen pipeline works had been completed in 108 hospitals. The State government is setting up oxygen generation plants in 140 hospitals where the number of beds is more than 50 and they would be completed in a month. So far, 2,23,34,971 people have been administered with vaccines. A total of 1,31,62,815 people have received a single dose while 91,72,156 have been administered with both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-alerts-officials-over-third-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic/article36374039.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||App to develop tourism by Dasara, says Muttamsetti||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday said the department would introduce a special app by Dasara to provide information related to tourism destinations, hotels and special packages, to the public. He said under the pandemic impact, the revenue of the department had depleted from Rs. 120 crore to Rs. 60 crore. To provide an impetus to the sector, the government proposed to establish five and seven-star hotels in Public-Private Partnership mode. The Oberoi Group had come forward to invest in a five-star and a seven-star hotels in Visakhapatnam and Tirupati respectively, he said. Referring to sea planes, Mr. Rao said the proposal was on as it would attract tourists and special tourism packages would be offered attract local crowds. The Minister said World Tourism Day would be celebrated on September 27 and plans were afoot to improve amenities at the four tourism zones proposed in the State. Sports policy Mr. Rao said the government was keen on improving the sports sector by bringing a new sports policy. The thrust would be on development of sports infrastructure and encourage players in rural areas and imparting them adequate training. Construction of Sports Centres in PPP mode in 15 locations in the State was also on the cards, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/app-to-develop-tourism-by-dasara-says-muttamsetti/article36374049.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIT A.P. adjudged ‘Best Institute in South India’||The Centre for Education Growth and Research, a New Delhi-based education think tank, has recognised the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Andhra Pradesh as the ‘Best Institute in South India in 2021’. The award was presented during the 15th Rashtriya Shiksha Gaurav Puraskar ceremony held on September 7, in recognition of ‘outstanding and exemplary contribution of NIT Andhra Pradesh towards education, skill development and research.’ “The NIT, Andhra Pradesh has been trying to offer quality education to students by bringing in academic and research excellence through several best practices. Hearty congratulations and best wishes to all stakeholders of the institute on this moment of pride. The challenges during the pandemic made us commit strongly for building the institute with new initiatives. The placement percentage is increasing every year due to continuous skill development programmes,” Director of the institute C.S.P. Rao said after receiving the award. Industry linkage Mr. Rao said the institute had revised the undergraduate (B.Tech) curriculum from 2020-21 academic year onwards as per the guidelines of New Education Policy-2020. The faculty got attractive funding for their research work. “Currently, we are expanding our wings to make good industry linkages and international collaborations,” he said, thanking the Ministry of Education for its continuous support. The NIT, Andhra Pradesh is an ‘Institute of National Importance’ and is the youngest among the 31 NITs in the country. It was established in Andhra Pradesh during the 2015-16 academic year. Registrar (in-charge) Dinesh Sankar Reddy said that the Director had played a significant role in building the NIT, Andhra Pradesh with world-class infrastructure and amenities in record time. “We will strive to achieve many more milestones and become an institute of eminence in future,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nit-ap-adjudged-best-institute-in-south-india/article36374052.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor receives 1971 war ‘Victory Flame’ at Raj Bhavan||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan received the ‘Victory Flame’ of Swarnim Vijay Varsh, commemorating the 50th anniversary celebrations of India’s victory in the 1971 war, at a function held in Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday. The ‘Victory Flame’ was brought by INS Sumitra on behalf of Eastern Naval Command (ENC) from Port Blair to Visakhapatnam and reached here through Rajahmundry on Wednesday. It will be taken to Hyderabad, from Vijayawada. Mr. Harichandan said in December 1971, in one of the shortest wars in the history, lasting only for 13 days, the Indian Army secured a decisive and historic victory over Pakistan Army which led to the creation of a new nation ‘Bangladesh’ and the war ended after the Eastern Command of the Pakistan military signed the ‘Instrument of Surrender’ on December 16, 1971 in Dhaka. “It was a glorious victory that resulted in the largest military surrender post World War-II, in which approximately 93,000 soldiers of the Pakistan Army surrendered to the Indian Army,” the Governor said. Later, he felicitated Majeerannisa, wife of Gunner Samiullabaig; Vahedunnisabi, wife of Spr. Sk. Jainullabdin; Khairunnisa, wife of Sep. Mohammed Omer; Arshunddunnisa, wife of Sep. Sk. Mahaboob; Venkayamma, wife of Naik Saidulu; Capt. J. Vara Prasad Rao, Sep. M. Venkateswar Reddy, Spr. Lankga Nagur, Sep. M. Nageswara Rao, Hav. Tata Pothu Raju, Wg. Cdr. Pamidi Ramalingeswara Prasad Rao, Vayu Sena Medal, GNR Chintamaneni Syam Sundara Rao, with a memento and a cash grant of Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-receives-1971-war-victory-flame-at-raj-bhavan/article36374141.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to publish G.O.s on e-gazette website||Three weeks after dispensing with the practice of uploading its orders (G.O.s) on the website https://goir.ap.gov.in, the Andhra Pradesh government decided to replace that system with publication (of G.Os) on https: //apegazette.cgg. gov.in. However, it prohibited the uploading and publication of orders categorised as top secret, secret and confidential through the e-Gazette. In G.O. M.S. No. 100 issued to that effect by Chief Secretary Adityanath Das late Tuesday, it was mentioned that the government, upon substantive deliberations and research based on best practices followed by various States, found that the orders being uploaded on https://goir.ap.gov.in (GOIR system) were neither physically nor digitally signed. The government has, therefore, resolved to publish the G.Os only through the e-Gazette website, the official gazette being a statutory document. RTI Act The G.O. said that it was the government’s endeavour to proactively comply with the mandate of the Right to Information Act, 2005, as Section 4(2) of the Act states that every public authority should take steps to provide as much information as possible suo motu to the public at regular intervals through various means of communications, including the Internet. Further, the Section 4(3) of the Act says that every information should be disseminated widely and in such a form and manner that they are easily accessible to the public. Accordingly, the government is making A.P. e-Gazette a single-point repository of information that will be regularly updated and can be accessed by the public. However, the orders pertaining to personal information which do not concern the general public will not be published in the e-Gazette. They will be directly communicated to the officials concerned in conformity with the Supreme Court judgment in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy vs. Union of India case. Such orders will remain available for requisition through the standard process laid down under the RTI Act, 2005. Besides, orders such as minor expenditures and information that do not qualify as that of public interest will not be published in the e-Gazette.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-publish-gos-on-e-gazette-website/article36374051.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bone marrow transplant unit inaugurated at HCG cancer centre||HCG City Curie Cancer Centre inaugurated the first of its kind bone marrow transplant unit in the district here on Wednesday. Mayor Rayana Bhaghyalakshmi, Vijayawada Central MLA and Brahmin Welfare and Development Corporation chairman Malladi Vishnu and YSRCP East constituency in-charge Devineni Avinash and others inaugurated the equipment in the presence of Healthcare Global Enterprises Limited (HCG) CEO Raj Gore and others. The equipment Elekta Versa HD facilitates clinicians the flexibility to deliver conventional therapies in treating tumours throughout the body. Mr. Raj said that HCG has been at the forefront in bringing in cutting edge technology to fight cancer across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bone-marrow-transplant-unit-inaugurated-at-hcg-cancer-centre/article36374145.ece
09 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. moving towards total prohibition: Dy. CM||Deputy Chief Minister (Excise and Commercial Taxes) K. Narayana Swamy reiterated that the government was committed to total liquor prohibition in a phased manner and the opening of government-owned outlets was a significant step in that direction. He claimed that the number of liquor shops came down to 2,934 from 4,380 and around 43,000 belt shops and over 4,000 permit rooms were removed. The number of liquor shops and bars had been reduced by 33%, he said. Addressing the media on Wednesday, Mr. Narayana Swamy said that the government formed a Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) to crack the whip on the illicit liquor trade. Since May 2020, the SEB filed 14,689 cases and arrested 2,00,786 people and seized 51,103 vehicles for transporting illegal liquor. A total of 7,12,557 litres of non-duty paid liquor and 95,238 litres of duty paid liquor belonging to other States along with 2,49,162 kg of cannabis were seized in two years, he said. He demanded that former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu make it clear on whether he opposed the liquor ban, and said all the brands that were available in the market were approved by the previous government. In 2018-19, around 661 lakh boxes of liquor were sold whereas the consumption in 2020-21 fell to 224 lakh boxes, a decrease of 63%, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-moving-towards-total-prohibition-dy-cm/article36374040.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB officials told to book liquor smugglers under PD Act||Krishna Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal has directed the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials to book PD Act against liquor and ganja smugglers in the district. In a review meeting held at camp office here on Wednesday, the SP directed the SEB personnel to maintain strict vigil at the checkposts on Telangana borders to check liquor smuggling. Mr. Kaushal enquired about the notorious liquor smugglers, and asked the officers to identity the illegal stocking points, sellers and the sale points in the district. He reviewed about the progress of investigation in SEB cases booked in various police stations in Krishna district. SP warns of strict action The SP directed the SEB and police officers to act tough against the ganja and liquor smugglers and open suspect sheets against those who were booked in cases repeatedly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-officials-told-to-book-liquor-smugglers-under-pd-act/article36374143.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five-year-old girl ‘sexually assaulted’||A five-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by her father in the city. The accused was allegedly committing the crime for the last few days. However, the act came to light after the girl’s mother lodged a complaint with the police on Wednesday. Police said the accused was working in an education institution. A case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 has been registered against the accused, said Disha Mahila Police Station Assistant Commissioner of Police V.V. Naidu. The girl was sent to the government hospital for medical examination and the accused was arrested. He was produced in the court which remanded him in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-year-old-girl-sexually-assaulted/article36374144.ece
09 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||RRS plea to CM on Rayalaseema status||Rayalaseema Rashtra Samithi (RRS) founder president K. Venkata Subba Reddy has written a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, requesting him to pass a resolution in the upcoming Assembly session recognising Rayalaseema as a Union Territory or creating a separate Rayalaseema State (consisting of Anantapur, Kadapa, Kurnool, Nellore, Prakasam, Vellore, Krishnagiri, Bellary, Raichur, Chitradurga and Kolar districts) and send it to the Central government to obtain the requisite approvals. Mr. Subba Reddy stated that Parliament had the powers under Article 3 of the Constitution to form new States and alter existing States but the State Legislatures were mandated to give their opinions in the stipulated time and follow the related procedures. The Chief Minister should note that Rayalaseema was more backward than the coastal districts, a fact that was corroborated by the Srikrishna Committee which first examined the demand for Statehood to Telangana. Rayalaseema continued to languish in backwardness even after the successor State of Andhra Pradesh came into existence, as the capital, High Court, AIIMS etc. went to the coastal districts. The Chief Minister should, therefore, do justice to Rayalaseema at least now, Mr. Subba Reddy appealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rrs-plea-to-cm-on-seema-status/article36373605.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 deaths, 1,361 cases reported in 24 hours||The State reported 15 more deaths due to coronavirus and 1,361 infections in the 24 hours, ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative toll went up to 13,950 with a death rate of 0.69%. The cumulative tally increased to 20,24,603, while the recovery rate remained at 98.59%, with a total recoveries of 19,96,143 including 1,288 recorded in the past day. There number of active cases was put at 14,510. The daily positivity rate of the 61,363 samples tested in the past day was put at 2.22% and that of the total 2.709 crore tests conducted so far at 7.47%. Krishna and Nellore reported three deaths each, while East Godavari, Guntur and Prakasam saw two fatalities each. Chittoor, Kadapa and West Godavari reported one death in the past day. Nellore district reported 282 new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (203), West Godavari (149), East Godavari (143), Guntur (131), Kadapa (104), Krishna (99), Prakasam (87), Visakhapatnam (73), Anantapur (26), Vizianagaram (26), Srikakulam (25) and Kurnool (13).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-deaths-1361-cases-reported-in-24-hours/article36374037.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. objects to frequent plaints against APSDC||Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the State government, opposed the conduct of the petitioners in filing frequent Interlocutory Applications (IAs) against the creation of the Andhra Pradesh State Development Corporation (APSDC) during a hearing by the High Court on Wednesday. Mr. Dave told a division bench of the court comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice N. Jayasurya that filing of fresh IAs after 65 days of the first listing of the matter for impleadment of banks and amendments to the prayer, showed the petitioners’ intention to cause obstacles and embarrassment to the State. He alleged that the petitioners wanted to create a situation by writing letters to banks, and objected to the banks’ impleadment in the matter. The State would like to proceed with the hearing if the IAs are not pressed for admission, Mr. Dave requested the court, which adjourned the matter till October 7 upon conceding the petitioners’ plea to give four weeks’ time for filing a counter. Mr. Dave hoped there would be no further IAs that would procrastinate the matter. Visakhapatnam East MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu had challenged the creation of APSDC and the manner in which the government allegedly sought to transfer funds to the corporation without depositing them into the Consolidated Fund of A.P. There is another PIL related to the same matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-objects-to-frequent-plaints-against-apsdc/article36374050.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Role of physiotherapists appreciated||Physiotherapists play a vital role in keeping people fit and well, said actress Mishti Chakravarty. Participating in a programme to mark World Physiotherapy Day at “Anu My Baby” hospital in city on Wednesday, Ms. Chakravarty said it was considered a vital organ of medical science dealing with physical rehabilitation after injuries, and pain relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/role-of-physiotherapists-appreciated/article36374147.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Departmental tests results on APPSC website||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has displayed on its websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe results of all descriptive type papers (Language and Survey papers) pertaining to the departmental tests examination of November-2020 session, held from August 9 to 11 in all district centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/departmental-tests-results-on-appsc-website/article36373619.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI opposes power tariff hike||The steep hike in electricity charges in the name of reforms for adjustment of losses, incurred by the power sector in the past, is absurd, CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy has said. A dharna was organised by the CPI activists, opposite the Corporate Office of AP Easter Power Distribution Company Limited (AP EPDCL) at Seethammadhara here on Wednesday. Addressing the participants, Mr. Satyanarayana said that in the name of ‘adjustment’ the electricity consumers in the State would have to pay Rs. 3,669 crore to the discoms. It was unfortunate that the consumers were being taxed during the time of the pandemic. The YSR Congress Party(YSRCP), which had expressed its reservation against the hike in power tariff, when it was in the Opposition, was now ready to place a huge burden on the common people, he alleged. He wondered as to what had happened to the promises made by Mr. Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his padayatra before the elections. He demanded immediate rollback of the hike. He said that the prices of essential commodities were skyrocketing and the common people were already leading a hand-to-mouth existence. On the other hand, the Centre was making the State governments to impose hefty hike in property tax. Tax was also being imposed on garbage, he alleged. CPI city secretary M. Pydiraju said that the high tariff in the electricity bill issued this month has already ‘shocked’ the consumers. The income of the people has not increased during the last seven years. The government was providing relief to defaulters by writing off their outstanding loans. While the common employees were being made to pay 30% of their salary as tax, big corporate groups were paying a mere 3% of their income as tax, he alleged. Party leaders Sk Rehaman, K. Satyaarayana, G. Vamana Murthy, Md. Begum, P. Chandrasekhar, R. Srinivasa Rao and P. Govind were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-opposes-power-tariff-hike/article36374152.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand for green Ganesh kits soars||With a ban on community celebrations this year on Vinayaka Chaviti, the popularity of clay Ganesha idols has soared as home festivities take an eco-friendly turn. A number of city-based organisations have come forward with Ganesh kits that are environment-friendly where the clay idols can be immersed in pots at home itself. The trend of eco-friendly Ganesh kits that started last year during the COVID-19 pandemic has seen many takers this year. Lambodara Vizag, a pan India initiative, received over 1,100 orders this year for its compact eco-friendly Ganesh kit that contains a clay idol, plant seeds, vermi-compost, cocopeat, incense sticks, sandalwood powder, camphor, kumkum and turmeric powder and jute pot. All these come packed in a paper box. The initiative was also backed by director Krish Jagalarmudi and actor and politician Roja Selvamani who shared their videos on the initiative in Instagram. “We are delivering the kits at the doorsteps. This year the response has been overwhelming for these kits,” said R.M. Surya Rao of Lambodara Vizag. N. Sravani has been inundated with calls during the past 24 hours for the eco-friendly Ganesh kits. Her initiative of GoGiftGreen4Vizag got over 500 orders in the past couple of days. “We had limited stocks and this year the demand for them has soared. Many families are preferring to get the entire kit home delivered as it saves them the hassles of going to the market to fetch puja paraphernalia,” said Ms. Sravani. Other organisations like Bhagavatula Charitable Trust are also delivering eco-friendly kits at home. Meanwhile, the rains played a spoilsport for roadside clay idol vendors who depend on last minute sales. “We were hopeful that this year we will somehow manage to sell the idols as the community celebrations are banned and most people will look to pick up the smaller idols. However, due to the heavy rains in the last two days, we are struggling to get customers,” said S. Lakshmi, a vendor at Poorna Market. The mood at Kumara Veedhi was similar where the clay idol makers struggled to dry the freshly made idols due to the rains. “We are hoping that the weather clears up on Thursday and people come out to buy,” says Nookalamma, the daughter-in-law of a traditional potter at Kumara Veedhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/demand-for-green-ganesh-kits-soars/article36374164.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outsourcing health staff seek reinstatement||Outsourced employees of Urban Health Centres, who were terminated from service with effect from September 1, formed a human chain, seeking restoration of their services, at the Ambedkar Circle, near the LIC Junction, here on Wednesday. The outsourcing employees, on the banner of tge Urban Health Centres Outsourcing Employees Union, held banners and raised slogans seeking that the State government should recognise their services, when COVID-19 was at its peak. The union’s State president B. Jyothi Laxmi said that 136 outsourced employees of 26 urban health centres in the district were terminated. Similarly, 1,800 outsourcing employees were terminated from services all over the State. The move has affected both employees and the common people, who were dependent on the health centres for medical aid. These centres should be reopened and the employees reinstated, she said. She noted that the terminated employees include some ANMs, who have been working for 20 years and some ANMs, lab technicians, pharmacists, Class IV employees, who were all appointed through e-Vaidya five years ago. At some of the health centres, the employees of ‘104 Service’ were recruited. She recalled that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, had promised soon after assuming charge that there would be no retrenchment of outsourcing employees but has now gone back on his promise. Union president K. Manasa said the outsourcing employees, ignored the threat to their own lives, during the second wave, and served COVID patients. She appealed to the government to restore their jobs. Union honorary president P. Mani and leaders Kusuma and Latha were among those who participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/outsourcing-health-staff-seek-reinstatement/article36374155.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water bodies in spate in Visakha Agency after rains||Post rains due to the low pressure in the Bay of Bengal, perennial streams, rivulets, reservoirs and other water bodies in the Visakhapatnam district are brimming and a few are also overflowing, especially in the Agency areas of the district. With geddas, culverts and streams overflowing, some of the interior villages in the rural areas as well as in the Agency areas have been cut off from the plain areas on Tuesday. However by Wednesday, situation in many village became normal, according to the locals. A few villages in the rural parts of the district also reported crop losses. Pedderu, Tandava and Kalyanapulova have received a good amount of water flow due to the rains. It was learnt that due to heavy inflow in several reservoirs, water is being released. Due to overflow on to the roads near Kakarapadu and Ratnampeta villages in Koyyuru mandal, normal communication has been disrupted, said the locals. It was reported that due to overflow of Varaha river, a part of the embankment was washed away near Somudevapalli in S. Rayavaram mandal, cutting off two to three villages. Authorities concerned had rushed to the spot to caution the villages and take safety precautions. Similarly, a few interior villages have lost connection with the mandal headquarters in Hukumpeta mandal. Matsyagedda river was also seen overflowing since the last couple of days. E. Kotturu village was also cut off from Paderu mandal, according to some locals who informed their family members living in the road front villages. Crop damages were reported in Golugonda, K.D.Peta and Narsipatnam mandals. Officials are assessing the losses. ITDA Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna said that many of the water bodies are overflowing, but fortunately, no untoward incidents were reported in the Agency, he said. “We have set up a control room at Paderu keeping in view the heavy rains to monitor the situation. We have not received any information on any villages losing connectivity,” he said. Following the rains, waterfalls in the Agency areas have come alive, especially Kothapalli waterfalls, Ananthagiri waterfalls, Sariya waterfalls and a few other located in interior areas. Locals say that with consecutive three-day holidays starting from Friday, the Agency areas especially waterfalls might see a tourist rush. Post rains, sanitation in the city as well the rural areas has gone for a toss. Piles of uncleared garbage is being sighted at many places in the GVMC limits. Due to rains on Wednesday, drains overflowed in several colonies at Gajuwaka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-bodies-in-spate-in-visakha-agency-after-rains/article36374159.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. should allow celebration of festival at public pandals, says BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State vice-president and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju staged a protest near the Durga Ganapathi temple at Seethammapeta, here on Wednesday demanding that the State government grant permission for holding of Vinayaka Chaviti festival at public pandals. The protest was organised under the aegis of the Seethammapeta (24 and 25 Divisions) mandal president Balakrishna. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Raju wondered whether COVID-19 protocols apply only to Vinayaka Chaviti festival and not to the oath-taking ceremonies of YSR Congress Party leaders, the death anniversary of Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy and other festivals of other religions. He alleged that the YSR Congress Party government has been following an ‘anti-Hindu’ policy and hurting the sentiments of the Hindu community for the past two years. Lord Ganesh would be the first to be offered prayers before any puja by Hindus and not allowing His festival was nothing but hurting their sentiments, Mr. Raju said. He said that the State government should respect the sentiments of the majority community and reverse its decision. BJP Parliament district general secretary Jagapathi Raja Bahadur Sivaji, district secretary Dhanesh, district vice president Suresh Babu and others took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-should-allow-celebration-of-festival-at-public-pandals-says-bjp/article36374150.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coromandel to contribute Rs. 10 lakh to Simhachalam||The Executive Vice Chairman of Coromandel International Limited Arun Alagappan along with executives of the company visited the temple of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy at Simhachalam, here, on Wednesday. Mr. Alagappan promised to contribute Rs. 10 lakh for the development of the temple. He said that he would send the cheques to the temple within a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coromandel-to-contribute-rs-10-lakh-to-simhachalam/article36374156.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division achieves record loading||The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R) has achieved yet another record in parcel traffic by loading of 20,192 tonnes of parcels, in the first five months of the current fiscal. This exceeds the loading of 7,479 tonnes, made during the corresponding period last year, by 169%. During the current financial year, the division has earned revenue of Rs. 7.74 crore, which is also 172% more than the corresponding period during the last fiscal (Rs. 2.83 crore). The Division transported 10,379 tonnes of mangoes, which is 139% more than the corresponding period in the last financial year (4,330 tonnes), earning revenue of Rs. 4.61 crore, which is also 145% more than last year(Rs. 1.88 crore), according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-achieves-record-loading/article36374153.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Provide easy access to differently-abled visiting government offices, officials told||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has directed the officials to hasten works to provide easy access to differently-abled persons visiting government departments for various works. The works include construction of ramps, toilets and special provision for parking of their vehicles. At a meeting on Wednesday, the Collector said that the Scheme for Implementation of The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act-2016 (SIPDA), organised under the aegis of the Differently Abled Persons Welfare Department, provides for 38 different types of works. An amount of Rs. 1,436.33 lakh was sanctioned for these works through various departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provide-easy-access-to-differently-abled-visiting-government-offices-officials-told/article36374157.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth attacked with knife||A 23-year-old youth was reportedly attacked with a knife by a person at Nallaregulapalem village under Sabbavaram police station limits in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday night. Circle Inspector of Sabbavaram police station Chandrasekhar said that the family of K. Lakshmi, residing in the village, has installed a CCTV camera outside their house for security purpose. An auto-rickshaw driver Venkata Apparao lives in the same street. Two days ago, some miscreants had allegedly stolen a tyre of the auto-rickshaw belonging to Apparao, while it was parked before his house. On Tuesday morning, Apparao reportedly asked Lakshmi’s son Madhu Varma(23) to show footage of the CCTV cameras. However, the youth refused to do so. At around 9.30 p.m., Apparao came to Lakshmi's house in an inebriated condition and allegedly attacked Madhu Varma with a knife. Madhu Varma was shifted to a hospital in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-attacked-with-knife/article36374162.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor girl ‘ends’ life by jumping into Pedderu river||A 17-year-old girl reportedly ended her life by jumping into Pedderu river at Butchayyapeta in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday night. According to the police, the minor reportedly took the extreme step after she was confronted by her family members allegedly over her love affair. According to Sub-Inspector of Butchayyapeta police station Ramakrishna, the girl was pursuing Intermediate and was reportedly having a love affair. Recently, her family members reportedly had an argument with the girl’s alleged boyfriend. On Tuesday night, she reportedly had an argument with her family members. After around 10.30 p.m, the girl reportedly jumped into the river. At around 9.15 a.m. on Wednesday, her body was retrieved. Post-mortem was conducted at Chodavaram and the body was handed over to her family members. A case was registered and investigation is on. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-girl-ends-life-by-jumping-into-pedderu-river/article36374158.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 73 new cases||Seventy-three new COVID-19 infections were reported from the district, in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The new cases have increased the cumulative tally to 1,56,004. During the same time period, 87 persons recovered from the virus, as per the bulletin released by the Health Department on Wednesday. The toll stands at 1,076 as no death was reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-73-new-cases/article36374160.ece
09 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth arrested in auto driver murder case||The city police on Wednesday arrested a 24-year-old youth for allegedly being involved in the murder of auto-rickshaw driver Polipalli Rambabu (30), at Arilova in the city on September 7. The arrested was identified as Ch. Roopesh (24), a resident of Visalakshi Nagar. Inspector of Arilova police station Emmanuel Raju confirmed that the accused Roopesh had murdered Rambabu on the spur of the moment, after an altercation with him. During the incident, Roopesh was also in an inebriated condition. He said that the murder took place when Rambabu was heading towards Ambedkar Nagar in Arilova. Rambabu allegedly took a sharp U-turn ahead of Roopesh who was driving a motorbike. Upset with the incident, Roopesh reportedly chased the auto-rickshaw and stopped Rambabu. After a heated argument, Roopesh reportedly stabbed Rambabu with a button knife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-arrested-in-auto-driver-murder-case/article36374161.ece
09 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. is curtailing religious freedom: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party State Executive Committee member Nadukuditi Eswara Rao on Wednesday alleged that the State government was trying to stoke communal differences and tensions among the people by imposing a ban on Vinayaka Chaviti festival in public places. Mr. Eswara Rao led a massive rally at Ranasthalam in Srikakulam district and submitted a memorandum to local revenue officials that the celebrations be allowed without any restrictions. Speaking to reporters, he said the State government’s decision was against to the rules and regulations of Article 25 of the Constitution. “The article guarantees the freedom of conscience, the freedom to profess, practice and propagate religion to all citizens. The State government cannot issue such orders, violating the rules of the Constitution. People should continue to have religious freedom,” said Mr. Eswara Rao. BJP Parvatipuram Parliamentary wing in-charge T. Tirupati Rao and general secretary Dwarapureddi Srinivasa Rao and other leaders staged a protest at Parvatipuram in Vizianagaram district against the ban on the public celebrations of the festival. Another protest was organised at Balijipeta mandal headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-is-curtailing-religious-freedom-bjp/article36374079.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boys outshine girls in EAPCET engineering stream||Mr. Suresh said Koyi Sree Nikhil of Kodigenahalli village in Parigi mandal of Anantapur district bagged the first rank in the Engineering stream. The other toppers include Varada Mahanth Naidu from Rajam in Srikakulam district, who secured second rank, while the 3rd and 4th ranks are shared by Duggineni Venkata Paneesh from Rajampet in Kadapa district and Savaram Diwakar Sai of Vizianagaram district. Nelluru Mourya Reddy from Nellore district came fifth, Kakunuri Shashank Reddy from Giddalur in Prakasam district secured sixth place, Midathana Pranay from Gantiyada in Vizianagaram district came seventh, Suravarapu Harsha Varma from Vijayawada in Krishna district bagged eighth rank, Satti Karthikeya from Palakol in West Godavari district secured 9th place and Oruganti Tejonivas from Tirupati in Chittoor district bagged 10th rank. Of the total 2,59,688 candidates registered for the EAPCET, 1,75,868 of them were for the engineering stream. The CET for engineering stream was held from August 19 to 25 and for Agriculture and Pharmacy, they were conducted on September 3, 6 and 7. The candidates wrote the test in 120 centres, including three in Telangana, and in 15 sessions in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Of them, 10 sessions were for engineering stream and five for agriculture and pharmacy. The Minister said the exams were held in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol and only five students were isolated and made to write exam in a special room after they showed COVID positive signs. APSCHE Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy, Special Chief Secretary (Higher Education) Satish Chandra, Commissioner of Technical Education P. Bhaskar, Special Officer for CETs M. Sudheer Reddy, V-C, JNTU-Kakinada M. Ramalinga Raju and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boys-perform-better-than-girls-in-eapcet/article36374047.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lurking danger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lurking-danger/article36374081.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Action please!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/requiring-attention/article36373621.ece
09 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Godavari inches close to first flood warning level||As the water level in the Godavari continued to surge at Bhadrachalam following copious inflows from the upstream areas, the official machinery has been activated in flood-prone areas in seven mandals of the district to deal with any exigency. The water level in the river rose to 38.70 feet on Wednesday evening and inched close to the first flood warning level of 43 feet at the temple town. According to an advisory issued by the Central Water Commission’s Lower Godavari Division office late on Wednesday afternoon, the water level in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam may reach the first flood warning level by Thursday morning due to continuous rains the upstream areas and release of surplus water from the SRSP, the Sripada Yellampalli Project and the Laxmi barrage in the upper reaches of the river. Collector D Anudeep has called upon people living in the flood prone areas along the river course to remain alert and move to the nearby relief camps. He asked the Revenue officials to make necessary arrangements for provision of food and other amenities at the relief camps. Two flood control rooms have been set up in Kothagudem (08744 241950) and Bhadrachalam (08743 232444).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/godavari-inches-close-to-first-flood-warning-level/article36373906.ece
09 September 2021||Hassan,TELANGANA||About 100 carcasses of stray dogs found||Carcasses of more than 100 stray dogs were found near Hunasekatte in Kambadal Hosur Gram Panchayat of Bhadravati taluk on Tuesday. The local people noticed them and informed the panchayat officers and the police. It is suspected that unknown people captured the dogs and buried them after digging the ground. The gram panchayat officials have maintained that they had not ordered the culling of dogs. Following the incident, police officers and veterinarians reached the spot. K. Basavaraj, taluk officer of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Department, told The Hindu that a team of experts and doctors had reached the spot. “As of now, the exact number of dogs dead is not known. We will conduct the mandatory procedures to ascertain the cause of death”, he said. Case registered Bhadravati Rural Police have registered a case based on a complaint by local people. The complainants have blamed the panchayat officials for the incident. B. Manjunath, secretary of Kambadal Hosur GP, said that panchayat had not ordered for capture or culling of dogs. “We don’t know who did this. We are also cooperating with the police for further investigation”, he said. Recently around 35 monkeys were found dead in a village near Belur in Hassan district. Karnataka High Court had taken note of the incident and ordered a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/carcasses-of-over-100-stray-dogs-found/article36374008.ece
09 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||All geared up for Ganesh festival||After a gloomy 2020, there is a broad grin on the faces of shopkeepers selling Ganesh idols in the Dhoolpet area of the city. Young men from different parts of the city talk animatedly among themselves as they try to match their budgets with the prices of Ganesh idols. Transport vehicle owners drive a hard bargain. There are drummers waiting to be hired. There are no masks to be seen and the COVID-19 pandemic appears to be a thing of the past as the city looks forward to the 10-day Ganesh festival. “All our idols have been sold. The last one left the workshop seconds ago,” says Vijay Singh as he folds a bundle of currency notes and locks it in the dicky of his two-wheeler. He reveals a secret. “Last year, there were mixed messages about whether people will be allowed to install idols. We made idols that remained unsold, so this year we are painting and selling them. The vaccine has changed the business,” he says. A row of 10-foot high unpainted idols stands parked outside. The 12-foot idol, the last among the 35 idols, is snagged by the Ambedkar Nagar Ganesh Committee from Ameerpet. “We bought this for Rs. 29,000. Last year, there was a ban. In 2019, our committee installed a 16-foot idol we bought for Rs. 42,000,” informs G. Ganesh, the organiser. Another idol seller Sunil Singh has a small notice stuck to the taller idols — ‘Booked’. While the taller idols have been sold out, the small idols under 10 feet are still available as apartment complexes are still wary about celebrating the festival in a big way. “We plan to keep Lord Ganesha idol (2 feet) in the clubhouse for the first five days of the festival with no invite to anybody. We request residents not to gather in the clubhouse or any area for any kind of celebration,” is the message sent out by an upscale housing complex in Nanakramguda area. “We are installing a small clay idol but there will be no cultural events or prasad distribution,” says the secretary of another apartment complex in Hyderguda. While the sale of big Ganesh idols might have brought cheer to sellers, only time will tell if the harsh economic impact on festivities is really behind us.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-geared-up-for-ganesh-festival/article36373883.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||I maintain a harmonious relationship with State govt., Governor||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said that she maintained a harmonious relationship with the State government though there were differences of opinion on certain issues. In a media interaction after releasing her coffee table book, One among and amongst the people , to mark the completion of her two years in office, Ms. Soundararajan said she differed with the government after it refused to join the Ayushman Bharat, a national public health insurance scheme of the Centre. “I conveyed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao that the implementation of the scheme by the State government will help people from other States to enjoy its benefits. He was convinced and responded positively to make it a Centre-State programme,” she said. She also said she maintained a balance holding a Constitutional post and dealing with a government headed by a regional party. There was a clear demarcation between her role holding a gubernotorial post and dealing with the government. “It is a good relationship and there are no controversies,” she said. Ms. Soundararajan praised the Chief Minister as a friendly person who was receptive to her suggestions. Whenever she felt something more was required of the government to mitigate distress of public, she said she wrote letters to the Chief Minister or called him up over phone. The government appreciated her initiative. ‘Handling twins’ On her twin posts as Governor of Telangana and Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, she said it was like handling twins, being a gynaecologist herself. When she stepped in as Governor two years back, she said she handled Telangana State as a new born baby. She divided her presence and concentration between Telangana and Puducherry equally. She was in the Union Territory from Monday to Wednesday and here from Thursday to weekend. She said she had a hectic time because the responsibilities of Lieutenant Governor were far more than a Governor. She travelled to Puducherry and returned via Chennai every time. It took two-and-a-half hours of road journey from Chennai to Puducherry. Ms. Soundararajan said she enjoyed the responsibility that was entrusted to her. The responsibility doubled in the last six months after taking over as Lieutenant Governor. She dedicated the success of her governorship in two years to her mother who passed away recently. She released a reprint of Telugu - English idioms of a century old publication earlier titled, A Vade Mecum by Dasu Kesava Rao Pant. A copy of the publication was recently recovered by Pant’s grandson Dasu Kesava Rao, a former Resident Editor of The Hindu , who took the initiative to reprint it under the aegis of Veteran Journalists Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/i-maintain-a-harmonious-relationship-with-state-govt-governor/article36373896.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Registration revenue at an impressive Rs. 920 cr. in Aug.||The Registration and Stamps Department has registered an impressive revenue of little over Rs. 920 crore during August. The department achieved 102% growth in the revenue during the month as compared to Rs. 455.77 crore registered during the same month last fiscal. The department had set for itself a target of Rs. 1,000 crore for the month and could achieve 92% of the set target. According to senior officials, the revenue reflects the buoyant real estate market which is growing steadily in the areas around the the Greater Hyderabad limits. The department’s revenues continue to be on the upswing in spite of the hike in the stamp duties and registration charges effected from July 22 this year. The revision for instance saw the charge per square feet going up by 30% in case of higher range apartments while it had been kept at 20% in the event of areas where the rates are Rs. 4,000 a sq.ft. or less. The revision was made consequent on the steep appreciation of land values in different areas after the government successfully put in place the necessary infrastructure. The total revenue earned by the department for the first four months stood at Rs. 3,750 crore with July registering highest of Rs. 1,201.86 crore. Revenue in the first four months increased by more than 130% against Rs. 1,568.39 crore registered during the first four months of the last financial year. Officials said the pace of registrations is set to increase in the coming days as the next two months are considered to be auspicious when people would prefer investing in the real estate. Registration and Stamps Department was among the revenue earning departments which suffered adversely due to the impact of COVID-19 pandemic. But the department revived itself since the lifting of restrictions from April this year registering Rs. 716 crore revenue and the trend is continuing for the next three months but for May when it dropped to Rs. 234 crore due to closure of sub-registrar offices on account of COVID-19 pandemic second wave.  Revenue reflects the buoyant real estate market which is growing steadily. Senior officials, Registration and Stamps Department .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/registration-revenue-at-an-impressive-rs-920-cr-in-aug/article36373894.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Potential tsunami threat in the North Arabian Sea||If governments across the globe are looking at Afghanistan and the Middle East with renewed concern over the recent developments, earth scientists too are having a critical look at the region, especially towards the sea in the Gulf region. The Indian Ocean is likely to be affected by tsunamis generated mainly by earthquakes not only from the known and explored ‘Andaman-Nicobar-Sumatra Island Arc’ in Bay of Bengal but also the ‘Makran Subduction Zone’ in the Northern Arabian Sea which is poorly understood. “Hundreds of fatalities were confirmed to have occurred after the 1945 Tsunami in north west of Indian Ocean and there still are ‘open questions’ on whether the Makran subduction zone can generate such large tsunamis in the future,” said Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) director T. Srinivasa Kumar on Wednesday. Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission-UNESCO has begun to implement a multi-national project aimed at better understanding Makran and to strengthen tsunami early warning through regional cooperation funded by UN ESCAP Trust Fund in the region, he said. INCOIS hosting the Tsunami Warning Centre for 25 countries of the region has been drafted to strengthen the standard operating procedures for disseminating alerts through mainstream media of Iran, Oman, United Arab Emirates and Pakistan apart from India. Dr. Kumar, addressing the second day of the three-day workshop, said the ideal situation is the one in Japan where National Broadcaster NHK has a direct connection with the warning centre to relay real time information. Indian Tsunami Early Warning Centre (ITEWC) at INCOIS came into existence after the tsunami on December 26, 2004, which took 16,000 lives in the country alone, under the Ministry of Earth Sciences and it is part of the IOC framework. It can now give alerts within 10 minutes of any quake underwater through a network of buoys, 36 tide gauges along the coastline and 27 seismic stations, he said. Incidentally, INCOIS has five buoys in Bay of Bengal to give real-time information about ocean currents and any sub-surface quakes whereas it has just two on Arabian Sea near Makran. “Ideally, we need to have one more as right now these two help us get timely alerts, but not enough for research. We are expecting Oman to fund another one since each buoy costs about Rs. 8 crore. It is quite a complicated process to maintain them since we had incidents of vandalism with parts of the buoys being cut off mid-sea,” said scientists B.Ajay Kumar and Ch.Patanjali Kumar. Senior scientist T.M. Balakrishnan Nair gave an overview of INCOIS activities on fishing, ocean forecasting, multi-hazard mapping of coastline, etc. Scientists M.V.Sunanda and Sudheer Joseph also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/potential-tsunami-threat-in-the-north-arabian-sea/article36373881.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Medicine from Sky’ project set to take off on Sept. 11||The State government’s ‘Medicine from the Sky’ drone-delivery project will be launched in Vikarabad on September 11. IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao confirmed the development with a tweet on Wednesday. The initiative, which involves delivery of vaccine and medical supplies using drones to remote areas, has been taken up by Emerging Technologies, a concern of the Information Technology, Electronics and Communications department, in collaboration with the World Economic Forum and HealthNet Gobal. “In partnership with@wefTelangana Govt will be launching unique project on 11th Sept at Vikarabad,” an excerpt from Mr Rao’s tweet read. Union Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia said he would be present at the launch. “The liberalised#DroneRules2021have already opened the floodgates of innovation! Visiting Vikarabad, Telangana to launch the pathbreaking “Medicine from the Sky Project” where drones will be used to transport vaccines to remote areas.#DroneRevolutionBegins,” he tweeted, adding that this technology, with its applications spread over several sectors, would transform India quickly. The project entailing drone flights by several consortia, will attempt to understand robustness and reliability of delivery of medicines and vaccines, of different payload sizes, and in controlled temperatures. The trials will continue for a period of four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medicine-from-sky-project-set-to-take-off-on-sept-11/article36373884.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seriousness expected on steps to check COVID: HC||Expressing dissatisfaction over non-compliance with its directions on inclusion of life-saving medicines used for treating COVID-19 patients in the list of National Life Saving Drugs, the Telangana High Court on Wednesday instructed Assistant Solicitor General Namavarapu Rajeshwar Rao to file a fresh affidavit on the matter. Hearing a batch of PIL petitions connected to COVID-19, the HC said the Central government’s response in the matter was “slow”. “Virus is not going to wait for you...lives would be lost if you act in slow motion,” a bench of Acting Chief Justice and Justice T. Vinod Kumar said, referring to the Central government. “When the virus strikes, it strikes so fast….Some seriousness is expected on this issue,” the bench noted. The ASG told the court that he had difficulty in approaching the right department since there were several of them under the Union Ministry of Health. He stated that once he had to make 23 telephone calls in a matter as the Ministry had several wings. Justice T. Vinod Kumar told the ASG that the court could not come to his rescue on this issue and he had to find the right department to convey the court findings or directions. The bench took exception to the expert committee constituted by the State government to guide on COVID-19-related matters not convening any meeting so far. The HC instructed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to ensure that the expert committee met and discussed the strategies to check rise of Coronavirus cases in the backdrop of reports that a third wave of the pandemic was imminent. “Where is the action plan to contain the anticipated third wave of COVID-19?” the bench sought to know. The bench asked the AG about the steps taken by the government to augment medical infrastructure in the State in the form of ICU beds and other facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seriousness-expected-on-steps-to-check-covid-hc/article36373892.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Female leopard found dead||A female leopard was found dead on the road near Choudarpally village of Devarakadra mandal in Mahabubnagar district on Wednesday, in what is assumed as a hit and run instance. As per the details shared by the District Forest Officer Ganga Reddy, the Forest officials received information from the police, at about 3.30 a.m. on Wednesday, about the body of the leopard lying on the road. Circumstantial evidence suggested that the two-year-old feline might have died in an accident, though post mortem was done and samples have been collected and sent for analysis, to rule out poisoning, he said. Pug marks were also traced in the area surrounding the road. Body of the leopard has been disposed of after the post mortem as per the established procedures, Mr. Ganga Reddy informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/female-leopard-found-dead/article36373898.ece
09 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR and Modi discussed roping in MIM to favour BJP: Revanth||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy has alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was in New Delhi for the last one week to fix the alliance between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) to favour the former in Uttar Pradesh elections and not for seeking favours to Telangana. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi along with CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and other senior leaders, he said KCR and Mr. Modi discussed where and how the AIMIM should contest in Uttar Pradesh to split votes in favour of BJP candidates. “Both these leaders share a ‘Fevicol Bond’ and State BJP president Bandi Sanjay and former minister Eatala Rajender should realise that they are just pawns in the big game and start thinking about Telangana people,” he said. Taking on the self-respect claim of the TRS, he said constructing the party office in New Delhi owned by the Chief Minister’s family was not self-respect but self-promotion. “If they were sincere let them build a Telangana martyrs’ memorial in New Delhi on one acre seeking the land from Mr. Modi. Even after 7 years the Telangana martyrs’ memorial was not completed in Hyderabad while TRS constructed its offices everywhere and it was laughable that they term it Telangana’s self-respect. They are just their personal assets.” Membership drive He said December 9 was an auspicious day in Telangana’s history as the Congress made the announcement of a separate state that day. To celebrate the day, the party would enrol 10 lakh members across Telangana. “We have invited Mr. Rahul Gandhi for the programme,” he said. Earlier, the new TPCC committee met Mr. Rahul Gandhi for more than an hour where they discussed party plans in taking on the TRS government. “Mr. Gandhi was apprised of the new schemes launched by the TRS government and also how KCR was ‘nervous’ about the aggressive Congress,” a senior leader told The Hindu . Mr. Bhatti Vikramarka and Mr. Damodar Raj Narasimha explained how 86,000 acres of assigned lands were taken away by the TRS government in the name of projects. AICC incharge for Telangana Manickam Tagore, AICC secretaries N.S. Bose Raju, Sreenivasan Krishnan, TPCC working presidents J. Geetha Reddy, Mohd Azharuddin, Mahesh Kumar Goud, Madhu Yaskhi Goud, Azmatullah Hussain and A. Maheshwar Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-and-modi-discussed-roping-in-mim-to-favour-bjp-revanth/article36373902.ece
09 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS wakes up to loyalists’ anger||The Kaushik Reddy episode has ruffled the feathers of many die-hard and loyal Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) activists and the open questioning of his choice as MLC with their local MLAs and leaders seems to have spurred the party to promise nominated posts to those who have sailed with the party in difficult times. Entry of Congress MLAs and their followers, and numerous elected representatives invited into the party-fold before every bypoll in the State has diminished political opportunities for those who sacrificed their time and money for the party during the Telangana agitation. However, except expressing anguish on a few occasions party activists confined their disappointment to murmurs. Somehow, the nomination of Kaushik Reddy as MLC blew the lid on the suppressed frustration and even the most disciplined party leaders started airing their views openly, leaving local MLAs with nothing much to console them. The most vociferous of these are from Karimnagar district, particularly Huzurabad Assembly segment where the bypoll is scheduled. Apparently, this is the reason TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao wants to fill 500 nominated posts soon and these would be reserved for those who have been with the party, braving rough times. He also acknowledged the anger among party loyalists with inputs from Karimnagar reaching him. In fact, several leaders have been approaching KTR for the last few months, seeking nominated posts and leaving record of their sacrifices for the party with his office, expecting some luck. In fact, this flow started last December after the party suffered badly in the GHMC elections. This loss was preceded by the Dubbaka bypoll where the BJP emerged victorious. There is an internal tussle between the TRS cadre and those who have come along with the MLAs, ZPTCs and sarpanches who defected to the TRS after they were elected on another party ticket. This turned acrimonious wherever Congress MLAs defected, given the decade-long animosity among the cadre. Senior leader and former minister Tummala Nageshwar Rao’s followers went to the extent of filing cases against Paleru MLA Upender Reddy, alleging that he was harassing Tummala’s followers. Another senior leader Enugu Ravinder Reddy left the party after Congress MLA from Yellareddy joined the TRS. In Maheshwaram former MLA Teegala Krishna Reddy is keeping himself away from party activities after Sabitha Indra Reddy joined the TRS. The power tussle is not confined to top leadership but it trickled down to the village cadre in several constituencies. This is now worrying the party as it cannot afford groupism with the BJP and Congress going great guns, blazing against the ruling party and trying to woo their cadre as well. A senior TRS leader agreed that followers of Congress MLAs may not get priority in the next phase of nominated posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-wakes-up-to-loyalists-anger/article36373900.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fire protection system given to Sparsh Hospice||State Bank of India (SBI), as part of its corporate social responsibility activities, donated Rs. 50 lakh for the fire protection system at Sparsh Hospice, an 80-bed palliative care facility of the Rotary Club of Banjara Hills Charitable Trust in Khajaguda. Managing Director (Retail and Digital Banking) Challa Srinivasulu Setty, formally handed over the cheque towards the facility comprising pump house, hydrant system, fire detection and alarm system as well as public address system, SBI Hyderabad Circle said in a release on Tuesday. As part of another CSR programme of the bank, a seven-seater vehicle, wet grinder, stationery, provisions and hygiene products, together estimated at Rs. 7.50 lakh, were handed over by Mr. Setty to Centre for Social Service, Hayathnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fire-protection-system-given-to-sparsh-hospice/article36374091.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CITU launches padayatra against labour codes||The CITU launched a ‘padayatra’ or a march on foot on Wednesday, protesting against the four labour codes that were introduced by the Central government and demanding payment of minimum wages for workers in scheduled employment. The march titled, ‘Karmika Garjana’, was kicked off from Kothur, Ranga Reddy district. The padayatra by the CITU was addressed by Member of Legislative Council (MLC) A. Narsi Reddy, who urged workers not to yield to lures and inducements by political leaders and exercise their vote in favour of leaders who focus on their problems. Governments were not in a position to increase minimum wages at least to Rs. 18,000, and for two years, even the dearness allowance had not been increased, Mr. Narsi Reddy said. The amendment pertaining to 12-hour workday must be opposed tooth and nail, he said. The march would continue till September 30 and conclude in Sangareddy district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/padayatra-against-labour-codes/article36373893.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tamilisai Soundararajan justifies holding back nomination proposal||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has justified her decision to hold back a resolution referred to her by the State Cabinet seeking nomination of a TRS leader P. Kaushik Reddy as a member of the Legislative Council under Governor’s quota saying she needed time to study the proposal. “I am taking sometime. I can take some more time” in the matter she said replying to questions on the reason for keeping the file pending. She also said she was within her rights to take some more time. Mr. Kaushik Reddy is a cricketer-turned-politician who unsuccessfully contested the last Assembly elections from Huzurabad constituency as a Congress candidate and polled over 60,000 votes. He lost to former Minister Eatala Rajender, who is likely to be the BJP candidate in a byelection to the constituency shortly. The Congress suspended Mr. Reddy, who was also an office-bearer of the party, after it was found that he was in touch with the TRS leadership. On joining TRS, the party offered to recommend him for nomination to the Council from the Governor’s quota. A meeting of the Cabinet endorsed the decision of the party and referred it to the Governor after the byelection to Huzurabad constituency became imminent with the resignation of Mr. Rajender as the local MLA. Ms. Soundararajan said the Cabinet made the proposal for Mr. Reddy for his contribution in social service. So, she needed time to verify his credentials and compare them with nominations made in the category in other States. Reminded that she lost no time in clearing earlier Cabinet resolution nominating Goreti Venkanna, Basavaraju and B. Dayanand in Governor’s quota, she said she was convinced about their achievements in their respective fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tamilisai-soundararajan-justifies-holding-back-nomination-proposal/article36373897.ece
09 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Land worth Rs. 1,500 cr. allotted at Rs. 285 cr. to TRS MP: Dasoju Sravan||AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan has alleged that the KCR government has unlawfully allocated 15 acres of government land in Filmnagar, Hyderabad, to M/s Red Fort Akbar Properties Private Limited, which is backed by TRS Chevella MP Ranjit Reddy and Indu Properties Shyamprasad Reddy. “The market value of this land is about Rs. 1,500 crores but was given to Red Fort Akbar Properties Private Limited for just Rs. 285 crore. Why did the TRS government agree to alienate expensive land at cheaper price when former Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh Kiran Kumar Reddy kept aside the same deal?” he questioned at a press conference here. He said Red Fort Akbar Properties Pvt Ltd., a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) of Indu Projects, was allotted 90 acres at Bachupally by Deccan Infrastructure & Land Holdings Limited (DILL), a subsidiary of AP Housing Board in 2007, to develop an integrated township. Instead of paying Rs. 477 crore at Rs. 5.30 crore per acre, it had just paid Rs. 285 crore, he claimed. “The govt. defied the opinion of three Supreme Court judges on the issue when the entire case was challenged in the court,” he claimed. Mr. Sravan, who also wrote a letter to Chief Minister K. Chadrasekhar Rao seeking withdrawal of the land allotment, questioned BJP’s silence over the issue and more so when the Abhayanjaneya Swamy temple in on the land, which he claimed is being razed. Besides religious significance, the temple also has environmental importance, as it is located on a rock formation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-worth-rs-1500-cr-allotted-at-rs-285-cr-to-trs-mp-dasoju-sravan/article36373903.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS posts 321 COVID cases||The number of COVID-19 cases in the State, which had dropped to under 300 on Tuesday, increased marginally on Wednesday even as the number of tests climbed by nearly 10,000. With 78,421 samples being put to test, 321 infections were recorded. The previous day (Tuesday), a total of 68,097 samples had been examined, leading to the detection of 298 cases. The new 321 cases include 81 from Greater Hyderabad region, 27 from Karimnagar, 23 each from Medchal Malkajgiri and Warangal Urban, and 20 from Nalgonda. No infection was recorded in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, and only one each was logged in four districts including Narayanpet and Mulugu. Two more patients succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 3,889. Of the total cases, 5,497 were active. 50 lakh vaccinated The number of people in the State who have received two doses of vaccines against COVID has crossed 50 lakh. Around 2.2 crore people in the State above 18 years are eligible for the vaccine. From January 16 to September 7, over 1.39 crore beneficiaries had received their first dose. Of them, 50.71 lakh had taken their second jab too. Of these 50.71 lakh, the highest of 31.82 lakh are aged 45 years and above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-posts-321-covid-cases/article36373879.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Air India’s direct flights to London from Hyderabad||Air India is set to commence its first ever non-stop service between Hyderabad and London, Heathrow with the first flight arriving from London to Hyderabad on September 9 and departing from Hyderabad to London on September 10. The flight will operate twice a week on Mondays and Fridays with a Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft with a capacity of 256 seats including 18 in business class and 238 in economy class configuration. On Mondays, flight AI 147 will depart Hyderabad at 0130 hours to arrive in London at 0730 hours on the same day. On Fridays, the flight AI 147 will leave Hyderabad at 0530 hours to arrive in London at 1130 hours the same day (All Local Time/LT). The return flight AI 148 will operate on Sundays and Thursdays departing from London at 0945 hours (LT) to arrive in Hyderabad at 2335 hours (LT) on the same day. At present, Air India operates non-stop flights to London from Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Amritsar, Kochi, Ahmedabad and Goa. For more information, log on to:www.airindia.inor call toll free number1860 233 1407.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/air-indias-direct-flights-to-london-from-hyderabad/article36373888.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSEWIDC engineer in ACB net||A site engineer who allegedly demanded and accepted bribe of Rs. 7,000 to process and hand over payment order related to construction of toilets at a government school was caught by Telangana Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Wednesday. P Vinod Yadav , the site engineer at TS Education and Welfare Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSEWIDC), Rangareddy, demanded the bribe from M Srinivas who constructed the toilets at Zilla Parishad High School (ZPHS) in Mambapur Village, Peddemul mandal, Vikarabad. The tainted amount was recovered from the possession of the accused officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsewidc-engineer-in-acb-net/article36374092.ece
09 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Last day for slot booking for engg. admissions||Engineering aspirants have to book their slots for choosing the courses and colleges by September 9 (Thursday) and the last date for verification of their certificates is September 11. Options for choosing the courses and colleges will be open from September 11 to 16. Navin Mittal, Convenor, TSEAMCET 2021 admissions said candidates have to pay the processing fee and book slot so as to attend for Certificate Verification. All the information like detailed notification, list of Helpline centres, list of courses, counselling procedure and last rank statements of TSEAMCET-2020 Admissions are placed in the website ‘https://tseamcet.nic.in’ for the students to check. So far 51,392 students attended certificate verification while 71,172 candidates paid the processing fee and booked the slots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-day-for-slot-booking-for-engg-admissions/article36373889.ece
09 September 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Crops in 3,607 acres inundated||Although rains have abated during the day in most parts of the old undivided Khammam district on Wednesday, the heavy rains that lashed Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts in the last few days led to inundation of cotton and paddy crops in little over 3,607 acres in both the districts. As per the preliminary estimates by the Agriculture Department, crops including paddy and cotton in around 1,887 acres were damaged in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, affecting as many as 1,393 farmers. Farmers in Julurupadu, Burgampadu, Sujathanagar, Tekulapalli and Palvancha mandals bore the maximum brunt of the rain fury, sources said. In Khammam district, crops, mainly paddy and cotton, were inundated by rainwater in around 1,720 acres. Heavy rains over the past three days caused significant damage to cotton and paddy crops besides chilli seedlings, mainly in Tirumalayapalem, Kusumanchi, Mudigonda and Madhira mandals. The extensive waterlogging in agricultural fields, some of which still remained under a sheet of water in various villages in Khammam and Sattupalli divisions, is likely to affect the crop yield. Chilli farmers in the chilli growing belt of the district are worried over their crop prospects in the current kharif season as heavy rains damaged chilli seedlings in several villages in Kusumanchi, Nelakondapalli, Khammam rural and Tirumalayapalem mandals. As per the Kharif action plan, area sown under chilli is expected to increase to little over 56,000 acres in this Kharif season as against the last year’s acreage of around 55,000 acres in Khammam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crops-in-3607-acres-inundated/article36374097.ece
09 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||ICRISAT awarded 2021 Africa Food Prize||The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) has been awarded the 2021 Africa Food Prize for work that has improved food security across 13 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. Between 2007 and 2019, ICRISAT led a collaboration of partners to deliver the Tropical Legumes Project. The project, undertaken together with the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) and International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), developed 266 improved legume varieties and almost half a million tonnes of seed for a range of legume crops, including cowpeas, pigeon peas, chickpea, common bean, groundnut, and soybean. These new varieties have helped over 25 million smallholder farmers become more resilient to climate change, as well as pest and disease outbreaks. In addition to these new varieties, the project trained 52 scientists, who are already working in national research institutes across the continent. Training these next generation scientists in the countries where the projects were implemented, has helped strengthen the research capacity of national agricultural research systems in Africa and contributed to sustaining the gains the projects have made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/icrisat-awarded-2021-africa-food-prize/article36374095.ece
09 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||CM confined to Delhi during floods: Bandi||BJP State president and Lok Sabha member Bandi Sanjay Kumar came down heavily on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, alleging that he had been playing politics in New Delhi while people were reeling under floods. “Farmers are facing so many problems but there is no one who can address their problems. The Chief Minister has failed to keep the promise of loan waiver to farmers and they are not getting remunerative price for their produce,” said Mr. Sanjay, while addressing a press conference at Shivampet on Wednesday, the 12th day of Praja Sangrama Padayatra. Soil testing He demanded that farmers be paid compensation without delay in the name of forming committees to assess losses. He wanted to know how Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao was able to generate lakhs of rupees in farming while ordinary farmers were incurring loss. He said soil testing was not being done despite the Centre releasing Rs. 120 crore for the purpose. The BJP leader demanded that there be no restrictions on celebrating Vinayaka Chaturthi in the State. Mr Sanjay asked whether Hindu samaj needed a permission to celebrate the festival peacefully. He asked the DGP not to create problems for celebrating Hindu festivals, particularly Ganesh Chaturthi. The BJP president said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched Fasal Bhima Yojana for damaged crops but the State government had failed to make payment of premium for this. Former MLA Babu Mohan, Manohar Reddy, and Sangareddy district president Narender Reddy, who participated in padayatra, said revolutionary changes were taking place and youngsters were voluntarily hoisting party flag in villages. BJP State general secretaries Mantri Srinivasu and Dugyala Pradeep Kumar and padayatra convenor Manohar Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-confined-himself-to-delhi-during-floods/article36373905.ece
09 September 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Aerial reforestation begins||Special Chief Secretary (Forest) V. Santhi Kumari on Wednesday launched aerial reforestation, or seed bombing by using drones, at Anjaneya Abhayaranyam, near Yadagirigutta, in the district. The technique, widely used to extend green cover in many inaccessible areas such as high altitude, interior forests, rocky and difficult terrain, would yield favourable results, she said. Joining District Collector Pamela Satpathy at the urban eco-park in Raigiri-I reserve forest block, she launched the ‘Hara Bahara’ programme here by flying the drone. Ms. Santhi Kumari said the Forest Department is prepared to drop about 50 lakh seed balls across the State in select areas in the year. The seed ball’s activity, growth and contribution to new green cover can also be monitored after a year with use of technology, she explained. As part of Hara Bahara, she added, the target is to drop a billion seed balls in Telangana by 2030. The senior bureaucrat also expressing satisfaction at the way Haritha Haram, which is in its seventh year now, was taken up in all districts, said consistent efforts contributed to achieving the target of 2.30 crore saplings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aerial-reforestation-begins/article36373904.ece
09 September 2021||Mumbai,||People have fundamental right to drinking water: HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday severely criticised a drinking water service provider for failing to provide for the residents of a village in Thane district. “It is unfortunate that even after 75 years of Independence people have to knock on the doors of the court to get regular drinking water, which is their fundamental right,” the court said. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and Milind Jadhav was hearing a petition filed by some residents of Kambe village in Bhiwandi. They complained that they got drinking water only twice a month and that too for two hours. The service provider is STEM Water Distribution and Infrastructure, a joint venture of the Thane Zilla Parishad and the Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation. The villagers said the service provider illegally supplied water to politicians and tanker lobbies. Bhausaheb Dangde, STEM’s MD, told the court that water was being supplied daily, but only up to a particular location. He claimed that the distribution of water from that point to the petitioners’ homes was not the responsibility of the company but that of the village’s gram panchayat. The court interrupted him and said, “Water has to be supplied daily for at least a few hours. This is their fundamental right. People cannot suffer like this.” The court directed Mr. Dangde to file an affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/people-have-fundamental-right-to-drinking-water-hc/article36373807.ece
09 September 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Traffic restrictions on NH-66||Ahead of Ganeshotsav, the State government has decided to regulate traffic on National Highway 66. Vehicles with gross weight of over 16 tonnes will be barred from using the highway from the midnight of September 7 till 8 p.m. on September 10; from 8 a.m. on September 14 till 8 p.m. on September 15; and from 8 a.m. on September 19 till 8 p.m. on September 20. Vehicles transporting sand will not be allowed to ply from midnight on September 7 till 8 p.m. on September 20. The ban will not apply to vehicles transporting milk, petrol, diesel, cylinders, liquid medical oxygen, foodgrains, and vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/traffic-restrictions-on-nh-66/article36373808.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Environment protection to become more transparent and robust: Rai||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said that the State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority and State Level Expert Appraisal Committee have been notified by the Central government after Delhi government’s proposal. Mr. Rai said that now it will be easier to handle applications and the environment impact assessment will get more robust and transparent in the State. “Category ‘B’ projects requiring environmental clearance will not have to wait for the Central government’s approval and approval will now be given in a fast-tracked manner by the Delhi government itself. As much as fast tracking will be a sought after solution, we will also make the system more robust and transparent. Environment protection is one of the prime responsibilities of the Delhi government and we will not compromise on it,” Mr. Rai said. Delhi government had sent its proposal for reconstitution of SEIAA/SEAC, along with names of experts, to the Central government in 2020 and after multiple correspondence and meetings, the notification was finally issued, as per authorities. “It is to be noted that as per the Environment Protection Rules, all category ‘A’ projects [mega projects] are approved by an Expert Appraisal Committee of the MoEFCC while all category ‘B’ projects [large projects] are approved by the State Level Authority (SEIAA),” an official statement said. Lower pendency The authority will meet monthly, leading to faster decision making and lower pendency of cases and it can also mandate regular inspection of project sites which have been granted environment clearance (EC) to ensure that they are complying with norms, the Delhi government said. As per the gazette notification, Sarvagya Kumar Srivastava will be Chairman of the SEIAA, Reena Gupta, Special Secretary of Environment Department of Govt. of Delhi, will be the member Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/environment-protection-to-become-more-transparent-and-robust-rai/article36373949.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. bans Ganesh Chaturthi events||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday said Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations were prohibited in the Capital, advising citizens to observe the festival at home. This, even as the Delhi government was scheduled to organise an event to mark the occasion on Friday with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, his Cabinet colleagues and their respective family members supposed to be part of a traditional pooja on the day. Build oxygen plants Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri accused the Delhi government of wasting taxpayers’ money on “propaganda” through the event and arguing that the money being spent on it could be utilised on building oxygen plants in Delhi. The DDMA, in an order on August 30, had announced that all social, political, religious, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and festival-related gatherings were prohibited in the city given the COVID pandemic. The DDMA order said it had been decided that Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations may not be allowed in public places and people may be advised to observe the festival at home. The order directed all district officials to ensure that no pandal or tent was erected or any congregation was allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-bans-ganesh-chaturthi-events/article36373800.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP resolution calls AAP govt. ‘anti-women’||The BJP, following inauguration of its State Mahila Morcha executive meeting here on Wednesday passed a resolution against the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government. In addition to flagging several alleged issues related to its functioning, the unit also questioned the absence of women from the Delhi Cabinet. BJP national general secretary Dushyant Gautam inaugurated the meeting which also included national Mahila Morcha vice-president Rekha Gupta and Delhi BJP Mahila Morcha president Yogita Singh among others. Hoodwinking people The executive sought to take the opportunity to castigate the Delhi government for allegedly hoodwinking the people of the city in the name of free water and power though they were allegedly being made to pay for these. There was no pure drinking water while consumers were allegedly being looted in the name of fixed charges when it came to power. The resolution alleged that the Kejriwal government was “anti-women” arguing that though it talks of women’s welfare there was not even single woman Minister in the Cabinet. The morcha alleged that for past several years over 20,000 teachers’ posts were lying vacant in city schools but the State government is deliberately not filling them up. The resolution also charged the Delhi government withallegedly having stopped pension for senior citizens, widows and differently abled people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-resolution-calls-aap-govt-anti-women/article36373796.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||On-site oxygen generation plant set up at Batra Hospital, to serve 150 beds||An on-site oxygen generation plant has been set up at Batra Hospital, a private hospital here, where people had died due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. On May 1, the hospital did not have oxygen for more than an hour and 12 people, including a senior doctor from the hospital, who was undergoing COVID-19 treatment, died because of it, as per hospital authorities. Similar plant The plant is expected to serve around 150 hospital beds and the hospital is planning for another similar plant, according to the company which installed the oxygen plant. Meanwhile, the city reported zero COVID-19 death in 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,083, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Also, 41 new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,38,082. A total of 75,079 tests were done in a day and that test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.05%. Of the total cases, 14,12,585 people have recovered and there are only 414 active cases. The COVID-19 vaccine stock on Wednesday morning would last for six days, another another bulletin stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/oxygen-plant-set-up-at-batra-hospital/article36373798.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP leader meets DERC chairman over rising electricity bills in city||A day after he was appointed vice-chairman of the Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti by its chairperson, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Union Minister Vijay Goel met Shabihul Hussain, the new chairman of DERC, regarding the rising electricity bills in the city. Mr. Goel alleged that since the last many years, fixed charges have been increased six times without any reason; notice is given to increase the fixed load, but no notice is given to the consumer when the fixed load is reduced, so that he can save money. ‘Huge recovery’ During the lockdown, when most of the commercial establishments, shops, factories remained closed, in the name of fixed charges, “huge recovery” was made from the public, in which relief should be given, Mr. Goel demanded. Mr. Goel said that apart from the per unit price of electricity, power companies were charging many “wrong charges” such as power purchase cost agreement, pension charge and surcharge, about which companies were “not able to give any account”. “Even in the name of giving new electricity connection, the power companies are committing corruption. On one hand, electricity connections have been provided everywhere in slums, illegal colonies, but now in buildings higher than 15 metres, connections are being given by spending money on corruption,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-leader-meets-derc-chief-over-bills/article36373801.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Elevated cross taxiway to be ready by Dec. next year’||India’s first elevated cross taxiway, which is being constructed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, is scheduled to be ready by December 2022 with 60% of the work already complete, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said on Wednesday. Once completed, it will cut 55,000 tonnes of CO2 emission annually and minimise aircraft delay. Passengers will be able to reach the terminal faster after landing, as the elevated eastern cross taxiway is set to reduce the distance that an aircraft has to taxi from 9 km to 2 km. “Environment has emerged as a major focus area in the aviation sector. We have implemented Airport-Collaborative Decision Making for airport operations and all runway operations to minimise aircraft delay and associated emissions,” said I. Prabhakar Rao, deputy managing director, GMR Group, that operates the Delhi airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/elevated-cross-taxiway-to-be-ready-by-dec-next-year/article36373948.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Afghan body chief booked for violating COVID norms||A case has been registered against Afghan Solidarity Committee chief Ahmad Zia Ghani for allegedly violating COVID-19 guidelines while protesting outside the United Nations High Commissioner of Refugees (UNHCR) office here, the Delhi Police said on Wednesday. Amid the crisis in Afghanistan after the Taliban took over the war-torn nation, a large number of Afghan refugees in India held protests in front of the UNHCR office at Vasant Vihar in South Delhi demanding the release of “support letters” from the UN agency to migrate to other countries for better opportunities. An FIR was registered against Mr. Ghani at Vasant Vihar police station on August 31. “We registered a case under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) last week for violating COVID guidelines. No one has been arrested yet,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/afghan-panel-chief-booked-for-violating-covid-norms/article36373803.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Give report on encroachment issue: NGT||Following a plea seeking action against encroachment by a private developer in Ghaziabad, the National Green Tribunal has directed the District Magistrate to furnish a report on the same within one month. The plea alleged that despite complaints, the district administration had failed to take remedial action. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “It is stated that the applicant approached the Ghaziabad District Magistrate with the grievance that there was encroachment of public land which was a drain but the official had not considered the same. The drain which had been encroached has significant ecological functions and encroachment would be detrimental to the environment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/give-report-on-encroachment-issue-ngt/article36373951.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ashoka varsity to double seats, faculty by 2027||Ashoka University laid the foundation stone for its new campus on Wednesday, with plans to double its students, faculty and built-up spaces over the next six years with an overall investment of about Rs. 1,500 crore. It will also move from a focus on the humanities to a greater emphasis on sciences as well, according to Ashish Dhawan, chairman of the board of trustees. The Sonipat-based university is currently sited on a 25-acre campus and had purchased a contiguous plot of another 27 acres three years ago. “It took us nine years to build the current campus, and we are now bursting at the seams in terms of capacity for students,” Mr. Dhawan told The Hindu . By 2027, he expects to add 1.8 million square feet of built-up space to the current 1.5 million square feet, and increase the student population to up to 6,000 from the current strength of 2,500. The 180-strong faculty team is also expected to double. More than the numbers though, the expansion is about a shift in focus. “We want to start more graduate courses, postdoctoral research programmes,” said Mr. Dhawan. In the first phase starting this week, Ashoka will construct a major research facility for the biosciences, and an innovation hub to encourage entrepreneurial ventures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ashoka-varsity-to-double-seats-faculty-by-2027/article36373804.ece
09 September 2021||Pune,||BMC issues fresh curbs for Ganeshotsav||Amid fears of a third wave of the pandemic, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has issued fresh curbs for Ganesh Chaturthi. The civic body has banned physical darshan for devotees at public Ganpati mandals and has appealed to citizens to celebrate the festival without ceremony. As per the norms, restrictions have been imposed on the number of participants in processions for bringing the idols and during their immersion. Not more than 10 people will be allowed in the processions of public pandals and not more than five for household Ganpatis. All participants should have taken both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine and completed 15 days after taking the second dose, the rules said. In a previous notification, the BMC had restricted the height of household Ganpati idols to two feet, and four feet for the public mandals. Meanwhile, the State reported 4,174 new COVID-19 cases against 4,154 recoveries during the day. The active tally stands at 47,880, while 65 deaths took the total toll to 1,37,962. The case fatality rate remains at 2.12%. The total case tally has reached 64,97,872, while recoveries have risen to 63,08,491, with the recovery rate at 97.09%. “Of 5,53,38,772 laboratory samples tested thus far, 64,93,698 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 11.77%) have returned positive, with more than 1.79 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported nearly 1,000 new cases, taking its tally to 11,26,345, while four deaths pushed the total toll over 18,760. As per district authorities, the active case tally has exceeded 8,600. 532 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported a surge of 532 cases to take its total case tally to 7,47,605, while the active case tally rose to 4,435. Four deaths took the city’s death toll to 16,004. Ahmednagar reported over 800 new cases and 12 deaths, taking its total cases to 3,15,193, of whom 5,263 are active. The district’s death toll rose to 6,629. Satara reported 436 new cases and six deaths. Sangli saw 236 cases and no deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bmc-issues-fresh-curbs-for-ganeshotsav/article36373810.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Coming to life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/coming-to-life/article36373952.ece
09 September 2021||Washington,||Sanctions relief will be based on Taliban’s behaviour, says U.S.||Hours after the Taliban announced a government in Kabul that included UN designated terrorists, the U.S. mission to the UN has said the UN Security Council will base any decisions on de-listing terrorists on the Taliban’s human rights policies. The U.S. position is of particular importance to India, which is not only a close neighbour of Afghanistan but also the head of the 1988 UNSC Sanctions Committee, the ‘Taliban Sanctions Committee’. Among those in the newly formed Taliban government are Prime Minister Hasan Akhund — a UN designated terrorist — and Interior Minister Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is listed as a terrorist by both the UN and the U.S. “We stand by Resolution 2513. We are watching the Taliban's actions closely,” a U.S.-UN mission spokesperson told The Hindu via email on Tuesday. Resolution 2513, adopted by the UNSC in March 2020 when the Trump administration was representing the U.S., supported, in principle, the de-listing of individuals to facilitate an intra-Afghan dialogue and peace. The resolution linked a review of the listing decision to the actions of the Taliban in supporting peace and stability in Afghanistan. “The Security Council will take into account any behaviour that disregards the human rights of Afghans as it reviews the travel ban exemption and the status of designations. We continuously review all UN sanctions programmes and are prepared to adjust them in light of evolving circumstances. Needless to say, however, should the Taliban support or harbour terrorists who threaten the security of the international community, or fail to uphold human rights in Afghanistan, including for women and girls, sanctions will remain in place,” the mission spokesperson said on Tuesday. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN T.S. Tirumurti said no requests had been discussed as of Wednesday morning. “There have been no delisting requests yet. The sanctions committee will take a decision on the requests if and when they are made. It is premature for me at this stage to predict what the Committee will decide,” he told The Hindu on Wednesday. India is following a ‘wait and watch’ approach with the Taliban, including on matters related to the UNSC. Committees are based on consensus, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters in Washington last Friday when asked about whether the Security Council would de-list Taliban terrorists. “Don’t forget that we are one out of 15 [UNSC] members and we have to also see what the rest of the international community is saying,” he said, adding that no de-listing requests had been discussed. The recognition of the Taliban is “a matter that’s done by Member States, not by us,” Farhan Haq, Deputy Spokesperson for the Secretary General, said, as reported by the Press Trust of India. The 1988 Committee is expected to meet in mid-September. This roughly coincides with the September 17 expiration of the UN Assistance Mission In Afghanistan (UNAMA). U.S. policy The U.S. government, across its branches, appears not to have a clear policy yet and is watching the evolving situation in Afghanistan as well as other countries’ reaction (e.g., China) to the developments. Asked whether he is concerned about China funding the Taliban, U.S. President Joe Biden on Tuesday said that China, like other countries, will try and work out an arrangement with the group. “Well, China has a real problem with the Taliban, so they're going to try to work out some arrangement with the Taliban, I'm sure — as does Pakistan, as does Russia, as does Iran,” he said. “ They're all trying to figure out, what do they do now. So it will be interesting to see what happens.” On Tuesday, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, in Doha on a visit, said the U.S. would be “looking very, very carefully” at whether the Taliban were living up to their commitments (such as upholding human rights of Afghans, especially women and girls, and allowing free travel).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sanctions-relief-will-be-based-on-talibans-behaviour-says-us/article36373324.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||China welcomes Taliban govt. as ‘end to anarchy’||China on Wednesday welcomed the Taliban’s announcement of formation of an interim government as “a necessary step” and “an end to the anarchy” in Afghanistan. Beijing also appeared to water down its earlier stand of underlining the importance of the Taliban setting up an “inclusive” government, which some officials had suggested was an expectation of Beijing as it considers recognising the new regime. Asked how China viewed Tuesday’s announcement by the Taliban of an interim government — one comprised of several sanctioned terrorists, no minorities, and no women — and whether Beijing would recognise this government, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said: “The Chinese Embassy in Afghanistan is operating normally. We stand ready to maintain communication with the new Afghan government and leaders.” “We hope the new Afghan administration in the capacity of interim government will broadly solicit the opinions of all ethnic groups and factions and live up to the expectation of the Afghan people and aspiration of the international community,” he added. “We noted that the Afghan Taliban stressed that all people will benefit from the new administration.” Necessary step China earlier said it would consider recognising the Taliban only after government-formation in Kabul. Mr. Wang welcomed the announcement of an interim government, saying “this has put an end to the anarchy in Afghanistan that lasted for over three weeks and is a necessary step for Afghanistan to restore domestic order and pursue post-war reconstruction.” "China’s position on the Afghan issue is consistent and clear,” he said. “We always respect the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Afghanistan, adhere to non-interference in Afghanistan’s internal affairs, and support the Afghan people in independently choosing a development path suited to the country's conditions.” Mr. Wang did add that China hoped “Afghanistan will establish a broadly based and inclusive political structure, follow moderate and prudent domestic and foreign policies, resolutely combat all types of terrorist forces, and live on friendly terms with other countries, especially its neighbours”. Regular engagement China and Russia, as well as China and Pakistan, have been regularly engaging on the Afghan issue in recent weeks. Mr. Wang said China had on September 5 attended a meeting with special representatives of Pakistan, Iran, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan held “under the chairmanship of the Pakistani side”. Its special envoy Yue Xiaoyang had attended the meeting where the countries “exchanged views mainly on the situation in Afghanistan, especially cooperation among Afghanistan’s neighbouring countries on the Afghan-related affairs, and maintained communication with Russia, reaching much consensus”. China would “urgently provide 200 million yuan ($30.96 million) worth of grains, winter supplies, vaccines, and medicines to Afghanistan” as well as 3 million vaccines, Foreign Minister Wang Yi announced on Wednesday at the “first meeting of Foreign Ministers of Afghanistan’s neighbouring countries”, held virtually and attended by officials from Pakistan, Iran, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan. Chaired by Pakistan’s Foreign Minister, Mr. Wang said this new grouping would serve as “a new coordination mechanism among Afghanistan’s neighbours.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-welcomes-taliban-govt-as-end-to-anarchy/article36373322.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||In new govt., Taliban offer old regime||After capturing Kabul on August 15, Taliban leaders had repeatedly said they would establish an “inclusive government” representing all sections of Afghan society. There were also discussions on whether the Taliban 2.0 would be different from the last time they were in power. But with the formation of an interim government on Tuesday, the Taliban have made it clear that the old guard who ran Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001 still reigns supreme in the group and that they care little about what the world thinks about their conduct of governance. Old guard Almost all the senior positions of the interim government have been allocated to top Taliban leaders who were associated with the old regime. Mullah Hassan Akhund, who was the Foreign Minister of the previous Islamic Emirate, will head the government. Mullah Akhund, who is on a U.N. blacklist, is one of the Taliban’s founders. Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, another co-founder who was heading the Taliban’s Doha-based negotiations with the U.S. and other countries, will be his deputy. Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is heading the dreaded Haqqani Network, is the Interior Minister. Sirajuddin’s father Jalaluddin Haqqani was a Minister in the previous Taliban regime and then a commander of the militants. Mohammad Yaqoob, the oldest son of the Taliban’s founder Mullah Omar, is the Defence Minister. Khalil Haqqani, another senior member from the Haqqani Network, has been named the Minister of Refugee Affairs. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid has said the list is not complete. But the first list indicates that the key portfolios have been divided between the Taliban’s religious leadership and the Haqqanis, who provide military muscle to the group. Sirajuddin is a globally designated terrorist wanted by Washington. The FBI has offered a reward of $5 million for information about him. He will now be in charge of internal security, police forces and intelligence. His Haqqani Network has close ties with Pakistan’s military establishment and had helped al-Qaeda in the past. The appointment, which suggests Pakistan’s deep influence on the Taliban, could make it difficult for other countries, especially for India and those in the West, in normalising relations with the regime. (The Haqqanis are blamed for the 2008 bombing of the Indian Embassy in Kabul in which 58 people were killed). But the Taliban leadership, like their peers in the 1990s, doesn’t seem to care. Four of the top five commanders who were detained in the Guantánamo prison and released by the Obama administration in 2014 in exchange for Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl were also given senior posts in the regime — Mullah Khairullah Khairkhah, Minister for Information and Culture; Mullah Noorullah Noori, Minister of Borders and Tribal Affairs; Mohammad Fazl, Chief of Army Staff; and Abdul Haq Wasiq, Director of Intelligence. Most of the Ministers are Pashtun, which is the largest ethnic group in Afghanistan. Unsurprisingly, there is no woman in the government. Afghanistan’s Shia minority, who make up roughly 10% of the population, has also found no representative in the interim government. In the 1990s, the Shia Hazara minority, who are largely concentrated in Mazar-i Sharif in northwest Afghanistan, faced systemic persecution under the Taliban regime. Iran, a Shia theocracy that had established contacts with the Sunni extremist Taliban years ago, had reportedly put pressure on Afghanistan’s new rulers to include Hazara Shias in the government. But the Taliban did not relent. Crackdown on women Two days before the government announcement, the Taliban’s Education Ministry had issued an extensive document, issuing instructions to educational institutions and the women who were going to colleges and universities. All female students, teachers and staff must wear an abaya robe and niqab covering the hair, body and most of the face as well as gloves to ensure hands are covered, stated the document, signalling how the regime would treat women. It also ordered classes to be segregated by gender or divided by a curtain. Protests broke out in parts of Afghanistan, including in Kabul, where women staged rallies demanding freedoms. On Tuesday, the crowds were dispersed by the Taliban using force, which was followed by Zabihullah Mujahid’s night-time press conference in which he announced the government formation. Islamic system In September 1996, after capturing Kabul, Mullah Omar said the Taliban would establish “a pure Islamic system” in Afghanistan. On September 7, 2021, after the interim government was announced, Hibatullah Akhundzada, Taliban’s Emir who will be the supreme leader of the new Afghanistan, issued a statement saying: “Our previous 20 years of struggle and Jihad had had two major goals. Firstly to end foreign occupation and aggression and to liberate the country, and secondly to establish a complete, independent, stable and central Islamic system in the country.” He added: “Based on this principle, in the future, all matters of governance and life in Afghanistan will be regulated by the laws of the Holy Shariah.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-new-govt-taliban-offer-old-regime/article36373334.ece
09 September 2021||Kabul,||Afghanistan’s last Jew leaves country||The last member of Afghanistan’s Jewish community has left the country. Zebulon Simentov, who lived in a dilapidated synagogue in Kabul, kept kosher and prayed in Hebrew, endured decades of war. But the Taliban takeover last month seems to have been the last straw. Moti Kahana, an Israeli-American who organised the evacuation, said he has been taken to a “neighbouring country.” Mr. Kahana said Mr. Simentov, who had lived under Taliban rule before, was not worried about them. But Mr. Kahana warned him that he was at risk of being kidnapped or killed by the far more radical Islamic State group. He said Mr. Simentov’s neighbours also pressed him to leave, so that their children could join him on the bus out. They joined an exodus of tens of thousands of Afghans who have fled since the Taliban swept across the country. Mr. Kahana said his group is reaching out to U.S. and Israeli authorities to find a permanent home for Mr. Simentov, whose estranged wife and children live in Israel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghanistans-last-jew-leaves-country/article36373329.ece
09 September 2021||Moscow,||Russian Minister dies trying to save filmmaker in Arctic drills||Russia’s Emergencies Minister has died trying to save a filmmaker who slipped from a cliff during training exercises in the Arctic, officials said on Wednesday. Yevgeny Zinichev, who previously served in President Vladimir Putin’s security detail, is the first Russian Cabinet member to die on duty. He was lauded by senior government officials and the Russian leader as a loyal civil servant and a “hero”. The U.K.’s Ambassador in Russia also offered condolences. The 55-year-old “tragically died trying to save a person’s life” near the city of Norilsk, the Ministry said in a statement carried by Russian news agencies. The Ministry identified the filmmaker as 63-year-old Alexander Melnik, who produced several films. It said he also died in the incident that took place earlier on Wednesday. Margarita Simonyan, the well-connected editor-in-chief of the state-funded news outlet RT, said the Minister had fallen to his death trying to save the man later identified as Melnik. “The cameraman slipped and fell... Before anyone even figured out what happened, Zinichev jumped into the water after the fallen person and crashed against a protruding rock.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russian-minister-dies-trying-to-save-filmmaker-in-arctic-drills/article36373326.ece
09 September 2021||Ramstein,||Iran urged to resume nuclear talks||The U.S. and Germany on Wednesday stepped up pressure on Iran to return soon to talks on its nuclear programme. The last round of talks by the remaining parties to the 2015 Iran nuclear accord ended in June and no date has been set for their resumption. Last week, Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amirabdollahian said “it takes two to three months for the new administration to establish and do planning for any sort of decision.” Asked whether the delay suggested by Iran is too long, Mr. Blinken said: “I’m not going to put a date on it, but we are getting closer to the point at which a strict return to the compliance with the (nuclear deal) does not reproduce the benefits that that agreement achieved.” “We’ve been very clear that the ability to rejoin the (deal), return to mutual compliance, is not indefinite,” he added. On Tuesday, the U.N. nuclear watchdog said Iran has continued to increase its stockpile of highly enriched uranium in breach of the accord. The IAEA also said that its verification and monitoring activities have been “seriously undermined”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-may-give-up-iran-nuclear-deal/article36373325.ece
09 September 2021||Hong Kong,||Tiananmen vigil leaders held in HK||Hong Kong police on Wednesday arrested four members of the group behind the city’s Tiananmen Square vigils, a day after they refused to cooperate with a national security investigation. Prominent barrister Chow Hang-tung, vice-chairwoman of the alliance, along with members Simon Leung, Sean Tang and Chan To-wai, was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tiananmen-vigil-leaders-held-in-hk/article36373331.ece
09 September 2021||Dubai,||78 killed as Marib fighting intensifies||Nearly 80 Yemen rebels and pro-government troops have been killed as fighting intensifies for the northern city of Marib, officials said on Wednesday, nearly seven years into a war that has triggered a major humanitarian crisis. Scores of rebels were killed in airstrikes after they renewed their attempt to capture the strategic city, the internationally recognised government’s last outpost in the north, according to loyalists. “Sixty Houthi rebels were killed — most of them in airstrikes conducted in the last 24 hours — while 18 pro-government troops were killed and dozens injured in clashes over the past 48 hours,” an official said. The figures were confirmed by other sources, while the rebels rarely report casualty numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/78-killed-as-marib-fighting-intensifies/article36373327.ece
09 September 2021||Kabul,||Ghani regrets ‘how it ended’||Former President Ashraf Ghani, who fled the country last month, apologised on Wednesday to the Afghan people, because he “could not make it end differently”. In a statement on Twitter, Mr. Ghani said he left at the urging of the palace security to avoid street fighting, and again denied stealing millions from the treasury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ghani-regrets-how-it-ended/article36373330.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers’ stir, the new dimension in U.P.’s politics||On September 5, 2021, in Uttar Pradesh, lakhs of farmers gathered at Muzaffarnagar’s government inter-college ground for the kisan mahapanchayat organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). At the mahapanchayat, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait reiterated the farmers’ demands to repeal the three farm laws and for the “legal guarantee of MSP [Minimum Support Price].” Mr. Tikait and other farmer leaders present declared their determination to oust the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh in the upcoming 2022 State legislative elections. The farmer leaders unanimously appealed for communal harmony while chanting ‘Allah Hu Akbar’ and ‘Har Har Mahadev’ together with an estimated three to four lakh farmers. Secular vs the divisive This retrieval of the old secular political language openly counters the BJP’s divisive and communal politics that has gripped the local and the national scene after the 2014 general election. Women and young farmers across religious and caste lines, from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand and other States attended the mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar. It is a surprise that the ongoing farmers’ movement has been openly engaging with gender and environmental issues and has provided them their rightful space. By enabling the convergence of different farmer organisations and space for the voices of marginalised groups, the Muzaffarnagar Kisan Mahapanchayat has not only reclaimed the language of secularism and communal harmony but also shows cautious potential to challenge the BJP’s politics and hegemony in the legislative assembly elections due in five States next year (Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Manipur). Message of harmony Muzaffarnagar had communal riots in 2013 which polarised the western Uttar Pradesh region along religious lines. The BJP local leadership converted a caste dispute into brutal communal riots which ended up benefiting the BJP in the 2014 and 2019 general elections, across Uttar Pradesh, as this was the local script used at the State and the national levels. The communal polarisation not only caused fissures in the social fabric but also impeded the farmers’ identity and unity that was traditionally the support base of the BKU under the leadership of the late Mahendra Singh Tikait in the 1980s. Realising this social and political loss, his son, Rakesh Tikait, and his supporters, over the last couple of years, began to revive the BKU’s old legacy of secularism. However, these attempts have only gathered momentum since January 2021 when the BJP government forcefully attempted to remove the protesting farmers including Mr. Tikait from the Ghazipur border of Delhi. An emotional appeal by an overwhelmed Mr. Tikait mobilised both Hindu and Muslim Jat farmers, changing the epicentre of the farmers’ protest from Punjab to rural western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. The SKM has spectacularly reasserted the secular language particularly in the post-2014 socio-political environment. Its act of courage in the Muzaffarnagar Kisan Mahapanchayat is a reminder to the ‘timid’ political Opposition and other political parties to do their constitutional duty in maintaining India’s political legacy. In their appeal for communal harmony, Mr. Tikait and other farmer leaders have categorically said no to communal violence in the region. Mr. Tikait and other farmer leaders accepted being swayed by communal divisiveness and have vowed to counter the hatred and violence. “They talk of dividing, we speak of uniting. The hallmark of the BJP is the hate politics”, Mr. Tikait declared loud and clear. More importantly, Mr. Tikait and the BKU’s activists have been visiting village after village and organising collective meetings with Hindu and Muslim farmers. In numerous street corner meetings, BKU activists have been attempting to recreate a common platform for farmers across religious and caste divisions by reclaiming and reasserting religious and caste unity among the farmers to heal and repair the damage caused by the Muzaffarnagar riots. Mission 2022 and hope The Muzaffarnagar Kisan Mahapanchayat has transformed the ongoing farmers’ protests into a national movement. With the BJP government’s lack of acknowledgement and response to the movement, farmer leaders under the SKM have decided to connect the sufferings of farmers with electoral politics directly with the announcement of ‘ faslo ke dam nahi , to vote nahi (no vote, if no legal guarantee of MSP’) and pronouncing their method as ‘vote ki chot (hit by vote’). The SKM and its leadership will campaign against the BJP in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections due next year. In addition to spreading the message of peace and communal harmony, farmer leaders including Mr. Tikait have announced that they will go to every home in the villages to educate farmers about the three farm laws and the ways in which these laws will destroy farmers and farming. Using the idioms of kheti , kisani and bhaichara , the BKU and its leadership will also inform them about the BJP’s betrayal of farmers through its pro-corporate policies. Besides the farm laws, several other proximate factors have set the stage for broad electoral mobilisation that may convert angry farmers and labourers into politically conscious voters when they face continued agrarian distress, the doubling of electricity charges, and the rising cost of diesel and fertilizers. More importantly, the unpaid dues of sugarcane mills to farmers have severely affected farmers and labourers across generation, caste and religious lines. Furthermore, in Uttar Pradesh, the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government’s stringent anti-cattle slaughter measures have devastated already broken farmers as stray cattle continue to plunder fields and ruin crops. The COVID-19 epidemic has not only struck another major blow against the rural economy but has also highlighted the fragility of urban jobs. The participation of young farmers in large numbers explains in one go the ongoing agrarian crises and jobless growth that has created a big class of rural-urban precariat. While the emerging broad alliance and solidarity generate hope and a new grammar of politics, competitive party politics and existing socio-economic divisions continue to pose several challenges to Mission 2022. The ongoing farmers’ movement does not show any sign of converting itself into a political party. In this case farmer voters depend on the existing political parties that have already lost steam and failed in the face of the BJP’s propaganda, organisational skills and politics. In fact, some of them have started imitating the BJP’s style by adopting a softer version of the Hindutva. U.P. politics today In Uttar Pradesh in particular, Opposition political parties such as the Congress, the Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal are competing for the same pie. Hence, it is too early to know how these competing parties will compromise their interests and put up a united opposition. Besides, the Jats are no longer a politically united group as they were in the 1970s and 1980s. The emerging political competition led by the aspiring middle class within the Jats has produced new leaders such as Sanjeev Baliyan that has opened a chasm to be exploited by the BJP’s style of politics. Moreover, farmers from the most ‘backward’ castes such as Morya, Nishad and Gaderiyas have hardly been an ally of the BKU and a part of the ‘kisan’ identity popularised by Charan Singh. By projecting these farmers as the victims of the dominant landowning farmers the BJP has weaponised them as new warriors of Hindutva. Despite these limitations, the Muzaffarnagar Kisan Mahapanchayat has shown the way to reclaim the Indian Constitution and the legacy of secularism by simultaneously linking socio-economic injustices to environmental and gender issues. Satendra Kumar teaches Sociology at the G.B. Pant Social Science Institute, University of Allahabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/farmers-stir-the-new-dimension-in-ups-politics/article36373311.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Green hydrogen, a new ally for a zero carbon future||Scientists and technocrats have for years been engaged in the quest of discovering alternative fuels to fossil fuels which are responsible for the production of over 830 million tons per annum of carbon dioxide, in turn catalysing human-induced global heating. The latest studies by a battery of scientists representing about 195 countries have signalled the crucial issue of climate vulnerability, especially for the Asian countries. The forthcoming 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) in Glasgow from November 1-12, 2021 is to re-examine the coordinated action plans to mitigate greenhouse gases and climate adaptation measures. In order to achieve the goal of an alternative source of energy, governments are placing large bets in the hope of adopting a multi-faceted practical approach to utilise ‘Green hydrogen’ as a driving source to power our industries and light our homes with the ‘zero emission’ of carbon dioxide. Energy-rich source Hydrogen is the most abundant element on the planet, but rarely in its pure form which is how we need it. It has an energy density almost three times that of diesel. This phenomenon makes it a rich source of energy, but the challenge is to compress or liquify the LH2 (liquid hydrogen); it needs to be kept at a stable minus 253° C (far below the temperature of minus 163° C at which Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) is stored; entailing its ‘prior to use exorbitant cost’. The production techniques of this ‘Energy-Carrier’ vary depending upon its applications — designated with different colours such as black hydrogen, brown hydrogen, blue hydrogen, green hydrogen, etc. Black hydrogen is produced by use of fossil fuel, whereas pink hydrogen is produced through electrolysis, but using energy from nuclear power sources. ‘Green hydrogen’, the emerging novel concept, is a zero-carbon fuel made by electrolysis using renewable power from wind and solar to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. This ‘Green hydrogen’ can be utilised for the generation of power from natural sources — wind or solar systems — and will be a major step forward in achieving the target of ‘net zero’ emission. Presently, less than 0.1% or say ~75 million tons/year of hydrogen capable of generating ~284GW of power, is produced. The obstacle of cost The ‘production cost’ of ‘Green hydrogen’ has been considered to be a prime obstacle. According to studies by the International Renewable Energy Agency (IREA), the production cost of this ‘green source of energy’ is expected to be around $1.5 per kilogram (for nations having perpetual sunshine and vast unused land), by the year 2030; by adopting various conservative measures. The global population is growing at a rate of 1.1%, adding about 83 million human heads every year on the planet. As a result, the International Energy Agency (IEA) forecasts the additional power demand to be to the tune of 25%-30% by the year 2040. Thus, power generation by ‘net-zero’ emission will be the best solution to achieve the target of expert guidelines on global warming to remain under 1.5° C. This will also be a leap forward in minimising our dependence on conventional fossil fuel; in 2018, 8.7 million people died prematurely as result of air pollution from fossil fuels A power hungry India India is the world’s fourth largest energy consuming country (behind China, the United States and the European Union), according to the IEA’s forecast, and will overtake the European Union to become the world’s third energy consumer by the year 2030. Realising the impending threats to economies, the Summit will see several innovative proposals from all over the world in order to reduce dependence on use of fossil fuels. The scale of interest for ‘plucking the low hanging fruit’ can be gauged by the fact that even oil-producing nations such as Saudi Arabia where the day temperature soars to over 50° C in summer, is prioritising plans to manufacture this source of energy by utilising ‘idle-land-banks’ for solar and wind energy generation. It is working to establish a mega $5 billion ‘Green hydrogen’ manufacturing unit covering a land-size as large as that of Belgium, in the northern-western part of the country. India is also gradually unveiling its plans. The Indian Railways have announced the country’s first experiment of a hydrogen-fuel cell technology-based train by retrofitting an existing diesel engine; this will run under Northern Railway on the 89 km stretch between Sonepat and Jind. The project will not only ensure diesel savings to the tune of several lakhs annually but will also prevent the emission of 0.72 kilo tons of particulate matter and 11.12 kilo tons of carbon per annum. It is high time to catch up with the rest of the world by going in for clean energy, decarbonising the economy and adopting ‘Green hydrogen’ as an environment-friendly and safe fuel for the next generations. Pritam Singh is a retired Officer from an R&D institution in Dehradun. He delivers scientific lectures in colleges and universities on vehicular pollution||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/green-hydrogen-a-new-ally-for-a-zero-carbon-future/article36373313.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The invasion of Afghanistan was a fraud’||John Pilger is one of the world’s most acclaimed investigative journalists and documentary filmmakers. He is a recipient of several prestigious awards, including an Emmy and a BAFTA. He has contributed to various international publications and news services, including The Guardian, The New York Times, BBC World Service, and Al Jazeera. Mr. Pilger has directed more than 60 documentaries capturing some of the important events of 20th and 21st centuries. In 2003, he directed Breaking the Silence: Truth and Lies in the War on Terror. In this interview, he talks about the present political developments in Afghanistan, the war on terror, and the history of the Taliban. Edited excerpts: Twenty years ago, the U.S. entered Afghanistan with the promise of overthrowing the Taliban, establishing democracy and ending terrorism. But today the Taliban are back. How do you look at the situation? President George W. Bush’s ‘promise’ to establish democracy in Afghanistan was a rhetoric for domestic consumption. The invasion of Afghanistan was a fraud; the Taliban were a convenient target to satisfy a political lust for revenge for 9/11. An authentic military response to 9/11 might have seen U.S. bombs falling on the palaces of Saudi Arabia — most of the 9/11 hijackers were Saudi nationals, not least Osama bin Laden himself; not one was an Afghan. Moral posturing over 9/11 had almost nothing to do with the invasion of Afghanistan; bin Laden had already left Afghanistan and the Taliban anyway wanted to get rid of him. To the U.S., Afghanistan’s usefulness had been as a battleground on which to bring down the Soviet Union. This had been achieved long before 9/11. The suffering in Afghanistan has also been profitable. The American war industry has tested and deployed numerous new products there. A recent study tells us that if you purchased $10,000 worth of stock in America’s top five defence contractors on September 18, 2001 — the day President George W. Bush signed the Authorization for Use of Military Force in Afghanistan — you would now be much richer. As someone who has observed West Asia for decades, who are the major stakeholders in the Arab world? The unrest in West Asia is often attributed to be the by-product of the U.S. or ‘imperial’ involvement in the region. Without imperial intervention, the Arab world would have been very different. Egypt might not be the tyranny it is today. With the rise of Gamal Abdel Nasser and the popular hope of a nationalist, semi-socialist Egypt and a region shaped by pan-Arabism, the U.S. and Britain responded by deploying religious extremism. Their first victory was the crushing of Nasserism. Since then, Israel, a colonial creation of the West, has been modern imperialism’s watchtower and attack dog in the region. Without American support, Israel would have been forced to become a normal country and to make peace with its neighbours; Palestine would have emerged as an independent entity. Instead, Israel remains a permanent provocateur. The general narrative created before any intervention perhaps is that ‘imperial occupation is the only viable solution to bring about regime change in a corrupt and dictatorial state’. How do you look at this in the light of examples from Latin America, Africa, West Asia, etc.? When you accept that ‘might is right’ – the maxim of imperialism — you accept the place of criminality in world affairs. You have been a critic of Western foreign policy for decades. How is it possible for a ‘superpower’ to retain its dominance without ‘dealing’ with the threatening countries? Modern powers can and do assert their power without behaving like 19th century enforcers. China’s ‘Belt and Road’ plans have brought welcome structural investment to hundreds of developing nations. China, while asserting its undisputed developmental power, gives no impression of seeking to dominate by force or coercion: the principal methods of imperialism. This is not to say that ‘client’ nations can afford to drop their guard when dealing with China, or Russia, or any other apparently benign great power; but the historical and contemporary record tells us that China has none of the colonising ambitions of Europe and the U.S. Whatever criticism one may have of China, its modernism and willingness to live in peace with the world are demonstrable. The Taliban are in power in Afghanistan. What helped them gain power so rapidly? The Taliban were part of the rise of jihadism brought about by the U.S. and Britain in the 1980s and 1990s. They are a puritanical offshoot of the mujahideen, which were backed and emboldened by Pakistan’s intelligence services and bankrolled and armed by the CIA and Britain’s MI6. For the U.S., the singular strategic purpose was destabilising the Soviet Union, which shares a border with Afghanistan. When the Soviets walked into the ‘trap’ laid by the West, and invaded Afghanistan, the international power of jihadism grew rapidly. There are many ironies and tragedies. The Taliban gained power in Afghanistan by overthrowing that country’s most progressive government – which in the 1970s had given equal rights to women. In planning to leave Afghanistan, the Trump administration chose the Taliban to discuss the transfer of power in Doha. Many argue that this action gave some legitimisation to the Taliban. Why did it prefer the Taliban to the Western-supported democratically elected government? The Afghan government was not democratic, neither was it democratically elected. It was a corrupt shell, and Donald Trump and his planners knew it would fall without U.S. backing. They were being expedient. When the U.S. abandoned the South Vietnamese regime in 1975 – which it had installed – the regime fell overnight. Its only legitimacy was its American sponsorship. The people suffering at Kabul airport are the victims of this same sponsorship; they are the victims of imperialism. With the Taliban in Kabul, will Afghanistan be a haven of Islamist terrorists in the coming days? Well, it depends on what you mean by terrorism. The most ubiquitous terrorism in the world is state-sponsored; America’s ‘war on terror’ was, in reality, a war of terror. Eight Muslim countries were devastated. In Latin America, the U.S. has been running a war of terror since the early 20th century. If you mean ‘Islamic terrorism’, the future is unclear. The Taliban have a serious enemy in the Islamic State, whose terrorism is only too well known. What does the Taliban rule mean for the world and West Asia in particular? I am not a futurist. I don’t know what Taliban rule will be like for Afghans. If the UN allows the West to isolate and ‘sanction’ Afghanistan, the Taliban will develop a siege mentality and their rule is likely to be harsh. The one lesson of the disaster in Afghanistan is that imperialism causes incalculable human suffering. Isn’t it time we learned that lesson? Jipson John and Jitheesh P.M. contribute to various national and international publications||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-invasion-of-afghanistan-was-a-fraud/article36373316.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Detecting Fragile X Syndrome||In 2017, a man in Delhi, affected by autism, underwent his first DNA blood test at the age of 40. He tested positive for Fragile X Syndrome (FXS). This is caused by changes in a gene called FMR1 which make an important protein (FMRP). This protein is required for brain development. Largely undetected in India It was in 1991, 14 years after that man was born, that the mutation was discovered and named FRAXA by three American geneticists — Ben Oostra, David Nelson and Stephen Warren. They found that it was the leading inherited cause of autism worldwide. Three decades ago, there was no primary knowledge of this among healthcare professionals. However, even after the discovery of FMR1, the lack of awareness and appropriate training to diagnose FXS in time prevails everywhere. In India, the lack of adequate screening and diagnostic facilities, the stigma attached to mental health, the absence of surveys in community settings, and bare minimum hospital data based on clinical experience have all kept FXS largely undetected. According to a 2019 review paper of the Advanced Centre for Evidence-Based Child Health, established by PGIMER, Chandigarh, under the aegis of the Indian Council of Medical Research, “there is an under-recognition of the genetic disorder due to delay in diagnosis at young age and the lack of uniform application of validated, accessible and affordable diagnostic tools.” It is estimated there are 4,00,000 individuals who have been identified with mutated FMRI in India and 40 lakh undiagnosed carriers of the gene. According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), one in 7,000 males and one in 11,000 females are affected with FXS. FXS is the leading inherited cause of autism in 4% of the population worldwide. The CDC estimates that one in 259 women and one in 800 men carry Fragile X. A mother who is a carrier has a 50% chance of passing the mutated gene to her children, who will either be carriers or have FXS. Men who are carriers do not pass the pre-mutation to their sons, but only daughters, who become carriers. This knowledge is crucial and the numbers are critical and demand attention, according to Professor Sumantra Chattarji, senior neurobiologist at the National Centre for Biological Sciences in Bengaluru. His research is focused on correcting the powerful emotional symptoms of FXS. It helps empower parents with information about babies in whom the FMR1 shuts down the production of FMRP. Shalini Kedia, who founded the Fragile X Society of India in 2003 as a support system for families impacted with FXS, says that it is every woman’s right to make an informed choice of becoming a special mother. Studies suggest a high effect of consanguineous parenting on FXS prevalence. Timely detection The simplest tool for timely detection is a DNA test. In the U.S., FXS testing is mandatory for every child diagnosed with autism. This helps parents plan their family better. In India, doctors often fail to appropriately guide women who have fertility issues, late pregnancies, opt for IVF with donor eggs, or donate embryo for surrogacy. Experts suggest an overhaul of the MBBS curriculum to include a detailed chapter on FXS and more government-organised Continuing Medical Education programmes for practising healthcare professionals so that FXS is treated as a major public health concern. Mass awareness and an additional test in the list of pregnancy and prenatal and neonatal tests for other chromosomal abnormalities (such as Down Syndrome) will be beneficial. But the majority of people are either not aware of the FXS test or cannot afford it. Tests are done in major government hospitals and in a few private labs and cost between Rs. 4,500 and Rs. 7,500. People must understand that autism triggered by FXS is a behavioural condition. The symptoms are learning difficulty, speech delay, aggressive behaviour, hyperactivity, attention deficit, fear of the unfamiliar, sensory processing disorders and problems in motor skills. These cannot be cured, but early therapy can improve the individual’s quality of life. The National Policy for Treatment of Rare Diseases, 2017, was limited by challenges in implementation. This year, the government introduced the National Policy for Rare Diseases Act. It calls for systematic epidemiological studies on incidence and prevalence of rare diseases. Without naming FXS directly, it recommends prenatal tests for lesser-known single-gene and other genetic disorders. This is profound as the dialogue on rare diseases has to be kept open, even during the pandemic. Or else, it will leave all those who are trying to cope feel even more vulnerable and isolated. soma.basu@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/detecting-fragile-x-syndrome/article36373320.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||A questionable quota policy||Reservation as a tool of social engineering seems to be flavour of the season in India. To add to the competitive populism of caste-based reservations, a few months ago, the Odisha government proposed a 15% reservation for government school students in medical and engineering colleges to reduce “inequity arising” from lack of “physical and economic access to coaching institutions”. The state machinery hailed it a historic decision. But is it? A number of reports highlight the poor condition of government schools in many parts of the country. Odisha is no exception. Whether the State government has any serious plan of action to improve the functioning of government schools is not clear. But this decision certainly reflects a lack of political will in improving the state of education in schools. This intervention gives the impression that little can be expected of government schools. The current obsession with developing model schools reinforces this impression. Failing in its duty About 62% of students attend government and government-aided schools in India. The other 38% go to private institutions, some of which belong to the elite category and the rest of which are of questionable quality. A much higher percentage of students in Odisha go to government schools. Reserving seats in higher technical institutions for government school students rather than focusing on improving these publicly funded institutions defies all logic. By announcing this policy of reservation, the government seems to be admitting that it has failed in its duty to provide the majority of students with good education and equip them with requisite competence to get admission in technical institutions on the basis of their own merit. Decades ago, students from Odisha had a high success rate in national-level competitive examinations. This was attributed to the strong educational foundation laid in government-run schools. During those days, teachers were known for their unquestionable sincerity and integrity. They were dedicated to their calling and commanded respect from the society. Over time, this seems to have changed. There is no dearth of ideas or practices that can improve the quality of education in government schools. What is lacking is the government’s resolve to work on these ideas including capacity building of teachers to implement new pedagogic practices, emphasis on language teaching, filling up vacant teaching posts, and a change in the mindset among people and policymakers that government schools are typically backward and inferior to private schools. Instead of addressing relevant issues, government is trying to find a solution which could worsen the problem. The policy of automatically promoting the students to higher classes without passing examinations needs to be scrapped. Building an institution is tough. Rebuilding it is even more so. The state can’t simply shirk this responsibility of improving education in government schools where an overwhelming majority of the children study. Focusing on them will go a long way in building the morale of teachers and students who are likely to grow up with an inferiority complex if flawed policies like the one mentioned above are pursued. Benefits to few Some may argue that the quota would help some sections of the society which have long been deprived of good education and decent jobs. But this justification can nevertheless be questioned on several grounds. One of them is that the benefits of quota, if any, would be cornered by the creamy layer of students with better access to coaching and additional technology-enabled resources. There might also be an urban bias in the benefit-sharing. Ananya Behera holds a PhD in Sociology from Utkal University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-questionable-quota-policy/article36373318.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Back at school||State governments have taken the difficult decision to reopen schools for some classes, encouraged by a consensus among public health experts that the benefits to students and society at large outweigh the risks of a COVID-19 surge. A week after many of them reopened, mainly at the secondary and higher secondary level, infections among teachers and students have not triggered an alarm, although general social attitudes towards the pandemic have turned negligent. Data from Tamil Nadu show that post-reopening, about 30 students and teachers have tested positive, to which the State has responded by tracing contacts and testing, while keeping the institutions open. Kerala, which has struggled to contain the infection rate and continues to report about 25,000 cases a day, is venturing only to reopen residential higher education institutions and final-year college classes within a bio-bubble of at least single-dose vaccination; resumption of schooling continues to pose a dilemma. The crippling absence of education for millions in the country has raised the question of whether governments have shown alacrity to limit the harm from prolonged closures. A study by economists in August showed that a mere 8% of students in rural areas had regular access to online learning and 37% were not studying at all. It also found that only a minority of students with smartphones, i.e., 31% in urban areas and 15% in rural settings, received regular instruction. This crisis has remained neglected for over a year, and the findings underscore the need for in-person teaching to resume. Among the major concerns surrounding reopening of schools is possible transmission of the virus on campuses, with implications for vulnerable individuals in the students’ home. Here, the advocacy of the European Technical Advisory Group on schooling during COVID-19 — smaller class sizes, wider spaces between desks and staggered breaks at school — is worth considering. The panel underscores the importance of evolving a follow-up protocol, when a cluster of cases leads to school-wide testing. Many public health experts argue that younger children, typically in the 6 to 14 age group, have the lowest risk of moderate or severe COVID-19 infection, while this is also the cohort that needs good foundational teaching. Most of these students are not eligible for vaccination. WHO recommends that for these pupils, the approach towards reopening should be caveated: risk based, and taking note of community transmission, ability to maintain physical distancing and good ventilation. Vaccination of teachers and school staff and eligible students, and free testing for all are other major factors. Hesitancy or refusal should be firmly countered. Governments should end their populist indulgence of unsafe behaviour in public spaces to prevent community-level spikes that can jeopardise the nascent return of schooling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/back-at-school/article36373306.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The lag between jabs||The Kerala High Court’s intervention regarding the time lag between the two doses of Covishield vaccine is both interesting and unusual. It has asked the Government to allow the scheduling of the second dose four weeks after the first for those who want it. A single judge has held that the relaxation in the 84-day norm for some categories of people, when it is normally not open to the public to get their second jabs earlier, amounts to discrimination. The direction that CoWIN, the national vaccination portal, should allow scheduling of the second dose after 28 days — the period initially fixed — for those who want early protection is likely to be questioned on appeal, even though it has its own logic. The petitioners are two companies that have purchased vaccines for their employees and their family members and did not want to wait for the current mandatory 12-16 week period to administer their second doses. Pointing out the relaxation from the minimum 12-week rule for some categories among those travelling abroad, the petitioners wanted the same relaxation for employees availing of paid vaccination. The court has countenanced this argument favourably and termed as discriminatory the denial of “early protection” to those who wanted the second dose after 28 days. The court framed it as an issue over “better protection” offered by the scientifically validated 12-week gap between two doses, and “early protection” favoured by individuals. The Union government argued that the relaxation was to meet unavoidable contingencies, and an earlier second dose could not be claimed as a matter of right. The court based its order on what it believed to be “discrimination” in favour of some sections but refrained from deciding the question “whether a person is entitled to make a choice between early protection and better protection” while accepting the Government’s free vaccine. It is fairly obvious that a delayed second dose enables reaching more people for their first dose. This means the order to allow earlier administration of the second dose could impinge on the public health objective of giving some protection to more people rather than full protection to fewer people. To that extent, the court’s intervention in a policy matter may invite an appeal. However, it also raises the issue whether the policy of an 84-day gap between doses should continue, given the increased pace of vaccination. Despite being approved by experts, the change from the four-to-six weeks norm to the current 12-16 weeks may have been dictated as much by higher efficacy as by the extent of vaccine availability then. The time may have come for the Government to review the norm and allow a shorter gap based on the availability of vaccines and COVID-19 prevalence in a given geography.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-lag-between-jabs/article36373307.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Spectre of civil war in N. Ireland||Roman Catholic opposition leaders rebuffed a British peace feeler to-day [Belfast, September 8] as bomb blasts rocked Northern Ireland’s capital and a Protestant politician raised the spectre of outright civil war. Fears of an impending offensive by gunmen of the outlawed Irish Republican Army (I.R.A.) sent Chief of Britain’s General Staff Gen. Sir Michael Carver flying into Belfast to review the military set-up. He flew from London unexpectedly last night for talks with officers commanding 12,500 British troops on peace-keeping duties in Ulster. Two bombs exploded in Belfast after midnight, one at an army veterans club and the other at a small factory. Five persons were taken to a hospital with undisclosed injuries. The British peace move was announced in London last night after two days of summit talks between Prime Minister Edward Heath and Irish Republic Prime Minister Jack Lynch that ended in icy dispute over ways of stopping the bloodshed in the North. One hundred lives have been lost in the past two years. Home Secretary Reginald Maudling invited all sections of Northern Ireland’s feuding communities to a round table conference aimed at giving the Catholic minority “an active, permanent and guaranteed role” in the British province ruled by Protestants for 50 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/spectre-of-civil-war-in-n-ireland/article36373314.ece
09 September 2021||COIMBATORE,||Govt. clears Rs. 10,683 cr. textiles PLI plan||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a Rs. 10,683 crore Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for the textile sector with a view to “helping India regain its historical dominant status in global textiles trade”. The incentives are designed to encourage investment in new capacities in man-made fibre (MMF) apparel, MMF fabrics, and 10 segments or products of technical textiles. The government expects the scheme to help attract fresh investment of more than Rs. 19,000 crore, creating an additional 7.5 lakh direct jobs. Terming the move a ‘game changer’, Union Minister for Textiles, Commerce and Industry, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal told The Hindu that any investment in the sector would have a multiplier effect especially in job creation. “The PLI as a whole is a game changer. And, for textiles it will be a big, big boost. Because... you create maximum employment in the textile sector, for every rupee invested,” he added. Two-thirds of India’s textile exports now are cotton based whereas 66-70% of world trade in textiles and apparel is MMF-based and technical textiles. India’s focus on the manufacture of textiles in the MMF sector is expected to help boost its ability to compete globally. Two categories The scheme envisages two levels of investment with different sets of incentives. While any person or firm can invest a minimum Rs. 300 crore in plant, machinery, and civil works to produce the identified products to ensure eligibility for the PLI, in the second category a minimum investment of Rs. 100 crore would make an individual or firm eligible to apply for the incentives. Priority would be given for investment in aspirational districts, tier-three, tier-four towns and rural areas. The scheme is expected to benefit States such as Gujarat, U.P., Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Andhra, Telangana and Odisha. Textiles Secretary Upendra Prasad Singh said guidelines for implementation of the scheme would be notified by the end of this month. A portal would be opened to receive applications and the plan is to allow two months time to the units to apply for benefits under the scheme. Applicants would have two years as investment period and 2024-2025 would be the ‘performance’ year. The incentive flow would start in 2025-2026 and extend for five years. S.K. Sundararaman, chairman of the Indian Technical Textile Association, said the PLI plan, along with other schemes, was ‘a boon’ to the MMF sector. It would help accelerate decisions by firms eyeing the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-clears-rs-10683-cr-textiles-pli-plan/article36373296.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||IPO-bound LIC saw drop in first-year premium in Aug.||Life insurers first-year premium (FYP) rose 2.89% to Rs. 27,820.74 crore for August on the back of another good show by the private players. Market leader and State-owned Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) saw a 3.82% decline in FYP to Rs. 18,960.77 crore, according to the new business statement of life insurers released by IRDAI. On a sequential basis, it fared better. In July, the FYP stood at Rs. 12,030.93 crore. For the 5-month period up to August, the FYP of all the lifer insurers stood at Rs. 1,00,980.72 crore, 1.63% higher. For LIC, it declined 6.75% to Rs. 66,592.38 crore. Emkay Global Financial Services said in a research note ‘poor sales of high-ticket annuity products’ and ‘low focus on ULIPs’ seemed to be hurting LIC’s growth. Overall, the trend of market share consolidation towards the bigger private players continued. The 23 private players, who between them command a little more than 35% market share, in August mobilised a FYP of Rs. 8,859.97 crore, an increase of 20.95%. Up to August this fiscal, they had reported an increase of 23.05% to Rs. 34,388.34 crore. The August performance is continuation of a pattern set by life insurers since April of neither a growth nor decline consecutively for two months. In April, their FYP rose (by 44.76%) while in May it declined (5.55%). It rose in June (by 3.95%). In July, it was 11% lower.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ipo-bound-lic-saw-drop-in-first-year-premium-in-aug/article36373283.ece
09 September 2021||Bengaluru,||India’s passenger car market has seen V-shaped recovery: Martin Schwenk||India’s passenger car market has seen a V-shaped recovery and Mercedes-Benz has witnessed a strong come back since mid-June, said MD & CEO Martin Schwenk. “Mercedes-Benz was witnessing a V-shaped recovery with a double-digit sales growth in the January to August period,” he said. “By the end of August, we sold almost as many cars as we sold the whole of last year,” Mr. Schwenk told The Hindu here on Wednesday. “If I look into the current order situation, and what happened in the last one to two months, we are basically on a pre-pandemic level,” he added. Strong demand for Mercedes-Benz products had also led to a waiting period of up to even 8-16 weeks for some of the car lines, he said. There were still constraints, so the luxury carmaker needed to prioritise with regard to delivery, especially for models like the GLS or GLE, and GLA, the MD added. “We just need to produce enough cars now. The pandemic induced supply constraints are only slowly going away,” Mr. Schwenk said. On taxation issues, he said the car business was a long and a cyclical one. “So, to take advantage of any policy, planning around it, executing it and accordingly delivering the benefits to customers always took time, sometimes even years,” he said. “I hope there will some further movement [on industry’s talk with the government on duty regime] and if there is a movement, I would hope for consistency and visibility on what the plans are then for the coming years,” Mr. Schwenk said. On the contribution from the pre-owned cars (POCs) segment, the CEO said Mercedes-Benz would add 100 POCs a year to its sales volumes, which would be close to a 50% increase in the segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-passenger-car-market-has-seen-v-shaped-recovery-martin-schwenk/article36373285.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Cement consumption expected to rise on infrastructure spending: Srinivasan||Cement consumption in the country is expected to go up with the Centre raising investments in infrastructure and State governments also spending on housing, irrigation and roads, among other projects, said N. Srinivasan, vice-chairman and MD, The India Cements Ltd. (ICL). At the firm’s 75th AGM on Wednesday, he said there were signs that the COVID situation was easing and that cement demand was also picking up. He also cited reports of ‘good’ rainfall for the third consecutive year, with the farm sector and the rural economy expected to do better, thus creating more rural demand. There was an increase in house-building and construction activity in urban and semi-urban centres due to relocation of workplaces and increasing work-from-home options, he pointed out. The new government in Tamil Nadu had started giving a push to housing and infrastructure development, he said. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments were also implementing irrigation, road-building and other infrastructure projects and new housing schemes, he added. These developments gave room for cautious optimism for cement demand in the coming months, he said, adding that capacity utilisation would rise in proportion with demand. Asserting that there was uncertainty over the possibility of a third wave, he cautioned: “Therefore, one has to be cautiously optimistic about the immediate future.” Highlighting that plant capacity utilisation had improved to 50% in Q1 against 35% a year earlier, he said it was slightly better in Q2 and was expected to improve further. To raise capacity, ICL would undertake de-bottlenecking of one or two plants in the South and also set up a new plant in Madhya Pradesh, he said. At the AGM, shareholders approved Mr. Srinivasan’s re-appointment as MD for five years effective May 26, with requisite majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cement-consumption-expected-to-rise-on-infrastructure-spending-srinivasan/article36373293.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Ashok Leyland ‘looking at all options’ to make EV batteries||Hinduja group flagship Ashok Leyland Ltd. (ALL) is ‘looking at all options’ for the manufacture of batteries for electric vehicles, according to chairman Dheeraj G. Hinduja. Addressing the 72nd Annual General Meeting on Wednesday, Mr. Hinduja said, “This is an area which goes hand in hand with our EV ambitions. I don't want to disclose any plans at this moment except to say that .. very much looking at all options,” he said Asked by shareholders whether the company would go in for production of electric cars on the lines of Tesla, he said ALL’s core competence lay in making intermediate commercial vehicles, light commercial vehicles and medium & heavy commercial vehicles (M&HCV) and that the company did not want to (make cars and) compete with Tesla directly. He said that the outlook for FY22 was positive, even while pointing out that the performance of the company was affected in FY21 due to volatility in the automotive sector, coupled with the global shortage of semiconductor chips. He said there were reports about a potential third wave and that ALL was monitoring the situation closely. Referring to the improved scenario, he said capacity utilisation in the M&HCV segment was in the range of 52% to 70% at various plants, while for LCVs it was closer to 100%. “Demand is strong and we are doing de-bottlenecking wherever required.” Vipin Sondhi, MD and CEO, informed shareholders that the performance of the company in the coming quarters would be better quarter-on-quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ashok-leyland-looking-at-all-options-to-make-ev-batteries/article36373291.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Equity MFs get Rs. 8,666-cr. on strong inflow in NFOs||Strong inflows in new fund offers (NFOs) and a stable SIP book helped equity mutual funds (MFs) attract a net investment of Rs. 8,666 crore in August, making it the sixth consecutive monthly infusion, amid an uptrend in stock markets. This was much higher than July’s net inflow of Rs. 22,583 crore, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed on Wednesday. Equity schemes saw net inflow of Rs. 5,988 crore in June, Rs. 10,083 crore in May, Rs. 3,437 crore in April and Rs. 9,115 crore in March. Equity schemes had consistently witnessed outflows for eight months from July 2020 to February 2021. The inflow pushed assets under management (AUM) of the MF industry to an all-time high of Rs. 36.6 lakh crore at August-end from Rs. 35.32 lakh crore a month earlier.  Arun Kumar, head of Research, FundsIndia, said many investors who were staying on the sidelines were slowly getting back. The trend also reflected in record NFO collections. “The decline of the second wave, increase in vaccinations, sharp equity rally... and the stability of the markets despite the second wave have added to investor comfort and confidence,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/equity-mfs-get-rs-8666-cr-on-strong-inflow-in-nfos/article36373281.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mondelez India forays into snack bar segment||Mondelez India, the makers of Cadbury Dairy Milk, Bournvita, and Oreo, on Wednesday announced its entry into the snack bar category with the unveiling of ‘Cadbury Fuse Fit’. “After a lot of focus on our core [products] for the last 18 months, we are again starting our journey of innovation again,” said Anil Viswanathan, senior director – Marketing, Mondelez India. “We have now thought about categories beyond our core where we see growth. Snack bar is one such category,” Mr. Viswanathan added. The ‘snack bar’ segment in India is pegged at about Rs. 150-200 crore. The Cadbury Fuse Fit, priced at Rs. 50 for 40 grams, will be available in two variants — Almonds and Peanuts and Cranberry and Nuts — and is targeted largely at ‘young adults’ looking for ‘good for you’ alternatives in daily snacking. “Consumers are now increasingly looking for on-the-go snacks that could be for mid-morning hunger, mental stimulation or even to break fatigue, as they spend most time at home,” Mr. Viswanathan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mondelez-india-forays-into-snack-bar-segment/article36373298.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||DIPAM picks 10 merchant bankers for LIC IPO||The government has appointed 10 merchant bankers, including Goldman Sachs (India) Securities, Citigroup Global Markets India, and Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities India, to manage the mega initial public offering of the country’s largest insurer LIC. Other bankers selected are SBI Capital Markets, JM Financial, Axis Capital, BofA Securities, JP Morgan India, ICICI Securities and Kotak Mahindra Capital Co Ltd, the disinvestment department said in a circular on its website. “Government has finalised the book running lead managers and some other advisors for the IPO of LIC,” the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. DIPAM had invited applications from merchant bankers on July 15. Following this, 16 applicants made presentations for managing the listing and partial disinvestment of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC). The department is also in the process of appointing a legal adviser for the stake sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dipam-picks-10-merchant-bankers-for-lic-ipo/article36373300.ece
09 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Shri Bajrang Power to add steel capacity||Shri Bajrang Power and Ispat Ltd., among top 10 steel producers in India, has lined up brownfield capacity expansion plan worth Rs. 217 crore of which Rs. 145 crore has already been invested, a top official said. The firm would set up a 0.20 MTPA additional sponge iron plant, expand steel melting-shop capacity to 0.37 MTPA, set up a 0.10 MTPA galvanising plant and a 16 MW waste heat recovery based power plant. Its arm would set up a 50 MW solar unit for Rs. 175 crore. “The solar plant will come up in FY23 through investment from internal sources,” said Sandeep Goel, CFO. The firm would finance capacity expansion via internal accruals and external borrowings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/shri-bajrang-power-to-add-steel-capacity/article36373287.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Maruti output dips 8% on chip shortage||India’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) on Wednesday said its total production in August declined by 8% on a yearly basis to 1,13,937 units, as the global semiconductor shortage impacted its manufacturing schedules. The firm had produced a total of 1,23,769 units a year earlier, MSI said in a regulatory filing. Semiconductors cater to control and memory functions in products such as automobiles, computers and cell phones. MSI said total passenger vehicle output was 1,11,368 units last month, as against 1,21,381 units in August 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-output-dips-8-on-chip-shortage/article36373301.ece
09 September 2021||new delhi,||‘I-T site issues being resolved progressively’||The Income Tax department on Wednesday said a number of technical issues in the new ITR portal are being progressively addressed and 1.19 crore ITRs for 2020-21 fiscal year have been filed so far. Giving updates of activities carried out by taxpayers on the portal, the I-T department said more than 8.83 crore unique taxpayers have logged into the portal till September 7. The Income Tax Return (ITR) filing has risen to 3.2 lakh daily in September. “A number of technical issues are being progressively addressed,” the CBDT said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/i-t-site-issues-being-resolved-progressively/article36373302.ece
09 September 2021||Mumbai,||Sun Pharma forays into nutrition bars||Sun Pharma said its consumer healthcare division has forayed into the nutrition-bar segment with Revital NXT. The product is a brand extension of Revital H, a health supplement for over three decades. “Revital NXT bar helps you stay active and ace life's demands,” said Vidhi Shanghvi, head, Sun Pharma Consumer Healthcare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sun-pharma-forays-into-nutrition-bars/article36373289.ece
09 September 2021||Chennai,||Schueco buys 75% stake in Alufit||Germany’s building products maker Schueco International KG has acquired a majority stake in facade maker Alufit India Pvt. Ltd. for an undisclosed sum. “We have bought 75% stake in Alufit,” Andreas Engelhardt, CEO and managing partner, Schueco International KG, told The Hindu. “ Both are privately owned family businesses. We have known each other for a long time and it fits well with our synergies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/schueco-buys-75-stake-in-alufit/article36373294.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||PC shipment in India hits 5-yr high of 4.1 million units in Q2: Canalys||PC shipments in India hit a five-year high to about 4.1 million units in the June 2021 quarter, growing at 42.7% year-on-year, according to research firm Canalys. The 4.1 million shipments included more than 2.4 million notebooks, 5,15,000 desktops, more than 1 million tablets and 54,000 workstations. Shipments of notebooks, the largest by volume, grew 43% over Q2 2020, Canalys added.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pc-shipment-in-india-hits-5-yr-high-of-41-million-units-in-q2-canalys/article36373303.ece
09 September 2021||Paris,||France beats Finland, ends a winless run||Reigning champion France beat Finland 2-0 in a World Cup qualifier on Tuesday thanks to Antoine Griezmann’s double strike to snap a five-game winless streak while Scotland kept its hopes alive with a 1-0 win in Austria. In other action, Portugal and the Netherlands stayed on track to reach the finals in Qatar next year, with Memphis Depay grabbing a hat-trick for the Dutch in a 6-1 demolition of Turkey. France was roared on by 57,000 passionate spectators in Lyon where Griezmann — who ended an unhappy spell at Barcelona with a loan move back to Atletico Madrid in the transfer window — combined well with Karim Benzema as their side overcame a disjointed start. Delightful backheel Benzema’s delightful backheel released Griezmann inside the box and he supplied a smooth finish after 25 minutes. Griezmann made it 41 goals for his country when he beat Finnish ‘keeper Lukas Hradecky at the near post to make it 2-0 in the 54th minute. After a frustrating 1-1 draw with Ukraine in their last game, the victory was a welcome boost for the French who are still smarting after crashing out of Euro 2020 at the last 16 stage this summer. “We did not do everything well but we have rediscovered our confidence,” said France coach Didier Deschamps. “This puts our fate in our hands and we must finish the job in November.”  Scotland grabbed a valuable three points in its bid to qualify for Qatar with a 1-0 win against the Austrians in Vienna as Australian-born Lyndon Dykes’ VAR-awarded penalty proved the difference. The victory moved the Scots up to second in Group F, seven points behind Euro 2020 semifinalists Denmark which is cruising with a 100 percent record after thrashing Israel 5-0. “Some people in (Scotland) don’t believe in this group of players, but I do,” Scotland manager Steve Clarke told Sky Sports. “I love my players. We’re a good team.” Ruthless The Netherlands was ruthless against Turkey as Depay’s hat-trick took the Barcelona forward’s international goal tally to 33. The Dutch led 3-0 by half-time and any remaining chance for the Turks vanished when Leicester defender Caglar Soyuncu was sent off for a second bookable offence shortly before the break. Louis van Gaal’s side moved into top spot in Group G by virtue of goal difference above Norway which outclassed minnows Gibraltar 5-1, with Erling Braut Haaland notching a hat-trick. Setback for Serbia Serbia’s bid to qualify for a second successive World Cup finals suffered a setback as Nikola Milenkovic’s late own goal and a superb display from teenage goalkeeper Gavin Bazunu gave the Republic of Ireland a battling 1-1 draw in Dublin. Lazio midfielder Sergej Milinkovic-Savic had put Serbia ahead in the first half. The Serbs trail Portugal — which was a 3-0 winner in Azerbaijan — by two points in Group A. No missing Ronaldo The Portuguese did not miss the suspended Cristiano Ronaldo as Bernardo Silva scored a sparkling opener on 26 minutes before Andre Silva added a second five minutes later in Baku. Liverpool forward Diogo Jota completed the job with a second-half header to continue his bright early season form.  The results:   Europe: Group A: Azerbaijan 0 lost to Portugal 3 (Bernardo Silva 26, Andre Silva 31, Diogo Jota 75); Ireland 1 (Milenkovic 86-og) drew with Serbia 1 (Milinkovic-Savic 20).   Group D: France 2 (Griezmann 25, 53) bt Finland 0; Bosnia 2 (Pjanic 74-pen, Menalo 85) drew with Kazakhstan 2 (Kuat 51, Zaynutdinov 90+5).   Group F: Faroe Island 2 (Olsen 68, Vatnsdal 71) bt Moldova 1 (Milnceanu 84); Denmark 5 (Poulsen 28, Kjaer 31, Olsen 41, Delaney 57, Cornelius 90+1) bt Israel 0; Austria 0 lost to Scotland 1 (Dykes 30-pen).   Group G: Norway 5 (Thorsvedt 22, Haaland 27, 39, 90+1, Sorloth 59) bt Gibraltar 1 (Styche 43); Montenegro 0 drew with Latvia 0; the Netherlands 6 (Klaassen 1, Depay 16, 38-pen, 54, Til 80, Malen 90) bt Turkey 1 (Under 90+2).   Group H: Russia 2 (Smolov 10, Bakaev 84-pen) bt Malta 0; Slovakia 2 (Schranz 54, Koscelnik 77) bt Cyprus 0; Croatia 3 (Livaja 33, Pasalic 66, Vlasic 90+4) bt Slovenia 0 .   Asia: Group A: South Korea 1 (Kwon Chang-hoon 60) bt Lebanon 0; Syria 1 (Mahmoud Al-Baher 64) drew with UAE 1 (Ali Mabkhout 11); Iraq 0 lost to Iran 3 (Alireza Jahanbakhsh 2, Mehdi Taremi 71, Ali Gholizadeh 90).   Group B: Vietnam 0 lost to Australia 1 (Rhyan Grant 43); China 0 lost to Japan 1 (Yuya Osako 40); Oman 0 lost to Saudi Arabia 1 (Saleh Al-Shehri 42) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/france-beats-finland-ends-a-winless-run/article36373629.ece
09 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Ashwin recalled, Dhoni named mentor||Off-spinner R. Ashwin, who has been forced to warm the bench in the ongoing Test series in England, has been recalled for the T20 World Cup to be played in the United Arab Emirates and Oman from October 17. In yet another surprise, M.S. Dhoni, India’s last ICC tournament-winning captain, has been roped in as the team mentor for the marquee event. The national selection panel met on Wednesday evening in a virtual interaction, with India captain Virat Kohli in attendance, to finalise the squad. Ashwin will return to wearing blue after a four-year hiatus. Chetan Sharma, the chief selector who addressed the media for the first time since his appointment last December, said Ashwin’s consistent outings in the IPL, along with Washington Sundar’s injury, won him the nod. “He has been performing well in the IPL. And an off-spinner will always be handy in UAE in a world tournament. Since Washington (Sundar) was unavailable, we decided to go with Ashwin,” Sharma said. Interestingly, Ashwin was dropped from the white-ball squads in 2017, with the team management and the previous selection panel believing that wrist-spinners were the match-winners in shorter formats. The champion spinner will have rookies Varun Chakravarthy and Rahul Chahar for company in the spin department along with the seasoned Axar Patel and all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja. Rahul, the younger of the Chahar cousins, was picked ahead of Yuzvendra Chahal, who has been India’s leading spinner in limited-overs cricket since the conclusion of the 2017 Champions Trophy. Chahal will not be the only one feeling hard done by. Veteran opener Shikhar Dhawan, who was the captain for India’s tour to Sri Lanka in July, has not found a place in the squad, with the selectors opting for Ishan Kishan as a left-handed batsman-cum-keeper option. “Shikhar is a very important player for us. I can’t disclose the discussion we had but he is in the loop. We thought the need of the hour was to look at others and rest him,” Sharma said. According to Sharma, the selection committee has included K.L. Rahul primarily as Rohit Sharma’s opening partner and “floater” Ishan, “who can bat in the middle and keep wickets if required”, as the back-up opener. Interestingly, after opening the innings with Rohit in the T20I series-decider against England in March, captain Kohli had indicated that the partnership would continue. The selection committee has a different perspective, however, although Sharma left the choice to the team management. “If Virat bats at No. 3, the team can bat around him. Still, if the management feels the need for him to open later on, it’s their decision. For now, we have selected Rohit, Rahul and Ishan as openers,” Sharma said. With Sharma confident that Hardik Pandya would be able to “bowl his full quota in every match”, Shardul Thakur was pushed from the main squad to the three stand-bys, along with Shreyas Iyer and Deepak Chahar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-recalled-dhoni-named-mentor/article36373567.ece
09 September 2021||KOCHI,||‘CWG will be good competition before Asiad’||The Indian Olympic Association might be planning to keep the Indian hockey team out of next year’s Commonwealth Games in Birmingham as they are too close to the Asian Games, but star goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh feels that the CWG will offer the country good competition before the continental event. “If you are able to play a couple of matches before big events it is really good. We always consider the Commonwealth Games as one of the major events, that’s the platform where we can get good competition playing against Australia, New Zealand and England. Which is really good for us but if IOA is taking a decision, definitely there will be a reason behind that,” said the Tokyo Olympics bronze-winning Indian hockey goalkeeper, in reply to a question from The Hindu , during a media interaction organised by the Ernakulam Press Club here on Wednesday. Will obey it “If they decide that, then definitely we will obey it. Being a member of the national hockey team, my decision always stays with my association’s decision and the IOA’s.” One of his big goals now is to win a World Cup medal. “I have all the medals in hockey but am missing a World Cup medal. And we are hosting the 2023 World Cup in Odisha so that is going to be our prime target. Before that, we need to face the Commonwealth Games (July 28-Aug 8) and Asian Games (Sept. 10-25). “The Asiad is one of our biggest platforms because we will be getting a direct ticket to the Paris Olympics,” said the 33-year-old. So, does he think he can stretch his career till the 2024 Olympics? “If I want I can stretch it but nobody can see what is going to happen tomorrow. If there is no injury, if there are no form issues definitely, I can stretch till that but at my age, I think it is good for me to keep a short target rather than worrying about what is going to happen in three years. Clean aim “It is good for me to think of another year so that I will have a clean aim in front of me, thinking that I need to play the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games which are really important and then the World Cup. Then, I will analyse the situation and if the performance is good and if the team feels I’m going good, definitely I can stretch (till Paris 2024).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cwg-will-be-good-competition-before-asiad/article36373580.ece
09 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Can MS be India’s talisman?||M.S. Dhoni will return to India’s dressing room for the first time since the 2019 World Cup semifinal. Not as a cricketer, but the most successful India captain in limited-overs’ format will take over the mantle as Team Mentor for India’s T20 World Cup campaign. While announcing the squad for the tournament, to be hosted by the BCCI in United Arab Emirates and Oman from Oct. 17, BCCI secretary Jay Shah stressed that Dhoni has agreed to join the squad only for the marquee event. “As far as Mahendra Singh Dhoni is concerned, I spoke to him when I was in Dubai. He was okay with my decision and he agreed to be the mentor of Team India for the T20 World Cup only. I was discussing this particular issue with my colleagues also,” said Shah, in his first official interaction with the media after taking over as BCCI secretary in October 2019. “I spoke to the captain and vice-captain as well as coach Ravi Shastri. They all are on the same page, so that’s why this matter has reached its conclusion.” The timing of Dhoni’s appointment — with head coach Shastri’s tenure set to end with the T20 World Cup — will create murmurs of whether the World Cup-winning captain’s stint with the Indian team may prolong. But as Shah emphasised, the arrangement is only for the T20 World Cup. While the national team will have a mentor for the first time, it will not be the first time the head coach will have company at the top of the team management. During Dhoni’s tenure as captain, Shastri was the Team Director with Duncan Fletcher as the head coach for the 2015 World Cup. Dhoni’s presence will certainly be of immense help to the team management in UAE. Despite tasting unprecedented success across the globe in the Test arena, a World title has eluded the captain-coach combination of Virat Kohli and Ravi Shastri. In fact, it was Dhoni who won India its last ICC title, the Champions Trophy, in 2013. It was the third of the World titles that Dhoni bagged as India captain before announcing his retirement from international cricket last year. Dhoni will hope that his presence will help India regain the T20 World Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ms-back-in-the-india-dugout/article36373562.ece
09 September 2021||Chennai,||‘Whispering Death’ brutally brought the Oval to life||It’s direct and visceral in nature — air speed. Whoosh! In the blink of an eye, the ball spears through the defence and the stumps fly. Explosive and exhilarating for the viewers, it is the sound of death for the batsmen. When the pitch doesn’t offer you much, it is the speed through the air that alters scripts. Just like Jasprit Bumrah’s vicious, reverse swinging thunderbolts that crashed through the citadels of Ollie Pope and Jonny Bairstow in a game-changing final day spell at the Oval. Sensational bowling Talking about Test matches and the Oval, the sensational 14-wicket match haul by ‘Whispering Death’ — a moniker for the smooth and the noiseless manner he ran in — Michael Holding at this venue in 1976 comes to mind. And Holding’s effort was on a pitch where the West Indians made 687/8 declared with the mercurial Vivian Richards conjuring an imperious 291. The surface was as flat as they come. Holding did not need a favourable surface though. He scorched the turf in the first innings with eight for 92 — significantly, six of his victims were bowled and the other two were trapped leg-before in a blistering spell. All those who succumbed to Holding were beaten by his high velocity in the air. Those full-length deliveries zoomed past the bottom of the bat before the willow came down. Among Holding’s victims was England captain Tony Grieg who was predictably bowled. Ahead of the series, the normally genial Grieg had said that he would make the West Indies ‘Grovel’, and the remark made the Caribbeans angry. Marked man Beanpole Greig was a marked man. He was bowled by Holding in the second innings as well. Holding finished with six for 57 in the match’s fourth innings and four of his victims were either bowled or leg-before. The West Indies romped home by 231 runs, with Holding’s air speed making the difference. And that was the pre-reverse swing era. Once reverse swing came to the fore, Pakistani pace duo of Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis defeated batsmen with speed in the air and swing with an old ball on benign pitches to chart out victories. The run-up, the load-up and the release combining as one, plus quick-arm action and strong shoulders produced air speed. Exceptional skill with the wrists and the ability to harness the seam position and one side of the ball produced reverse swing. Speed in the air — it is a potent force. And it thrills the senses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/whispering-death-brutally-brought-the-oval-to-life/article36373578.ece
09 September 2021||Chennai,||Vidyuth spins a web as Swaraj bowled out for just 118||Left-arm spinner P. Vidyuth starred for IOB with a six-wicket haul to restrict Swaraj CC to just 118 in the third-round match of the TNCA first division league here on Wednesday. At IC-Gurunanak College, Daryl S. Ferrario’s 115 (201b, 12x4) and J. Kousik’s 77 helped Vijay post a formidable 334 against Grand Slam. The duo added 138 runs for the fourth wicket. Meanwhile, defending champion Jolly Rovers bowled out India Pistons for 201 thanks to left-arm spinner D.T. Chandrasekar’s five-wicket haul. Srinivasan slams ton At the MAC Stadium, Akshay V. Srinivasan slammed an unbeaten 104 (145b, 11x4, 1x6), to power Globe Trotters to a commanding total of 368/7 at stumps on day one against Madras CC.  The scores:   UFCC (T. Nagar) 252 in 71.4 overs (Vishnu Solanki 71, J. Suresh Kumar 100, M. Ganesh Moorthi 4/64) vs Nelson 43/0 in 13 overs. Toss: UFCC.   Young Stars 108 in 37 overs (Rishi Dhawan 6/45, K.V. Sasikanth 4/27) vs MRC-A 127/6 in 41 overs. Toss: Young Stars.   Swaraj 118 in 62.4 overs (P. Vidyuth 6/44) vs IOB 47/5 in 27 overs. Toss: Swaraj.   Vijay 334 in 89 overs (Daryl S. Ferrario 115, J. Kousik 77, V. Gowtham 4/63) vs Grand Slam. Toss: Vijay.   India Pistons 201 in 83.2 overs (D.T. Chandrasekar 5/42) vs Jolly Rovers 20/0 in 5 overs. Toss: IP.   Globe Trotters 368/7 in 89.2 overs (S. Aniruda 84, Arjun P. Murthy 46, Maan K. Bafna 41, Akshay V. Srinivasan 104 n.o., R. Ganesh 4/95) vs Madras CC. Toss: Trotters .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidyuth-spins-a-web-as-swaraj-bowled-out-for-just-118/article36373698.ece
09 September 2021||London,||India to play T20I and ODI series in England||The Indian cricket team will play six white-ball matches against England in July next year, the England and Wales Cricket Board announced as it unveiled its international home fixtures for 2022. The Indian team is currently playing a five-Test series against England with the last match slated to start Sept. 10. However, unlike other years, India’s red and white ball series have been segregated due to the length of the tours in times of the COVID-19 pandemic. England men will play all of their home white-ball matches in July against India, followed by South Africa.  England vs India, white-ball schedule, 2022:   T20I series: July 1: Emirates Old Trafford, July 3: Trent Bridge, July 6: Ageas Bowl.   ODI series: July 9: Edgbaston, July 12: Kia Oval, July 14: Lord’s .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-to-play-t20i-and-odi-series-in-england/article36373560.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sports Minister felicitates Paralympic medal winners||The Indian athletes who won 19 medals, including five gold and eight silver in the Tokyo Paralympics, were felicitated by the Sports Ministry on Wednesday. Three-time Paralympics medallist Devendra Jhajaria, who had won gold in 2004 and 2016, apart from a silver this time, was overwhelmed by the response from the whole nation, as he proudly said, “I have succeeded in my mission today.” Jhajaria had spent his own money to compete in the 2004 Athens Olympics, and has seen the paralympic movement grow to inspiring heights. He said that the entire contingent was inspired by the Prime Minister’s interaction with the athletes. “Our country gives so much respect to sports persons, that other countries are learning from our prime minister,” Jhajaria said. Suhas Yathiraj, the District Magistrate of Gautam Buddha Nagar, felt that “every long journey starts with a small first step.” Table tennis medallist Bhavina Patel said that she gained immensely by playing against an advanced robot which provided tremendous variety in improving her game. Nineteen-year-old rifle shooter Avani Lekhara, who won a gold and bronze, said she was “so happy, and so grateful. Still a long way to go.” Government support ensured an electronic target system was installed at her place during the pandemic, ensuring high quality training. “It kept me motivated and kept me positive. It helped me win the medals,” said Avani. Sports Minister Anurag Thakur said the athletes will get all the support they need. “We will leave no stone unturned for supporting them in future. No target is too high and no fear that they can’t overcome,” he said. The president of the Paralympic Committee of India (PCI), Deepa Malik, acknowledge the support of everyone, but was particularly appreciative of the coaches. “I congratulate the coaches, I salute all the gurus,” she said, insisting that “we are getting bette.” She was also happy about the fact that from having three women athletes in the last Paralympics in Rio, the Indian contingent had 14 women athletes this time in Tokyo, and they had won gold and silver. The former sports minister Kiren Rijiju congratulated every athlete. “You are the inspiration of the whole country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-minister-felicitates-paralympic-medal-winners/article36373564.ece
09 September 2021||NEW YORK,||Raducanu creates history; Fernandez and Auger-Aliassime’s great run continues||It was a night to remember for Canada as 19-year-old Leylah Fernandez and Felix Auger-Aliassime, 21, reached their maiden Slam semifinals at the U.S. Open here on Wednesday. The 19-year-old Fernandez, who had ousted defending champion Naomi Osaka and three-time Slam winner Angelique Kerber, delivered another stunner to defeat Ukrainian fifth-seed Elina Svitolina 6-3, 3-6, 7-6(5). Fernandez booked a last-four matchup against second seed Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus, who beat Czech eighth seed and reigning French Open champion Barbora Krejcikova 6-1, 6-4. Felix Auger-Aliassime, seeded 12th, advanced when 55th-ranked Spanish 18-year-old Carlos Alcaraz retired, trailing 6-3, 3-1 with a leg injury. The Canadian will next take on Russian second seed Daniil Medvedev, who advanced to his third straight U.S. Open semifinal by overcoming 117th-ranked Dutch qualifier Botic Van de Zandschulp 6-3, 6-0, 4-6, 7-5 at the Arthur Ashe Stadium. Left-hander Fernandez, who turned 19 on Monday, snapped the Tokyo Olympic bronze medallists nine-match win streak with clutch shotmaking, firing 42 winners, as spectators roared their delight. Fernandez broke for a 4-2 lead and captured the first set in 38 minutes, the first Svitolina surrendered at the Open. In the second set, Svitolina broke twice to lead 5-1 but Fernandez broke in the seventh game and forced three break points in the last game before a Svitolina ace mandated a third set. Fernandez and Svitolina exchanged four breaks on the way to the tie-breaker, in which the teenager never trailed, advancing after two hours and 24 minutes with a service winner. “I told myself to trust my shots,” Fernandez said. “Even if I lose, I’ve got to go for it. And I’m glad I did.” “She’s playing well,” Sabalenka said of Fernandez. “She’s moving well and the crowd cheers for her. I’d say nothing to lose for this one.” Sabalenka matched her deepest Slam run from July at Wimbledon with a WTA-best 43rd match win of 2021. Asked about his match, Auger-Aliassime said “It’s an amazing milestone. It’s a weird way to end but I’ll have a chance to play one of the best players in the world. “It’s really tough to end a great tournament like this,” Alcaraz said. “I had no choice to still play. I have to take care of my body and to stay healthy. I didn’t feel good to still play.” “I just want to do a little bit better than the last two times and get this extra step, which is the toughest one, actually,” Medvedev, who won his only meeting with Auger-Aliassime in Canada in 2018 The 25-year-old from Moscow was a runner-up here in 2019 and lost this year’s Australian Open final to top-ranked Novak Djokovic, who is seeking his fourth US Open title to complete the first men’s singles calendar-year Grand Slam since Rod Laver in 1969. “If he’s in the final, and if I’m there, I’m happy. He’s also happy, I guess,” said Medvedev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leylah-fernandez-and-felix-auger-aliassimes-wonderful-run-continues/article36373570.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||India lies second after mixed day||Favourite India narrowly fell short of maintaining a clean slate and held the second spot after three rounds of Top Division’s Group ‘B’ in the FIDE Online Chess Olympiad on Wednesday. After a convincing 6-0 victory over Egypt, but not before Vaishali was awarded the game because her victorious rival failed to keep one of the two cameras on for the duration of the game, India suffered a mild setback with fourth seed France pulling off a 3-3 draw. In the day’s third round, India defeated Sweden 4-2. On a day when India fielded all 12 players, B. Adhiban won both his games, Viswanathan Anand and Tania Sachdev contributed 1.5 points each from two games while seven others remained unbeaten. However, R. Praggnanandhaa and debutant Savitha Shri lost a game each.  The scores: Third round: India bt Sweden 4-2 (P. Harikrishna bt Nils Grandelius, B. Adhiban bt Erik Blomqvist, K. Humpy drew with Pia Cramling, Tania Sachdev drew with Inna Agrest, Nihal Sarin bt Milton Pantzar, B. Savitha Shri lost to Margarita Zaritovskaja); Azerbaijan lost to Hungary 2-4; Belarus bt Shenzhen China 3.5-2.5; Moldova drew with France 3-3; Slovenia drew with Egypt 3-3.   Second round: France drew with India 3-3 (Etienne Bacrot drew with Anand, Yannick Gozzoli drew with Vidit Gujrathi, Marie Sebag drew with Humpy, Pauline Guichard drew with D. Harika, Marc Andria Maurizzi bt R. Praggnanandhaa, Florence Rollot lost to R. Vaishali); Hungary bt Slovenia 3.5-2.5; Egypt lost to Moldova 2.5-3.5; Sweden bt Belarus 5.5-0.5; Shenzhen China drew with Azerbaijan 3-3.   First round: India bt Egypt 6-0 (Anand bt Ahmed Adly, Adhiban bt Adham Fawzy, Tania Sachdev bt Shahendra Wafa, Bhakti Kulkarni bt Ayah Moaataz, Praggnanandhaa bt Adham Kandil, Vaishali bt Sara Adel); Shenzhen China lost to Hungary 2-4; Azerbaijan bt Sweden 5.5-0.5; Belarus lost to France 2.5-3.5; Moldova drew with Slovenia 3-3.   Standings (after three rounds): 1. Hungary (6 match-points); 2. India (5); 3-4. France, Moldova (4 each); 5. Azerbaijan (3); 6-8. Slovenia, Sweden, Belarus (2 each), 9-10. Shenzhen China and Egypt (1 each) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mixed-day-for-india-lies-second/article36373559.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Knockout matches on Sept. 11 and 12||The toppers of the Champions league, Rashmi Kumari and Mohd. Arif, will compete in the final of the Indian online carrom challenge, organised by the All India Carrom Federation. The players who had placed second to fourth in qualifying for the knockout in the men’s and women’s events will play among themselves in deciding the challenger for the toppers. Thus, Nidhi Gupta will play S. Shainy in the first match of women’s knockout on September 11. The winner will play S. Appoorwa who had finished second in the league. The emerging winner will challenge Rashmi in the final. Same pattern for men Similarly, in the men’s event, Riyaz Akbar Ali will play Vikas Dharia in the first match. The winner will face Abdul Rahman, to decide the challenger for Mohd. Arif. All the knockout matches are scheduled to be played on September 11 and 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/knockout-matches-on-sept-11-and-12/article36373769.ece
09 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Narayanan hopes to crack 2700 points soon||After enjoying a fair amount of success in online chess tournaments during the pandemic, Grandmaster S.L. Narayanan has shifted his focus to regular tournaments in a bid to reach the magical figure of 2700 points. Last month, the 23-year-old, whose current rating is 2624 points, finished second in the RTU Open Chess tournament in Riga, Latvia. In a tough tournament, Narayanan drew the last round with Israeli GM Ilia Smirin to finish second behind Germany’s Alexander Donchenko. The RTU Open was the second regular tournament which Narayanan participated in this year after the Bangladesh league in March. Narayanan will take part in the Sharjah Masters next week. “The goal is to reach 2700 points as quickly as possible. I am satisfied with my performance in the RTU Open. The tournament had some strong players, and considering my ranking, a podium finish was a good show indeed. “The Bangladesh League was a good experience as I played along with GMs from other countries and got to know them personally. It was also my first off-line tournament, and I am happy that I could help my team finish second in the league,” he said. Financial crunch “I would have wanted to play in more tournaments, but I am forced to be selective because of lack of funds. “I have been using my prize money to fund my trips to tournaments. So I only take part in tournaments in places which are not very expensive. “Sharjah Masters will be my next stop. It is a good tournament with some strong players and I hope to do well there,” said Narayanan, who is ranked sixth in India. Job hunting Narayanan feels that full-time employment will, to some extent, put an end to his financial woes. “These days I cannot afford to have private coaching sessions. “But I do analyse my games with my fellow GMs and sometimes with coach Gregory. It is difficult to get a sponsor for a chess player in Kerala. But things could change for the better if I get a job,” said Narayanan. He also expressed surprise that the State Government failed to acknowledge him in the last five years, during which he became Kerala’s second GM and won multiple medals at national and international tournaments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/narayanan-hopes-to-crack-2700-points-soon/article36373575.ece
09 September 2021||Chennai,||National Moto Racing second round from tomorrow||The second round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Motorcycle Racing Championship 2021, will be held from Friday to Sunday at the MMRT circuit. Apart from the national championships, the weekend also includes TVS and Idemitsu Honda India Talent Cup One-Make Championships organised by the Madras Motor Sports Club. The competition in Round 2 is expected to be even sharper with front-runners looking to add to their tally of points. Veterans Rajini Krishnan (RACR) and Jagan Kumar (TVS Racing) put on brilliant exhibitions of their riding skills with a double apiece in the premier Pro-Stock classes, 301-400cc and 165cc, respectively. The duo will again be the cynosure this weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-moto-racing-second-round-from-tomorrow/article36373583.ece
09 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Diaz replaces Fowler as EB coach||Barely a couple of weeks after Shree Cements decided to continue its support to East Bengal, the club parted ways with Liverpool legend and coach Robbie Fowler and announced the appointment of former Real Madrid youth team coach Manuel ‘Manolo’ Diaz for the new season. The club missed the greater part of the transfer season this year too due to differences with Shree Cements. A last-minute arrangement saw East Bengal continue its deal with the current investor. However, the late reconciliation did not help the team. East Bengal has a squad of Indian players mostly on loan and is yet to sign a foreign player. Since it has decided to switch to a Spanish support staff under Diaz, after trying out the English system under Fowler in its debut year, the Kolkata giant is likely to change its roster of overseas players. This will push back its pre-season preparations once again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/diaz-replaces-fowler-as-eb-coach/article36373624.ece
09 September 2021||Washington,||FIFA eyes disciplinary action against Argentina, Brazil||Disciplinary proceedings were opened by FIFA against Argentina and Brazil over the chaos that led to their World Cup qualifier being suspended after Brazilian health officials stormed the field to question the quarantine status of players. FIFA cited ongoing legal procedures as the reason it could not provide specifics on the alleged rule breaches or comment on whether it could also have been partly culpable, along with South American confederation CONMEBOL, for the saga that led to the game being halted after seven minutes on Sunday. FIFA did not specify which regulations the football federations from Argentina and Brazil were being investigated for breaching. Four of Argentina’s English Premier League players were accused of flouting quarantine requirements in Sao Paulo and of falsifying Brazilian coronavirus declarations by not stating they had been in red-listed Britain in the previous 14 days. But FIFA itself could technically be partly culpable, too, as the organisers of the qualifier which appointed the match delegate, whose role is to oversee that regulations are being adhered to. Argentina added to the confusion Tuesday night, saying on Twitter that one of its staff tested positive for COVID-19. It did not name the person. The Associated Press obtained a Brazilian health ministry document sent to a CONMEBOL email address that authorities thought they could use to reach president Alejandro Dominguez. It said a final request for a quarantine exemption was rejected for Emiliano Martinez, Emiliano Buendia, Giovanni Lo Celso and Cristian Romero. They had arrived in Brazil on Friday morning from Caracas, where they’d beaten Venezuela. A Sao Paulo state health secretariat document obtained by the AP shows the organisation received the first rumours about players giving false information to enter the country about 15 hours after they left the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fifa-eyes-disciplinary-action-against-argentina-brazil/article36373625.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Jhajharia and Prasad in awards committee||Three-time Paralympic medal-winning javelin thrower Devendra Jhajharia, former cricketer Venkatesh Prasad and champion boxer L. Sarita Devi have been named in the selection committee for this year’s National Sports Awards. Retired Supreme Court judge Justice Mukundakum Sharma has been picked as the chairperson of the committee, which also includes shooter Anjali Bhagwat and former women’s cricket team captain Anjum Chopra, the sports ministry stated in a circular. Jhajharia won a silver medal at the recent Tokyo Games, adding to the two gold medals he had won in the 2004 and 2016 editions. Decision shortly The committee will be meeting in the next few days to decide the winners. This year’s awards were delayed after the government decided to wait for India’s performance at both the Olympic and Paralympic Games. The country notched up historic results in both the events with an unprecedented seven medals in the Olympics being followed by a record haul of 19, including five gold, at the Paralympics. Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra was the biggest star of the Olympics with a gold, which was India’s first athletics medal at the Games and the first top finish in 13 years. Highest honour The highest honour is the Khel Ratna award, which was rechristened from Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna to Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna this year, followed by the Arjuna Award. The Khel Ratna carries a prize money of Rs. 25 lakh, while the Arjuna comes with a prize money of Rs. 15 lakh. For coaches, the Dronacharya award is there. The annual honours also include the Lifetime Achievement award, the Rahstriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar, and the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad trophy for the year 2021. The selection committee also includes hockey coach Baldev Singh, Sports Authority of India director-general Sandip Pradhan, and senior journalists Vijay Lokapally and Vikrant Gupta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jhajharia-and-prasad-in-awards-committee/article36373630.ece
09 September 2021||Kolkata,||Indian Navy fights back to beat Delhi FC||Indian Navy became the first among the six regimental sides to pick up a win when it erased a goal’s deficit to beat Second Division League side Delhi Football Club 2-1 in a group-C league match of Durand Cup football, at the Mohun Bagan ground, on Wednesday. Playing without any foreign recruit, the Indian Navy side provided a tough challenge to Delhi FC, which fielded four foreigners. This included Willis Plaza who has years of experience of playing with top division clubs in the country. The Trinidad and Tobago striker took Delhi FC ahead in the 21st minute as he made the most of a free ball inside the Navy box to find the target. Quick re-organisation The sailors reorganised quickly and secured the equaliser within five minutes when V. Shreyas foxed the Delhi defence to finish a cross from Nihal Sudeesh. Indian Navy found the winning goal late in the 86th minute through Dalraj who nodded home a corner to ensure the full quota of points.  The result: Delhi FC 1 (Willis Plaza 21) lost to Indian Navy 2 (V. Shreyas 26, Dalraj 86) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-navy-fights-back-to-beat-delhi-fc/article36373623.ece
09 September 2021||Seoul,||Narrow wins for Australia & S. Korea||Australia edged Vietnam 1-0 in Hanoi to make it two wins out of two in Group B of Asia World Cup qualifying, but China’s campaign was teetering after a second consecutive defeat. In Group A, South Korea defeated Lebanon 1-0 at Suwon World Cup Stadium to pick up its first win of the stage, after 0-0 against Iraq five days earlier. Rhyan Grant ran to the far post to steer in a header after 43 minutes in an empty My Dinh Stadium. His first international goal kept the Socceroos on track for a fifth successive World Cup appearance. Humid conditions In humid conditions and on a difficult playing surface, Vietnam pushed for a point but couldn’t find a way past Mat Ryan in the Australia goal. It was Australia’s 10th win in a row and Football Australia said in a statement that the Socceroos became the first country in the Asian Football Confederation to achieve such a winning streak in one qualification campaign. Also in Group B, Japan bounced back from a shock defeat at home to Oman with a comfortable 1-0 win over China, which failed to record a shot on target. Yuya Osako shot home from close range just before halftime to send China to a second successive defeat, leaving its chances of reaching the World Cup for the second time in its history looking slim. Saudi Arabia picked up a second win, defeating Oman 1-0 in Muscat to move level with Australia on six points. In Group A, South Korea recovered from the late withdrawal of Son Heung-min to defeat Lebanon 1-0. Without Son, South Korea struggled against Lebanon goalkeeper Mostafa Matar.  The results:   Group A: South Korea 1 (Kwon Chang-hoon 60) bt Lebanon 0; Syria 1 (Mahmoud Al-Baher 64) drew with UAE 1 (Ali Mabkhout 11); Iraq 0 lost to Iran 3 (Alireza Jahanbakhsh 2, Mehdi Taremi 71, Ali Gholizadeh 90).   Group B: Vietnam 0 lost to Australia 1 (Rhyan Grant 43); China 0 lost to Japan 1 (Yuya Osako 40); Oman 0 lost to Saudi Arabia 1 (Saleh Al-Shehri 42) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-edges-vietnam-for-10th-win-in-a-row/article36373628.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘I believe this is a beginning of a new era’||The Indian hockey team kept its morale high despite the challenges posed by COVID-19 and the historic bronze medal winning feat at the Tokyo Olympics is only just the beginning of a new era, said young striker Dilpreet Singh on Wednesday. The Indian men’s team had ended a 41-year-old long wait for an Olympic medal when it clinched the bronze at the Tokyo Games last month. “We all worked so hard to achieve this feat. We never let any difficulties during the pandemic affect our morale. The seniors played a big part in encouraging us constantly and making us feel like we can do this,” he said in a release issued by Hockey India (HI). “I truly believe that this is a new beginning. We all want to achieve more, and we want people to give us more love and continue to support us. “And for this to happen, we know we must consistently perform well at major tournaments. We are mentally prepared for it,” the 21-years-old added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-believe-this-is-a-beginning-of-a-new-era/article36373581.ece
09 September 2021||CHENNAI:,||Amendment for the main event||Amendment appeals most in the first division of Mauna Kea Handicap (1,000m), the main event of the races to be held here on Thursday (Sept. 9).  WHAT A WONDER PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 2-00 p.m.: 1. Marshall (7) P. Vikram 56, 2. The Intimidator (1) C. Umesh 56, 3. Arctic Star (5) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 4. Bright Light (4) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 5. Elegant Touch (9) Nikhil Naidu 54.5, 6. Fashion Of Stars (6) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 7. Reckoning (2) Md. Farhan Alam 54.5, 8. Soul Mate (8) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 9. Stillwater (3) P. Sai Kumar 54.5 and 10. Wisaka (10) Shahar Babu 54.5.  1. SOUL MATE,   2. ELEGANT TOUCH,   3. FASHION OF STARS   DAY’S BEST PLATE (1,200m), 3-y-o only (Terms), 2-30: 1. Tudor (6) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 2. Wind Symbol (1) Nikhil Naidu 54.5, 3. Skylight (5) Kuldeep Singh 53, 4. Tower Of Strength (3) Azfar Syeed 51.5, 5. Beauregard (4) Manikandan 50 and 6. Joanna (2) P. Sai Kumar 50.  1. TUDOR,   2. SKYLIGHT,   3. WIND SYMBOL   MIRACLES OF LIFE HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (no whip) 3-30: 1. Sirona (2) H.M. Akshay 60, 2. Star Convoy (10) Ajeet Kumar 58.5, 3. Glorious Sunlight (9) Inayat 57, 4. Andromeda Sky (4) Farid Ansari 56.5, 5. Majestic Charmer (7) Rajendra Singh 55.5, 6. Rafaele (3) Nazar Alam 55.5, 7. Feni (1) Shahzad Alam 55, 8. Grey Twilight (6) Ramandeep Singh 51.5, 9. Moonlight Night (5) M. Bhaskar 51.5 and 10. Stern Maiden (8) Muzaffar Alam 51.  1. ANDROMEDA SKY,   2. SIRONA,   3. GLORIOUS SUNLIGHT   MAUNA KEA HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,000m), rated 40 to 65, 3-30: 1. Butterfly (3) A. Imran Khan 60, 2. Starlight (7) R. Rupesh 59.5, 3. Fun Storm (2) Farid Ansari 57, 4. Angel Heart (1) P. Sai Kumar 56.5, 5. Demerara (5) Ajeet Kumar 56.5, 6. Rippling Waters (4) Nakhat Singh 55.5, 7. Amendment (6) Akshay Kumar 55 and 8. Shadow Of Love (8) R. Manish 55.  1. AMENDMENT,   2. ANGEL HEART,   3. RIPPLING WATERS   AVALANCHE CUP (1,600m), rated 00 to 25, 4-00: 1. Propahlady (3) Farid Ansari 60, 2. Sea Script (6) Nikhil Naidu 60, 3. Blue Patent (2) C. Umesh 59.5, 4. Catalyst (9) Kuldeep Singh 59.5, 5. Cape Cod (8) R. Rupesh 58.5, 6. Roses In My Dreams (1) S. Sunil 58.5, 7. Glorious Nissy (5) Ishwar Singh 57, 8. Perfect Support (7) Kiran Naidu 56, 9. Queen Justitia (4) Azfar Syeed 55 and 10. Betty Boop (10) Janardhan Paswan 54.  1. SEA SCRIPT,   2. CAPE COD,   3. BLUE PATENT   BLING HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 4-30: 1. Diamond And Pearls (6) Nikhil Naidu 60, 2. Welcome Winner (1) Kuldeep Singh 60, 3. Waytogo (7) C. Umesh 59.5, 4. Supreme Excelsior (5) Nakhat Singh 59, 5. Big Treasure (8) P. Sai Kumar 57.5, 6. Moresco (2) P. Vikram 57.5, 7. Hallucinate (9) Zervan 57, 8. Royal Pearl (3) Koshi Kumar 56 and 9. Swiss Agatta (4) Ashhad Asbar 51.5.  1. DIAMOND AND PEARLS,   2. WAYTOGO,   3. HALLUCINATE   MAUNA KEA HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,000m), rated 40 to 65, 5-00: 1. Incredible Star (9) H.M. Akshay 60, 2. Rwanda (8) A. Imran Khan 59.5, 3. Katahdin (3) Ashhad Asbar 58.5, 4. Pirate’s Love (1) Mukesh Kumar 58, 5. Desert Force (7) C. Brisson 57.5, 6. Pappa Rich (2) Azfar Syeed 57.5, 7. Star Proof (4) Nazar Alam 57.5, 8. Charliez Angel (6) Koshi Kumar 57 and 9. Kings Show (5) Kuldeep Singh 57.  1. PIRATE’S LOVE,   2. CHARLIEZ ANGEL,   3. DESERT FORCE  Jkt: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; Mini Jkt: 4, 5, 6 & 7; Tr (i): 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/amendment-for-the-main-event/article36373691.ece
09 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Bhagat meets Tendulkar||For the newly-crowned Paralympics badminton gold medallist Pramod Bhagat, “it is a dream come true” experience when he met the cricketing legend Sachin Tendulkar on Wednesday. “I can’t believe how happy I am today. As a kid I took inspiration from Sir Sachin Tendulkar for always being positive and motivated,” Pramod posted on his Instagram. Stars aligned “I always imagined that I would get a chance one day to meet you. I also wished that day should come post the biggest achievement of my life and God aligned all the stars for me,” the para shuttler wrote. “I won the Paralympics gold. The joy of medal hadn’t even settled that I got a chance to meet you. I was falling short of words at start as I couldn’t believe I was sitting next to you,” Pramod mentioned. “Your kindness is heart-touching,” he added. “The words you spoke to me will stay with me forever and will keep inspiring me for life. I thank you from the bottom of my heart. I will be sleepless tonight,” Pramod concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pramod-bhagat-meets-tendulkar/article36373638.ece
09 September 2021||London,||NZ, S. Africa to play Test series in England||England will play three-match Test series against New Zealand and South Africa at home next year. The Black Caps, the reigning World Test champions, will return having won a two-match series in England 1-0and kick off the international schedule at Lord’s between June 2-6, before matches at Trent Bridge and Headingley. The South Africans will play all three formats ending with Tests at Lord’s, Edgbaston and the Oval. The games begin on Aug. 17 and conclude on Sept. 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nz-s-africa-to-play-test-series-in-england/article36373576.ece
09 September 2021||Johannesburg,||African giants make a mark||Liverpool star Sadio Mane was among the goals for Senegal which, along with Nigeria and Tunisia, took significant steps on Tuesday toward qualifying for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. All three nations are seeded first in mini-leagues and have a maximum six points after two rounds. Another of the 10 four-team groups is led by lowly Tanzania, which scored off a penalty awarded after just five seconds when defeating Madagascar. Mane shrugged off being yellow-carded to complete a 3-1 victory by converting an 87th-minute penalty. Boulaye Dia gave Senegal a lead cancelled by a Silvere Ganvoula penalty in first-half added time before Watford forward Ismaila Sarr nudged the visitors ahead again and Mane put the result beyond doubt. 100th appearance Ahmed Musa made his 100th appearance for Nigeria, which overcame the handicap of lacking seven players because of British coronavirus travel restrictions to defeat Cape Verde 2-1 in Mindelo. Among the absentees was Leicester City star Kelechi Iheanacho, whose two goals got the Super Eagles off to a winning start in Group C four days ago against Liberia. Own goal Victor Osimhen equalised on 29 minutes for Nigeria after Dylan Tavares put the hosts ahead and the Group C clash was settled by a Kenny Rocha own-goal 14 minutes from time. Early and late goals sealed a 2-0 triumph for Tunisia over Zambia in Ndola, giving the north Africans an early three-point advantage in Group B. Former Premier League forward Wahbi Khazri converted a penalty and substitute Anis Ben Slimane pounced on a loose ball to net from close range two minutes into stoppage time.  The results: Group A: Burkina Faso 1 (Tapsoba 64) drew with Algeria 1 (Feghouli 18).   Group B: Zambia 0 lost to Tunisia 2 (Khazri 9-pen, Ben Slimane 90+2); Equatorial Guinea 1 (Salvador 59-pen) bt Mauritania 0.   Group C: Cape Verde 1 (D. Tavares 19) lost to Nigeria 2 (Osimhen 29, Rocha 76-og).   Group D: Malawi 1 (Mbulu 10) bt Mozambique 0.   Group F: Angola 0 lost to Libya 1 (Al Khoja 43).   Group G: Ethiopia 1 (Seyoum 90+4-pen) bt Zimbabwe 0.   Group H: Congo 1 (Ganvoula 45+2-pen) lost to Senegal 3 (Dia 27, Sarr 83, Mane 87-pen).   Group I: Sudan 2 (Yousif 54, 90+2) lost to Guinea-Bissau 4 (Piqueti 8, 39, Mendy 11, Balde 82).   Group J: Tanzania 3 (Nyoni 2-pen, Miroshi 26, Salum 52) bt Madagascar 2 (Rakotoharimalala 36, Fontaine 45+2) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/african-giants-make-a-mark/article36373626.ece
09 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Ritwik shines for Heroes||Captain Ritwik Roy Chowdhury’s unbeaten 67 helped Kolkata Heroes beat Barrackpore Bashers by 50 runs in a rain-affected match of the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Wednesday. Ritwik’s 35-ball knock, containing four fours and six sixes, enabled Heroes to post 154 for two after the match was reduced to a 17-over per side affair due to rain. The target was revised to 160 as per the VJD method. After losing three wickets for 40 runs inside six overs, Bashers managed 104 for five. Krishnanagar Challengers and Kanchenjunga Warriors recorded wins on a rain-marred inaugural day.  The scores: Kolkata Heroes 154/2 in 17 overs (Ritwik Roy Chowdhury 67 n.o., Atanu Ghosh 33) bt Barrackpore Bashers 104/5 in 17 overs (Koushik Giri 29 n.o., Kaif Ahmed 29).   On Tuesday: Durgapur Dazzlers 105/2 in 10 overs (Abhishek Das 58) lost to Krishnagar Challengers 107/5 in 9.5 overs (Koushik Ghosh 33, Sandipan Das 3/21).   Kanchenjunga Warriors 92/5 in 10 overs (Subham Sarkar 26n.o.) bt Barrackpore Bashers 84/7 in 10 overs (Sudip Chatterjee 35).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ritwik-shines-for-heroes/article36374016.ece
09 September 2021||Banja Luka (Bosnia),||Gomez-Herrer beats Nagal in pre-quarters||Sumit Nagal was beaten 7-5, 6-3 by Carlos Gomez-Herrera of Spain in the pre-quarterfinals of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here on Wednesday.  The results: €44,820 Challenger, Banja Luka, Bosnia Herzegovina: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Carlos Gomez-Herrera (Esp) bt Sumit Nagal 7-5, 6-3.   €44,820 Challenger, Cassis, France Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Ernesto Escobedo (USA) & Fernando Romboli (Bra) bt Anirudh Chandrasekar & PC Vignesh 6-4, 6-4; Toshihide Matsui & Kaito Uesugi (Jpn) bt Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja 7-5, 6-1.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam bt Fabrizio Andaloro (Ita) 6-3, 7-6(4).   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo, Egypt: Singles (first round): Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Rishab Agarwal 7-6(4), 0-6, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gomez-herrer-beats-nagal-in-pre-quarters/article36373639.ece
09 September 2021||Zurich,||Thompson-Herah headlines raft of stars||Jamaican sprint queen Elaine Thompson-Herah will be one of 19 Olympic champions vying for prize money and glory in the Diamond League final in Zurich, just a month after the end of the Tokyo Games. Thompson-Herah won three golds in the Japanese capital in the 100m, 200m and sprint relay, and will not have to face her compatriot and great rival Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce in Zurich. The Olympic champion timed the second fastest 100m ever run in Eugene last month, her time of 10.54sec just five-hundredths short of the record set by American Florence Griffith-Joyner in 1988. Action at the bumper season finale gets under way on Wednesday, with the shot put, long jump, men’s and women’s 5000m and women’s high jump finals all to be held at the Sechselaeutenplatz square on the shores of Lake Zurich.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thompson-herah-headlines-raft-of-stars/article36373573.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Akshit, Mihier Doi in good nick||Akshit Sharma’s 128 helped We Cricket Leaders (WCL) defeat Dream Chasers in the Push Academy (under-13) league. For Dream Chasers, Gorish Dahiya’s unbeaten 124 went in vain. In another match, Mihier Doi Ganesh (107) shone for Sonnet Club.  The scores: Dream Chasers 275/6 in 40 overs (Gorish Dahiya 124 n.o.) lost to We Cricket Leaders 277/4 in 39.4 overs (Akshit Sharma 128, Rudra Bhiduri 79).   Sonnet Club 269/3 in 40 overs (Mihier Doi Ganesh 107, Mohammad Owais 41) bt Push Tulip 55 in 32.5 overs (Shaurya Sindhu 3/9).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akshit-mihier-doi-in-good-nick/article36373770.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, I div., UFCC (T. Nagar) vs Nelson (Nelson Wahe Guru ‘A’); Young Stars vs MRC ‘A’ (SSN); Swaraj vs IOB (SRMC, turf); Grand Slam vs Vijay (IC-Gurunanak); Jolly Rovers vs India Pistons (IITM-Chemplast); Globe Trotters vs MCC (MAC Stadium), day two, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article36373690.ece
09 September 2021||Chennai,||Former TNBA VP Dayanidhi passes away||K. Dayanidhi, former vice-president of Tamil Nadu Badminton Association (TNBA) and a founder patron of the Ambattur Badminton Association, passed away here on Wednesday. He was 80 and is survived by wife and son. He was also the secretary of Thiruvallur District Badminton Association from 1988 to 2010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-tnba-vp-dayanidhi-passes-away/article36373699.ece
09 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||local chess brief||M. Syam’s blistering 139 (65b, 13x4, 8x6) and S.S.K. Durga Manikanta (five for 18) helped X Sense Academy score a 108-run win over Sneha Plywood in the Bewada T-20 cricket tournament organised by Go Sports Cricket Academy here.  The scores: Kushi Warriors 198/8 in 20 overs ((Chandubadra 43, A. Murali 39, U.V.V.arma 34, R. Srinivas 3/32) bt Passion Cricket Club 98/8 in 20 overs (M. Srinivas 3/15, R. Srinivas 3/32).   X Sense Academy 223/2 in 20 overs ((M. Syam 139, G. Ram Prasad 59) bt Sneha Plywood 115 in 19.4 overs (S.S.K. Durga Manikanta 5/18).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/local-chess-brief/article36374036.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 07:24 IST,||Sudoku — September 9, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-8-2021/article36374173.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 07:24 IST,||The Yamuna’s retreat||Many miracles occurred on the night of Krishna’s birth. Chains that bound Vasudeva fell off, the prison doors opened, the guards fell into deep sleep, and Vasudeva set off for Gokula. Adisesha and Garuda were with him, protecting and guiding him. But how was he to cross the Yamuna, which was overflowing its banks? Miraculously, the waters parted and made a path for Vasudeva. A river usually moves towards the ocean. Will a river ever reverse course and move upwards? That is what Yamuna seemed to be doing. While this was part of the marvels of Krishna’s birth, one can find a reason for this in the Ramayana, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Kumbhakarna tells Ravana that he should have asked his ministers and elders for advice, before hastily bringing Sita to Lanka. Instead, he was seeking advice after his act. This was not proper. The river Yamuna, when it comes down from a mountain, fills up the earth in its path. It does not go back in reverse to its point of origin. Seeking advice after the commission of an act was as ridiculous as expecting the Yamuna to go back. Maybe the Lord was impressed with Kumbhakarna’s analogy. He might have wanted to show that the impossible was possible with Him. So, the river, which should rush towards the ocean, moved aside so that baby Krishna could cross it safely.  Vedanta Desika in his Yadavabhyudaya says that the Yamuna moved up so that it seemed as if she was trying to climb the Kalinda mountain, her father’s abode. So, one can imagine that she was like a bride who, on her way to her husband’s place, changes her mind and wonders if she should go back to her father! Desika’s poetic imagination makes Yadavabhyudaya a unique account of Krishna avatara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-yamunas-retreat/article36374192.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Actor Nani opens up on ‘Tuck Jagadish’ and asserts that he will be ready with theatrical releases when things return to normal||“We made a film for family audiences. Given the pandemic where families might hesitate to come to theatres, we are making it easier by taking our film into their homes on a festive day,” says actor Nani. The Shiva Nirvana-directed family drama stars Nani, Ritu Varma, Aishwarya Rajesh, Jagapathi Babu, Thiruveer, Nasser and Rohini. The trailer of Tuck Jagadish indicates a mainstream emotional family drama. Nani asserts that Shiva Nirvana’s story goes beyond scratching the surface of family dynamics: “We are looking at complex issues. Often, we see films where the on-screen characters turn emotional but viewers don’t relate to it. This is a film where, we hope, the viewers will also get emotional. At the same time, we took a commercial approach intending to draw whistles in theatres.”  Tuck Jagadish is set in Bhudevipuram, a fictional village, and was filmed in Pollachi in Tamil Nadu and the East Godavari region in Andhra Pradesh. A few years ago, Nani became synonymous with films where he scored high on comic timing. Then came the sports drama Jersey (2019) where alongside the cricket scenes, he was lauded for his performance in the emotional segments. He reflects, “I entered cinema as an outsider in 2008 and had the opportunity to take up films with diverse storylines. Each time I was part of a fun film, people liked it. After a point, I decided it was time to do something else. Nag Ashwin had faith in me for Yevade Subramanyam ( where the protagonist learns to look at life beyond the corporate rat race), Gautam Tinnanuri could see me as cricketer Arjun in Jersey and Shiva Nirvana could see me in an intense role in Ninnu Kori , all of which worked.” The complete actor Nani recalls a discussion among family members he had overheard in his younger days, about what made Kamal Haasan and Chiranjeevi stand out: “They said an actor is someone who should make you laugh when he laughs and make you cry when he cries. When I began acting, I wanted to see if I could do that. To me, being a complete actor is more important than sporting six pack abs, riding horses or looking stylish.” In Tuck Jagadish , his character believes that men don’t cry. “Jagadish believes boys shouldn’t cry; I don’t subscribe to that personally. The story explores the journey of a sensitive guy who ultimately breaks down, and has beautiful moments.” Nani debuted as an actor 13 years ago and he says is ready for the next stage. He describes Shyam Singha Roy as a supernatural thriller with multiple elements and Ante Sundaraniki as a “mad, mad film” from director Vivek Athreya. Taking stock of his career, Nani says, “I didn’t think I would last this long.” An unfulfilled wish is to act in a Mani Ratnam film and he believes it will happen if it is meant to. Right now, he wants to be a part of the change that Telugu cinema has been witnessing in recent times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/actor-nani-opens-up-on-tuck-jagadish-and-asserts-that-he-will-be-ready-with-theatrical-releases-when-things-return-to-normal/article36373503.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Sea and sand, on an expressway||On the cylindrical facade of a former cyclone shelter in Thiruvottiyur, a scene unfolds: smiling fisherfolk, some wielding oars and others holding baskets of their haul, invite you into the frothy ocean. The expansive sea meets the sky dotted with clouds in what reminds one of simpler, happier times. The two-storied building of around 17,000 square feet, located where Ennore Express Road meets Kathivakkam High Road, is now a canvas. The debris that once surrounded this shelter has now disappeared; and so have the empty liquor bottles. Cut to Manali, and atherukoothuartiste gazes into the distance from the compound wall of the bus terminus. These are only a couple of the new-found canvases that North Chennai is now home to. As part of the Greater Chennai Corporation’s Singara Chennai 2.0 initiative that looks at multiple beautification drives across the city, this wall art project bolstered by CSR initiatives is a work-in-progress. The artists? Chennai’s very own, born out of a near-forgotten practice called banner art. Leg up to local talent Helmed by JPK Vijay, this team of artists who have had a difficult couple of years due to the pandemic, has worked on the facades of Chennai Primary School, Manali; Manali bus terminus; Madhavaram roundabout and the former cyclone shelter/Amma Unavagam, Kathivakkam. The overarching theme of these murals points to Tamil Nadu’s culture. “The first site I got was the Amma Unavagam building and I wanted it to be one-of-a-kind. I wanted to use the art to spread awareness. I took inspiration from the area and depicted the fishing community that forms the heart of Ennore,” says Vijay. He recalls resentment from the local community when they started work. “But as soon as we started painting, they became curious and wanted to help us. It has now become a special place for them to preserve,” he says, adding that their success lies in how the artwork helped bring behavioural changes indirectly. “We are looking for sponsors to fund landscaping and fountains in the entrance to the building, benches for senior citizens and toilets. The wall art project is only one part of the beautification planned for the site,” says R Jayakumar, Assistant Executive Engineer, Zone 1, Kathivakkam. “We want the public to benefit from this.” On the compound walls of Chennai Primary School, Manali, a group of children in uniform play a heated game ofgilli-danda. “Games likegilliremain forgotten. Children don’t know of them anymore,” says Vijay. In the bus terminus, on the other hand, therukoothu takes centre stage. The fact that therukoothu is not portrayed as often as other traditional artforms likesilambamis what led him to pick the folk form. On another plastered wall, stone sculptures of Mamallapuram seamlessly blend onto the texture of the facade. “When it comes to Madhavaram roundabout which was a small site, we thought of depicting traditional foods,” says Vijay. What makes these murals stand out is their realistic portrayal of people: familiar faces that call for an instant, rather personal connection for a passer-by. This life-like quality is an offshoot of the artists’ years of experience with handpainted boards and cine banners. This expertise with banner art, which uses emulsion paints and acrylics, helps them move from wall to wall swiftly. A public art project usually takes anywhere between two weeks to months to be completed, but some of these walls were done in a day’s time. “Wall art is also eco-friendly. Flex prints for instance, leave a huge carbon footprint. Now, after seeing such works, the public is also slowly moving back to hand painted boards, banners and walls,” adds Vijay. In the noughties most banner artists lost their livelihood, owing to the digital shift and the flex culture. Handpainted boards that ensured employment to many small-scale artists were the norm until then. Vijay’s father JP Krishna, president of Bharatiya Kalakar Sangh was one among them; a pioneer in cine banner art in the 1990s. “There were lakhs of artists in Chennai who lost work around the time when flex printing started dominating,” says Vijay. Singara Chennai 2.0 is a revival, and a tribute to their talent.  Vijay’s next for the city will be the one kilometre-long subway near the RBI building and Secretariat. “The walls and the ceiling will be inspired by the wall paintings inside the Brihadeeswara temple’s gopuram , which gave birth to the Tanjore style of paintings,” says Vijay. The biggest advantage of such beautification projects is its scope for employment, especially for those who belong to the widely-hit arts sector, he adds. “Many of the large-scale artworks that we see in Indira Nagar MRTS and Kannagi Nagar are done by artists from across India and abroad. We have the talent, right here in our State, but we don’t utilise them,” he says. A silver lining to these projects is that the Greater Chennai Corporation is also identifying local, upcoming artists from each zone to beautify their own localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sea-and-sand-on-an-expressway/article36373524.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Salad, with a chance of dessert||What makes a salad? A dominance of greens? Some dressing? The absence of bread and batter-fried proteins? According to Abbas Shahzad, founder of Butterheads, a salad is what you feel obligated to eat for the sake of health, and he wants to change this image. With red rice, lime pickle, wonton crunches and even sour cream, Butterheads plays with the concept of a salad, and has no intention of being known as a health food brand. Says Abbas, “We want Butterheads to be more about enjoyment and taste than anything else.” “The intital idea was to do exciting things with salad, beyond the regular Caesar and Waldorf. The goal with Butterheads is to do fun food, influenced by local flavour,” says Abbas. Which is why the thayir saadam salad boasts tempered curd and a lime pickle dressing, and the Asian salad is topped with crushed, crunchy wontons. The menu is deliberately small — six salads, three rice bowls and four smoothies — and is meant to be changed every three months, as per season. “We have a list of what produce is available in which season, and that list forms the base of our menu plans,” says Abbas. Local sourcing and indigenous ingredients are prioritised. “Most of our salad leaves come from hydroponic farms in and around the city; we get them almost every other day,” he says, also pointing out their use of Kerala red matta rice in both salad and meal bowls, and seeraga samba rice ghee roast bowl. Yes, ghee roast, one of the three rice bowls that make for a filling meal for one, each. The coconut rice with ghee roast is not stingy with spices at all, and comes with a wedge of lemon and a large sprinkling of cabbage. Butterheads also experiments with smoothies that taste like bakery desserts, but their real strength lies in their experimental salad dressing, and the fact that almost every dish has a fun little crunch to it.  Butterheads is located at 13, 1st Crescent Road, Gandhi Nagar, Adyar. Call 9025656811.     It was in March last year that two 24-year-olds wanted to quit their corporate jobs and start selling ice cream. But Fresh Pop Creamery — like most other plans in the world — had to be put on hold due to the pandemic; Varun Chezhian and Aloysius Raj finally set up shop in February 2021. “Our orginal plan was to open an ice cream parlour. But because of the COVID situation and repeated lockdowns, we decided to just go ahead and make the ice creams, and supply it to supermarkets,” says Aloysius, co-founder and marketing head of Fresh Pop Creamery. The man behind the recipes is Varun; besides all the kitchen experiments that went into the flavours , it was also his idea to use stevia and other sweeteners instead of white sugar to make the ice cream low-calorie. His pride stems from the fact that the taste of their six flavours — chocolate, vanilla, sea salt, caramel, strawberry cheesecake and Oreo — belies their low-calorie claim. Varun considers the caramel his most experimental concoction — “Most other brands buy caramel flavouring and add it in, but we make our own caramel sauce.” He is proud of the mango ice cream too: “We use an Alphonso pulp, and the proportion of our ingredients is what sets the taste apart. It has a very natural Alphonso taste to it, and people sometimes find it hard to believe that there is no added sugar.”  Fresh Pop Creamery ice creams are available in retail shops across Chennai, including Nilgiris and Brown Tree.     Nishanth Vijayakumar, the man behind Brownie Heaven, is out with not one, but two new dessert brands this year. Though initially available only at one Brownie Heaven outlet, Treviso tiramisu and Crema cheesecakes are now live on delivery apps. Nishanth has clearly had fun coming up with these menus — his mix and match cheesecakes not only come in multiple flavours, but can also be ordered on a variety of bases, from the classic Graham cracker to chocolate chip cookie or caramelised biscuit. His tiramisu comes laced in the caramelly flavour of rum, but what he is more excited to talk about are the ladies fingers, which his team bakes from scratch. “We make these by ourselves: separate the egg whites, make meringue, then fold it into the egg yolk custard, and then pipe them out and bake them,” he describes.    Treviso and Crema are available on both Swiggy and Zomato, as well as for dine-in and takeaway at Brownie Heaven, Royapettah. Call 9940693473.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/salad-with-a-chance-of-dessert/article36373513.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Becoming MGR||As a child, growing up in a farm in Nazarathpettai near Poonamallee, Arvind Swami used to take long drives every day to get to his school in Adyar. On his way, he would always peer out of the window while crossing Ramapuram, where matinee idol MG Ramachandran lived. “Every day, I used to look at that blue-grey gate,” recalls Arvind, sitting comfortably in Thalaivii director Vijay’s Nungambakkam office. “I would see him drive out many times, and get excited looking at him from a distance.” His MGR connection did not stop there. A few years later, two German Shepherd pups that were born in his farm were bought by the MGR family. Much later, when Arvind’s father, VD Swami, who was involved in setting up Sankara Nethralaya, invited the actor-politician for the inauguration, Arvind recalls “walking alongside him and just looking at him”. Cut to 2021, Arvind Swami is playing MGR in this week’s theatrical release Thalaivii , the biopic on late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa (played by Kangana Ranaut). This is a different outing for the 51-year-old star, well known for his cinematic outings in the ’90s with Bombay and Roja and more recently, as a stylish baddie in Thani Oruvan . “It was quite exciting and a big responsibility, because MGR is probably the most iconic man in Tamil Nadu, be it movies or politics. It was a character from real life, and resembling him means two things: physicality, which you have seen in movies and public life, and his personal space. That former is a problem that you can work on, but the latter has no reference. For that, I had to bring in my understanding of the character and create a balance between myself and the person I was playing.” In tune with mind and body With ample help from award-winning make-up artist Pattanam Rasheed, Arvind went about transforming into MGR. “In keeping with the timelines in the film, we split the character into four segments: younger days, middle-aged, political life and when his health deteriorated, and worked on the looks accordingly.” Prepping for the role also involved a fine understanding of his own body. “I had to work a lot on getting his mannerisms right; the way he rested his hands, or the way he pursed his lips while speaking. The way my body is structured is the exact opposite of his; I had to figure out a way to translate that on screen without the strain showing.” For that, Arvind stopped hitting the gym for a couple of years. “His bio-mechanics were very different from mine, and I had to work a lot on specific areas, like my leg, to do justice to some of the sequences,” says Arvind, who observed a lot of visual material on the actor-Chief Minister to get aspects like the hop-skip and hand movements right.  Thalaivii also showcases the relationship between Jayalalithaa and MGR, and the MGR-Karunanidhi rapport. “We wanted to show the human side of their relationships and not go into controversies. MGR and Karunanidhi, for instance, had many differences of opinion but they were equally affectionate towards each other,” says Arvind, who is a big fan of MGR films like Anbe Vaa and Ulagam Sutrum Valiban . The way back Arvind Swami’s film career had a major resurgence in 2015, when he played Siddharth Abhimanyu with much swagger in the superhit Thani Oruvan . It was a character that he picked and designed with a lot of care, and looking back, Arvind still feels passionately about that project. “In formulaic films, villains are usually punching bags for the hero. At that time, I was looking to play someone with negative shades, and he [Siddharth Abhimanyu] was quite complex. I insisted to the director [Mohan Raja] that at least 33 percent of the audience should be in tears when he dies, though you know he must be vanquished. Siddharth was in that great grey area where you do not want him to win, but also do not want something bad to happen to him.”  Thani Oruvan changed the way directors looked at Arvind, and subsequently, he landed interesting roles in films like Bogan and Chekka Chivantha Vaanam . However, Naragasooran , which saw him teaming up with young filmmaker Karthick Naren, is yet to see the light of day due to financial roadblocks. “As an entrepreneur, I am involved in a business that revolves around process and technology. But I cannot decipher the business of cinema. It does not follow any pattern and I find it chaotic. It is most disappointing when you are stuck with a character for a year and a half, and it is not even out there for the public to watch it.” Looking ahead, Arvind Swami is hoping to start a new innings as a filmmaker: he already has started well, with his debut work ( Rowthiram , meaning anger) being the most acclaimed film in the recent Netflix anthology, Navarasa . “I hate that emotion, but I picked it as my son’s name is Rudhra,” he laughs, “The struggle to keep that emotion in check is a daunting task, which I fail at very often.”  Thalaiviiwas quite exciting and a big responsibility, because MGR is probably the most iconic man in Tamil Nadu, be it movies or politics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/becoming-mgr/article36373518.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Professor, you looked different on Zoom||How sad is it that my first day of college, in offline mode, is also one of the final days of my college life? That students of this generation have spent more than one-and-a-half years staring at screens from closed spaces. Nevertheless, I consider myself lucky: at least I enjoyed two-and-a-half years of my under-graduation in a real classroom, before COVID wreaked havoc on the world, before we began to live our lives online, from March 2020. I finished my third year at Ethiraj College online, and then joined the University of Madras for a two year post-graduation in November 2020. After 10 months of studying at the University of Madras, last week, I finally walked through its doors. September 1 will be cherished by many students, as ‘the’ day we got to finally step into college after spending an academic year entirely online. I entered my post-graduate classroom with mixed emotions. There were traces of uncertainty but the excitement to meet my friends, whom I had only connected with virtually till now, surpassed the doubt and nervousness. Social distancing was not a problem, since the classroom is huge and only 50% of the class strength is present for offline classes, set to be held on alternate days. The rest have chosen to continue learning online. The room bustled with greetings, gossip and laughter. I walked in seeing a familiar face (despite the mask) and yelled out, “Atul”. I expected Atul Ignatius David’s eyes to light up with equal joy in response, but he seemed confused. It took him a minute to realise that it was me. “You’re tall. I’ve always assumed that you’d be short,” exclaimed Shermin Oviya Jegath, another surprised classmate. I too had assumptions about my classmates, made over a year of corresponding via Zoom and WhatsApp, only to have them shattered the moment we met. Rasmi M, who always looked serious on screen, turned out to be funnier than the rest of us. Despite the awkwardness of having just met, we managed to connect. Informal online meets back in our first year had ensured that we didn’t ‘disconnect’ after class like our modems, making this easier. A sight we never get to see online, that gave me goosebumps, is when our professors walked into the classroom together. Four hours a day of virtual class did not give us much of a chance to engage with professors. The six offline lectures so far have been a completely different experience. We do not have to go running to answer the doorbell, and there are no Internet glitches to worry about. Small joys During virtual classes, we had missed the little connections: passing chits during lectures, or making eye contact with a classmate till they giggle. These memories were finally created on our first day. Until I got home, I did not realise that I hadn’t used my mobile for almost five hours. Locked in our homes, the only entertainment most of us had were binge-able webseries and social media. My eyes would tear up, just to remind me that I have been staring at the screen for hours. Many of my classmates travel for almost an hour to reach college before classes start at 10 am, since most of us live in different corners of the city. I was surprised to see many students from other districts and states in class: They somehow managed to arrange university hostels and private hostels within a week’s notice, despite being given the choice to continue online. Given the possibility of a third wave, I am unsure about how long offline lectures will continue. Since we do not know how much time we will get together, we are going all out to create memories as quickly as we can.  SOPs for reopening colleges All colleges should ensure that the classes, chairs and sporting equipment are properly cleaned and sanitised All students, teachers and support staff should compulsorily have taken both doses of vaccination. Certificates should be kept ready for Government inspection If any student shows symptoms of COVID-19, people in close contact should undertake RT-PCR test Clean drinking water should be made available for all students||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/professor-you-looked-different-on-zoom/article36373530.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Meet superhero Minnal Murali||Malayalam film Minnal Murali, starring Tovino Thomas as a superhero, will premiere on Netflix. The film, directed by Basil Joseph, is about an ordinary man (Murali) who, when struck by a bolt of lightning, gets some superpowers. In a press statement, Basil says, “We wanted to create a superhero that people could connect with on an emotional level. Though the essence of a superhero movie is action, our effort was focussed on a strong narrative that could stand on its own while backing the action.” Tovino adds, “Immense amounts of work went into creating the film, from which I’ve learnt a lot. I’m grateful that during these strange times, people still appreciate cinema from the comfort of their homes.” The film also stars Guru Somasundaram, Harisree Ashokhan and Aju Varghese. It will be dubbed in other South Indian languages — Tamil, Telugu and Kannada — besides Hindi and English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/meet-superhero-minnal-murali/article36373505.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||What makes a city?||A green tin trunk. Inside are toffee boxes filled with stamps that have travelled countries, continents and time. Handwritten recipes, letters, and sepia-tinted envelopes. A pictorial stamp inscribed for the Ottoman Empire in 1914, when they were nearing total collapse, featuring the former Ministry of War which is now the entrance to the Istanbul University; a handwritten recipe for Everton toffee; a 1935 stamp of Ferdinand Magellan’s landing on the island of Cebu (now part of the Philippines) in 1521. When photographer Ami Gupta chanced upon this treasure chest, a new world opened up. The world of Banoo Pestonji, a woman she had never met and to whom the trunk belonged. Ami instantly realised that this unique collection of historical markers is worth a display. In the group show A Moment In Time at VA Art Gallery, curated by Varuna Arvind and Upasana Asrani, Ami uses photography to record them for posterity. “This was given to my father by his friend in the ’80s, but they date back to much earlier. There was also a book that was part-recipe and part-stamp book. For the stamps, I also used a magnifying lens to show the details, especially the texture of the paper,” she says. Alongside her display stand portraits, landscapes, people and architecture, frozen in time by other Chennai-based photographers: Praneeth Reddy, Rakshitha Arvind and Nirali Datta. In the quaint gallery space, each artist gets their own section, amid a flurry of art and decor pieces that have a permanent place. Praneeth’s collection is a series of powerful black-and-white images — all shot in one corner of his room. The four portraits show models in veils, drapes falling in waves across their faces; an attempt to recreate medieval sculptures through portraits. “In all of my pictures, I would like it if the identity of the person is not revealed. I try to use masks or similar props to ensure that,” says Praneeth. In his notable work titled Hew, thin, streaked fabric masks a face. The controlled lighting makes a powerful statement. As for Nirali, mundane activities call for documentation. Hers is a mix of black and white, as well as coloured photographs, with a specific interest in the sea and skies of Chennai. A seemingly pixelated frame of a building keeps one guessing: It is the reflection of a building on a pool of water. Meanwhile, Rakshita Arvind’s windowscapes take one through Chennai in lockdown. Says Rakshita, who shoots on film, “Last year, I found myself drawn to windows. There was something about trying to show the space or the people inside. There’s a little mystery to it.”  A Moment in Time is on display at VA Art Gallery, Gandhi Mandapam Road, till September 21||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/what-makes-a-city/article36373527.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Sea and sand, on an expressway||On the cylindrical facade of a former cyclone shelter in Thiruvottiyur, a scene unfolds: smiling fisherfolk, some wielding oars and others holding baskets of their haul, invite you into the frothy ocean. The expansive sea meets the sky dotted with clouds in what reminds one of simpler, happier times. The two-storied building of around 17,000 square feet, located where Ennore Express Road meets Kathivakkam High Road, is now a canvas. The debris that once surrounded this shelter has now disappeared; and so have the empty liquor bottles. Cut to Manali, and atherukoothuartiste gazes into the distance from the compound wall of the bus terminus. These are only a couple of the new-found canvases that North Chennai is now home to. As part of the Greater Chennai Corporation’s Singara Chennai 2.0 initiative that looks at multiple beautification drives across the city, this wall art project bolstered by CSR initiatives is a work-in-progress. The artists? Chennai’s very own, born out of a near-forgotten practice called banner art. Leg up to local talent Helmed by JPK Vijay, this team of artists who have had a difficult couple of years due to the pandemic, has worked on the facades of Chennai Primary School, Manali; Manali bus terminus; Madhavaram roundabout and the former cyclone shelter/Amma Unavagam, Kathivakkam. The overarching theme of these murals points to Tamil Nadu’s culture. “The first site I got was the Amma Unavagam building and I wanted it to be one-of-a-kind. I wanted to use the art to spread awareness. I took inspiration from the area and depicted the fishing community that forms the heart of Ennore,” says Vijay. He recalls resentment from the local community when they started work. “But as soon as we started painting, they became curious and wanted to help us. It has now become a special place for them to preserve,” he says, adding that their success lies in how the artwork helped bring behavioural changes indirectly. “We are looking for sponsors to fund landscaping and fountains in the entrance to the building, benches for senior citizens and toilets. The wall art project is only one part of the beautification planned for the site,” says R Jayakumar, Assistant Executive Engineer, Zone 1, Kathivakkam. “We want the public to benefit from this.” On the compound walls of Chennai Primary School, Manali, a group of children in uniform play a heated game ofgilli-danda. “Games likegilliremain forgotten. Children don’t know of them anymore,” says Vijay. In the bus terminus, on the other hand, therukoothu takes centre stage. The fact that therukoothu is not portrayed as often as other traditional artforms likesilambamis what led him to pick the folk form. On another plastered wall, stone sculptures of Mamallapuram seamlessly blend onto the texture of the facade. “When it comes to Madhavaram roundabout which was a small site, we thought of depicting traditional foods,” says Vijay. What makes these murals stand out is their realistic portrayal of people: familiar faces that call for an instant, rather personal connection for a passer-by. This life-like quality is an offshoot of the artists’ years of experience with handpainted boards and cine banners. This expertise with banner art, which uses emulsion paints and acrylics, helps them move from wall to wall swiftly. A public art project usually takes anywhere between two weeks to months to be completed, but some of these walls were done in a day’s time. “Wall art is also eco-friendly. Flex prints for instance, leave a huge carbon footprint. Now, after seeing such works, the public is also slowly moving back to hand painted boards, banners and walls,” adds Vijay. In the noughties most banner artists lost their livelihood, owing to the digital shift and the flex culture. Handpainted boards that ensured employment to many small-scale artists were the norm until then. Vijay’s father JP Krishna, president of Bharatiya Kalakar Sangh was one among them; a pioneer in cine banner art in the 1990s. “There were lakhs of artists in Chennai who lost work around the time when flex printing started dominating,” says Vijay. Singara Chennai 2.0 is a revival, and a tribute to their talent.  Vijay’s next for the city will be the one kilometre-long subway near the RBI building and Secretariat. “The walls and the ceiling will be inspired by the wall paintings inside the Brihadeeswara temple’s gopuram , which gave birth to the Tanjore style of paintings,” says Vijay. The biggest advantage of such beautification projects is its scope for employment, especially for those who belong to the widely-hit arts sector, he adds. “Many of the large-scale artworks that we see in Indira Nagar MRTS and Kannagi Nagar are done by artists from across India and abroad. We have the talent, right here in our State, but we don’t utilise them,” he says. A silver lining to these projects is that the Greater Chennai Corporation is also identifying local, upcoming artists from each zone to beautify their own localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sea-and-sand-on-an-expressway/article36374018.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Professor, you looked different on Zoom||How sad is it that my first day of college, in offline mode, is also one of the final days of my college life? That students of this generation have spent more than one-and-a-half years staring at screens from closed spaces. Nevertheless, I consider myself lucky: at least I enjoyed two-and-a-half years of my under-graduation in a real classroom, before COVID wreaked havoc on the world, before we began to live our lives online, from March 2020. I finished my third year at Ethiraj College online, and then joined the University of Madras for a two year post-graduation in November 2020. After 10 months of studying at the University of Madras, last week, I finally walked through its doors. September 1 will be cherished by many students, as ‘the’ day we got to finally step into college after spending an academic year entirely online. I entered my post-graduate classroom with mixed emotions. There were traces of uncertainty but the excitement to meet my friends, whom I had only connected with virtually till now, surpassed the doubt and nervousness. Social distancing was not a problem, since the classroom is huge and only 50% of the class strength is present for offline classes, set to be held on alternate days. The rest have chosen to continue learning online. The room bustled with greetings, gossip and laughter. I walked in seeing a familiar face (despite the mask) and yelled out, “Atul”. I expected Atul Ignatius David’s eyes to light up with equal joy in response, but he seemed confused. It took him a minute to realise that it was me. “You’re tall. I’ve always assumed that you’d be short,” exclaimed Shermin Oviya Jegath, another surprised classmate. I too had assumptions about my classmates, made over a year of corresponding via Zoom and WhatsApp, only to have them shattered the moment we met. Rasmi M, who always looked serious on screen, turned out to be funnier than the rest of us. Despite the awkwardness of having just met, we managed to connect. Informal online meets back in our first year had ensured that we didn’t ‘disconnect’ after class like our modems, making this easier. A sight we never get to see online, that gave me goosebumps, is when our professors walked into the classroom together. Four hours a day of virtual class did not give us much of a chance to engage with professors. The six offline lectures so far have been a completely different experience. We do not have to go running to answer the doorbell, and there are no Internet glitches to worry about. Small joys During virtual classes, we had missed the little connections: passing chits during lectures, or making eye contact with a classmate till they giggle. These memories were finally created on our first day. Until I got home, I did not realise that I hadn’t used my mobile for almost five hours. Locked in our homes, the only entertainment most of us had were binge-able webseries and social media. My eyes would tear up, just to remind me that I have been staring at the screen for hours. Many of my classmates travel for almost an hour to reach college before classes start at 10 am, since most of us live in different corners of the city. I was surprised to see many students from other districts and states in class: They somehow managed to arrange university hostels and private hostels within a week’s notice, despite being given the choice to continue online. Given the possibility of a third wave, I am unsure about how long offline lectures will continue. Since we do not know how much time we will get together, we are going all out to create memories as quickly as we can.  SOPs for reopening colleges All colleges should ensure that the classes, chairs and sporting equipment are properly cleaned and sanitised All students, teachers and support staff should compulsorily have taken both doses of vaccination. Certificates should be kept ready for Government inspection If any student shows symptoms of COVID-19, people in close contact should undertake RT-PCR test Clean drinking water should be made available for all students||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/professor-you-looked-different-on-zoom/article36374029.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Maya in the Himalayas||Filmmaker Sanal Kumar Sasidharan is on cloud nine after his movie, Kayattam, won the first ‘Disruptor in Cinema’ award at the Indian Film Festival of Melbourne. “It comes as a shot in the arm,” he says. “We had to take many risks to shoot Kayattam the way I had conceptualised it. However, because of the pandemic, we were unable to screen it in theatres or promote it the way we would have liked to. This award is definitely a morale booster and an honour.” Both the jury and viewers were impressed by the way the film — nominated for the Kim Ji-seok Award at 2020’s Busan Film Festival and screened in the Malayalam Cinema Today section of the International Film Festival of Kerala — moves away from a conventional narrative to explore philosophical aspects of the quest for happiness and identity in a surrealistic manner. The ‘smart’ choice A seamless fusion of fantasy and fact, Kayattam, s tarring Manju Warrier (as Maya), was shot completely on an iPhone XS Max. And with the pristine wilderness of the Himalayas as its backdrop, it explores the male gaze, voyeurism, identity, and ego through a group of strangers trekking in the snow-covered mountains. As the trip progresses, the trekkers’ personalities unravel, their insecurities surface, and their egos take a beating. Sasidharan says the theme demanded a location like the Himalayas, but the terrain also made it difficult to shoot with a large team. “The weather kept changing every hour. Rain and snow would be followed by weak sunshine. Our location was so remote that we had to trek for an hour with our equipment to reach the place,” he recalls. “Since we have the technology to shoot with minimal equipment, we decided to tap its potential and work with an iPhone. Our cinematographer, Chandru Selvaraj, did a great job in framing the story,” he says. They used a video camera stabiliser cage filmmaking rig to shoot. “Even in inclement weather, we were able to capture panoramic shots and close-ups with the phone. Most smartphones have an inbuilt stabiliser and it is possible to attach mics to it. Many films are shot with phones and I am happy with the way Kayattam shaped up,” he adds. Behind the illusion This is Sasidharan’s third film to be shot in the Himalayas. “ Kayattam explores the philosophical theme of m aya [illusion] and b rahmam [divine power]. It is a sort of extension of my first film [ Oraalppokkam , whose heroine was also named Maya] to understand the mysticism of ‘ m aya ’ and what we think is reality,” he says, adding that the film could be seen as the journey of life — when people meet as strangers and then find themselves in different kinds of relationships on their search for identity and happiness. “It assumes significance because of the violent times we live in, when every event is viewed through a narrow perspective of selfish interests. We experience happiness, and unhappiness, when we fail to understand that what is happening is m aya .” Not one to believe in bound scripts — he has often talked about having just an outline ready, with perhaps 15 pages in all — he prefers to let a film flow with the situation and the location. It was the same with Kayattam . When the cast and crew were marooned in a remote village after a landslip, cinematographer Selvaraj was able to capture the destructive face of nature and its aftermath. Interestingly, the team also developed a new language, A’hr Samsa — to ‘vocalise’ subtext in the film that could be unfathomable. “I made it to convey the idea of a group of people who had moved beyond the emotions of joy and sorrow. They travelled without any kind of baggage, emotional or physical,” he says. The song ‘ Isthko ’, composed by Sasidharan in A’hr Samsa and sung by Warrier, was released recently. Into the forest Currently, Sasidharan is working on new scripts and the post production of his Tovino Thomas-starrer, Vazhakku . Co-produced by Thomas, the film — co-starring Kani Kusurthi and Sudev Nair — explores once again the theme of an individual and his interactions with the world. “Tovino and I have been speaking for some time and he was keen on working with me. That is how we got together for Vazhakku , which was shot in a forest,” Sasidharan concludes.  Even in inclement weather, we were able to capture panoramic shots and close-ups with the phone Sanal Kumar Sasidharan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/maya-in-the-himalayas/article36374020.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||What makes a city?||A green tin trunk. Inside are toffee boxes filled with stamps that have travelled countries, continents and time. Handwritten recipes, letters, and sepia-tinted envelopes. A pictorial stamp inscribed for the Ottoman Empire in 1914, when they were nearing total collapse, featuring the former Ministry of War which is now the entrance to the Istanbul University; a handwritten recipe for Everton toffee; a 1935 stamp of Ferdinand Magellan’s landing on the island of Cebu (now part of the Philippines) in 1521. When photographer Ami Gupta chanced upon this treasure chest, a new world opened up. The world of Banoo Pestonji, a woman she had never met and to whom the trunk belonged. Ami instantly realised that this unique collection of historical markers is worth a display. In the group show A Moment In Time at VA Art Gallery, curated by Varuna Arvind and Upasana Asrani, Ami uses photography to record them for posterity. “This was given to my father by his friend in the ’80s, but they date back to much earlier. There was also a book that was part-recipe and part-stamp book. For the stamps, I also used a magnifying lens to show the details, especially the texture of the paper,” she says. Alongside her display stand portraits, landscapes, people and architecture, frozen in time by other Chennai-based photographers: Praneeth Reddy, Rakshitha Arvind and Nirali Datta. In the quaint gallery space, each artist gets their own section, amid a flurry of art and decor pieces that have a permanent place. Praneeth’s collection is a series of powerful black-and-white images — all shot in one corner of his room. The four portraits show models in veils, drapes falling in waves across their faces; an attempt to recreate medieval sculptures through portraits. “In all of my pictures, I would like it if the identity of the person is not revealed. I try to use masks or similar props to ensure that,” says Praneeth. In his notable work titled Hew, thin, streaked fabric masks a face. The controlled lighting makes a powerful statement. As for Nirali, mundane activities call for documentation. Hers is a mix of black and white, as well as coloured photographs, with a specific interest in the sea and skies of Chennai. A seemingly pixelated frame of a building keeps one guessing: It is the reflection of a building on a pool of water. Meanwhile, Rakshita Arvind’s windowscapes take one through Chennai in lockdown. Says Rakshita, who shoots on film, “Last year, I found myself drawn to windows. There was something about trying to show the space or the people inside. There’s a little mystery to it.”  A Moment in Time is on display at VA Art Gallery, Gandhi Mandapam Road, till September 21||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/what-makes-a-city/article36374021.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘There’s hope in horror’||Director Evan Spiliotopoulos has been walking around with James Herbert’s 1983 horror novel, Shrine , in his head for the last 38 years. “I read the book when I was 10-years-old,” he says on a video call from Los Angeles, of the book that he adapted for The Unholy that released earlier this year. “I liked it because it was a combination of genres — the classic horror story and a thriller,” adds Spiliotopoulos whose film is all set to have its Indian television premiere in October. The pandemic shoot Herbert’s novel looks at faith, miracles and that hoary old chestnut, demonic possession, when a deaf-mute girl, Alice, suddenly begins to speak. The screenwriter for several projects including Hercules and the confusing prequel and sequel to Snow White and the Huntsman (2012), The Huntsman: Winter’s War says adapting the novel for the screen was not a problem. “I knew exactly how the story needed to be told. Shooting it, however, turned out to be quite an experience. I tell everybody: ‘If you are a young filmmaker starting out, try not to direct your first movie during a pandemic’.” Starring Jeffrey Dean Morgan and Cricket Brown, the film opened to mixed reviews. Spiliotopoulos explains how the seven-week shoot was stopped midway due to the pandemic. Shooting the remainder of the film with Covid-19 protocols was cumbersome, says the 47-year-old. “Everything was slower,” he adds. Fairy tales vs thrillers Fairy tales and supernatural thrillers are not that far apart, says Spiliotopoulos who wrote the live action feature, Beauty and the Beast . “Both are fantasies. The original Brothers Grimm fairy tales are dark, filled with violence, and scary imagery. Ghost stories are simply a darker shade of a fairy tale. They are in the same family. There is a wicked witch, a magic mirror, and Snow White returning from the dead. The only difference is the canvas,” he says, adding how there is a positive spin to every horror film. “Stephen King mentioned that when he was doing The Shining , director Stanley Kubrick said ‘every horror story is actually a story of hope’. Even if the ghost is evil and haunting, the fact that the spirit has survived says there is an afterlife; that we go on.” Horror movies have always had a dedicated following. However, considering the pandemic, one would have imagined the desire to be scared witless would have been tempered. “Pre-pandemic, I would have said, we like a safe scare. Now that the pandemic has exposed us to horrors far beyond what filmmakers can put on screen, I think it is pure escapism. It is like, life is pretty dangerous right now, a ghost is coming after you, what fun!”  The Unholy will premiere on &flix on October 31      Watch the director in conversation with Mini Anthikad Chhibber on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/theres-hope-in-horror/article36374026.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||History’s many hues||I love to see the circularity with which some issues are rehashed on social media. Like last night’s leftovers warmed up for lunch. And dinner too. When elections get nigh anywhere in the country, the same sudden flurry of challenges pop up to readings of history. The same suspicions about how a historical character or event is portrayed. The same questions about why roads or towns are named after this or that leader. Or why history textbooks focus on the Mughal period alone. None of this would ordinarily be problematic — questions and challenges are the lifeblood of a democracy. But these queries are not so much based on facts as on wishful thinking and colourful, rather traumatised, reworkings. History is just another subject, like maths or chemistry, and based on some verifiable facts. Of course, it’s hard to pick sides in an algebraic equation as one often does in history, but one still needs to be objective, to set aside personal feelings of humiliation or pride or vengeance and focus only on how events in the past played out. India’s ancient civilisational past has many astonishing achievements to its credit. From philosophy to literature, grammar, arts, mathematics, and even sexuality, the subcontinent produced highly knowledgeable and researched treatises at a time when the West was still grappling with daily baths. And it’s well and good to take pride in this remarkable past, but I wish we would do it without constantly dragging it into the present. The value of Sushruta Samhita’s ground-breaking work in medicine is not in the least bit diminished because it doesn’t have cures for Covid-19 but try saying that to a WhatsApp warrior. You will end up with two PPTs and a pie-chart. This has meant that at any given time, someone somewhere is either obsessing with “traditional” remedies to the extent of arresting anyone who questions the efficacy of cow-dung as a Covid cure. Or we have goons burning copies of the Kamasutra because they claim that sacrilege such as sex is not “our tradition” . This mix of false pride and false shame is a deadly concoction, guaranteed to bog us down in a debilitating, wearying and entirely needless cycle of low self-esteem that in turn leads to aggressive self-assertion. What next? Are we going to raze down the walls of the Khajuraho temples to prove how sanskaari we are? The 1921 Moplah Rebellion leaders have now become Chief Villains and Wipeout Candidates. The uprising involved peasants who were largely Muslim, landlords who were largely Hindu, and a British administration that was Christian — a tinderbox at the best of times. Add to this exploitative labour conditions and oppressive colonial laws and you get resentment, anger, bloodshed. When the revolt happened, it was many things simultaneously — a peasant uprising coloured by religious bigotries, an anti-colonial struggle coloured by labour issues, a class struggle complicated by caste and religious categories. We need to step back and look at this moment, and at all of history, with the widest angle lens possible and that lens is certainly not WhatsApp. An Akbar with a syncretic religion called Din-i-elahi that merged all faiths is as much India’s past as a joyless Aurangazeb with his emphasis on Sharia law. The British and the railways they keep boasting about is as real as their destruction of indigenous industries, which they boast a lot less about. A messy mix of all of this constitutes India today, and we don’t get to pick and choose which bits we will accept or not — it’s all ours. There are no convenient heroes and villains and much less are there unsullied legacies of good or evil. While it’s unfashionable to say anything good about Nehru and his colleagues, one thing they did do in 1947 was to acknowledge and respect the mess they inherited and to realise that this mixed-up, contradictory and conflicted history was the foundation they had to build upon. And for a country as socially, culturally and religiously diverse as this, messy compromises are the only thing that can work going forward as well. It’s time we made peace with this rather than concoct a monochromatic past to achieve what we imagine will be a monochromatic future as well. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/historys-many-hues/article36374028.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Kashish 2021: At South Asia’s biggest LGBTQ film festival||Mohini: Men in Sarees was one of the 200-plus films screened at the 12th edition of the Kashish Film Festival, dedicated to LGBTQIA+-themed films from across the globe. It was also one of two films I watched where the mythological figure of Mohini is invoked — the other being Tales of Another Radha , which focusses on the philosophy of the Bauls, a musical and religious nomadic group from Bengal. Mohini is the feminine avatar of Lord Vishnu, which makes her an important and oft-invoked symbol in the LGBTQIA+ canon. So while the windows into, say, queer cultures in Mexico, the UK and Argentina were quite interesting, it’s the Indian contingent that I had my eye on. Sudipto Kundu’s Tales of Another Radha is about how the Bauls of Bengal view Radha and Krishna. We are shown how certain statues show the two locked in an embrace, with an ‘Om’ between them — and made in such a way that Radha has certain traditionally masculine attributes while Krishna has some feminine ones. The Sikh stereotype Of course, as fascinating and instructive as these gender-fluid traditions are, there are important films that choose to focus on the very real, and quite horrific instances of discrimination and violence (both physical and mental) visited upon LGBTQIA+ communities. For example, Sukhdeep Singh’s documentary Sab Rab De Bande is about the Sikh LGBTQIA+ community and it has more than a few heartbreaking testimonies. Sikh men, of course, are traditionally not allowed to cut their hair; in orthodox homes this is a huge no-no. In Sab Rab De Bande , we meet Ritika Shergill, a Sikh trans woman, who had to trick her parents into letting her cut and style her hair. And even after she underwent hormone therapy and a sex reassignment operation, she was lured under false pretences by her parents into a de-addiction centre, where she was locked in with 70-odd cis men. The films at Kashish, therefore, remind us that broad-strokes assessments of queer cultures can miss out on some crucial nuances, things that have to be heard from the horse’s mouth, so to speak.  The Kashish Mumbai International Queer Film Festival was on till September 5. mumbaiqueerfest.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kashish-2021-at-south-asias-biggest-lgbtq-film-festival/article36374031.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||Environment protection to become robust: Rai||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said the State-level Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) and State-level Expert Appraisal Committee (SEAC) have been notified by the Centre, “following a proposal by the Delhi government”. Mr. Rai said that now it will be easier to handle applications and the environment impact assessment will become more robust and transparent in the State. “Category ‘B’ projects requiring environmental clearance will not have to wait for the Central government’s approval and approval will now be given in a fast-tracked manner by the Delhi government itself. As much as fast tracking will be a sought after solution, we will also make the system more robust and transparent. Environment protection is one of the prime responsibilities of the Delhi government and we will not compromise on it,” Mr. Rai said. Delhi government had sent its proposal for reconstitution of SEIAA/SEAC, along with names of experts, to the Central government in 2020 and after multiple correspondence and meetings, the notification was finally issued, as per authorities. “It is to be noted that as per the Environment Protection Rules, all category ‘A’ projects [mega projects] are approved by an Expert Appraisal Committee of the MoEFCC while all category ‘B’ projects [large projects] are approved by the State Level Authority (SEIAA),” an official statement said. Lower pendency The authority will meet monthly, leading to faster decision making and lower pendency of cases and it can also mandate regular inspection of project sites which have been granted environment clearance (EC) to ensure that they are complying with norms, the Delhi government said.  As per the gazette notification, Sarvagya Kumar Srivastava will be Chairman of the SEIAA, Reena Gupta, Special Secretary of Environment Department of Govt. of Delhi, will be the member Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/environment-protection-to-become-robust-rai/article36373793.ece
09 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Truce in Rajasthan BJP, MLA drops motion to censure LoP||A truce was reached in the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Rajasthan on Wednesday, a day ahead of the State Assembly’s monsoon session, over former Assembly Speaker and sitting MLA Kailash Meghwal’s announcement for moving a resolution against Leader of Opposition (LoP) Gulab Chand Kataria. Mr. Meghwal had claimed that some of Mr. Kataria’s recent remarks had damaged the party's image. BJP national general secretary and in-charge for Rajasthan Arun Singh, who rushed to Jaipur, convinced Mr. Meghwal to withdraw his move and work in the interest of the party. Mr. Meghwal, 87, who was also a Union Minister of State, wrote a 10-page letter to party president J.P. Nadda with his grievances and charges against Mr. Kataria. A known supporter of former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje, Mr. Meghwal said the main reasons for his decision to bring the resolution against Mr. Kataria at the BJP’s Legislature Party meeting before the Assembly session were his statements on Rajput warrior Maharana Pratap and Lord Ram. The LoP’s remarks had adversely affected the BJP’s fortunes in the three Assembly by-elections earlier this year, he said. Mr. Singh summoned the octogenarian leader to the party headquarters here and had a detailed discussion with him. Mr. Meghwal agreed to drop his plan to move the censure motion and said he would join the fight against the ruling Congress as a “disciplined BJP worker”. “The BJP has promoted me throughout my political career. It is my duty to work in the interest of the party,” Mr. Meghwal told reporters while coming out of the meeting. Mr. Singh earlier said after his arrival here that the BJP was not going to keep such statements in cold storage, whenever they appeared. Mr. Meghwal had alleged in his letter that misappropriations to the tune of crores of rupees had taken place under Mr. Kataria’s protection during the distribution of party posts and tickets. “There is a common refrain in the public on how the Opposition is being unsuccessful in effectively raising the issues of people's problems and public welfare in the Assembly,” he said. Long-time rivals Mr. Meghwal and Mr. Kataria, who are in the rival camps in the BJP’s Rajasthan unit, have had differences over several issues since long. Mr. Meghwal had asked BJP State president Satish Poonia, who is also an MLA, to preside over the Legislature Party’s meeting, as the resolution was going to be moved against the LoP. While campaigning for the Assembly bypolls in April this year, Mr. Kataria had triggered a row by making some derogatory remarks about Maharana Pratap, which angered the Rajput community. Around the same time, he also said that Lord Ram would have been “in the sea” if the BJP had not been there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/truce-in-rajasthan-bjp-mla-drops-motion-to-censure-lop/article36373785.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Probe into media leak should be done by independent dept.’||A Delhi riots accused on Wednesday alleged before the Delhi High Court that an internal enquiry conducted by the police into the leakage of sensitive information to media about the probe “yielded no results” and was an “eyewash” and the probe into it should be conducted by an independent department. Asif Iqbal Tanha, a student of Jamia Millia Islamia, who is chargesheeted in the Delhi riots conspiracy case told the court that sensitive information was leaked during the course of the investigation to people who were not supposed to have it. Arguing before Justice Mukta Gupta, his counsel said it was necessary to “insulate the investigation” from the persons who are to be subjected to the scrutiny. “If an enquiry is not yielding the result, it is only important to go to the next step, which is investigation,” said senior counsel Siddharth Aggarwal, appearing for Mr. Tanha. “When enquiry yields no result, where people to be investigated are the same as those conducting it, where enquiry was within closed doors with no oversight, there is a mandate of entrusting that investigation to an independent department,” the senior advocate contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/probe-into-media-leak-should-be-done-by-independent-dept/article36373787.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT to launch lectures for school students||IIT-Delhi is launching weekend lectures and laboratory demos titled ‘Sci-Tech Spins’ for high school students where professors will engage with students sharing their research in science, technology and allied fields. The institute said the lectures will take students on “short, but riveting spins” into the fascinating world that surrounds us. The lectures will be informal and in a dialogical settings, with the hope to kindle interest in students. The first lecture, titled ‘Design Thinking - A Powerful Tool for Problem Solving’, accompanied by a lab demo, will be delivered by P.V. Madhusudan Rao, Head, Department of Design, IIT-Delhi on September 11. Proactive stance The institute said it regularly receives multiple requests from schools for campus tours, workshops and mentorship programmes for their students and this was a proactive stance on academic outreach for schools. V. Ramgopal Rao, Director, IIT-Delhi said: “We want to connect with thousands of other students who are outside the IIT system and inspire and help them in all possible ways. The goal of Sci-Tech Spins is to connect with every school in the country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iit-to-launch-lectures-for-school-students/article36373790.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC transfers probe into custodial death to CBI||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday transferred the probe into the death of gangster Ankit Gujjar, inside the Tihar jail last month, to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) noting he “lost his life to custodial violence.” The 29-year-old gangster was found dead and two others were injured inside his cell in Tihar jail on August 4. Justice Mukta Gupta directed the CBI to submit a status report, after carrying out investigation before the next date of hearing on October 28. “A perusal of the post-mortem report of the deceased Ankit belies the version of the Deputy Superintendent, Narender Meena and other staffers that a scuffle took place in which both Narender Meena and Ankit received injuries,” the High Court said. “From injuries sustained by Ankit, it is evident that deceased was brutally beaten and left unattended by the jail doctor and nursing staff,” the court remarked adding, “it is unfathomable that when the jail doctor on duty visited at midnight, he did not see the multiple injuries on Ankit.” “Not only did Narender Meena and others assaulted the deceased mercilessly, the jail doctor on duty also failed to perform his duty when he examined Ankit at 1 a.m. and administered the injection, as he neither informed the senior officers of the condition of Ankit nor referred him to the hospital,” Justice Gupta remarked. Role of jail doctors “Further, in case proper medical treatment was provided to him, his life could have been saved. Thus an investigation not only as to who all committed the offence of brutally beating the deceased to death, but the role of jail doctors in not providing proper treatment at the right time is also required to be ascertained by a proper inquiry,” the court ordered. “Walls of prison, howsoever high they may be, the foundation of a prison is laid on the rule of law ensuring the rights to its inmates enshrined in the Constitution of India,” Justice Gupta remarked. She said that this case calls for immediate remedial actions by the State and Director General, Prisons so that unscrupulous officers at the jail do not take advantage of knowledge of the non-working of the CCTVs to get away with any illegal act/offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-transfers-probe-into-custodial-death-to-cbi/article36373786.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital may receive rain for next 3 days: Met dept.||The national capital is likely to receive rain for the next three days, according to the India Meteorological Department. While rain was forecast for Wednesday, the city received only scattered showers. In the past 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m, it received 5.3 mm of rainfall. The weatherman has forecast generally cloudy sky with light rain/thundershowers on Thursday. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover between 33 and 25 degrees Celsius, respectively. “Scattered to widespread rainfall likely over most parts of north-west India till September 12. Isolated heavy rain likely over J-K, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana from September 8-11; U.P. and western Rajasthan from September 9-11; Uttarakhand and eastern Rajasthan from September 8-12,” the Met department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-likely-to-receive-rain-for-next-three-days/article36373791.ece
09 September 2021||Kolkata,||Literacy Day celebrated||On the occasion of the International Literacy Day, hundreds of young girls from West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district on Wednesday participated in a virtual storytelling session and were presented with books. The event was organised jointly by Emirates Airlines Foundation and NGO IIMPACT which is working for empowering girls through education and dedicated to transforming the lives of women in India. An Emirates cabin crew member treated the girls to a virtual storytelling session and they were also given a glimpse into the exciting life of an Emirates cabin crew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/literacy-day-celebrated/article36373783.ece
09 September 2021||New Delhi,||JNU convocation on Sept. 30||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Wednesday announced that it will hold its fifth convocation on September 30, for which Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan will be the chief guest. JNU restarted holding an annual convocation after several decades in 2018. It will be held online and graduates will have to register to participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-convocation-on-sept-30/article36373789.ece
09 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Elevated cross taxiway to be ready by Dec. next year’||India’s first elevated cross taxiway, which is being constructed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, is scheduled to be ready by December 2022 with 60% of the work already complete, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said on Wednesday. Once completed, it will cut 55,000 tonnes of CO2 emission annually and minimise aircraft delay. Passengers will be able to reach the terminal faster after landing, as the elevated eastern cross taxiway is set to reduce the distance that an aircraft has to taxi from 9 km to 2 km, it said in a statement. “Environment has emerged as a major focus area in the aviation sector. We have implemented Airport-Collaborative Decision Making for airport operations and all runway operations to minimise aircraft delay and associated emissions. We have ensured that all airside vehicles run on CNG to reduce carbon emission,” said I. Prabhakar Rao, Deputy Managing Director, GMR Group, that operates the Delhi airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/elevated-cross-taxiway-to-be-ready-by-dec-next-year/article36373788.ece
09 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||35 arrested for clearing forest in Odisha||The Odisha Forest and Environment Department has arrested 35 people for illegally clearing a reserve forest area to set up a hamlet. “These people mostly tribals from Deogarh and Rairakhol of Odisha and from bordering Jharkhand were trying to clear one hectare of land inside the Tal reserve forest to construct permanent dwelling units,” said Ramakant Nayak, Divisional Forest Officer of Rairakhol in Sambalpur district, on Wednesday. This group had made a similar attempt earlier and it was thwarted by forest employees, he stated.  Replying to a query in the Assembly on Tuesday on the steps being taken to prevent felling of trees and poaching of wild animals, Forest and Environment Minister Bikram Keshari Arukha said, “during five years [2016-17 to 2020-21], a total of 55,412 forest offences had been registered and the involvement of 50,740 criminals found in these cases. The enforcement agencies have seized 6,185 cubic metres of timber and 558 vehicles”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/35-arrested-for-clearing-forest-in-odisha/article36373782.ece
09 September 2021||September 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Auroville and the price of perfection’||History is believed to never happen by chance, but it was an accident that created and shaped this mesmerising account of the past. Ten years ago, author and journalist Akash Kapur was looking through the contents of a drawer in a New York apartment when he came across a bunch of folders crammed with letters, pages from diaries, and old photographs. They were papers of John Walker, the adoptive father of Akash’s wife, Auralice. The discovery of the folders, which were preserved by John’s sister, was at once painful and liberating. In 1986, when Auralice was just 14, John and Auralice’s mother Diane had died within hours of each other in Auroville under circumstances that were obscure and perplexing. John had grown up in privilege, born in a family of great wealth, an impressive lineage, “a pedigree he has to live up to”. Diane was a beautiful, sunny and flirtatious Belgian hippie who lived near Antwerp with a mother who relied on welfare checks. What these two unlikely partners shared was an itch to escape their lives and follow their dreams, a hankering that would lead them separately to Auroville, not so long after it was founded in 1968. Soon after John and Diane mysteriously died, Auralice would move to the US to live with the former’s family. In America, she would marry Akash, who also grew up in Auroville; the two knew each other as children. In 2004, the couple returned to live in the experimental city that manifested in the dreams of Sri Aurobindo’s foremost disciple, the Mother (Frenchwoman Mirra Alfassa). Their reasons for moving back, Akash says, were varied, and included such things as being homesick and wanting to try something. But the searingly tragic saga of Auralice’s parents — which included a fall that paralysed Diane’s hips for years and the death of an infant son (Aurolouis) by drowning — continued to hang like a fog over their heads. The diaries offered a forensic as well as a cathartic opportunity: to clear the mist and come to terms with the past.  Bringing up the divide  It is a journey that took Akash, now 46, almost 10 years to complete, a project that involved “tracking down old friends of John and Diane’s, their former lovers, fellow-travellers from Auroville… on six continents”. As he set out to write about the two, the scope of the book, perhaps inevitably, widened. The story of John and Diane would also become a social history of Auroville; their lives, after all, were inextricably twinned with the place they chose to live in. Delving into Auroville’s past meant dealing with a shadowy time when the utopia that was designed to be a place for “unending education, constant progress, and a youth that never ages” turned dark and almost dystopian. The passing of the Mother in 1973 was followed by deep divisions within the multi-cultural community. A part of the reason for this was the struggle for power and self-determination, one that pitted the Pondicherry-based Sri Aurobindo Society (SAS, which owned most of the land and assets in the expansive township) against residents of Auroville. There was an attendant ideological dimension, which cleaved Auroville down the middle. There were revolutionaries (loosely, those who wanted to break free from the SAS) and the Neutrals (a grouping that was attacked for its alleged lack of revolutionary ardour and their supposed softness towards the SAS). The collective that dominated Auroville was revolutionary and there was a period in which there prevailed a climate of slander, threats, evictions, deportations, and arrests. Children were ‘liberated’ by the closure of schools and, quite astonishingly, a bonfire was lit of books pulled from shelves from its library. Akash says terrible though it was, the book burning was an “isolated incident”, a moment of madness. “The greater long-term damage was done by shutting down the schools. The ideology behind this and book burning was the same though. That the old forms of knowledge were unnecessary at a time when Aurovilians were going to reinvent the world.” Even children were infected by the polarisation. Akash recalls, with a stirring honesty and immense regret, that when he was about 10, some friends and he chased a couple of Neutrals down the road, sneering and throwing twigs and pebbles at them. “I am embarrassed about this and very ashamed. All kinds of things happened to the Neutrals at that time. They are now reintegrated into the community, but one of the revelations in talking to them for the book is that the pain still runs below the surface for many of them.”  Balancing the dark and the light  “Auroville walked to the edge of the precipice and back,” he says when talking of that period. Has it walked back too far? Hasn’t some of that early fervour, which saw the first few Aurovilians living simply in thatched huts with no money and few resources, vanished? “It’s fair to say that Auroville is middle-aged now, and with this comes a certain complacency,” he replies. “But there are still people here who are very idealistic, sometimes to a fault. As the book suggests, there is a darker side to idealism and extremism. If that has dimmed, maybe it is not such a bad thing at all.”  Bigger, more prosperous  Auroville is also much bigger today, with about 3,500 people from almost 60 countries. And, of course, much more prosperous. “Yes, that is true. And then, there is the tourism economy. And the restaurants. But within the Auroville master plan, none of us owns a house,” he says. “My kids are in a school where it doesn’t matter whether your dad has a flashy car or the biggest house. None of the games that play out in big cities play out here.” What sets Better to Have Gone (Scribner, Rs. 699) apart is Akash’s voice and approach. It would have been far easier to have pulled off, for example, what Peter Washington did of another new age movement (the Theosophists). In Madame Blavatsky’s Baboon , he panned the main players as eccentric founders of a cult, which claimed to receive divine wisdom in their visions and which encouraged all kinds of irrational ideas (which of course they did). Notions such as immortality and talk of transforming cellular consciousness were very much present in the thoughts of the Mother and those close to her. But despite being someone who lives “closer to the side of reason”, Akash is empathetic to even those he disagrees with. There is a recognition, the kind that good novelists have, that everyone has a story and that the truth is often not in black and white, but shades of grey. “Auroville has so many different points of view. I decided that I was going to state things as they were, but also that I was going to step out of the frame.” There are meditations on doubt and certitude, on the dangers that result when an imperfect species flirts with notions of utopia, and the virtues of fallibilism, moderation and incrementalism — values that lie at the heart of any true liberal project. The result is an empathetic non-judgmental work, written with a spare, almost frugal beauty, illuminating in its silences, and revealing in what is left unsaid. Is Auralice in a better place now that she knows about the tragedies of Diane and John? “I think so,” Akash replies. Yes, it was difficult when the research threw up painful facts. But overall, if you have family members die in these circumstances and if you don’t understand why or how, it is liberating to see the bigger picture and what happened to them.” In short, and to tweak the title of the book a little, it is better to have known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/auroville-and-the-price-of-perfection/article36373939.ece
