10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||BRICS seeks ‘inclusive’ intra-Afghan dialogue||The 13th BRICS summit held virtually on Thursday called for an “inclusive intra-Afghan dialogue” for stability in Afghanistan. The virtual summit, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was dominated by the developments in Afghanistan, and adopted the BRICS Counter Terrorism Action Plan. “We have also adopted the BRICS Counter Terrorism Action Plan. With the agreement on Remote Sensing Satellite Constellation between our space agencies, a new chapter of cooperation has begun,” Mr. Modi said, highlighting the key items on the agenda of the summit. ‘Use peaceful means’ The discussion on Afghanistan at the event attended by the leaders of India, Russia, China, Brazil and South Africa was held against the backdrop of the Taliban announcing an interim government in Kabul. The BRICS leaders called for “settling the situation by peaceful means”, and condemned the terrorist attacks at the Hamid Karzai International Airport which killed at least 100 persons, including several U.S. military personnel. “We stress the need to contribute to fostering an inclusive intra-Afghan dialogue so as to ensure stability, civil peace, law and order in the country. We underscore the priority of fighting terrorism, including preventing attempts by terrorist organisations to use Afghan territory as terrorist sanctuary and to carry out attacks against other countries,” declared a joint statement issued at the end of the summit. The document, titled the New Delhi Declaration, also called for addressing the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, and urged the need to uphold rights of women, children and minorities. The meeting gave an opportunity to the BRICS countries to discuss the situation in Afghanistan especially as two of the five members — Russia and China — continue to have a diplomatic presence in Kabul where an interim Taliban government is expected to take formal charge in few days. BRICS countries are evidently divided on engagement with the Taliban with Russia and China adopting a proactive policy on the issue. A Russian media report said the Taliban has invited Turkey, Qatar, China and Iran for the swearing-in ceremony. China on Thursday extended an emergency aid of $31 million to Afghanistan to help the Taliban run the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/brics-seeks-inclusive-intra-afghan-dialogue/article36393509.ece
10 September 2021||Mysuru,||Music varsity set to get own campus||The Karnataka State Dr. Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University’s long quest for its own campus is set to materialise with the allotment of land by the government close to the Outer Ring Road. The transfer of land and documentation process is expected to be completed within the next few days and the varsity has been allotted nearly 20,000 sq m or nearly 5 acres of plot to develop its campus near Sardar Vallabhai Patel Nagar. This in lieu of the land allotted at Sathgalli over which high tension wires were drawn thus making it unfit for a campus and was hence rejected. Nagesh V. Betkote, Vice-Chancellor, said even the existing campus located in the building and land belonging to the Education Department could be transferred to the music varsity. The new campus would be used for creating facilities for postgraduate classes besides constructing a hostel and auditorium. The UG classes and administrative office will continue to function from the existing premises. But allotment of land is only one of the myriad problems which has beset the varsity. The government is yet to approve recruitment of full-time faculty as a result of which the university recruits resource persons from the field of music and dance. The university is also hampered by lack of adequate funds and none of the staff have received their payments for the current academic year. The varsity, established almost 12 years ago, functions out of grants received by the State government as it is yet to receive 12 B approval from the University Grants Commission. Without the approval, the varsity will not be eligible to receive funding from MHRD and UGC. The norms require establishment of at least 5 full-fledged departments and 35 permanent staff besides an equal number of non-teaching staff to qualify for the UGC 12 B notification. The varsity has nearly 300 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/music-varsity-set-to-get-own-campus/article36393932.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||IITs top Centre’s rankings for 2021||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras was ranked the best higher education institution in the country for the third year in a row by the Union Education Ministry, which released its India Rankings 2021 under the National Institutional Ranking Framework on Thursday. The IITs dominated the overall rankings, grabbing seven of the top 10 positions. The Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru was ranked second, followed by the IITs in Bombay, Delhi, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Roorkee and Guwahati. Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Banaras Hindu University (BHU) were at rank nine and 10, respectively. Among universities, the IISc was ranked one, followed by the JNU, the BHU, the University of Calcutta, the Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Coimbatore, Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi, the Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Jadavpur University, the University of Hyderabad and Aligarh Muslim University. Delhi University was placed 12 among universities and 19 overall. Among engineering institutions, the IIT, Madras was number one, followed by the IITs in Delhi, Bombay, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Roorkee, Guwahati and Hyderabad, and the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) in Tiruchirapalli and Surathkal. IIM-Ahmedabad on top For management institutions, IIM-Ahmedabad was ranked one, followed by IIM-Bangalore, IIM-Calcutta, IIT-Kozhikode, IIT-Delhi, IIM-Indore, IIM-Lucknow, Xavier Labour Relations Institute in Jamshedpur, IIT-Kharagpur and IIT-Bombay. Jamia Hamdard was ranked one for pharmacy, followed by Panjab University. Manipal College of Dental Sciences was ranked the best in the dental category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iits-top-centres-rankings-for-2021/article36393507.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Over 1,672 POCSO cases reported until June across Tamil Nadu||More than 1,672 cases were filed under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in Tamil Nadu until June this year, according to a policy note on the Home Department tabled by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in the Assembly. Of them, 1,252 were booked for raping minors and 420 were booked for other offences. However, the note said that for the year 2021 up to June 30, the data given were tentative and the crime statistics for the year were yet to be published. In 2019, 2,396 cases under the POCSO Act were reported and 3,090 cases were reported in 2020. Crimes against women As for the crimes against women, 197 rapes, 11 dowry deaths, 336 cases of cruelty by husbands and relatives and 416 cases of molestation and 381 cases of kidnapping were reported until June this year. In the category of violent crimes, 777 murders and 1,266 attempt to murder cases were reported in the first half of the year. Similarly, 1,102 robberies, 2,115 burglaries and 5,510 thefts were reported. Six cases of custodial deaths were reported in 2020, and the number was two this year.  Help desks As many as 800 women help desks are functioning in the rural and urban areas. These desks are being strengthened by providing them equipment worth Rs. 1 lakh each from the Nirbhaya Fund. All the law and order and railway police stations have women officers to attend to the women petitioners. Raising awareness Training and awareness programmes on the safety of women and children for child welfare police officers and online webinars for police officers are conducted regularly. The children’s homes were visited by the senior officers of the crimes against women and children wing to ensure their proper functioning.  As many as 800 women help desks are functioning in the rural and urban areas. These are being strengthened by providing them equipment worth Rs. 1 lakh each from Nirbhaya Fund||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-1672-pocso-cases-filed-in-state-this-year-until-june/article36393625.ece
10 September 2021||Vijayawada,||Jagan asks banks to extend greater support to farm sector, women||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) fell by 2.58% in the financial year 2020-21 against a 7.25% decline in the country’s GDP due to the COVID crisis. The relatively small erosion in GSDP was because of the support extended by banks, he said, while requesting them to increase lending to the agriculture sector, particularly the tenant farmers, and term loans. Addressing the State-level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) meeting on Thursday, Mr. Jagan said like never before, India’s tax revenue registered a sharp decline of 3.38% in 2019-20 as the economy was crippled by the pandemic. The economic turnaround appeared to take a longer time due to lockdowns and restrictions still in force to contain the spread of the pandemic, he observed. As far as Andhra Pradesh was concerned, term loan disbursements came down by Rs. 3,237 crore compared to the corresponding period in the 2020-21 fiscal, and the overall bank credit for the agriculture sector decreased by 1.32% for various reasons. There was, however, a 10.49% rise in the crop loan portfolio. Tenant farmers The Chief Minister said banks should come to the rescue of tenant farmers who were leading a hand-to-mouth existence due to the devastating impact of COVID. He mentioned that the government had so far provided crop cultivating right cards to 4,91,330 tenant farmers and the same data was integrated with the e-cropping system and Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). This information should be used for the sake of giving loans to tenant farmers. Banking correspondents Mr. Jagan said it was a good thing that the banks mapped 9,160 RBKs and decided to appoint correspondents there. The banks had already attached correspondents to 6,538 RBKs, he said and requested them to appoint one at every RBK in a phased manner. On being told that 100% of the banking services in Kadapa district were digitised, Mr. Jagan said he would be impressed with their statement only when the services rendered by correspondents grew to a stage where the banks set up their branches in the villages, but not merely with claims to have provided ATMs and credit cards, Internet facility etc. to all the customers. He said banks should focus on providing financial assistance under YSR Cheyutha scheme, under which the government had tied up with firms like ITC, Procter & Gamble, Hindustan Unilever, Reliance and Amul to help women in setting up and running up businesses, especially grocery stores. The Chief Minister requested the banks to lend at least Rs. 35,000 per unit as loan under the weaker sections’ housing scheme at a nominal interest rate of 3% and said the government would pay the remaining interest. He went on to suggest banks to focus on providing credit to petty traders under Jagananna Thodu scheme and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises which have tremendous potential for growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-asks-banks-to-extend-greater-support-to-farm-sector-women/article36393500.ece
10 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Weekend curfew lifted, night curfew to continue in Dakshina Kannada||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Thursday decided to lift the weekend curfew after the State Disaster Management Authority authorised Deputy Commissioners to take a decision on continuing weekend curfews thus ending speculation over the celebration of Ganesha festival. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that there will be no restrictions on all categories of shops and establishments other than following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour during weekends as well as weekdays. All shop owners and their staff should be vaccinated with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Further, they all should undergo mandatory testing every 10 days and should produce COVID-19 test certificate to officials as and when sought. They should cooperate with health teams and the local administration in testing and containment measures, Dr. Rajendra said in his order. Shops could function between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m. and night curfew will continue to be in force between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. till further orders, the Deputy Commissioner said. The guidelines already in force will continue to prevail in the border areas of the district, Dr. Rajendra added. Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar in his capacity as the Chairman of the State Authority on Thursday authorised Deputy Commissioners to take a decision on continuing with weekend curfew in their limits after assessing the prevailing COVID-19 situation. It superseded the August 30 order on imposing weekend curfews in districts bordering Kerala. He noted that the test positivity rate across the State has fallen below 2%. However, all other guidelines regarding surveillance and containment measures will continue till September 27, Mr. Kumar said. The Chief Secretary also noted that strict surveillance at border check-posts set up by the district administrations bordering Kerala and Maharashtra should continue as per the prevailing guidelines. The Education Department will issue orders in respect of applicable guidelines with regard to opening of primary schools, Mr. Kumar added. Meanwhile, Dr. Rajendra noted that the overall test positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada has been 1.85% since 10 days now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-curfew-lifted-night-curfew-to-continue-in-dakshina-kannada/article36393895.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 threat looms over Chennai Metro trains as physical distancing goes for a toss||After several months, the number of commuters travelling by Metro trains in Chennai touched 1.02 lakh on Wednesday. A few commuters said physical distancing norms were not followed on some trips with trains running jam-packed. For the past few weeks, there has been a steady rise in the number of people travelling by Metro trains. From about 85,000 passengers in the last week of August, the number rose to one lakh on Wednesday. Before this, in February, when the phase I extension project from Washermanpet to Wimco Nagar was opened, the patronage crossed one lakh, as against the pre-COVID level of 1.25 lakh a day. Officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) expect an increase in the number of travellers in view of the long weekend because with Friday being a holiday for Vinayaka Chaturthi festival. The CMRL has increased the peak hours from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. and ran the services till 9 p.m. “On Monday and Tuesday, we had nearly 96,000 and 94,000 passengers respectively. On the weekdays, the number goes up followed by a drop on the weekends. But the good sign is the patronage has been increasing constantly; we hope it will touch the pre-COVID levels soon,” an official said. But the impending challenge is, the trains are packed and passengers stand and sit close to one another, resulting in violation of physical distancing norms. Athreya Mukunthan took to Twitter to urge CMRL: “Request you to add more coaches in each train or increase the frequency of trains, especially in peak hours. Trains have become jam-packed, people unwilling to follow social distancing norms, are forcing passengers to adjust and sit (6 people in a row) and stand.” While officials say they are operating trains every five minutes during peak hours, if the traffic increases further, then they should find a way to ensure physical distancing is not compromised and passengers are monitored if they continue to wear masks. “Either the frequency should be increased or a few trains are run in an unscheduled manner in the peak hours once in a while to regulate the crowd,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-threat-looms-as-metro-trains-see-rush/article36393589.ece
10 September 2021||Pune,||State’s active case tally crosses 50,000 again||Maharashtra’s recoveries dropped again, with just 2,538 patients being discharged across the State on Thursday as opposed to 4,219 new COVID-19 cases. The active case tally has breached the 50,000-mark again to reach 50,229. While 55 deaths took the cumulative fatalities to 1,38,017, the case fatality rate remains constant at 2.12%. According to the State Health Department, the positive cases have reduced by 15,066, while discharged cases have reduced by 15,793 following a reconciliation exercise. The total cases now stand at 64,87,025, while the cumulative recoveries have risen to 62,95,236, with the recovery rate at 97.04%. “Of the 5,55,19,679 laboratory samples tested thus far, 64,93,698 [with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 11.77%] have returned positive, with more than 1.81 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported 934 new cases, taking its total case tally to 11,23,849, while eight deaths pushed the toll over 18,770. As per district authorities, the active case tally has exceeded 8,800. The Pune police authorities clarified that no restriction on movement like Section 144 of the CrPC had been imposed in the city ahead of the festivities. Surge in Mumbai Mumbai reported a notable surge of 532 cases to take its case tally to 7,33,896, while the active case tally stood at 4,298. Two deaths took the city’s toll to 16,006. Ahmednagar reported over 800 cases and four deaths, taking its case tally to 3,16,949, of whom 6,338 are active. The district’s cumulative toll rose to 6,633. Satara reported 393 cases and 15 deaths, taking the tally to 2,42,987, of whom 5,224 are active, while the death toll rose to 6,105.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-active-case-tally-crosses-50000-again/article36393928.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC rejects man’s plea to return to Afghanistan without paying fine||The Delhi High Court has rejected the plea of an Afghan national, who is embroiled in a customs case, to go to his country to look after his family, noting there was “very bleak chance” of his coming back to India in view of the prevailing circumstances there. Justice Mukta Gupta said there was no ground to release the man’s passport and permit him to leave India without depositing the penalty of Rs. 13 lakh imposed on him. Ruhulla Amin was intercepted at the IGI Airport here carrying certain medicines illegally to Afghanistan. The value of the seized goods was calculated at Rs. 90.5 lakh. A redemption fine of Rs. 9 lakh was imposed on the petitioner besides a penalty of Rs. 13 lakh under Section 114 of the Customs Act. Mr. Amin has not paid the penalty. Ready to deposit 20% The petitioner stated that he has 11 children, his first wife has been killed by militants and he has to look after his family. The plea stated that he was not in a position to deposit the penalty amount. He urged the court to permit him to deposit 20% of the amount and leave for Afghanistan. His counsel argued that Mr. Amin is not inclined to take the goods to Afghanistan, hence the redemption fine of Rs. 9 lakh is not required to be paid and only the penalty has to be deposited. “In view of this fact and particularly the fact that there is very bleak chance of the petitioner being able to come back to India, in view of the prevailing circumstances in Afghanistan, this court finds no ground to release the passport of the petitioner and permit him to leave the country without depositing the penalty of Rs. 13 lakh,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-rejects-mans-plea-to-return-to-afghanistan-without-paying-fine/article36393650.ece
10 September 2021||Mysuru,||Retain temporary staff: MLA||Nanjangud MLA B. Harshavardhan has appealed to the government not to relieve temporary, contract, and outsourced employees from duties at Karnataka State Dr. Gangubhai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University, Mysuru. He met the Higher Education Minister C. Ashwath Narayan in Mysuru earlier this week and submitted a memorandum regarding his request. He said the Department of Higher Education has issued a communique to all State universities to relieve from duty those who have been appointed without prior government approval. Many who have been working as non-permanent employees would become jobless if the order was implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/retain-temporary-staff-mla/article36393930.ece
10 September 2021||Pune,||Bhujbal discharged in Maharashtra Sadan scam case||A special court in Mumbai on Thursday discharged Maharashtra Minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Chhagan Bhujbal and seven others, including his son and nephew, in the Maharashtra Sadan scam case, which was being probed by the Anti Corruption Bureau. Soon after, Mr. Bhujbal said the accusations had merely been a ploy to suppress him. There were no financial irregularities of any kind, he asserted. Mr. Bhujbal, who holds the Food and Civil Supply and Consumer Affairs portfolio in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, said he was neither bitter nor bore any ill-will towards anyone despite being “falsely accused” in the case. “When my case started, Central agency raids were probably a new phenomenon. But now, the public knows that such ED probes are politically motivated…ultimately, truth triumphs and I thank everyone who stood by me, including [NCP supremo] Sharad Pawar, Ajit Pawar, Jayant Patil and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray as well,” said Mr. Bhujbal, taking a jibe at the BJP-ruled Central government. The NCP leader said the Maharashtra Sadan today stood as a beautiful building where politicos from all parties could stay in comfort. “I was wrongly accused of favouring a particular contractor. He did not get one foot of FSI nor a single rupee that was not his due. Despite this, I was accused of making Rs. 800 crore which I later allegedly diverted to purchase properties. There was a big media trial and I served a jail sentence. But despite the trials faced by my family, my party leader Sharad Pawar always stood by me,” Mr. Bhujbal said. Activist Anjali Damania, who has been pursuing the case against Mr. Bhujbal and his family, is likely to move the Bombay High Court. “While someone will take recourse to the High Court or the Supreme Court, the most detailed discussion on a particular case takes place in the sessions court which has declared that there was no evidence against me,” Mr. Bhujbal said, rebuking Ms. Damania by stating that he was aware that “some people would not let him sleep in peace”. The NCP leader said despite spending more than two years in jail where his health had deteriorated sharply, it was now time to “move forward” instead of recalling the dark past. “There are scores of conspiracies being cooked around me…let them be. I have firm belief in justice. I will face other charges as well. The main case was the Maharashtra Sadan case and the rest of the accusations against me have been linked to it. We are humbly accepting this victory and we bear no grudge against anyone,” said Mr. Bhujbal. A case was filed in 2015 against the NCP leader and 16 others by the ACB which claimed that Mr. Bhujbal, who was the PWD Minister in the then Congress-NCP government, had favoured a particular firm while allegedly receiving several crores in kickbacks from them. The ED filed a case based on the ACB case which is still pending. Mr. Bhujbal was arrested by ED in March 2016 and granted bail in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhujbal-discharged-in-maharashtra-sadan-scam-case/article36393925.ece
10 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||Ballari admn. asked to submit proposal for using Rs. 30 crore DMF funds for COVID-19-related work||Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment and Ballari in-charge B.S. Anand Singh has directed the Ballari district administration to submit a proposal for using Rs. 30 crore from the District Mineral Foundation (DMF) funds for taking up COVID-19 management activities in Ballari and Vijayanagara districts. Chairing a meeting at the district administrative complex in Ballari on Thursday, Mr. Singh said that Rs. 320 crore has been reserved and it can be utilised for emergency purposes. Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati, in his briefing, said that the administration has taken up several tasks as per government guidelines to control the spread of COVID-19, with the thinking that it can utilise Rs. 31.30 crore under District Mineral Foundation funds. “A sum of Rs. 31.30 crore was reserved for COVID-19 containment activities which included the purchase of medical essentials such as ventilators, generators, essential drugs and also, streamlining oxygen supply. We have also outsourced medical, technical and non-technical staff. A sum of Rs. 4.19 crore from DMF funds is used for these activities,” he said. “The expenditure incurred for activities is more than the reserved amount and we need to get approval for the additional amount. The staff appointed are to be continued and we need around Rs. 2.30 crore every month to pay them salaries. For the next nine months, we need around Rs. 20 crore for continuing COVID-19 containment activities. For handling a possible third wave of the pandemic, we need Rs. 5 crores additionally,” Mr. Malapati told the meeting. In his response, Mr. Singh directed Mr. Malapati to submit a proposal for using Rs. 30 crore from the DMF funds for COVID-19-related tasks. He said that he will discuss the issue with the Chief Secretary to the government and see that the proposal is approved. As per information shared at the meeting, six action plans for taking up 2,351 works at a cost of Rs. 2,677 crore were approved between 2016-17 and 2021-22. Of the 2,351 works, 605 have been completed, 604 are in progress, administrative approvals have been given to 243 works and tender process is under way for 123. A sum of Rs. 528.96 core were released for the works completed. Mr. Malapati told the meeting that in nine cases contractors, who failed to complete the works within the stipulated time, were fined. Legislators K.C. Kondaiah, Allam Veerabhadrappa, G. Somashekhar Reddy, Nagendra, Ganesh and Somalingappa were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ballari-admn-asked-to-submit-proposal-for-using-rs-30-crore-dmf-funds-for-covid-19-related-work/article36393744.ece
10 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||High drama as police detain Lokesh at airport||High drama prevailed at the Gannavaram airport here when the police detained Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh on his arrival to proceed to Narasaraopet in Guntur district to console the family of Anusha, a degree student, who was allegedly murdered by her classmate Vishnuvardhan Reddy in February. The police took him into custody on the ground that his visit would lead to protests, and gathering of crowds could not be allowed due to the COVID situation. The police intercepted Mr. Lokesh’s convoy at the airport where an attempt to detain him was made in vain. Later, Mr. Lokesh’s convoy proceeded in a convoy towards Guntur and he was detained at Kankadurga Varadhi and sent to his home in Undavalli. The police served a notice under 41A of the Cr.P.C. on Mr. Lokesh for conducting a rally without permission and causing inconvenience to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-drama-as-police-detain-lokesh-at-airport/article36394094.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ford to shut production in Chennai, Sanand||The U.S.-headquartered Ford Motor Company has announced restructuring of its Indian operations under which it will stop manufacturing vehicles in India. The move, which follows accumulated operating losses of over $2 billion, will impact nearly 4,000 jobs. “Ford India will cease manufacturing vehicles for sale in India immediately…[the company] will wind down vehicle assembly in Sanand [Gujarat] by the fourth quarter of 2021 and vehicle and engine manufacturing in Chennai by the second quarter of 2022,” the company said. It, however, said it would not fully exit the Indian market. The company will focus on ‘Ford Business Solutions’, along with engineering and engine manufacturing for export as it looks to create a “sustainably profitable” business in the country. It will rely on imports to bring global products such as Mustang Coupe and electric vehicles to India, it said in a statement. The company added that approximately 4,000 employees are expected to be affected by the restructuring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ford-to-shut-chennai-sanand-plants-4000-jobs-on-the-line/article36393511.ece
10 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Bevco outlets won’t be in depots, says KSRTC MD||Outlets of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) will not be opened in depots of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), chairman and managing director of the corporation Biju Prabhakar said on Thursday. New sites Instead, suitable sites such as land owned by the corporation by roadsides will be leased out for opening the outlets, Mr. Prabhakar said. The proposed sites are outside the garages and depots of the corporation, Mr. Prabhakar informed KSRTC unions. On lease The properties will be leased out to Bevco, provided the KSRTC is assured of a good rent. Employees of the corporation need not have apprehensions regarding the Bevco outlets, Mr. Prabhakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bevco-outlets-wont-be-in-depots-says-ksrtc-md/article36393820.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,||BBMP to consider requests for extended celebration||Bowing to pressure, the BBMP has decided to consider requests to allow Ganesha festival celebrations beyond three days. If organisers want permission to install Ganesha and Gowri idols for more than three days, they can obtain permission from the local police and jurisdictional assistant executive engineer of the BBMP. While the State government recently issued festival guidelines stating that the idols could be installed for not more than five days, the BBMP issued separate guidelines pertaining to the city restricting duration of celebration to three days. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta told The Hindu that the civic body follows the guidelines issued by the State government. “Given that there are now groups seeking more time, it has been decided that the call will be taken locally,” he said. He also said the decision to accord permission to more than one organiser per ward would also be taken locally. “In many places, the organisers may want to install the idols in semi-public spaces. So, the local authorities would be right in according permission on merit,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-to-consider-requests-for-extended-celebration/article36393547.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the festivities begin||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/let-the-festivities-begin/article36393923.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||No rules||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-rules/article36393505.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,||Allow spying without nod, says Kerala Bill||The police can listen in on any communication, without waiting for official approval, to curb organised crimes, a draft of the Kerala Control of Organised Crimes Bill has proposed. The draft Bill suggests that an officer not below the rank of Additional DGP can authorise an application made by the IO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/allow-spying-without-nod-says-kerala-bill/article36393653.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Iconic circle razed to the ground||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iconic-circle-razed-to-the-ground/article36393898.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Out of the blue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/out-of-the-blue/article36393655.ece
10 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||‘Clarify stance in interfaith marriage case’||The Gujarat High Court has asked the State government to file an affidavit explaining by September 20 its objections in an interfaith marriage case, in which the police have lodged an FIR against the husband and in-laws, under the amended Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, for forceful conversion through marriage. The woman had categorically stated that the contents of the FIR the Vadodara police had lodged were not true and said she wanted to remain married to the person. This is the first case the State police had lodged after the Act was notified into the law to stop religious conversion through interfaith marriage using force, allurement or fraudulent means.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clarify-stance-in-interfaith-marriage-case/article36393512.ece
10 September 2021||Coimbatore,||Man arrested for sexual assault on stepdaughter||The All Women Police Station, Perur, on Thursday arrested a 44-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting his stepdaughter. According to the police, the girl’s mother got married to the accused three years ago after getting separated from her first husband. Complaint She complained to the police that the accused sexually assaulted her 13-year-old daughter at the house in her absence on Wednesday evening. The girl told her mother about the incident when she returned home from work. The police arrested the man under the provisions of the Protection of the Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-stepdaughter/article36393641.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Old world charm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/old-world-charm/article36393746.ece
10 September 2021||Mumbai,||HC dismisses Kangana’s plea in defamation case||The Bombay High Court has dismissed the plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut seeking quashing of criminal defamation proceedings against her based on lyricist Javed Akhtar’s complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-dismisses-kanganas-plea-in-defamation-case/article36393926.ece
10 September 2021||Mysuru,||Mysore varsity ranked 19th in the country||The University of Mysore has broken into the top league among the varsities and has been ranked 19th in the country by the National Institutional Ranking Framework.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysore-varsity-ranked-19th-in-the-country/article36393934.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||Teachers visiting homes to help with COVID relief||Hundreds of schoolteachers in the Capital are visiting homes to get people registered for a scheme to provide compensation to those whose family members died due to COVID infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/teachers-visiting-homes-to-help-with-covid-relief/article36393652.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,||1,596 test positive for COVID-19 in T.N.||COVID-19 cases continued to fluctuate in Tamil Nadu with another 1,596 persons testing positive for the infection on Thursday. Chengalpattu, Chennai, Coimbatore, Erode, Thanjavur and Tiruppur districts accounted for a little over 50% of the fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1596-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tn/article36393886.ece
10 September 2021||Ranchi,||Speaker forms panel to look into namaz room||Jharkhand Assembly, Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto on Thursday formed an all party panel to look into issue of namaz room in Assembly and report in 45 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/speaker-forms-panel-to-look-into-namaz-room/article36393846.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||Take action against govt. in Tripura, says Yechury||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, in a letter to Prime inister Narendra Modi, has demanded immediate action against the BJP government in Tripura for the alleged pre-planned attacks on party offices in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/take-action-against-govt-in-tripura-says-yechury/article36393850.ece
10 September 2021||BELAGAVI,||Public festivities likely to be low key in Belagavi||Public Ganesha festival in Belagavi is set to be a low-key affair due to COVID-19 regulations imposed by the State government and the general apprehension in the minds of the people of the prevalence of the epidemic. The State government has issued a circular restricting the celebrations to three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/public-festivities-likely-to-be-low-key-in-belagavi/article36393742.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC upholds arbitral award against DMRC||The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld an Arbitral Tribunal direction to DMRC to make a termination payment of Rs. 2,782.33 crore to Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. in connection with the Airport Metro Express Line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-upholds-arbitral-award-against-dmrc/article36393946.ece
10 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana govt. ready to investigate Karnal clash||As the stand-off between the farmers and the government continued in Haryana’s Karnal on Thursday, State Home Minister Anil Vij said they were ready to probe the protesters-police clash that erupted on August 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-govt-ready-to-investigate-karnal-clash/article36393656.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Students protest to save trees in school||Scores of students of Jindal Jubilee Government High School at Abbigere staged a protest on Wednesday against the proposed road widening for which trees in the school’s ground will become the first casualty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-protest-to-save-trees-in-school/article36393549.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amit Shah reviews security, development schemes in J&K||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday chaired a meeting to review the security arrangements and progress in the implementation of various development programmes in Jammu and Kashmir. The meeting was held amid serious concern among the security agencies over the challenges in the aftermath of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Army chief Gen. M.M. Naravane, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and top officials of the intelligence agencies, besides senior functionaries of the Ministry of Home Affairs and J&K attended the meeting. Border Security Force chief Pankaj Singh, Central Reserve Police Force Director General Kuldeep Singh and J&K Director General of Police Dilbag Singh were also present. During the two-hour deliberations, Mr. Shah appreciated all the development initiatives of the Union Territory (UT)administration. The current security scenario in the UT, threat perceptions and the course of action to be taken by the security agencies were discussed. Among the challenges faced by the security forces is the use of drones from across the border to carry out terror attacks and smuggle in explosives, weapons and drugs. The government has been exploring various ways to counter this threat, particularly after the June drone attack inside the Jammu Air Force Station. The agencies are also on high alert to prevent any infiltration attempt. Since January, more than 90 terrorists, including over a dozen Pakistani nationals, have been neutralised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amit-shah-reviews-security-development-schemes-in-jk/article36393253.ece
10 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Explain objections in interfaith marriage case, HC tells Gujarat||In a strong message, the Gujarat High Court has asked the State government to file an affidavit explaining its objections in an interfaith marriage case, in which the police had lodged a first information report (FIR) booking the husband, his parents and the priest for solemnising the marriage under the State’s new law that seeks to ban religious conversion through interfaith marriages. The victim in the case categorically stated that the contents of the FIR that the Vadodara police had lodged were not true and that she wanted to remain married to her husband who had been booked under the amended Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, for forceful conversion through marriage. This was the first case the State police had lodged after the Act was notified into a law to stop religious conversion through interfaith marriages using force, allurement or fraudulent means. Last month, provisions of the amended law dealing with interfaith marriages had been stayed by the High Court. The court held that the provisions of the new law were against the Constitution. The State government announced that it would approach the Supreme Court challenging the interim ruling of the High Court. According to the details of the case, seven persons were booked, including the husband, the parents and the priest who had solemnised the marriage. All seven had been arrested. On Wednesday, the woman stated before Justice I.J. Vora in the High Court that she had voluntarily filed a petition seeking to quash the FIR and proceedings against her husband and others. She also told the court that “she wanted to live together as a married couple” with her husband. In her petition, the woman stated that when she had approached a local police station in Vadodara regarding a petty and trivial matrimonial issue, the police, under the pressure of certain elements, brought in the “love jihad” angle and also registered the FIR under the new law. The police also added the charges of “rape and sodomy” in the FIR, which she categorically denied. In her petition, she also denied the charges of forceful conversion as mentioned by the police in the FIR and submitted that her affidavit denying such charges was not accepted by the lower court when seeking bails. The couple had decided to solemnise their marriage as per the Islamic rites. Subsequently, it was registered under the Special Marriage Act. The couple submitted that both families had no issues, but certain “religio-political” groups and an overzealous police communalised their marriage. The High Court directed the State government to file an affidavit and explain its objections by September 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/explain-objections-in-interfaith-marriage-case-hc-asks-gujarat/article36393270.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 doses prevent death by 97.5%: ICMR chief||An integrated COVID-19 tracker that would provide a week by week update of vaccine doses administered, mortality in the country and data on breakthrough infections would be available on the Union Health Ministry’s website in a few days, said Director General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Balram Bhargava. COVID cases that arise after a double dose of vaccination and 14 days of the final dose of the vaccine are known as breakthrough infections. The tracker has been developed by combining data from the Co-WIN website, the Health Ministry’s COVID-19 portal and the Indian Council of Medical Research COVID testing database. At a press conference of the Ministry on Thursday, Dr. Bhargava advocated low-key celebrations of festivals. Crowding and festival related travel should not be encouraged. On the need to get vaccinated even after getting infected, he said that recommendations were in place specifying that a person should take the vaccination three months after the infection. “There is a possibility that infections will occur even after vaccination. However, the severity is reduced. Data collected has shown that vaccine effectiveness in preventing mortality after a single dose is 96.6% while it is 97.5% after the second dose,” he stated. V.K. Paul, member (health) of Niti Aayog, said it was clear that two doses gave a good degree of protection. India had so far given single dose to 58% (above 18 years) of the population. “This has to be pushed up to 100%,” he said. To a query on vaccination of children, he stated that teachers and parents have to be vaccinated, but vaccinating children in order to open schools was not required. “It can’t be used as a condition. However it’s vital not to encourage crowding, ensure staggered classes etc.” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the public health response to COVID-19 must be guided by the fact that although cases were declining, the second wave was not over. He added that 68.59% of the total cases in the last week were recorded in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/integrated-tracker-for-breakthrough-infections/article36393282.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||C-295 induction critical for IAF||The procurement of 56 C-295MW transport aircraft from Airbus Defence and Space S.A., Spain approved by the Cabinet Committee on Security on Wednesday marks the culmination of a decade-long process by the Indian Air Force (IAF) to replace the ageing Avros, pending signing of a formal contract. This is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India under technology transfer by a private company and is expected to cost close to $3billion. “Sixteen aircraft will be delivered in flyaway condition from Spain within 48 months of signing of the contract and 40 will be manufactured in India by Tata Consortium within 10 years of signing of the contract,” a Defence Ministry statement said. Scrapping of project The deal has become even more critical for the IAF as a separate project to co-develop and produce a Medium Transport Aircraft (MTA) of 20 tonnes with Russia to replace the An-32s in service was scrapped after initial design discussions. The IAF has 56 Avros procured in the 1960s and they are in urgent need of replacement. The Request For Proposal (RFP) was issued to global firms in May 2013 and the sole bid by Airbus and Tata Group with the C-295 aircraft was approved by the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) in May 2015. However, the final deal has been repeatedly delayed. The Avros, once inducted, could be deployed on the sea routes replacing the An-32s in those sectors. The C-295MW is a plane of 5-10 tonne capacity and has a rear ramp door for quick reaction and para dropping of troops and cargo. It is powered by Pratt & Whitney PW127 engines, part of the PW100 family. All 56 aircraft will be installed with indigenous Electronic Warfare Suite. The project would give a boost to aerospace ecosystem in India wherein several Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises spread over the country would be involved in manufacturing of parts of the aircraft, the Ministry statement said. On the project spread, the Ministry said that a large number of detail parts, sub-assemblies and major component assemblies of aero structure were scheduled to be manufactured in India. The programme would act as a catalyst for employment generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/c-295-induction-critical-for-iaf/article36393257.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||Baghel’s rising influence a dilemma for Cong.||Congress leader Bhupesh Baghel’s ability to set the agenda rather than react has been on display since he became the Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh in 2018. But that is now turning out to be a dilemma for the Congress’s high command, which is hoping to persuade him to step down in favour of his Cabinet colleague T.S. Singh Deo. With the State police arresting Nand Kumar Baghel, his father, for calling for a “boycott” of Brahmins and describing them as foreigners, the Chhattisgarh Chief Minister has yet again seized the opportunity to remain in the spotlight on his own terms. The senior Baghel refused to plead for bail and is now in judicial custody. Party insiders say the last word on the leadership tussle in the State has not been said yet. Mr. Deo was reportedly promised the top slot by then party president Rahul Gandhi, who brokered a peace deal between the two in December 2018. But much has changed since. Strong OBC leader In the little less than three years as Chief Minister, Mr. Baghel has built an image of a strong Other Backward Class (OBC) leader, both within the State and outside it. He has been at the forefront of the party’s strategy in Bihar, Assam and the now critical Uttar Pradesh. Sources said it was party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s intervention that has bought him time for now. Ms. Vadra is the party’s State in-charge of Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Baghel had invited Mr. Gandhi to Chhattisgarh, but has so far not heard from his office on the possible dates. Those who have known him for long say Mr. Baghel’s ability to turn politics into performance holds him in good stead among the masses, whether it is dancing with abandon on the Teeja-Pora festival with women Congress leaders last week or neutralising his father’s controversial remarks. On August 30, the senior Mr. Baghel, a social activist, was in Lucknow to participate in a protest against the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh for reportedly not fulfilling the quota reserved for the OBCs in its 2020 teacher recruitment drive. Giving a sound bite to a local Hindi channel, he said Brahmins should not be allowed entry in villages. The video clip went viral but it has not stoked enough outrage yet to make headlines. Anticipating trouble, Mr. Baghel, on September 5, tweeted, “As a son, I respect my father, but as a Chief Minister, his mistakes that disturbs the public order can’t be ignored. No one is above the law in our government, even if he is the chief minister’s father.” The very next day, for a comment made in Lucknow, based on a complaint from the Sarva Brahmin Samaj, a first information report (FIR) was registered against Mr. Nand Kumar Baghel at the DD Nagar police station in Raipur. And on September 7, the Raipur police arrested him from Agra. He did not file for bail and has since been sent to 15-day judicial remand. The Chief Minister may be trying to outgrow his OBC image, or may be just trying to set a new agenda. Chhattisgarh BJP chief Vishnu Dev Sai, too, had to concede that the action taken against Mr. Baghel’s father was satisfactory. The father’s arrest is also to secure his son’s future role in Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Baghel’s close associate, Rajesh Tiwari, was recently appointed secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh and has been touring the State, training party cadres. In less than three years as Chief Minister, Mr. Baghel has solidified his position as a pre-eminent OBC leader in Chhattisgarh. He has flaunted his administrative capacities by publicising various schemes launched by his government. With OBC politics all set to grow more intense, the Congress cannot overlook Mr. Baghel’s stature, but whether it can do so at the cost of the reputation of the Gandhis itself is the big question.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baghels-rising-influence-a-dilemma-for-cong/article36393275.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. not to join panel to probe Rajya Sabha ruckus||The Congress has refused to be part of the special committee that Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu wants to constitute to investigate the proceedings of the last day of the recently concluded monsoon session, which were marred by violent protests and scuffle between the members and the security staff. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, in a letter to Mr. Naidu, said the “inquiry committee on the incident of August 11” seemed to be designed to intimidate MPs into silence. “It will not only suppress the voices of people’s representatives but will deliberately brush aside all those that are uncomfortable to the government. I am, therefore, unequivocally against constituting the inquiry committee and the question of our party proposing the name of a member from our party for nomination to this Committee does not arise,” he wrote. “Currently, the House is not in session and we believe this issue can be discussed only at an all-party meeting ahead of the winter session,” Mr. Kharge told The Hindu . His letter was in response to the phone call made by Mr. Naidu to him and to the other floor leaders of the Opposition parties. Sources said the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), too, had declined the offer. The Trinamool Congress was never invited to be part of the committee, the sources added. ‘Willing and eager’ Mr. Kharge, in his letter, said the Congress and the rest of the Opposition parties were “willing and eager” to discuss all matters of public importance, and had given notices to debate the economy, farmers’ protest, inflation, rise in fuel prices and essential commodities, the Indo-China conflict and the Pegasus spyware issue. “We did so in sincere belief that the government of India is committed to transparency and needed to be forthright to the nation about these issues,” he wrote. Unfortunately, he said, the government not only brushed aside the Opposition parties’ demands for discussions but also rushed through crucial Bills, bypassing parliamentary scrutiny of any form. ‘Senior Ministers absent’ He also taunted the government over the absence of senior Ministers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi came only once to both Houses to introduce his Council of Ministers. Home Minister Amit Shah did not turn up on any day in the Rajya Sabha. Mr. Kharge put the onus on the government for creating a conducive environment for healthy discussions. “Parliament has had a history of similar protests, many initiated by the ruling dispensation when it was in the Opposition. As you are well aware that many from the ruling party have in past posited that expressing dissent in this manner is acceptable in a parliamentary democracy,” Mr. Kharge wrote. The monsoon session came to an abrupt end, two days ahead of schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-not-to-join-panel-to-probe-rajya-sabha-ruckus/article36393277.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||Scindia sets target of 50 more UDAN routes||Inaugurating the Kushinagar airport and starting construction of the Jewar airport, both in Uttar Pradesh; launching 50 new routes under the UDAN scheme (a regional connectivity project); and rationalising the value added tax (VAT) charged on aviation turbine fuel (ATF) were on the agenda of the Civil Aviation Ministry over the next 100 days, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Thursday. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Scindia said the Ministry had set its targets for infrastructure, policy and reforms till November 30 with the aim of increasing accountability towards stakeholders. Mr. Scindia said the Kushinagar airport was ready, while the foundation stone for the Jewar airport would be laid in the next 100 days. Work on new terminal buildings at the Dehradun and Agartala airports, to increase capacity to 1,800 passengers per hour and 1,200 passengers per hour, respectively, would also be started. Airports under UDAN at Keshod in Gujarat, Deoghar in Jharkhand, and Gondia and Sindhudurg in Maharashtra, as well as heliports at Sanjoli (Shimla), Sase (Manali), Mandi and Baddi in Himachal Pradesh and Haldwani and Almora in Uttarakhand, would also be operationalised before November 30. Of the 50 new routes, 30 UDAN routes would be started by October 30, he said. Airline refunds Mr. Scindia said the aviation industry had been one of the most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and the government was working to “stabilise” it. Asked about refunds to passengers, Mr. Scindia said he believed the “free market” should decide the amounts, rather than the government mandating a certain amount. He said the AirSewa 3.0 portal would be launched by September 30 and that users would be able to escalate their complaints to senior airline officials. Asked why the government had not brought ATF within the ambit of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), he replied that, ultimately, the responsibility lay with the States, either on their own or through the GST Council. He said the Civil Aviation Ministry had written to the Chief Ministers and was in the process of “canvassing” with the States and the Ministry of Finance to rationalise VAT on ATF. Mr. Scindia also announced a new policy for maintenance, repair and operations (MRO), aimed at making India a global hub for MRO. Open tenders, 30-year contracts and rates to be determined by bidding were among the changes proposed. Kozhikode crash Asked about the investigation into the Kozhikode plane crash last year, Mr. Scindia said the probe report had been submitted to the Ministry and would be made public in the next few days. He said a group would be created within the Ministry to ensure that the recommendations in the report were implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scindia-targets-50-udan-routes/article36393285.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||2+2 meet to discuss Afghanistan||Canberra is “deeply disappointed” by the Taliban government announcement this week and coordinating joint strategies to deal with the situation in Afghanistan will be discussed during the first “2+2” double ministerial summit between Australian and Indian Foreign and Defence ministers. This was stated by Australia’s High Commissioner to India Barry O’Farrell. Australian Foreign and Defence Ministers Marise Payne and Peter Dutton will arrive in India on Friday for a number of meetings aimed at expanding bilateral defence, strategic and trade ties, and will meet External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday. “Australia is consulting our closest partners, in ensuring a joined-up approach in any engagement with the Taliban, we’re focused on ensuring the Taliban allows safe passage, ceases violence, pursues an inclusive government, prevents violent extremism within Afghanistan, prevents outward terrorism from Afghanistan and upholds human rights particularly for women and girls,” Mr. O’Farrell told journalists on Thursday. Mr. O’Farell made a particular mention of the Taliban government’s inclusion of the Haqqani Network, which has been listed by the United Nations and United States as terrorists, as well as the exclusion of women, members of the Hazara community and other minorities and any members of the previous government. The Indian government has not issued any reaction to the Taliban announcement of a Cabinet of 33 Ministers, more than half of which are designated terrorists, including those who have targeted India in the past. On Wednesday, Mr. Jaishankar called for an “inclusive” government in Afghanistan, and any discussions on the issue during the India-Australia talks will be watched closely. When asked whether the two sides would discuss concerns over China, which both India and Australia have increasing tensions with, Mr. O’Farrell said he “couldn’t see” how meetings on strategic issues between two countries of the Indo-Pacific, and members of the Quad would not discuss China. While officials said trade issues were “not on the agenda” of the talks, it is understood that the Foreign Ministers will take stock of the talks on the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA). The two Prime Ministers had said the CECA would be restarted last year, but there has not been any visible progress so far due to differences over market access to dairy products and services between trade negotiators. Mr. O’Farrell said, “We have high ambitions from the relationship, and so does India”. A free trade agreement between the two countries would be a signal of the closer alliance that both countries now seek, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/22-meet-may-discuss-afghanistan/article36393292.ece
10 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||2 still missing in Assam ferry collision||All but two of the 90 passengers of a ferry that sank after a mid-river collision with a larger ferry on the Brahmaputra on Wednesday have been rescued, the police said on Thursday. A woman identified as a 28-year-old teacher had died on the way to the hospital after the collision at 4.15 p.m. off Neamatighat in Jorhat district. eastern Assam. Officials said the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) had engaged 31 rescue boats and 208 personnel, including 39 deep divers, to locate the missing persons. “We have alerted the police in the districts downstream of the Brahmaputra to try and rescue the missing persons. The Army has also pitched in, helping with rescue operations throughout the night,” Director-General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said. “Altogether, 87 persons have either been rescued or traced alive,” Jorhat Superintendent of Police (SP) Ankur Jain said. According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority, the NDRF and the SDRF teams did not find any person trapped after cutting through the capsized ferry. Following the accident, the Inland Water Transport Department suspended three officials. Ferries operate under this Department but are known not to follow safety regulations or issue tickets to passengers for maintaining records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-still-missing-in-assam-ferry-collision/article36393260.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||No sign of joint action by Opposition||Three weeks after top Opposition leaders at a virtual meet, convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on August 20, talked about joint action against the Narendra Modi government, there seems to be little progress on the ground. There are still no signs of a core committee — a suggestion given by West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee — to plan coordinated action against the Centre’s policies. In fact, the first cracks are visible in the run-up to the September 30 bypoll to the Bhabanipur Assembly constituency of West Bengal, in which Ms. Banerjee herself is a candidate. Though the Congress had announced that it would not field any candidate against Ms. Banerjee, the Left Front has fielded a youth leader against the Bengal Chief Minister. The Bhabanipur seat was originally part of the Congress quota when the party fought the Assembly elections in an alliance with the Left Front this May. Though the alliance had failed to win any seat in the Assembly polls, the Left Front’s compulsion to stay politically relevant in Bengal prompted them to put up a candidate against the West Bengal CM. “We cannot afford to be on the same side in Bengal and Kerala and that’s why joint action or common political programme looks difficult in these two States,” a senior Left leader told The Hindu . On August 20, 18 Opposition parties that were part of Ms. Gandhi’s meeting had given a call to have protests against the Modi government’s policies between September 20 and 30. Though the respective State units of these parties are likely to work out the details, upcoming polls in States such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab could determine the level of cooperation. For example, ahead of bypolls to six Assembly constituencies in Assam, the Congress announced its break up with the Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-sign-of-joint-action-by-opposition/article36393264.ece
10 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||HC stays proceedings in Gyanvapi mosque dispute||The Allahabad High Court on Thursday placed an interim stay on the proceedings in a lower court in the Gyanvapi mosque-Kashi Vishwanath temple title dispute in Varanasi, including the April order of the lower court that had directed the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to conduct a comprehensive physical survey of the Gyanvapi mosque compound adjacent to the temple. The High Court put a stay on further proceedings in the original suit of 1991 pending before the court till the next date of listing on October 8. Justice Prakash Padia came down heavily on the lower court in Varanasi, stating that it should not have proceeded and decided the application filed by the plaintiffs in the original suit for survey by the ASI even as the judgment in the original pending petitions in the matter was reserved by the High Court on March 15. “…the court below should wait for the verdict in the petitions pending before this court and not to proceed further in the matter till the time a judgment is delivered. The judicial courtesy and decorum warranted such discipline which was expected from the court below but for the unfathomable reasons, neither of the courses were taken,” said the High Court. Justice Padia also regretted that the lower court judge “departed from this traditional way” in the present case and chose to examine the question himself. “I have said so with the fond hope that judicial enthusiasm should not obliterate the profound responsibility that is expected from the court below,” he said. The court allowed the amendment applications filed by the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board and the managing committee of the Gyanvapi mosque in Varanasi, Anjuman Intezamia Masjid, and directed their counsel to make necessary amendments in the petition in three days. The lower court had in April directed the ASI to find out whether the Gyanvapi mosque was a “superimposition, alteration or addition or there is structural overlapping of any kind, with or over, any other religious structure”. Senior civil judge fast track court Ashutosh Tiwari had directed the Director General of the ASI to constitute a five-member committee of experts and those well versed in the science of archaeology, two of whom should preferably belong to the minority community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-stays-proceedings-in-gyanvapi-mosque-dispute/article36393272.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Railway Board order announces closure of green fuel wing||The Ministry of Railways has announced the closure of the Indian Railways Organisation for Alternative Fuels (IROAF), an enterprise headquartered in New Delhi, that was formed exclusively to promote green energy by introducing alternative energy and fuel-efficient and emission-control technologies across the railway network. “The Ministry of Railways has decided to close down the Indian Railways Organisation for Alternative Fuels with effect from September 7, 2021,” a Railway Board order said on Tuesday. The existing work handled by IROAF — solar power and hydrogen fuel cell projects — was transferred to the Principal Chief Electrical Engineer and Chief Administrative Officer, Northern Railway. Placement and transfer of officers and staff would follow, the order said. In keeping with its mission towards green railways, the IROAF had invited bids just last month in August for hydrogen fuel cell-based trains to start the concept of hydrogen mobility in the country along the 89-km Sonipat-Jind sector of Northern Railway. Two diesel electric multiple units and two hybrid locos were planned for conversion to hydrogen fuel cell power movement leading to a savings of Rs. 2.3 crore annually. The IROAF was also working on research and development of projects relating to use of compressed natural gas (CNG) as a substitute to high-speed diesel to create a clean environment and reduce cost of transportation. Stir against monetisation The move to close down IROAF comes at a time when trade unions are protesting the “monetisation” policy of the Union government. The All India Railwaymen Federation president N. Kanniah said the Central government had no moral right to monetise assets of Indian Railways and other public sector undertakings. The decision of the Centre to monetise railway and other government establishment assets for Rs. 6 lakh crore by leasing them for 35-99 years had created widespread resentment among the employees. Mr. Kanniah said 400 railway stations across the country, including Chennai Central and Chennai Egmore in Southern Railway, 90 superfast express trains, four hill train services, including the Nilgiri Mountain Railway, and 1,400 km of railway track with overhead electrical equipment were among other infrastructure that were planned for monetisation by way of lease to private sector. Mr. Kanniah said the concept of “privatisation” that later took shape as “corporatisation” was now being called “monetisation”. The move would not only lead to an increase in fares and services but withdrawal of facilities such as travel concessions given to eligible passengers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railway-board-order-announces-closure-of-green-fuel-wing/article36393293.ece
10 September 2021||Ranchi,||Jharkhand Speaker forms panel to look into namaz room issue||Amid a raging controversy over allotment of a namaz (Islamic prayer) room in the Jharkhand Assembly, Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto on Thursday formed an all party, seven-member panel, on the last day of the monsoon session to look into the issue and come out with a report within 45 days. The monsoon session that began on September 3 remained stormy and witnessed protests by the main Opposition BJP over the allotment both inside and outside the House. Amid the ruckus by the Opposition, Speaker Mahto said “disruptions” over the issue impacted the Assembly as well as the State, sending a wrong message to the masses. “We need to end the standoff in the interests of the State and its people. It is not good for MLAs as well. Under the circumstances, I took a decision to place the matter before an all-party committee and the Chair will support whatever decision is given by it,” the Speaker said. Fixing a deadline of 45 days for the seven-member panel with legislator Stephen Marandi as its convener, the Speaker asked the panel to come out with its report at the earliest. 7-member committee The seven-member committee besides Mr. Marandi, will have Pradeep Yadav, Neelkanth Singh Munda, Sarfaraz Ahmed, Vinod Singh, Lambodar Mahto and Deepika Pandey Singh as members. Earlier, ruling party MLA Sarfaraz Ahmad made a proposal that Speaker should form a committee to study whether there is a need for a namaz room. BJP member and former Chief Minister Babulal Marandi objecting to a statement that a namaz room was allotted during his term as CM, said “no such allotment was made while I was CM. Constitution of India does not permit it.” BJP legislators, sporting black straps raised slogans like “Lathi, Goli, Wali Sarkar Nahi Chalegi” while protesting ‘lathi charge’ and use of water cannon on protesters on Wednesday. BJP members also staged a dharna outside the Assembly. Police had used water cannons and batons on Wednesday to break up protests by the BJP against allotment of the namaz room. A row broke out in Jharkhand after the Assembly Speaker allotted a room in the Assembly for offering namaz through a notification last week. The Opposition leaders have been protesting against the decision, calling it “unconstitutional”. They are also demanding a separate hall for chanting Hanuman Chalisa (prayers to Lord Hanuman).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jharkhand-speaker-forms-panel-to-look-into-namaz-room-issue/article36393658.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||IITs top Centre’s rankings for 2021||Among engineering institutions, the IIT, Madras was number one, followed by the IITs in Delhi, Bombay, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Roorkee, Guwahati and Hyderabad, and the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) in Tiruchirapalli and Surathkal. For management institutions, IIM-Ahmedabad was ranked one, followed by IIM-Bangalore, IIM-Calcutta, IIT-Kozhikode, IIT-Delhi, IIM-Indore, IIM-Lucknow, Xavier Labour Relations Institute in Jamshedpur, IIT-Kharagpur and IIT-Bombay. Jamia Hamdard was ranked one for pharmacy, followed by Panjab University. Manipal College of Dental Sciences was ranked the best in the dental category. All-India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi scored the top rank for medical institutions, followed by Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh, Christian Medical College in Vellore, National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences in Bengaluru, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, BHU, Jawaharlal Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research in Puducherry, King George’s Medical University in Lucknow and Kasturba Medical College in Manipal. Among institutions teaching law, National Law School of India University in Bengaluru was ranked number one, followed by National Law University in Delhi, NALSAR University of Law in Hyderabad, West Bengal National University of Juridicial Sciences, IIT-Kharagpur, Gujarat National Law University, Jamia Millia Islamia, National Law University in Jodhpur, Symbiosis Law School in Pune and Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology in Bhubaneswar. IISc was ranked the best research institution, a category included for the first time. Miranda House in Delhi remained the best college, followed by Lady Shri Ram College for Women and Loyola College. While releasing the rankings, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said there was need for developing regional ranking frameworks and increasing participation by institutions. The Ministry launched the rankings in 2016 and has added more categories over the years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iits-top-centres-rankings-for-2021/article36393254.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Byelections to six Rajya Sabha seats on Oct. 4||The byelections to six Rajya Sabha seats and polling to the Puducherry seat in the Upper House will be conducted on October 4, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced on Thursday. The Puducherry seat will become vacant after the retirement of N. Gokulakrishnan on October 6. The bypolls will also be held to one seat each in West Bengal, Assam, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, and two in Tamil Nadu. The vacancies followed the resignation of Manas Ranjan Bhunia (West Bengal), Biswajit Daimary (Assam), K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam (Tamil Nadu), and Thaawarchand Gehlot (Madhya Pradesh). The Maharashtra seat fell vacant due to the death of Rajeev Satav on May 16 after contracting COVID-19. The ECI also announced the bypoll to one seat of the Bihar Legislative Council on October 4. It fell vacant following the death of Tanveer Akhtar on May 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/byelections-to-six-rajya-sabha-seats-on-oct-4/article36393255.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||BRICS seeks ‘inclusive’ intra-Afghan dialogue||China on Thursday extended an emergency aid of $31 million to Afghanistan to help the Taliban run the government. The summit emphasised the importance of the principle of “non-interference” in international affairs and said disputes and conflicts should be resolved by peaceful means. Explaining India’s concerns, Secretary of the Ministry of External Affairs Sanjay Bhattacharya said, “There is a very strong consensus. Afghanistan should not become a reason for problems in the neighbourhood.” The summit was also addressed by South African President Cyril Ramaphosa, Chinese President Xi Jinping, Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro, and President Vladimir Putin of Russia, who remarked that Afghanistan has a new crisis. Territorial disputes “The withdrawal of U.S. forces and its allies from Afghanistan has led to a new crisis, and it’s still unclear how this will affect global and regional security. It is for good reason that our countries have paid special attention to this issue,” said President Putin. Apart from Afghanistan, the BRICS leaders also took up the conflicts in Myanmar, Syria, the tension in the Korean peninsula, Israel-Palestine violence and other territorial disputes. “We underscore the inadmissibility of the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State or in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes and principles of the United Nations,” stated the New Delhi Declaration. The summit also discussed the COVID-19 pandemic and the strategy to strengthen counter-pandemic cooperation and multilateral reform. The New Delhi Declaration called against playing politics with the pandemic and the COVID-19 virus and urged for a global effort to eradicate the virus. “We support science-based, inclusive of broad expertise, transparent and timely processes, free from politicisation or interference to strengthen international capabilities to better understand the emergence of novel pathogens and to help prevent future pandemics,” stated the Declaration. The summit called for reform of the UN Security Council and urged to “revitalise” of the UN General Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brics-seeks-inclusive-intra-afghan-dialogue/article36393258.ece
10 September 2021||Srinagar,||Centre kicks off major public outreach in J&K||The BJP-led NDA government at the Centre on Thursday kicked off a major public outreach in J&K that will see around 70 Union Ministers meeting people and their representatives for the next nine weeks in the Union Territory. Initiating the large-scale exercise, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Ministers of State Kailiash Choudhary and Shobha Karandlaje met farmers, horticulturists, agriculture scientists and others at the Centre of Excellence at Zawoora in Srinagar. They took stock of the status of the government’s welfare schemes and their implementation in the UT. “J&K is the crown of India. This region is shoulder-to-shoulder in the country’s progress and development towards self-reliance,” Mr. Tomar said. Officials said the horticulturists flagged many issues during their interaction with the Union Ministers, including the absence of lending from other banks, start-up policy, Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) for C-grade apple produce, Fasal Bima Yojana for apples and so on. They were assured of the Centre’s intervention into the issues raised, officials added. The Union Agriculture Minister also inaugurated the Technology Park and e-inaugurated Gramin Krishi Mausam Sewa (GKMS) for facilitating farmers by issuing weather advisories.  Mr. Tomar’s group was the first among the 70 Union Ministers who are slated to visit all 20 districts of J&K in the coming nine weeks in batches, apparently to fill the political vacuum created in absence of elections for the Assembly since 2018. Second such outreach This is the second such outreach by the Centre since the reading down of Article 370 in 2019. Around 36 Union Ministers toured the UT in 2020. Officials said the Centre had tasked these Ministers with getting feedback directly from the people, administration and representatives of the Panchayati Raj Institutions on governance and development issues, especially the areas pertaining to the respective ministries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-kicks-off-major-public-outreach-in-jk/article36393261.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||I-T returns filing deadline extended to December 31||The government on Thursday extended the deadline till December 31 for filing of income tax returns by individuals for the financial year 2021. Earlier, the deadline was extended to September 30. It had extended the ITR filing deadline for companies till February 15, 2022 from November 30, 2021. The due date for filing the tax audit report and transfer pricing certificate has been extended to January 15, 2022 and January 31, 2022 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-returns-filing-deadline-extended-to-december-31/article36393262.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Ford to shut production in Chennai, Sanand||The sale of the company’s current products such as Figo, Aspire, Freestyle, EcoSport and Endeavour will cease once existing dealer inventories are sold. The auto major, however, said it will continue full customer support operations for these vehicles with service, aftermarket parts and warranty coverage. Anurag Mehrotra, president and managing director of Ford India said the company took these restructuring actions after investigating several options, including partnerships, platform sharing, contract manufacturing with other OEMs, and the possibility of selling its manufacturing plants, which is still under consideration. “Unfortunately, no matter what we tried or investigated, all our projections show that we will continue to deliver suboptimal returns on shareholder investment. The business change we announced today is designed to create a new, asset-light, business model, which is sustainably profitable long-term,” he added. Ford, which is the latest U.S. automaker to stop manufacturing in India after General Motors and Harley-Davidson, expects to record pre-tax special item charges of about Rs. 2 billion due to the restructuring. Mr. Mehrota pointed out that the move is in response to increasingly challenging market conditions, including the extended slowdown of India’s auto industry as well as cumulative operating losses of about Rs. 2 billion that Ford has incurred against an investment of Rs. 2.5 billion dollars over the years. The carmaker, which entered the India market almost 25 years ago, has managed to capture only about 2% share of the passenger vehicle market in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ford-to-shut-two-plants-4000-jobs-on-the-line/article36393267.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||BMS stages protests against price rise||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh on Thursday held national protests against price rise and the National Monetisation Pipeline announced by the government. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-affiliated trade union called upon the government to pass a law declaring cost of production of items, curb price rise of essential commodities and petroleum products and compensate workers for inflation by increasing salaries, a statement by BMS general secretary Binoy Kumar Sinha said. The protesters handed over memoranda to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Ministers of States through the District Magistrates. In Delhi, a protest was staged outside the District Magistrate’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bms-stages-protests-against-price-rise/article36393283.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||More emergency landing strips to be developed||Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said emergency landing facilities will be developed at many places to strengthen security. Inaugurating the facility on the National Highway 925A in Rajasthan with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, he said this runway will protect strategically important borders. According to an official statement, Mr. Gadkari said the 19 other places include Phalodi-Jaisalmer road and Barmer-Jaisalmer road in Rajasthan, Kharagpur-Balasore road in West Bengal, Hashimara-Guwahati road in Assam, Bhuj-Naliya road in Gujarat, Leh/Nyoma area in Assam and the Jorhat-Baraghat road. “Now, our National Highways will also be of use to the Army, which will make our country more secure and always ready for emergency situations,” the statement quoted Mr. Gadkari as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-emergency-landing-strips-to-be-developed/article36393290.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Allow spying without nod, says Kerala Bill||The ADGP can permit the interception of wire, electronic or oral communication if he ‘reasonably determines’ that an emergency situation involving ‘conspirational activities threatening the security or interest of the State’ or ‘imminent danger of death or serious physical injury to any person’ exists, says the draft. The draft will be scrutinised by a panel led by the Chief Secretary on Friday. The Bill comes even as a petition, filed by senior journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, for an independent probe into the mass surveillance of over 142 potential “targets”, including journalists, lawyers, ministers, Opposition politicians, constitutional functionaries and civil society activists using the spyware Pegasus, is under the consideration of Supreme Court. The draft Bill further states that the interception shall immediately terminate in the absence of an order approving the interception or the communication sought is obtained or when the application for the order is rejected, whichever is earlier. The evidence collected through such interception will be admissible against the accused in the case. The contents of the intercepted communication shall be, if possible, recorded on tape or wire or other comparable devices. The recording shall be protected from editing or other alterations, says the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/allow-spying-without-nod-says-kerala-bill/article36393251.ece
10 September 2021||Ranchi,||Judge death: HC unhappy over tardy pace of probe||Observing that no new fact has been discovered in the investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the death case of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand, the High Court of Jharkhand on Thursday expressed annoyance over the slow pace of the probe. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad also expressed unhappiness with the lack of manpower at the Forensic Sciences Laboratory and ordered the State home secretary and the FSL director to appear before it on the next date of hearing. The investigation has not revealed anything which was not known before, the Bench said while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) initiated to monitor the probe into the 49-year-old additional district judge’s death after being hit by an auto-rickshaw in Dhanbad town on July 28. The footage of the incident clearly shows that the auto-rickshaw driver went out of his lane and hit the judge. Even if the driver was inebriated, his intent is clear from the footage, the Bench said. CCTV footage showed that the judge was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district court early on July 28 when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind, and fled the scene. Some locals found him lying in a pool of blood and took him to a hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival. The State government had handed the probe over to the CBI which started its investigation on August 4. The central agency on Wednesday doubled its reward to Rs. 10 lakh for anyone sharing “information of importance” on the death of the judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judge-death-hc-unhappy-over-tardy-pace-of-probe/article36393657.ece
10 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||AIMIM chief booked in U.P. for ‘provocative’ speech||The Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday booked All India Majlis-e-Itthehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi for allegedly trying to spoil communal harmony through a “provocative” speech in Barabanki district in which he said that the administration had earlier this year “martyred” a century-old mosque. Mr. Owaisi allegedly also used indecent language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the police said. Yamuna Prasad, Superintendent of Police, Barabanki, said Mr. Owaisi was booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 153a, 188, 169 and 170. Addressing a public meeting in Barabanki, Mr. Owaisi referred to the mosque in Ramsanehi Ghat which was demolished in May by the administration. “A 100-year-old mosque was martyred in Barabanki…” Mr. Owaisi said as he blamed the administration for not following the law in the demolition and attacked Opposition parties for not speaking out against the incident. The AIMIM leader also termed it a “political demolition”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/owaisi-booked-in-up-for-comments/article36393587.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Nammazhvar’s feet||Alavandar, in his Stotra Ratnam, sees Nammazhvar’s feet as his mother, father, wife and children, said Valayapet Ramachariar, in a discourse. A mother plays the most important role in the life of a person. The Sastras, therefore, place the mother above everyone else. The father providing for and protecting the child comes next. Kalidasa, in his Raghuvamsa, says King Dileepa was like a father to all his subjects, because he taught them humility. It is a father’s duty to inculcate good values in his children. With Dileepa taking care of this, fathers in his kingdom did not have much of a role to play in bringing up their children. A young man is attracted to his wife, and reserves a special place for her in his heart. Alavandar sees Nammazhvar’s feet as taking the place of a wife too. None can be dearer to an individual than his children. In his Devanayaka Panchasat, Vedanta Desika prays that his words must be listened to by Lord Devanatha, in the manner of a father listening joyfully to his child’s lisping. But Alavandar sees Nammazhvar’s feet as his children too. A man may have doting parents, a loveable wife, and adorable children, but can he enjoy any of this, in the absence of wealth? Alavandar says vibhuti (wealth) too is Nammazhvar’s feet. He says the Lord accepts the service of Nityasuris and of others happily. Rama was pleased both with Lakshmana’s service and with that of the monkeys. Having said all this, Alavandar finally says that Nammazhvar’s feet are ‘sarvam’ — everything, for him. Parents, wife and children all pertain to this world. When Alavandar says ‘sarvam’, after having spoken of all worldly relations, it shows, that to him, even moksha is Nammazhvar’s feet. He says it is so not only for him, but for everyone associated with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nammazhvars-feet/article36393286.ece
10 September 2021||Srinagar,||Rahul visits a shrine in Jammu||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday arrived in Jammu on a two-day tour and paid obeisance at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine. Immediately after his arrival at the Jammu airport, he headed for the shrine located in Reasi district, where he walked barefooted on the staircase and attended an ‘Attka Aarti ’ . Mr. Gandhi refused to make any statement “I have come here to offer prayers to the Mata. I don’t want to make any political comments.” Congress leader Salman Nizami said the people of Jammu greeted Mr. Gandhi with an open heart and offered a warm welcome. “There were joyous scenes here as Mr. Gandhi connects to one and all,” Mr. Nizami said. Mr. Gandhi is scheduled to meet party leaders on Friday. This is his second visit to the Union Territory. He attended a party function in Srinagar on August 9 and 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-visits-a-shrine-in-jammu/article36393273.ece
10 September 2021||Kolkata,||4 months on, BJP man’s body handed to kin||Four months after the death in poll violence of Abhijit Sarkar, a BJP worker, the body was handed over to his family on Thursday. Sarkar was killed in post-poll violence on May 2 in Kolkata’s Kankurgachi area. Sarkar’s death had triggered a political war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party and Trinamool Congress. His family had refused to accept the body from the local police on grounds that they could not identify it. The family had also moved the court questioning the report of the first post-mortem. On July 2, the court had ordered a second autopsy. A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court had ordered a DNA test to ascertain the identity of the body. The DNA test confirmed the mortal remains as those of Sarkar. The family had earlier this week moved the Sealdah Court, which directed the hospital authorities to hand over remains to them. Earlier in the day, BJP leader Debdutta Majhi allegedly slapped a home guard at the NRS Medical College and Hospital during a protest over the delay at the hospital morgue. While the Trinamool Congress leadership condemned the behaviour of Mr. Majhi, State unit BJP president Dilip Ghosh said, “The State government should have been slapped”. “How inhuman can someone be. Instead of paying respects to someone who was killed, the police were delaying the handing over the body,” Mr. Ghosh said. TMC leader and MLA Tapas Roy countered by saying that hitting a police officer is a criminal offence and instead of condemning this, State BJP president was encouraging it. Sarkar’s body was taken to BJP headquarters in central Kolkata where senior party leaders, including Mr. Ghosh, offered their respects. The family members were seen arguing with the deployed police at least at two places in the city on way to the crematorium. Biswajit Sarkar, brother of the deceased, said the police kept changing the route of the hearse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-months-on-bjp-mans-body-handed-to-kin/article36393265.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Take action against govt. in Tripura’||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has demanded immediate action against the BJP government in Tripura for the alleged pre-planned attacks on CPI(M) offices across the State, which, according to him, were carried out in connivance with the government. The CPI(M) would organise a protest in the capital on Friday on the issue. The most brazen attack, Mr. Yechury said, was on the State committee office in Agartala. “They have ransacked the ground and first floors of the office, burnt two office cars and broken the bust of Dasarath Deb, a revered leader,” he stated. The party has claimed that houses of many leaders and activists of the CPI(M) were attacked, ransacked or set on fire. The office of newspaper Daily Desharkatha , which is supported by the CPI(M), was also damaged. ‘CRPF jawans withdrawn’ “It is to be noted that the police who were present at many of these venues remained silent bystanders. In the case of the State committee office, some CRPF jawans were present in front of the office but they were withdrawn an hour before the attack began,” Mr Yechury mentioned in his letter. He went on to blame the BJP, saying these attacks took place because the ruling party had tried and failed to suppress the activities of the main Opposition. “The impunity with which the attackers operated shows the connivance of the State government,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/take-action-against-govt-in-tripura/article36393266.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||R.N. Ravi to be Governor of Tamil Nadu||Governor of Nagaland R.N. Ravi was transferred as the next Governor of Tamil Nadu late on Thursday, in a series of gubernatorial changes. President Ram Nath Kovind also accepted the resignation of Baby Rani Maurya as the Governor of Uttarakhand, amid speculation of her returning to active politics in Uttar Pradesh where the State Assembly election is due next year. In other changes, Governor of Tamil Nadu Banwarilal Purohit, who held the additional charge of Punjab, has been appointed as the full-fledged Governor of Punjab. Lt. Gen. Gurmit Singh (retired), a former Deputy Chief of the Army Staff, has been made the Governor of Uttarakhand. Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi has now been given the additional charge of Nagaland, until regular arrangements are made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rn-ravi-to-be-governor-of-tamil-nadu/article36393494.ece
10 September 2021||Srinagar,||My statement distorted: Mehbooba||Former Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday said her statement over Sharia was being deliberately distorted. “At a time when India has become so polarised, there is increasing Islamophobia and the Afghanistan crisis has only worsened it. Muslims are always expected to prove that they don’t stand for violence. I can see why my statement is being used as click-bait to further this impression,” she said in a tweet. Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said he hoped the new regime in Afghanistan would end conflict. “The Hurriyat understands that no two conflict regions are the same and the differences between Afghanistan and Kashmir are well-known. However, we in Kashmir can surely empathise with the common people of the country who have been living in a state of uncertainty for 40 years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/my-statement-distorted-mehbooba/article36393495.ece
10 September 2021||Mumbai,||High Court dismisses Kangana’s plea||The Bombay High Court on Thursday dismissed the plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut seeking quashing of criminal defamation proceedings initiated against her by a court here based on lyricist Javed Akhtar’s complaint. Justice Revati Mohite Dere, who had on September 1 reserved her order on the plea, said the applicant’s (Ms. Ranaut’s) petition “stands dismissed”. Mr. Akhtar’s counsel Jay Bharadwaj had told the High Court that the Magistrate had directed the police inquiry after going through the lyricist’s complaint and excerpts of Ms. Ranaut’s interview, in which she had made the alleged defamatory comments. Mr. Akhtar had filed the criminal complaint against Ms. Ranaut in November last year before the Andheri Metropolitan Magistrate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-dismisses-kanganas-plea-in-defamation-case/article36393288.ece
10 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana govt. to investigate Karnal clash||As the stand-off between the farmers and the government continued at Karnal in Haryana on Thursday, the State’s Home Minister Anil Vij said the government was ready to investigate the clash between protesters and the police on August 28. It was the farmers’ democratic right to protest while government officials had constant dialogue with them but only legitimate demands would be accepted, he stated. “Dialogue is an integral part of any democracy, but only legitimate demands shall be accepted. The punishment is given according to the fault. To find out the fault, an investigation has to be done and we are ready to get it probed fairly, but we will get all the Karnal episodes investigated. If the farmers or their leaders are found to be at fault, then action will be taken against them too,” he told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-govt-to-investigate-karnal-clash/article36393294.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Meeting on cyberthreats organised||The Bureau of Police Research and Development on Thursday organised a conference on cybersecurity challenges, in collaboration with the National Cyber Research and Innovation Centre and the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre. In his inaugural address, Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra highlighted various challenges before the agencies from the national security perspective. He said the Union government had been taking measures, which included strengthening the legal infrastructure, to deal with them more effectively. During the conference, experts from Cert-IN, National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection, Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) and the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) gave presentations on a range of issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meeting-on-cyberthreats-organised/article36393268.ece
10 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TAMIL NADU||52 Maoists surrender in Telangana||As many as 52 Maoist militia and village committee members, including several sympathisers of the proscribed outfit from four border villages of Charla mandal, gave themselves up before Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt in Charla town on Thursday. Among those who surrendered were five women and seven minors hailing from Pusuguppa, Battigudem, Bathinapalli and Chennapuram villages, police said. In recent years, this was the biggest surrender. At least 19 Maoist militia and village committee members from three interior tribal villages in Charla and Dummugudem mandals surrendered before the police in June this year. As many as 33 Maoist militia/village committee members from Battinapalli and Kistarampadu turned themselves in before the police in November last year. The police attributed mass surrender of militia/village committee members, considered low-rung members of the outfit entrusted with the task of providing logistical support to the rebels, to disillusionment with the Maoist ideology. Speaking to media, the SP said the 52 had been forced to attend the CPI (Maoist) training programmes at Pesarlapadu, Puttapadu and Chanda areas by the Maoist leaders recently. He called upon the Maoists to eschew the path of violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/52-maoists-surrender-in-telangana/article36393598.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two taxiways opened to ease congestion at Chennai airport||Aircraft taking off from Chennai airport can save fuel and time as two more taxiways ‘Romeo’ and ‘November’ became operational on Thursday. While taxiway R will serve as a parallel route to the main runway, the taxiway N will run parallel to the secondary runway and help reduce taxiing time for flights and fuel consumption. An Air India flight from Delhi was the first to use them. Officials of Airports Authority of India (AAI) said the work on these two taxiways started about two years ago and the extension of the R taxiway to connect it to the Guindy end of the main runway was completed in June. “We are now handling about 20 to 25 flights an hour and this will increase with these two taxiways in use. But the extent of increase will be known when we do a study to see how many flights can be handled. Also, another important reason for commissioning them is to ensure that the parking bays in the remote area (between the main and secondary runways) are efficiently used,” an official said. Airlines usually hesitate to use the remote bays as it causes inconvenience to passengers who have to wait longer and take a bus to reach the terminal on arrival. “These taxiways can be used for handling Code F aircraft (which can carry nearly 500-700 passengers). So far, on a few occasions during COVID-19, we handled a cargo Code F aircraft and then before that, when the Chinese delegation arrived in the city,” an official said. A few rapid exit taxiways are under construction and the straightening of taxiway ‘Bravo’ is almost over. When all these become operational at a time when passenger traffic is touching the pre COVID-19 levels, it will be easier to handle and bring down the air traffic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-airport-gets-two-more-taxiways/article36393990.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bill to set up commission for welfare of SC/STs tabled||The Tamil Nadu State Commission for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs), set to be establised by the DMK government, will have the powers of a civil court trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. It will have a chairperson, a vice-chairperson and five other members. The commission will inquire, suo moto or on a petition presented to it by a victim or any person on his/her behalf, into complaints of violation of any right provided under the Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955, and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, as per a Bill tabled by the Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare, N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj, in the Assembly on Thursday. It will look into negligence in the prevention of such violations by a public servant, inquire into the issue and recommend the initiation of disciplinary action to the government if the official has been grossly negligent or indifferent while discharging his/her duties, with regard to the protection of the interests of people from the SCs and STs. It can summon and enforce the attendance of any person and examine them under oath, require the discovery and production of any document, receive evidence on affidavits, and requisition any public record or copy thereof from a court or office, the Bill stated. The chairperson of the panel will be a retired judge of the High Court, belonging to any of the SCs or STs. The vice-chairperson will be a prominent person belonging to any SC or ST, who has worked for the welfare of these communities. Of the five members, three will be from SCs and two from STs. One member should be a woman, the Bill read. On Wednesday, Mr. Stalin had, in a suo motu statement, said a Bill for setting up such a panel would be tabled in the ongoing session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bill-to-set-up-commission-for-welfare-of-scsts-tabled/article36393613.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RGGGH takes up study on virus pattern in inoculated patients||An analysis of the immune status, mortality and morbidity patterns post-vaccination among persons who tested positive for COVID-19 and hospitalised is being conducted at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). Having treated the highest number of patients with COVID-19 in the State — approximately 57,000 people since the start of the pandemic — RGGGH has taken up an analysis of 970 patients admitted in COVID-19 wards in the last four months. “We are studying 970 patients admitted to COVID-19 wards in the last four months, starting with the period when COVID-19 cases started to decline in the second wave of the pandemic. As a preliminary finding, we found that 170 of them had received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, while a majority were unvaccinated. Symptoms-wise, those who were vaccinated came with mild cough, myalgia and had less respiratory symptoms while those who were not vaccinated, had respiratory distress, drop in oxygen saturation level and pneumonia,” E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, said. In their observation, doctors found that post-vaccination, only patients with certain co-morbidities such as uncontrolled diabetes, morbid obesity, tuberculosis, lung diseases or interstitial lung diseases, had respiratory distress. Cancer patients came in with respiratory distress when they got infected with COVID-19. Citing current admission statistics, Dr. Theranirajan said as of September 9, 10 patients were admitted to the Intensive Care Unit and were on C-PAP (Continuous Positive Airway Pressure) or High Flow Nasal Oxygen. “None of them were vaccinated,” he said. Out of the 78 in-patients at the hospital, a majority of them — 61 patients — were non-vaccinated, while the remaining 17 were vaccinated, according to hospital data. Reiterating that this was a preliminary analysis, he said it was important to have multiple analyses such as time between vaccination and infection. “Such studies are important to know the efficacy of vaccines and to what extent does it prevent mortality. The World Health Organisation, while commenting on booster shot, has noted that the antibody presence in persons with co-morbidities after two doses has to be studied to decide on a third dose. We need to analyse this too. Only if we improve vaccination can we enter the endemicity stage and return to normalcy,” he added.  Such studies are important to know the efficacy of vaccines and to what extent does it prevent mortality E. Theranirajan Dean, RGGGH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rgggh-takes-up-study-on-virus-pattern-in-inoculated-patients/article36393600.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inoculate vulnerable population, government medical colleges told||The government medical colleges have been asked to focus on vaccinating patients’ attendants, college and hostel workers as well as the vulnerable population, especially the elderly. Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu, who held a meeting with the Deans of the government medical colleges on the arrangements for the mega vaccination camp scheduled for September 12, said the Deans were told to focus on 100% vaccination at hospitals and on medical college and hostel campuses. “We have asked the Deans to focus on covering patient attendants on the hospital premises, and also vaccinate hospital workers and college, hostel and mess workers,” he said. ‘Prioritise the elderly’ He said they should prioritise the vulnerable population, especially the elderly. “They can cover homes for the elderly, malls and apartments. They can form two to three teams and have fixed camps and mobile teams for the drive. In Chennai, these teams will work along with the Greater Chennai Corporation, while in districts, they will work with the Joint Directors and Deputy Directors of Health Services,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inoculate-vulnerable-population-says-govt/article36393628.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Patriot dies for the country, nationalist kills for the State’||Congress Member of Parliament from Thiruvananthapuram, Shashi Tharoor, on Thursday offered a distinction between patriotism and nationalism contending that “a patriot is prepared to die for his country while a nationalist is prepared to kill for his State.” Mr. Tharoor was in Chennai for the launch of his book ‘ The Battle of Belonging: on Nationalism, Patriotism and what it means to be an Indian ’ marked by a discussion with right-wing ideologue and Supreme Court advocate J. Sai Deepak. The event was organised by The C.P. Ramaswami Aiyar Foundation. Mr. Tharoor said he built on George Orwell’s and Rabindranath Tagore’s ideas. “Orwell’s visceral hatred of nationalism is very much influenced by what he saw in Europe’s nationalist movements in 30s and 40s. Building on Orwell, I came to the view that patriotism is about your love for the country…much about how you love your mother… because it is yours. Nationalist is caught up in an idea that is caught up in the State — flag, army and often defines his allegiance in opposition to others,” he said. “The book essentially talks about two kinds of nationalism — the nationalism that emerges from your birth, your religion, your language… that Orwell so despised… versus civic nationalism that is inherent, not anchored in identity but anchored in constitution and institution,” he added. Rebutting these arguments, Mr. Deepak said that the book takes a “truncated view” of what people crudely dub as ‘Hindu nationalism’. Mr. Deepak said that he was prepared to completely discard V.D. Savarkar to build a case for ‘Hindu (Dharmic) civilisationalism’. “It would be a grave injustice to the society using one particular individual used as a straw man. With due respect to Shri Savarkar and his contributions, it is not possible to completely glorify all parts of any person,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patriot-dies-for-the-country-nationalist-kills-for-the-state/article36393593.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Keshav Desiraju remembered||Speakers who shared their memories of Keshav Desiraju, a bureaucrat who recently passed away in Chennai, recalled him as a gentleman who touched many people’s lives. Desiraju, former Union Health Secretary and grandson of former President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, died on the latter’s birth anniversary on September 5. Gopalkrishna Gandhi, former Governor of West Bengal, said he had known him for nearly four decades and remembered him as “an extremely private person who was easy to know but not easy to understand”. During his stint in the Department of Personnel and Training, Desiraju had the opportunity to get to know every officer. “He knew their individual problems, eccentricities and in the process he became in the world of civil servants a keeper of their panchanga ” which helped when these individuals needed help, he said. “He was a friend’s friend and friend of friends. He helped a woman in her mid-80s when she had difficulty in accessing her pension,” Mr. Gandhi recalled. As the Union Health Secretary, he laid the foundation for a Mental Health Act which he pursued even after moving out of the department, said K. Sujatha Rao, former Union Health Secretary. He would sit with the health department officials and frame the rules for the Act so that it could be implemented. “He was a person of great efficiency and a quiet person I could implicitly trust. He sat with the joint commissioner and ensured that the rules of Mental Health Act were drafted. He did not need Ministers to prod him,” she said. Director of SCARF, R. Thara, said though he was a board member of the organisation he could enjoy a quiet coffee with her at the canteen of the Music Academy. K. Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation, and Sriram Panchu, senior advocate and trustee of CAG, also shared their memories of Desiraju. A video tribute from Vandana Gopikumar, co-founder of the Banyan, was also played. The event was organised by Citizen Consumer and Civil Action Group, of which Desiraju was a board member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keshav-desiraju-remembered/article36393605.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy worker felicitated for honesty||Palaniammal, a conservancy worker in charge of cleaning a few streets at Kasturba Nagar, Adyar, was felicitated by Chennai Corporation officials on Thursday for her honesty. Civic officials and private conservancy operator Urbaser Sumeet shared a video of the worker who returned a bag containing Rs. 50,000 to a resident of Kasturba Nagar Seventh Main Road. Robin Raj, the resident who lost the bag, said he received the bag from Palaniammal two days ago. As the civic body is planning to improve night conservancy, officials have started sensitising workers. The Greater Chennai Corporation has planned to launch night conservancy on all the 471 bus route roads in a few weeks. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi inspected night conservancy operations in various zones. Civic officials have been directed to inspect the work until 2 a.m. in all 15 zones. The civic body on Thursday launched night conservancy operations along 1,325 roads. A total of 12,713 bins will be cleared during the night conservancy operations along 1,792 km of city roads. A total of 158 compactors, 57 mechanical sweepers, 481 battery-operated vehicles and 2,688 conservancy workers will clear garbage at night. At least 25% of the garbage is expected to be cleared at night. Besides the 10 zones managed by private operators, the Corporation has launched vehicles in Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru.Vi.Ka. Nagar, Ambattur and Anna Nagar this week. Earlier, night conservancy work was restricted to market areas, 134 bus routes and 55 interior roads. After the launch of the new vehicles by the Chief Minister this week, the civic body has planned to focus more on night conservancy operations.  The Corporation has planned to launch night conservancy on all the 471 bus route roads in a few weeks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-worker-felicitated-for-honesty/article36393623.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SpiceJet pilots derostered after landing incident in Seychelles||The pilots of a SpiceJet international flight to the Indian Ocean archipelago, the Seychelles, have been derostered by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) following a landing incident. Flight SG9909 of September 7 left Chennai at 11.35 a.m. against its scheduled departure time of 7 a.m. and landed at Victoria Seychelles International Airport at around 2.30 p.m. The pilots of the Boeing 737-8SH, who were cleared to land on Runway 13, touched down well before the threshold, which is a runway marking that denotes the designated space for landing. The Seychelles runway has a displaced threshold — obstacles along the approach path is one reason — which reduces the length of the runway available for landing. The aircraft landed safely and the incident came to light later. Aviation safety expert Captain Mohan Ranganathan said the Boeing 737 had an electronic flight deck instrument called a Vertical Situation Display which enabled the crew to assess the flight path during the most critical flight phases. He said the incident, which could be categorised as serious, highlighted poor training and knowledge of the aircraft systems. He said the pilots needed corrective training and added that the DGCA must act to rectify low safety standards. An aviation source said the approach to the runway at the Seychelles could be difficult, especially during the monsoon, as there were sudden and rapid changes in the wind speed and direction accompanied by turbulence. There were strong updrafts and downdrafts during approach and along the runway. A SpiceJet spokesperson said, “We have initiated an inquiry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spicejet-pilots-derostered-after-landing-incident/article36393626.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Future of Ford’s 2,600 employees at stake||Car maker Ford’s decision to wind down its engine and vehicle assembling plant in Maraimalai Nagar near Chennai, by the second quarter of 2022, will put the lives of over 2,600 employees in Tamil Nadu at stake. While some employees said they have been anticipating the move for months, many were in for a rude shock on Thursday. One of the senior-most employees, who is also a part of the union, said they had been informed about the closure and told that talks on settlements would commence in the coming days. “We expected that they would cut down on production. Closing the plant is something we never saw coming,” he said. The company, in a message to its employees, said it would work closely with employees, unions, dealers and suppliers to care for those directly impacted. Another employee said there had been no production in the plant this last week. “We were told that there is a raw material shortage. Many workers are now at home. Only after hearing the news, we are realising this was a strategy,” he said. Employees whom The Hindu spoke to said they had no information on when production would resume, and when they would have to report to work. They said the company had said that they would announce the joining date in a day or two. Many were upset that the company had recently given them an average annual hike of Rs. 8,800, and now the news had come as a spoiler. S. Kannan, deputy general secretary, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Tamil Nadu, said workers had recently signed revised wage agreements for only a year, and at the time, CITU had indicated that something was not right. “We asked them why the agreement was only for a year and not for three,” he said. “And now, even their final settlement will not be that big,” he added. Several thousands of indirect workers too will be taking a beating because of the plant’s shutdown, but their actual number is not available. Workers, many of them in their mid-40s, are also worried that with the pandemic, job opportunities in the automobile hub has shrunk. The car maker first stepped into Tamil Nadu in 1996, and till date, has invested over Rs. 5,161.4 crore in the State. MSMEs and suppliers Many MSMEs in the Irungattukottai region, which supply raw materials and spare parts to Ford, have expressed concerns about the closure of the plant. They said this would create a small dent in their businesses. “It is too early to quantify its impact, but some firms will certainly suffer,” said the proprietor of a firm in the region. K.E. Raghunathan, convenor, Consortium of Indian Associations, said it was not Ford that was shutting down, but over 4,000 SMEs that were closing operations. “The worst that was anticipated has happened. The auto sector has expressed its concerns in the last four years on many occasions, but no one acknowledged them,” he said. The MSME sector is predominantly involved in the production of car parts like upholstery, leather, dash boards, clutches, brakes, gear box, tyres and handles, among other things, Mr. Raghunathan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/future-of-fords-2600-employees-at-stake/article36393607.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM extends ban on public gatherings till October 31||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday ordered the extension of the ban on political, social, cultural and religious gatherings in public places till October 31 to arrest the spread of COVID-19. Other restrictions that are currently in force will continue till 6 a.m. on September 15, he said in an official release. “To control the spread of COVID-19 and to prevent a third wave of infections, I appeal to the people to celebrate festivals inside their homes and use public transport only if necessary. People are also requested to avoid frequenting crowded places and events,” he said. The State government has taken note of a case of Nipah virus infection in neighbouring Kerala and is taking necessary steps to prevent its spread in Tamil Nadu, the Chief Minister said. “There has been an increase in the number of [COVID-19] cases in Kerala. Therefore, a ban has been imposed on buses operating between the two States,” Mr. Stalin said. With a special committee of the National Institute of Disaster Management, operating under Ministry of Home Affairs, filing a report that there could be a third wave of COVID-19 infections in September and October, Tamil Nadu has imposed a ban on festivals, political, social and cultural events, as they could end up becoming ‘super-spreader’ events, Mr. Stalin said. The release said certain restrictions had been relaxed, keeping in mind the livelihoods of the people, while the relaxations that are already in place would continue. He appealed to the people to follow COVID-19 preventive measures such as wearing face masks and frequently washing hands with soap.  To prevent a third wave of infections, I appeal to the people to celebrate festivals inside their homes and use public transport only if necessary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-extends-ban-on-public-gatherings-till-october-31/article36393609.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bill for increasing pension for former legislators||The Tamil Nadu government will table a Bill in the Assembly next Monday towards increasing the pension for former legislators from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 25,000, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said in the House on Thursday. “Though the increase was made earlier, it remained a mere announcement [by the erstwhile AIADMK government]. A formal Bill should have been moved in the Assembly, but the previous government did not do that,” Mr. Stalin said, responding to a request made by BJP floor leader Nainar Nagenthran (Tirunelveli). The DMK government will move and adopt a Bill for increasing the pension for former legislators, from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 25,000, on September 13, the last day of the ongoing session, the Chief Minister said. Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami was also present in the House during the debate. Cases to be withdrawn During another debate in the House, Mr. Stalin reiterated that cases registered against legislators would be withdrawn after scrutinising their nature. He was responding to requests made by PMK floor leader G.K. Mani (Pennagaram). “Cases are being withdrawn. In some instances, the nature of the cases is being scrutinised. There are some legal hurdles, since they are in the court. But the government’s intention is to withdraw these cases to the extent possible,” Mr. Stalin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-for-ex-mlas-to-be-hiked/article36393618.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,596 new positive cases, 21 deaths in Tamil Nadu||COVID-19 cases continued to fluctuate in Tamil Nadu with another 1,596 persons testing positive for the infection on Thursday. Six districts - Chengalpattu, Chennai, Coimbatore, Erode, Thanjavur and Tiruppur - accounted for a little over 50% of the fresh cases in the State. Coimbatore continued to top the table with 224 COVID-19 cases. The Health Department said five more persons died of the disease in the last few days, taking the toll so far in the district to 2,288. The district on Thursday had 2,165 active cases while 288 persons recovered. Two more school students tested positive on Thursday in Coimbatore, taking the total number of students who tested positive since the reopening of schools to 10. Officials from the Health Department and Department of School Education said that a Class IX girl from Government Higher Secondary School in Arasur and a Class XII girl from a private higher secondary school in Coimbatore Corporation limits tested positive on Thursday. Both were asymptomatic and stable, the officials said.  Chennai reported 186 new cases. Erode’s daily tally saw a marginal rise from 117 to 130 cases, while Chengalpattu recorded 108 cases. There were 92 cases in Thanjavur and 87 cases in Tiruppur. Among other districts, Namakkal recorded 61 cases and Salem 58 cases. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally so far to 26,28,961. Another 21 persons - three in private and 18 in government hospitals - succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 35,094. Of the 38 districts, 24 did not report fatalities due to COVID-19. There were five deaths in Coimbatore and two deaths each in Cuddalore, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur. Chennai, Salem and Erode reported one death each. Among the deceased, two persons were in their 30s. A 38-year-old woman from Thanjavur who had diabetes was admitted to Government Headquarters Hospital, Kumbakonam on August 27 with complaints of fever for four days. She died on September 6 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 39-year-old man from Coimbatore who had diabetes was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and ESI Hospital on August 18, and died on September 6 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 1,534 persons were discharged after treatment. Presently, 16,221 persons were under treatment for COVID-19 in the State. In the last 24 hours, 1,60,195 samples were tested in the State. Till date, 4,37,48,573 samples were tested. Another private laboratory - Imperial Diagnostics, Coimbatore - was approved for the COVID-19 testing recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1596-test-positive-21-die-of-infection/article36393630.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. govt opposes case filed by Sasikala against acquisition of her Paiyanur land||Ten years after V.K. Sasikala filed a case in the Madras High Court against acquisition of 784 square metres of her Paiyanur land for widening of Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR), the State government authorities have now filed a counter affidavit contending that the land was absolutely essential for the road widening project and that the acquisition proceedings had been concluded in 2011 itself. In the counter affidavit filed before Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan, the Special Tahsildar (Land Acquisition), Radial Road Scheme, Tambaram stated that though the acquisition was complete on paper, the possession was not taken since the present writ petition was pending in the court since 2011. The Tahsildar also stated that necessary compensation would be paid immediately after taking possession. According to Ms. Sasikala, the land owned by her adjacent to OMR at Paiyanur village in Chengalpattu district had several coconut trees and also other fruit yielding trees. The land was fully surrounded by a compound wall constructed at a huge cost. In January 2010, she came to know that the State government had decided to acquire a portion of her land along with lands belonging to other individuals. She submitted a detailed objection to the acquisition proceedings on January 18, 2010. Since the property then fell under Kancheepuram district, the Collector conducted an inquiry on January 22, 2010. Thereafter, an award was passed on September 15, 2011 and she was asked to submit documents to prove land ownership so that necessary compensation could be paid to her. Alleging procedural infirmities in the acquisition process, she urged the court to quash a Government Order issued on August 6, 2010 for acquisition of her land. However, in her counter affidavit, the Special Tahsildar V. Radha stated that OMR had been notified under Section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Highways Act of 2001 and it had been assigned the number SH-49A. Therefore, the acquisition proceedings were initiated lawfully for converting the road in to a six-lane highway and all legal procedures were followed scrupulously. The principles of natural justice had also been adhered to by considering the objections raised by the writ petitioner against acquisition of her land for the public project and those objections were rejected with valid reasons, the official said. Since the petitioner did not receive the notice for the award inquiry, such notice was affixed on her property by the Village Administrative Officer on May 6, 2011. Though the award inquiry was conducted on May 30, 2011, neither the petitioner nor her representatives participated in the inquiry and therefore the officials went ahead and passed the award, the court was told. After taking the counter affidavit on file, the judge adjourned the case to September 21 for the petitioner to reply to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-opposes-case-filed-by-sasikala/article36393631.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Varsity to give degrees to students taken in till 2020-21||Students admitted to the medical, dental and nursing colleges once attached to Annamalai University in Chidambaram up to 2020-21 will be given the degrees/diplomas of the university. A Bill to this effect was tabled in the Assembly by Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Thursday. Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital, Rajah Muthiah Dental College and Hospital and Rani Meyyammai College of Nursing were earlier under the control of Annamalai University. They were handed over to the Tamil Nadu government in January this year. The Bill sought to suitably amend Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University (Chennai) Act, 1987. Every person who was a student of Annamalai University before February 26, 2021, or was eligible for any of the examinations in the university’s medical science, dentistry or nursing courses shall be permitted to complete his/her course at the university and Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, it said. Boating to be regulated Another Bill tabled by Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru sought to regulate boating in the Kodaikanal lake to ensure the safety of passengers and boat-operators. The boats would be registered and certified for fitness. “There is no enabling provision in the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920, for regulating boating within the limits of a municipality and making by-laws by the Council of Municipality for the purpose,” and hence the Bill. Law Minister S. Regupathy tabled a Bill that sought to repeal 76 Acts that have become obsolete. The Bill was based on the recommendations of the State Law Commission and the Union government’s mandate to reduce the burden of regulatory compliance for the ease of doing business.  The Bill tabled by Health Minister Ma. Subramanian seeks to amend Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University (Chennai) Act, 1987||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsity-to-give-degrees-to-students-taken-in-till-2020-21/article36393617.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt., Opposition engage in heated debate over Kodanad case||The DMK and the principal Opposition, AIADMK, were engaged in a heated debate in the Assembly on Thursday over the probe into the Kodanad Estate heist-cum-murder case as well as the law and order situation in the State, with Speaker M. Appavu expunging a few remarks made by members of both parties. During a debate on the demand for grants for the Police Department, when Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami spoke on the law and order situation during the AIADMK government, Leader of the House Duraimurugan intervened and referred to the police firing during the protests against the Sterlite copper plant in Thoothukudi, in which 13 people were killed. ‘Unavoidable situations’ Mr. Palaniswami countered him by reading out statements, reportedly made by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi on the floor of the House in the 1960s, to say that police firing was “unavoidable” in certain instances. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin joined the debate to question the AIADMK government over the investigation into the Kodanad Estate heist-cum-murder case, though the bungalow was previously a designated camp office of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. “You [Mr. Palaniswami] were the Chief Minister when it happened,” Mr. Stalin said. But the AIADMK floor leader said that after Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016, the property had gone into the hands of “certain private persons”. When Mr. Stalin asked why they had gone to court over the case, Mr. Palaniswami clarified that an FIR was registered in that connection and the case was pending before a court. ‘A deliberate attempt’ Mr. Palaniswami said the government was attempting to deliberately relate the case with the AIADMK. He strongly opposed this. Though PWD Minister E.V. Velu sought to intervene in the debate, he was gestured against it by senior DMK leaders. Mr. Palaniswami then moved on to other subjects. Though Mr. Palaniswami cited a few crimes in various parts of the State, the Chair eventually expunged them from Assembly records “for want of evidence”. Mr. Stalin too joined to say that the government had taken action in all such incidents, and insisted that the Leader of the Opposition produce evidence and obtain the permission of the Speaker before making such claims. A few comments made by Mr. Palaniswami and Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru were also expunged by the Chair on Mr. Stalin’s insistence.  The government is deliberately attempting to relate the Kodanad Estate heist-cum-murder case with the AIADMK Edappadi K. Palaniswami Leader of the Opposition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-opposition-engage-in-heated-debate-over-kodanad-case/article36393620.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister greets new Governor Ravi||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin greeted R.N. Ravi, who has been appointed the Governor of Tamil Nadu. He hoped that Mr. Ravi’s arrival would provide an impetus to growth and prosperity in the State. He said, “With love and affection, we are sending off the outgoing Governor, Banwarilal Purohit, who has been appointed the Governor of Punjab.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-greets-new-governor-ravi/article36393632.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tasmac shops will not operate after 10 p.m.’||State-run liquor outlets (Tasmac shops) and the bars attached to them will not operate beyond their business hours, Minister for Prohibition V. Senthil Balaji said in the Assembly on Thursday. Responding to concerns raised by E.R. Eswaran (Tiruchengode), he said other shops (colloquially called sandhu kadai ) selling liquor near Tasmac shops will not be permitted to operate. “If such a case is brought to our notice, we will act against the manager of the shop concerned,” he said. Mr. Eswaran said some bars attached to Tasmac shops stayed open beyond 10 p.m., causing law and order issues in the vicinity. Road accidents and brawls were being reported in large numbers on Sunday evenings, he said. Hence, the Tasmac management should close the shops during the second half of Sunday evenings. He also wanted Tasmac shops to provide receipts to customers to avoid irregularities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-shops-will-not-operate-after-10-pm/article36393611.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Live telecast when House moves to Fort St. George’||The Tamil Nadu government will take steps towards telecasting Assembly proceedings, when the session is held in the Assembly Hall in Fort St. George, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Thursday. He was responding to concerns raised by the Leader of the Opposition, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, in the House. Since the Assembly session is being held in Kalaivanar Arangam, steps cannot be taken towards this. When the session returns to the Assembly Hall in Fort St. George, we will definitely take steps to telecast the proceedings,” Mr. Stalin said. The Fort St. George campus houses the Tamil Nadu government’s Secretariat as well as the Assembly Secretariat. It may be recalled that the Assembly session is being held in the spacious hall on the third floor of Kalaivanar Arangam, on Wallajah Road in Chennai, since last September, to ensure adherence to physical distancing norms. The Chief Minister went on to take a dig at Mr. Palaniswami, saying: “We have been making this demand for several years. You [the AIADMK] did not do it when you were in power for as many as 10 years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/live-telecast-when-house-moves-to-fort-st-george/article36393615.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Waldenstrom award for Dr. Vincent||International Myeloma Foundation board member S.Vincent Rajkumar, who is professor of Medicine at Mayo Clinic, received the 2021 Waldenstrom Award. He was recognised for his outstanding contribution to myeloma research by the International Myeloma Society during its annual meeting in Vienna. The award was named after Professor Jan Waldenstrom, a pioneer in treating blood cancers. ‘Team collaboration’ Dr. Vincent Rajkumar said he viewed this as a team award made possible by collaborations with members of the Mayo Clinic myeloma group, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group and the International Myeloma Working Group, according to a press release. Among his outstanding works, Dr. Vincent Rajkumar spearheaded an update of the definition of multiple myeloma to include validated biomarkers. Acclaimed paper As a result, the paper ‘International Myeloma Working Group updated criteria for diagnosis of multiple myeloma’ became one of the most frequently cited ones in the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waldenstrom-award-for-dr-vincent/article36393588.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Get jabs at mega camp’||With 40,000 booths in place for the mega vaccination camp, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian has appealed to people to utilise the opportunity and get vaccinated against COVID-19 during the camp scheduled for Sunday. Arrangements have been made to vaccinate 20 lakh persons aged above 18. The State government, after persistent efforts, has received a sufficient quantity of vaccine doses from the Union government, a release said. The booths have been established at PHCs, government hospitals, integrated child development scheme centres, noon-meal centres and schools, among other places. They will function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Both the first and second doses of vaccines will be administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/get-jabs-at-mega-camp/article36393624.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M alumnus helps renovate hostel buildings||The Indian Institute of Technology–Madras has roped in its alumni to help the institution renovate its hostels. The institute has launched a ‘Keep it flowing’ programme under which it seeks funds from alumni to improve facilities at the institution. On Wednesday, it reopened its oldest hostel, Cauvery, renovated with a donation of Rs. 2.5 crore from Krishna Chivukula, who completed his M.Tech from the institute in 1970. Mr. Chivukula, a ‘distinguished alumnus’ awardee of 2015, is the founder and chairman of Indo-Metal Injection Moulding. He introduced MIM in India when the technology was still nascent in other parts of the world. He has contributed Rs. 5.5 crore towards ‘Keep it flowing’ programme for the renovation of three hostels — Cauvery (Rs. 2.5 crore); Godavari (Rs. 1.5 crore); and Jamuna (Rs. 1.5 crore). Mr. Chivukula completed his B.Tech in mechanical engineering from IIT- Bombay, which honoured him with the distinguished alumnus award in 2016. According to him, “IIT graduates have established unbelievable benchmarks around the world. I think it is very important for us to give something back to our alma mater where we received this unbelievable education at almost no cost.” Institute Director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said the programme had been one of the most successful ones in terms of involvement of the alumni. Cauvery hostel, built in 1961, could accommodate 216 students in single occupancy. Since 2018, the rooms have been converted to double occupancy facilities, accommodating 750 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-madras-alumnus-helps-renovate-hostels/article36393715.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic constable suspended||A traffic police constable in Chennai was suspended on charges of groping a woman at a restaurant in Iyyappanthangal. The accused, Kumaran, a head constable, was attached to Traffic Wing, Porur. The police sources said that while he was returning from duty he decided to have lunch at an eatery at Iyyapanthagal. He allegedly groped a young woman who passed by at the eatery while waiting for his food. As she raised an alarm, the staff of the restaurant alerted the police. Kumaran was handed over to SRMC police station. He was charged with harassing a woman and was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-suspended-for-molesting-woman/article36393602.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No restrictions on home celebrations’||There is no restriction on celebrating Vinayaka Chathurthi at home, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin reiterated in the Assembly on Thursday. “The restrictions are only to curb gatherings in public places and taking out rallies,” Mr. Stalin said in the House, responding to concerns raised by BJP MLA Nainar Nagenthran (Tirunelveli). Mr. Nagenthran said restrictions being imposed on the celebrations of Vinayaka Chathurthi were worrisome, and requested the Chief Minister to issue a few relaxations for Friday. After Mr. Stalin said restrictions on Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations were in line with an advisory issued by the Union government, Mr. Nagenthran did not press further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-restrictions-on-home-celebrations/article36393610.ece
10 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||More temple lands reclaimed, says Minister||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu on Thursday said that never in the past had such an extent of temple land been reclaimed by the government from the clutches of encroachers. “Even on Thursday, we retrieved 49 grounds at Vadapalani [in Chennai] from a private party, who was paying just Rs. 1,750 a month, and its value is Rs. 200 crore. We will continue to reclaim temple lands,” the Minister said in the Assembly, responding to Panruti legislator T. Velmurugan, who complained about the appropriation of temple lands by individuals in his constituency. When Mr. Velumurugan said officials were not allowed to serve notice on the encroachers, the Minister said the government would take action against encroachers, and the police could not be cowed down by anyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-temple-lands-reclaimed-says-minister/article36393621.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Portion of T.T.K. Road caves in||An old sewer line has caused a 15-foot crater on the T.T.K. Road in Alwarpet on Thursday. Officials of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board said such problems occur when the crust of a pipeline gets corroded. “We have cordoned off the area to ascertain the kind of repair needed,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/portion-of-ttk-road-caves-in/article36393601.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Magazine editor held for extortion||The editor of Tamil magazine was arrested on Thursday on the charge of extorting money from a Tangedco engineer. On September 3, Ramesh Babu met the complainant Karthik Ganesh, 46, assistant executive engineer of Tangedco in Sowcarpet and introduced himself as the editor of a magazine. He accused the engineer of having violated rules in new power connections and threatened to publish it unless he paid Rs. 75,000 immediately. The engineer paid Rs. 30,000 on the same day. Again on Thursday, Ramesh Babu called the engineer and demanded Rs. 10,000. He instructed him to come with money to Mint Street. The engineer lodged a complaint in the Elephant Gate police station and the accused was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/magazine-editor-held-for-extortion/article36393603.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Durga Stalin inaugurates hospital||Durga Stalin, wife of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, inaugurated Dr. Lenin’s OrthoInde Hospital in Anna Nagar on Thursday. Dr. Lenin is a pioneer in joint replacement and arthroscopic surgeries. The chairman of the hospital Dr. Anuja said that the mission of the hospital was to provide best possible health care with state-of-the-art infrastructure accessible and available to all strata of society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/durga-stalin-inaugurates-hospital/article36393604.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai temple property retrieved from school||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) department on Thursday took into its possession prime property in Mylapore worth Rs. 276 crore. The 47 grounds of land, which was used by a private school in the locality, belongs to the Kapaleeswarar Temple. HR and CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, who visited the spot and collected Rs. 18 lakh towards the first instalment of rental arrears from the trust managing the school, said that the school owed the temple Rs. 12 crore. “The Madras High Court has asked us to fix a fair rent based on market rental value prevailing in the locality,” he said. Giving details, he told presspersons that in 1928 the temple had given the land on lease to the school for 30 years after which it was extended for another 21 years. However, the temple did not extend the lease after that. After a few years, the school handed over a portion of the land to the temple but continued to occupy the rest. The High Court, during its last ruling, directed the department to take possession of the land. “We will be providing the land on day rent to private schools for conduct of events like sports day and annual day. For government institutions, it would be offered free. The space would be utilised as a space for local children and youngsters to play and practice sports,” he said. Mr. Sekarbabu said a committee would soon be formed to fix fair rent for properties belonging to temples. “Now, not many are paying rent saying the amounts were high. After fixing fair rents, if people do not pay, the department will take strict action,” he said. Mylapore resident P. Muralidharan suggested that a portion of the land could be earmarked as a park with walkers pathway and some benches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-retrieves-temple-property-from-school/article36393591.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Salt pan workers happy over govt. dole||D. Mukilvannan, who operates a salt pan along with his wife Lakshmidevi on a leased plot in Marakanam, is happy about the government’s decision to give Rs. 5,000 as dole per person during the non-production season. Salt pans in Kovalam near Chennai and in Marakanam function from February to August. The pans in Vedaranyam function till September and those in Thoothukudi close by October. They are usually flooded due to the rains in the monsoon and the ridges of mud are made again after the waters recede when salt production commences again. Salt industry workers thanked DMK MP Kanimozhi for her efforts in providing the dole. “I run the production on an old system called Thannpaadu where I am the owner and the labourer. We don’t have work for six months in a year and during this time do small odd jobs and manage. However, I don’t have any membership in the welfare board. I am now worried as to how they will include our names,” he said. K. Ponraj of Salt Pan Workers Union-CITU, Thoothukudi, said 50,000 workers were involved in salt production and this was a long-pending demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salt-pan-workers-happy-over-govt-dole/article36393712.ece
10 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Steam loco for NMR likely to be inducted by September end||A new coal-fired steam locomotive for the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR), which is currently undergoing trial runs, is expected to be inducted into service by the end of September. Top sources in Salem Division of Southern Railway told The Hindu on Thursday the engine had completed two trial runs on the NMR stretch so far. The second trial run, which was held on Thursday, involved the operation of the steam engine from Mettupalayam to Coonoor. The first trial run held on Tuesday was conducted till Hillgrove. The steam locomotive was operated with partial load during these two trial runs and the railway officials noted down certain operational issues for rectification. The third trial run would be conducted within two weeks, following which the coal-fired steam engine would be inducted into service on the NMR stretch, the sources said. Named ‘X-37400’, this was the first ‘X’ Class coal-fired steam locomotive manufactured completely in India and was flagged off by John Thomas, General Manager of Southern Railway, at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi on August 25. The steam locomotive reached Mettupalayam Junction after nearly ten days on September 5. With a length of 10.38 metres and weighing 50 tonnes, it could hold 3.8 tonnes of coal and its water tank had a capacity of 4,500 litres. The engine had also been fitted with rack and pinion arrangements for its operation in the hilly terrain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steam-loco-for-nmr-likely-to-be-inducted-by-september-end/article36393637.ece
10 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Major temples to remain closed on Vinayaka Chaturthi||Major temples in Coimbatore district under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department will remain closed for devotees on Friday for Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Sources in the HR&CE Department said on Thursday small non-listed temples with an annual revenue less than Rs. 10,000 and had Lord Ganesha as the main deity would be allowed to remain open in the district on Friday. However, prominent temples such as Mundhi Vinayagar Temple at Puliakulam and Vinayagar Temple at Eachanari would remain closed for devotees as the restrictions on temples to not remain open on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays would remain in force. No live streaming Livestreaming of Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations from temples in the district had not been arranged this year, the sources said. As per the directions of the State government, individuals would be allowed to immerse their Vinayaka idols in water bodies or leave the idols outside temples this year. The HR&CE Department would take steps for its removal. Around 40 temples had been identified in the district for this purpose, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-temples-to-remain-closed-on-vinayaka-chaturthi/article36393638.ece
10 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police to fix ANPR cameras at major entry points in city||The Coimbatore City Police have decided to fix Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras at all major entry points of the city with an aim to monitor vehicles that enter and exit the jurisdiction. The move comes in the wake of the incident on Monday wherein a woman was found dead under suspicious circumstance on Avinashi Road at Chinniyampalayam. The city police are yet to conclude whether the woman was dropped from a moving vehicle or hit by a vehicle, suspected to be a multi utility purpose vehicle (MPV). Though the police got visuals of the vehicle from a few surveillance cameras, its registration number was not clear. The registration number of the vehicle could have been captured if ANPR cameras were in place at the entry points of the city, the police found. According to the police, some of the ANPR cameras that were in fixed in places like the airport junction (SITRA) on Avinashi Road were removed for the construction of the elevated corridor from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins. The suspected MPV is believed to have passed through the airport junction. After assessing these factors, Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor on Wednesday gave instructions to fix ANPR cameras at all major entry points of the city at Chinniyampalayam, Selvapuram, near Saibaba Colony, Saravanampatti, Kamatchipuram and Sugunapuram. ANPR cameras were installed at major traffic junctions in the city with the support of people’s initiative ‘Uyir’ to detect traffic violations. These cameras had also been helpful in detecting crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-fix-anpr-cameras-at-major-entry-points-in-city/article36393639.ece
10 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Five injured as tree falls onto registration office waiting area||Five persons suffered minor injuries and several others escaped when a tree fell onto the waiting area of the registration office on the campus of the Collectorate here on Thursday. A major tragedy was averted as very few persons were in the waiting area made of tin roofing sheets. Five two-wheelers were damaged in the incident. According to the Fires and Rescue Services, a mayflower tree at the two-wheeler parking area of the office of the Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore District Police, fell onto the waiting area of the registration office on the adjacent campus. “The tree’s trunk was partially infested by termites near its base,” said S. Velusamy, station officer, Coimbatore south fire station. The trunk and branches were cut off and removed from the place, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-injured-as-tree-falls-onto-registration-office-waiting-area/article36393640.ece
10 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore records two more deaths||Cuddalore district reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 39 new cases on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 62,675. The death toll stood at 845. The district saw 61,411 recoveries and 419 were active cases. In Villupuram, 21 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 45,023. Kallakurichi district reported one more COVID-19 death and 32 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 30,362. The official death toll stood at 202.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-records-two-deaths/article36393716.ece
10 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Skill training programme conducted||A skill training programme for village-level child protection committees was organised under the aegis of the District Child Protection Unit at Adhiyaman Kottam here on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, Collector S. Dhivyadarshini said, child protection entails protection from discrimination, abuse, extractive labour, and trafficking. Child protection services began from day the child was born and continued up to their adolescence and it involved delivery of governmental services towards child protection. Monitoring  The panchayat unions are responsible for ensuring that the child protection services were accessible to children. Panchayat Union chairpersons shall function as block level child protection committee heads to monitor the operation of child protection services, according to the administration. Village level, block level, district level and State level child protect committees were to function as a multi-tier child protection network, according to the Collector. The block-level and the village-level child protection committees shall convene once in three months without fail to discuss and deliberate on issues of child labour, school dropouts, trafficking, sexual abuse, and child marriage and chalk out an action plan to deal with them. Issues unresolved at the level of village child protection committees shall be taken up with the block-level child protection committees and those further to the district child protection committees for resolution, the Collector said. Timely interventions The child protection committees were also urged to liaise with NGOs and other civil society groups to provide timely interventions for children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skill-training-programme-conducted/article36393734.ece
10 September 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Sarathkumar backs DMK on Kodanad death probe||There is nothing wrong in ordering an investigation into the Kodanad death case, All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi leader Sarathkumar said here on Thursday. He told reporters that the case gained importance since it revolved around the former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. The AIADMK, instead of finding fault with their political enemy (the DMK), should tell the facts to the investigating officers, he said. About the DMK government’s performance in the first 100 days, he said that to assess the functioning of a government, six months were essential. The DMK had just taken over and was on the path of implementing its poll promises. The AISMK leader said his party would contest in the rural local bodies election in nine districts. Already, there were applications seeking ticket for the posts for which political parties could contest. He wanted more women to come forward to participate in panchayat administration as they were aware of the issues in the villages. The Centre should support Tamil Nadu in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic by supplying adequate vaccines. It should also release funds for the development of the State, Mr. Sarathkumar said. The actor-turned-politician was here to attend a wedding of his party functionary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sarathkumar-backs-kodanad-death-probe/article36393710.ece
10 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sale of Ganesh idols dips in Erode||With the State government imposing a ban on public celebrations for Vinayaka Chaturthi, sale of Ganesh idols failed to pick up for the festival that falls on September 10. The district administration had also banned installation of idols in public places during the festival and asked individuals to install idols in their homes and immerse it in the nearby water bodies. This caused disappointment to the artisans involved in making large-sized idols as they said that their business dropped by over 80% in the current year and last year. Hence, small-sized idols were made and many tried to sell idols made last year. Sale of small-sized idols along the Meenatchi Sundaranar Road in pushcarts was also low. Artisans said their business was very poor than ever before. “Last year due to COVID-19 restrictions, our business was completely affected and this year, too, sales were very low”, said an artisan from Rajasthan involved in making and selling idols for over eight years in the city. “Usually, we have customers seeking idols sized between one and three feet. But this year, the sale was poor”, the artisan said and added that idols are available from Rs. 100 to Rs. 2,000. Meanwhile, the district police have warned various Hindu outfits not to install statues in public places or take out idols in procession. Police asked the public and members of various outfits to adhere to COVID-19 norms and celebrate the festival at their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-ganesh-idols-dips-in-erode/article36393729.ece
10 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||1.5 lakh doses available for mega vaccination camp||A total of 1,05,400 doses of COVID-19 vaccines are available for persons aged above 18 years at 847 centres across the district during the mega vaccination camp to be held from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on September 12. The State government had planned to conduct the special vaccination drive free of cost on Sunday to cover the left-out persons aged above 18 in the State. Hence, Collector H. Krishnanunni held a meeting with officials of various departments at the Collectorate here on Thursday for smooth conduct of the camps. Mr. Krishnanunni said that 1,05,500 doses would be available at 847 centres and persons can receive their first or second doses. A total of 3,000 workers would be administering the vaccines while 70 mobile vehicles would also be operated to reach maximum beneficiaries. People are requested to visit the centres which would be primary health centres, urban primary health centres and schools in their respective areas, he said. Pratik Tayal, Additional Collector (Development) / Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, PA (General) to Collector Balaji, Revenue Divisional Officers P. Premalatha (Erode) and Palanidevi (Gobichettipalayam), Deputy Director of Health Services Somasundaram, City Health Officer Murali Shankar and officials from various departments participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-lakh-doses-available-for-mega-vaccination-camp/article36393727.ece
10 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||NGO conducts evening classes for school children in hill areas||With students from classes 1 to 8 not attending the schools for over one-and-a-half years due to COVID-19, Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR), a Sathyamangalam-based NGO, has started conducting evening classes in 10 hamlets in the district from Wednesday. S.C. Natraj, Director, SUDAR, said that the pandemic has affected the learning of children, particularly in hill areas where access to online content, Kalvi television or other educational material is a challenge. Hence, during the International Literacy Day that is observed on September 8 every year, the NGO started classes for students in the hill areas of Bargur, Kadambur and Hasanur with the help of volunteers. “Though the State government took all steps in reaching out to the students through Kalvi TV, many face hardship”, he said and added that hence, the concept of “street classes” was introduced. Educated youths in the respective hamlets were roped in to conduct classes on the prescribed syllabus in text books, natural and environmental issues, sanitation, sports and farming. “Initially, classes were conducted at Kongadai and Agnipavi in Bargur hill, Periya Gundri, Anilnatham, Indira Nagar, Mahalithotti, Ukkiniyam and Nagalur in Kadambur hill and Gethesal and Kanakarai in Hasanur. Also, classes were conducted at Vilankombai tribal settlement.” Mr. Natraj said that classes will be conducted from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. every day and the initiative will help continuous learning among students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngo-conducts-evening-classes-for-school-children-in-hill-areas/article36393737.ece
10 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Fish seed production centres inspected||District Collector H. Krishnanunni on Wednesday inspected the fish seed production centres cum rearing centres in Bhavanisagar where over 17 crore fish seeds per year are being produced. The Collector along with officials of the Fisheries Department inspected the fish seed farms at Pungar (19.60 hectare), Old Fish seed farm (1.40 hectare) and the National Fish Seed Farm (10 hectare) where production of seeds, fingerlings and research activities are undertaken. Fish varieties like Catla, Rohu, Mrigal and Common Carp were produced in these centres of different sizes, early fry (less than 1 cm fish), late fry (2 cm fish) and fingerlings (5 cm fish). Under the National Agriculture Development Programme (NADP), two tanks were being constructed at a cost of Rs. 3.68 crore at the old farm. Mr. Krishnanunni inspected the works and held discussions with officials. Earlier, the Collector inspected the Bhavanisagar Panchayat Union office and held discussions with officials on the ongoing development works. He also asked officials to take all precautionary measures to prevent the outbreak of dengue and also against the spread of COVID-19. He also inspected the Bhavanisagar Town Panchayat office. Thillairajan, Assistant Director (Fisheries), Bhavanisagar Block Development Officer Mythili and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fish-seed-production-centres-inspected/article36393725.ece
10 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Child protection committee meeting held||Any child in distress can call Childline number 1098 for immediate help, said Saraswathi Rangasamy, chairperson, Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights (TNCPCR) here on Thursday. The Village Level Child Protection Committee (VLCPC) meeting was held at Pasuvapatti village in Chennimalai block in which Commission member Mallikai Selvaraj and P. Priyadevi, District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) took part. The chairperson said that children or the public can immediately seek the help of officials by calling the toll-free number. Also, children in need of assistance or protection can contact the DCPO, she added. She asked the village administrative officer and other members to participate in the committee meetings without fail and listen to the grievances of the children. Later, she inspected the Government Higher Secondary School at Pasuvapatti to check the availability of fans, drinking water facility and other basic amenities. The anganwadi was also inspected during which she asked the workers to ensure quality food was served to the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-protection-committee-meeting-held/article36393735.ece
10 September 2021||Hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||Actor Ravi Teja appears before ED in drugs case||Popular Telugu actor Ravi Teja on Thursday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here as part of the money-laundering probe in connection with a high-end drugs racket busted in the city in 2017. Ravi Teja is among the over 10 Tollywood (Telugu film industry) personalities, including actors and directors, to be summoned by the ED. So far noted filmmaker Puri Jagannadh, actors Charmee Kaur, Rakul Preet Singh, Nandu and Rana Daggubati have appeared before the Central agency. Calvin Mascrenhas, a musician, who was among the three-member gang arrested by Telangana’s Prohibition and Excise department on July 2, 2017 for allegedly peddling narcotic as part of the racket, was also questioned by the ED. The racket involved supplying high-end drugs such as LSD and methylenedioxy- methamphetamine (MDMA). Several cases were registered and over 20 people were arrested including a U.S. citizen, who was a former aerospace engineer and had worked with NASA, a Dutch and a South African national besides seven B.Tech. degree holders employed with MNCs here. The names of some Tollywood personalities came out during the interrogation of persons arrested in connection with the racket. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Prohibition and Excise Department, as part of its investigation, had also probed the alleged drug-links with Tollywood, and had then questioned 11 people connected to the Telugu film industry. The investigators suspected that film personalities, employees of MNCs, school and college students were among the gang's clients. The racketeers placed orders through ‘Darknet’ (a restricted online network frequently used in illegal activities) and the drugs were delivered by couriers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actor-ravi-teja-appears-before-ed-in-drugs-case/article36393297.ece
10 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Collector reviews mass vaccination arrangements||The district administration has designated 800 centres for the mass COVID-19 vaccination drive scheduled for September 12 in the district. A review meeting on the preparedness to organise the mass vaccination was held here under the aegis of Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy. This entails vaccination camps in municipalities, town panchayats, panchayats, and in all the wards, according to the administration. The Collector has urged the public, who are in various stages of vaccination and those others yet to take the vaccine to avail of the mass vaccination drive to gain protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-reviews-mass-vaccination-arrangements/article36393724.ece
10 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Nipah isolation ward set up at govt. hospital in Madurai||Gearing up for a possible Nipah virus outbreak following a death in Kerala, an exclusive 20-bed Nipah ward has been set up at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here. The ward has another 25 beds attached with intensive care facilities such as monitors, ventilators and adequate oxygen supply. “There is no case of Nipah virus at the moment in Madurai. But as the utmost precautionary measure, we have kept ourselves in a state of preparedness with all facilities and a team of doctors to deal with any eventuality,” GRH Dean A. Rathinavel told The Hindu.  “Since COVID-19 cases are now less than 50, we have converted one of the COVID-19 isolation wards on the ground floor of the Super Speciality Block into a Nipah isolation ward,” said Assistant Resident Medical Officer Syed Abdul Khader. A person infected with Nipah virus may show symptoms of fever, headache, body pain, sore throat, convulsions, vomiting, dizziness and disorientation, acute respiratory infection and fatal encephalitis. The treatment includes antibiotics to control complications and supportive care for the comfort of the patient. Any suspected Nipah case, Dr. Rathinavel said, would be isolated in the ward, the samples of throat and nasal swabs, cerebrospinal fluid, urine and blood would be collected and sent to the public health laboratory and the National Institute of Virology, Pune. The highly contagious Nipah virus could be transmitted directly from human to human, from animals such as pigs and bats or contaminated food. People should keep their masks on, avoid crowded places, wash their hands frequently and consume tepid water for their safety and health, Dr. Khader added.  We have kept ourselves in a state of preparedness with all facilities and a team of doctors to deal with any eventuality A. Rathinavel Dean, Govt. Rajaji Hospital, Madurai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nipah-isolation-ward-at-grh/article36393890.ece
10 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police Commission should have experts from various fields, says High Court||In order to redress the grievances of the police personnel, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the State government to constitute a ‘Police Commission’ headed by a retired High Court Judge and comprising legal experts, social workers and representatives from the public, apart from retired and serving police officials and civil servants. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran (since retired) and B. Pugalendhi observed that the High Court had already passed an order directing the State government to constitute the ‘Police Commission’. But, in 2019 the State government appointed a Police Commission headed by a retired IAS officer with retired and serving police officials. The constitution of the Commission was not in tune with the order passed by the High Court. Police personnel were facing a lot of psychological and emotional problems due to constant work pressure. The court observed that if psychologists, psychiatrists and the other experts in various fields were members of the Police Commission, they would be in a better position to understand the problems of the police and give remedial solutions. The police force has to be modernised due to increase in number of crimes and the different types of crimes committed especially, cyber crimes. Therefore, the candidates with qualification in various fields have to be selected for proper policing. Advanced gadgets should be available for the force and more amount should be allotted for modernisation. “Police force is facing a lot of stress and agony due to non filling of vacancies. When they are facing risks in discharging their duties every day, they should be paid at least 10% more than similarly placed Government servants. The risk involved is enormous and cannot be compared with other services. Therefore, the State Government shall consider increasing the salary of the police force by at least 10%”, the court said. The court observed that there were no fixed working hours for the police force for discharging their duty. Though it was stated as eight hours, practically it was 24 hours as they have to deal with many problems which were occurring in the society. Therefore, the 8-hour norm in three shifts should be followed strictly. The number of police personnel for each shift has to be fixed, so that they will not be put to mental stress, work pressure and agony, the court said. The comprehensive directions are necessary for efficient and committed police functioning in the State. Then only, one could expect very good policing by the policemen, the court observed while disposing of a petition filed by A. Masilamani of Karur who sought direction to fill up vacancies in the police force.  The 8-hour norm in three shifts should be followed strictly and number of police personnel for each shift has to be fixed, so that they will not be put to mental stress Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-panel-should-have-experts-from-various-fields-hc/article36393706.ece
10 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Give reasons for issuing G.O. in the order itself: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has suggested the government incorporate reasons for issuing any government order in the order itself to enable people to know the object of the order and to achieve transparency. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran (since retired) and B. Pugalendhi observed that transparent governance was the ultimate aim of any government. It would enable the common man to understand the reasons of the government implementing projects. The court was hearing a batch of petitions pertaining to Karur Ring Road Project that included the approach road work. The judges took note of the fact that government orders had been passed in this regard and subsequently revised several times. The judges observed that the courts were not experts to decide what was the right alignment. It was for the authorities concerned to decide. But at the same time, public money could not be spent detrimental to the public interest. “One should understand that around 50% of the income of an average individual is collected by the government as tax, in the colour of Income Tax, Sales Tax, GST, Road Tax, Wealth Tax, etc. Every rupee of public money is accountable and the administrators are expected to spend the taxpayers’ money cautiously and they are answerable for every pie they spend,” the judges observed. Further, the court observed that transport planning should be in such a way to achieve safe, fast, comfortable, convenient, economic and environment-friendly movement of people and goods. The court suggested that the government consider the proposal for the ring road after ascertaining the present day developments in the area. If the government orders explained the reasons, the number of litigations would reduce, the court observed and disposed of the batch of petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karur-road-project-give-reasons-for-issuing-go-in-the-order-itself/article36393707.ece
10 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Five get bail in human trafficking case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has granted bail to five accused in the human trafficking case involving 23 Sri Lankan nationals who illegally landed in Madurai and were arrested by the Q Branch police. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted bail with conditions to the accused N. Alangara Sakkratis, R. Nicholos, S. Jegatheeswaran, M. Rasool and A. Abdul Muheethu, all Indians who were said to have been involved in transporting the Sri Lankan nationals. Earlier, the court had granted bail to Satham Hussain, another accused in the case. The case of the prosecution was that the Sri Lankan nationals believed the words of another Sri Lankan national Kannan alias Mayuran, who had promised them lucrative jobs in Canada. He had taken them in three fibre boats on April 27 and dropped them in a launch in mid-sea. They arrived in Thoothukudi on April 28. The Sri Lankan nationals then reached Madurai secretly. Two other accused in the case Ashok Kumar and Kasiviswanathan picked them and dropped them at a body building unit. It was alleged that they stayed at the unit for more than 40 days without any documents and were not provided proper food and accommodation. Based on secret information, Q Branch police arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-get-bail-in-human-trafficking-case/article36393892.ece
10 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure compliance with Motor Vehicles Act and Rules’||In order to ensure that the provisions under the Motor Vehicles Act and Rules were strictly adhered to by the authorities and the public, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has issued a series of directions in this regard. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran (since retired) and B. Pugalendhi directed the Transport authorities to check whether lights installed on vehicles were fixed in accordance with rules at the time of the registration of the vehicle or at the time of issuance of the fitness certificate. The police authorities should randomly conduct vehicle checks to ensure that the lights are fixed only as per the rules and if found to be in violation of the rules, the vehicles should be seized or the lights removed, the judges said. Tinted glasses should be removed in 60 days, failing which the authorities shall seize the vehicles. The authorities are directed to instruct the owners of the vehicles to remove portraits/photos of political parties/leaders which have been fixed on the dashboard facing outside within 60 days, failing which the authorities shall remove the photos and fine the vehicle owners. The authorities should direct the owners of the vehicles to fix the number plate as per the size prescribed in the Motor Vehicle Rules within 60 days. The National Highways authority is directed to install high mast lights wherever it has not been installed and carry out the repair works in the places where it was not functioning properly at the earliest, the judges observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-compliance-with-motor-vehicles-act-and-rules/article36393891.ece
10 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive on Sunday||A mega COVID-19 vaccination camp will be organised by the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on September 12. According to GRH Dean A. Rathinavel, the camp will be held at the Madurai Medical College Centre from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. for general public and all in-patient attendants at the hospital. “We have been publicising the free camp in all our wards. Taking into account all the attendants at the hospital the number of people at the camp would be around 2,500. But, we are prepared to cater to double the strength, anticipating the general public also to turn up for the drive, he said. There was usually a heavy rush for vaccination on weekends, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-on-sunday/article36393888.ece
10 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 131.75 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,171 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 60.63 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 698 cusecs and a discharge of 1,819 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,636 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36393717.ece
10 September 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Special COVID-19 vaccination campaign on Sunday||A campaign to inoculate 85,000 people with COVID-19 vaccine doses through 625 centres on September 12 has been planned, said Kanniyakumari Collector M. Arvind here on Thursday. He told reporters 52% of people had got the first dose of vaccine and 12% of people with the second dose in the district. The district has a stock of 47,000 doses and the supply from the government was smooth. Apart from the government hospitals, PHCs and special camps in educational institutions had been identified for administering the vaccines from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Autorickshaws are deployed in panchayats and urban local bodies to convey the message to the people. “Our aim is to set up the vaccine centres within 500 metres or maximum one km from the houses of each individual. Each centre would have a minimum 200 doses,” he said. When asked the reasons for low percentage of people taking the vaccine shots, he said that awareness campaigns on the safety aspects had been disseminated. Some apprehensions had prevented people from taking the shots. He said that 33000 government staff (including frontline workers and doctors) had taken the vaccine, which stands at around 90 %. Officials from education and health departments said that so far only one school had reported symptoms of COVID-19 virus and about 10 students had been isolated. The officials, Mr Arvind said, imposed fine as per the laws against people and institutions like kalyana mandapams or shops, who had violated the protocol. On an average, Rs. one lakh of fine was collected daily. However, the objective was not to collect fine but to ensure that the people were protected from the virus. Tenkasi A press release said the district administration has planned to open 617 vaccination centres across the district on Sunday for the benefit of people above 18 years to get inoculated. Anganwadi centres, schools and colleges in urban and rural pockets have been identified. Collector S Gopala Sundarraj said that they have 70,000 vials. He asked the people to walk in to the nearest vaccine centre with identity proof. Government Hospitals had sufficient oxygen. The bed strength and care centres have been enhanced. The government wanted to cover maximum people with the vaccine. He said that all check posts especially those from Kerala were under scanner.  Virudhunagar The district administration has planned to administer around 95,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccine on Sunday. It has formed 1,067 vaccination teams for entire the district. “We have identified areas like ward-wise in municipal and town panchayats and villages in rural areas where more people are required to be vaccinated. We will be sending one or more teams to such spots based on the number of people expected to turn up,” Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said. The district administration will take up major publicity campaign that would be held from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. The district that has been vaccinating around 11,000 people every day till last month and it has stepped up it up to 13,500 on an average. “Fresh stocks of vaccines are expected by Sunday and we will try to exhaust whatever number of doses we get,” he said. The district has so far vaccinated around 10.20 lakh persons, including over 2.20 lakh who have got their second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-vaccination-campaign/article36393722.ece
10 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Burial urn excavated from school premises near Paramathi Velur||A burial urn with skeletal remains was excavated from the premises of a government school near Paramathi Velur here on Thursday. Revenue officials are planning to initiate procedures to conduct archaeological studies on the urn. According to officials, the urn was excavated from the Kondhalam High School near Paramathi Velur. Classes have resumed at the school and authorities were carrying out maintenance works on the premises. On Thursday, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers were deployed on the school premises to plant new saplings. While the workers were readying pits for planting saplings, they noticed the opening of a pot which was larger than usual size. The workers later dug a wider pit to excavate the urn without damage. School teachers and revenue officials arrived at the spot and identified it as a burial urn (Muthumakkal Thazhi) as skeletal remains were also found in it. According to officials, it was an ancient practice to bury old people in urn. A senior revenue official said that the urn had a width of about 3.5ft and its height was approximately 4ft. The urn has been safely shifted to the tahsildhar’s office here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burial-urn-excavated-from-school-premises-in-namakkal/article36393739.ece
10 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects Adi Dravidar welfare hostels||District Collector Shreya P. Singh inspected the Ad Dravidar welfare students hostel at Vellakoundampatti here on Wednesday. Ms. Singh inspected the rooms and other premises of the hostel. Nutritious meal The Collector checked whether nutritious meal is being provided for the students and availability of basic amenities. She also enquired whether the premises are being disinfected regularly as per government guidelines and COVID-19 safety protocols followed. According to officials, there are 39 Adi Dravidar and 28 Backward and Most Backward Class students hostels in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-adi-dravidar-welfare-hostels/article36393740.ece
10 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Mobile phones worth Rs. 60 lakh recovered||The Namakkal District Police on Thursday recovered and returned 301 stolen mobile phones to the owners here. Superintendent of Police Saroj Kumar Thakur distributed the mobile phones to the owners at an event held at Armed Reserve grounds. The district police formed a special team to recover phones stolen from 2019-2021. Phones worth Rs. 60 lakh were recovered and returned to the owners. Addressing the event, Mr. Thakur advised the public to raise complaints in the national helpline number 155260 in the event of any cyber crime. The public were also advised to contact Childline number 1098 to report child marriages and 181 to report crimes against women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-phones-worth-rs-60-lakh-recovered/article36393732.ece
10 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||82 new cases in U.T. as active cases creep towards 1,000-mark||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 82 new cases as active cases crept towards the 1,000-mark on Thursday. Karaikal reported the fatality, taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,820. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,433), Karaikal (240), Yanam (105) and Mahe (42). Puducherry accounted for 46 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,348 tests, followed by Karaikal (19), Yanam (9) and Mahe (8). The test positivity rate was 1.53%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.74%. With 74 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 993 — 175 patients in hospitals and 818 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,24,518 cases against 1,21,705 patients recovered. Of an estimated 16.87 lakh tests administered so far, over 14.32 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 3,310 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in 24 hours. The total vaccinated population in the Union Territory aggregated to 8,49,360.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/82-new-cases-in-ut-as-active-cases-creep-towards-1000-mark/article36393988.ece
10 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry housing board flats in poor condition||Residents of a Puducherry housing board flat at Suthanthira Ponvizha Nagar are a worried lot as the apartments they occupied 11 years ago have started showing signs of dilapidation. Many of the low income group (LIG) flats have developed deep cracks on the wall and even iron roads inside the beams that support the concrete structure have started protruding. Concrete sealing had peeled off in several flats exposing the building, said R. Vignesh, a resident. “We live in complete fear as things may worsen if there is a continuous downpour. It is our hard-earned money that we have invested in the flats and so far our pleas to the government have gone unheeded,” he added. “We don’t know how they constructed the building. We sometimes wonder whether they used cement at all,” R. Palanivel, another resident said. During the recent Assembly poll, the occupants of the flat came together and even threatened to boycott the polls. As a candidate, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy had to personally intervene seeking permission to campaign in the housing board colony. People including retired government employees, purchased the high income group flats for Rs. 34. 5 lakh and LIG for Rs. 10. 34 lakh through a lot system. J. Ramesh, another resident, said flooring in most of LIG flats had sustained damage and in certain flats even sewage water came inside. “The entire sewage system has collapsed in the colony. The foul smell that emanates from the sewage has become unbearable,” he added. After a few cases of dengue surfaced, the association gave a written complaint to the health department highlighting the unhygienic condition. The health department even warned the housing board on the issue, said Mr.Vignesh. It was not just the condition of the apartment that worried the occupants. Even 11 years after occupancy, the owners were yet to get the documents, he added. “We can’t even sell the flats because of lack of documents and due to the condition of flats. Nobody will come and buy the apartment in its present condition. Several people wanted to leave the place,” he added. Local legislator A. John Kumar, who had raised the issue in the recent budget session of the Assembly, said the housing board cannot turn a blind eye to the pleas of the residents. The board should either settle the issue by giving adequate compensation or return the money received from the owners with interest. “If the occupants have utilised the money to purchase a plot, they would have got good returns. The board should not wait for long to take a decision,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-housing-board-flats-in-poor-condition/article36393983.ece
10 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Air conditioning R&D focus on improving energy efficiency’||Improving energy efficiency and lightening the copper circuitry in devices are among the key focus areas of Research and Development (R&D) in air conditioning, said Gurmeet Singh, chairman and managing director of Johnson Controls-Hitachi Air Conditioning India. Addressing a press conference after the launch of ‘Hitachi Home’, a first of its kind showcase in the South of a whole range of consumer and commercial space products by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, Mr. Singh said both areas where R&D was evolving were critical to the price point and recurring cost for consumers. Ongoing research at the Rs. 150 crore Global Development Centre in Kadi, Gujarat, which has since commissioning in 2019 been developing designs for worldwide adoption, was also focused on air conditioning technologies that optimise performance at the highest and lowest temperature ranges. These would involve devices that can double up as heaters in minus 3 degree climate zones or high cooling indoors even when the outdoor unit is exposed to temperatures as high as 52 degree C, Mr. Singh said. Display of products The Hitachi Home, showroom in partnership with Ganviz Enterprises, a city-based consumer electronics store, will display a wide range of room air conditioners (split and window), cassette type, ducted, chillers and VRF systems. It also features anti-corrosion devices for coastal markets like Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. This was part of the air conditioning major’s push for expanding the market and strengthening partner channels in the south. Vishal Negi, from the Johnson-Hitachi joint venture and Madi Ramasamy, Ganviz, Puducherry also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-conditioning-rd-focus-on-improving-energy-efficiency/article36393989.ece
10 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy inaugurates illumination projects||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy formally inaugurated four projects completed at an estimate of about Rs. 70 lakh under the Smart City project in and around the Goubert Avenue area on Wednesday evening. Among the completed projects opened were illumination of the stretch from Kargil War Memorial to the reef and from the Dupleix Statue to the Old Port. This work was undertaken at an estimated cost of Rs. 10 lakh. The Kargil War Memorial has also been illuminated at a cost of Rs. 9.46 lakh. Beach beautification An LED image projection facility has been commissioned at the Beach Promenade at a cost of Rs. 29.47 lakh and boulder seats set up at the beach at a cost of Rs. 36.97 lakh. Tourism Minister K. Lakshminarayanan, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, T. Arun, Chief Executive Officer, Puducherry Smart City Development Ltd and other officials also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-inaugurates-illumination-projects-in-ut/article36393985.ece
10 September 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Life term for rape||The Mahila Court here on Thursday awarded life sentence to M. Chinnadurai alias Vinod Chakaravarthy, 42, of Karakottai near here for raping a four-year-old girl in 2003. According to the prosecution, the accused raped the victim, who was his neighbour. The case was transferred to CBCID after the victim’s mother approached the Madras High Court, seeking justice. He evaded arrest for 17 years. Since the accused did not respond to the repeated summons, he was declared a proclaimed offender. On information that Chinnadurai was living with a woman in Karnataka, a police team went to the State and arrested him a few months ago. R. Sathya, Judge, Mahila Court, who found Chinnadurai guilty under Section 376 (2) (f) of the Indian Penal Code (raping a women under 12 years of age), ordered him to undergo life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 2 lakh. She also recommended that the State government pay Rs. 4 lakh compensation to the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-term-for-rape/article36393711.ece
10 September 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Kurichiyarpatti, a 100% socially-secured village||Kurichiyarpatti village in Rajapalayam union has achieved a unique feat of all persons above 18 years of age from 290 families having enrolled themselves under the Central government sponsored old age pension scheme and life insurance and accident insurance schemes. “Kurichiyarpatti has become 100% socially-secured village with all the eligible persons having joined the schemes. We plan to replicate this model in at least 100 villages that will provide financial stability for each family,” Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said. He unveiled a board and planted saplings in the village to mark declaration of Kurichiyarpatti as 100% socially-secured village on Thursday. “It is the initiative of the manager of Gopalapuram branch of Union Bank of India S. Divya. She had done a wonderful job of going door to door and create awareness of the three schemes and she convinced people to enrol themselves,” the Collector said. The bank had adopted the village and carried out campaign from July 1 to September 6. As a result, 118 persons have joined Atal Pension Scheme, 249 persons in Prime Minister Jeevan Jothi Bima Scheme and 412 persons under Prime Minister, Surasha Bima Scheme. Atal Pension Scheme is a pension scheme for people in unorganised sector through which the subscriber can get a pension of Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 5,000 based on their monthly contribution. Under Jeevan Jothi insurance scheme, payment of an annual premium of Rs. 330 will insure the life of persons between 18 years of age to 50 years for Rs. 2 lakh. Similarly, payment of an annual premium of Rs. 12 will provide a term insurance that would get a death benefit of Rs. 2 lakh and Rs. 1 lakh in the event of facing permanent disability. “Personal security will ensure financial security of the family and this village has emerged as a model for other villages,” the Collector said. The district administration has already started campaigning among the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme workers and workers of fireworks units so that the death of the bread-winner can get Rs. 4 lakh insurance to the family in distress. Already, 80,543 MGNREGA workers have enrolled for Suraksha Insurance scheme and 37,318 workers under Jeevan Jothi insurance scheme, he added. Project Director (District Rural Development Agency), Thilagavathi, Vembakottai Tahisildar, Dhanraj, Union Bank of India Regional Manager, Rajkumar, were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kurichiyarpatti-a-100-socially-secured-village/article36393719.ece
10 September 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Prohibitory orders imposed in Ramnad||The district administration here has issued prohibitory orders with effect from Thursday ahead of Immanuel Sekaran’s 64th death anniversary. Collector J.U. Chandrakala, who is also the District Magistrate, has banned tourist taxis, cabs (T board) and autorickshaws from plying in the district. Public should get pass from the district administration by furnishing own vehicle registration documents. Political leaders and other personalities visiting the Immanuel Sekaran memorial would be permitted with three vehicles and five people can travel in each vehicle. The ban covers annadhanam, processions with milk pots or torch or ‘mulaipari.’ She has directed closure of all the TASMAC run liquor outlets on September 11. In a press release, Ramanathapuram Superintendent of Police E Karthik, said that 17 Superintendents of Police would be given positions across different locations in the district, to be assisted by 21 ADSPs, 60 DSPs, 100 Inspectors, 300 Sub-Inspectors, 250 traffic police personnel and among other personnel including those from the TSP and Home Guards. The SP said that public willing to visit the memorial should apply for vehicle pass from the Collector after furnishing necessary papers. Vehicles heading to Ramanathapuram district should follow the route proposed by the police. The police had identified 150 stretches as banned for vehicular movement on the above date, 123 sensitive pockets would have additional personnel deployed and CCTV cameras would be functioning in all the 39 check posts. Paramakudi would have 100 cameras and drones in operation. As many as 30 four-wheeler patrol vehicles and 57 two-wheeler patrol vehicles would be on the move round the clock. From the revenue department, officials in the rank of Tahsildars and Deputy Tahsildars would be present supervising the enforcement of the prohibitory orders. Traffic has been diverted between Ramanathapuram and Madurai Road and transport operators and commercial vehicles including TNSTC and other private buses should take Devipattinam, RS Mangalam, Tiruvadanai, Sarugani, Kalayarkoil and Sivaganga Road, Poovanthi to reach Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prohibitory-orders-imposed-in-ramnad/article36393648.ece
10 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Prohibitory orders in Ramnad||The district administration here has issued prohibitory orders with effect from Thursday ahead of Immanuel Sekaran’s 64th death anniversary. Collector J.U. Chandrakala has banned tourist taxis, cabs (T board) and autorickshaws from plying in the district. Public should get pass from the district administration by furnishing own vehicle registration documents. Political leaders and other personalities visiting Immanuel Sekaran memorial would be permitted with three vehicles and five people in each vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prohibitory-orders-in-ramnad/article36393701.ece
10 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two lakh doses to be administered in Salem||District Collector S. Karmegham said that they are aiming to administer two lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses during the mega vaccination camp planned for Sunday. Talking to presspersons here, Mr. Karmegham said that a district-level task force had been formed including health officials, Corporation Commissioner, other senior officials. Teams have been formed at the taluk and vaccination centre level. He added that as part of the mega drive, vaccination would be administered at 1,356 centres including 1,235 polling booths, 107 primary health centres, 12 government hospitals and at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Mr. Karmegham said that the district on an average had a stock of 50,000 vaccine doses and additional doses would be provided for the mega drive. Vaccine would be administered from 7 a.m to 7 p.m. He added that 1,356 health nurses, including final year students, and 1,306 data entry operators have been deployed for the drive. The Collector said that field workers would visit houses and issue booth slips to persons who had not taken the jab. A total of 18,525 field workers would be deployed and one supervisor had been designated for six workers, he said. One in-charge officer had been deployed for 10 differently-abled persons. He added that one zonal officer had been appointed for 10 panchayats and there will be 160 mobile teams who would visit homes to vaccinate persons who find difficulties in reaching the camps. Mr. Karmegham said that they were targeting to cover elderly persons and persons with ailments during the camp. The Collector said that the vaccination drive would be conducted following all standard protocols issued by the State government and NGOs, service organisations were also involved with the camp. Mr. Karmegham said that among the target population of 29.22 lakh, 13,46,378 persons had taken first dose, about 48%, and 3,93,556 persons had taken second dose, that is 14% of target population. A total of 15,76,548 persons were yet to take vaccination, that is about 52% of target population, he said. At current rate, the district would require 40 days to achieve 90% of vaccination and they were aiming for a big jump through the mega camp. He added that at present, the Total Positivity Rate was below 1% in the district. Namakkal The COVID-19 mega vaccination drive would be conducted at 620 centres in Namakkal and the district is aiming to administer one lakh doses on the day. District Collector Shreya P.Singh said in a release that the vaccination drive would be conducted at 620 centres and through 80 mobile teams here from 7 a.m to 7 p.m. As many as 210 doctors, 430 nurses, 1,600 anganwadi workers, 415 trainee nurses and 265 trainee health inspectors would be involved in the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-lakh-doses-to-be-administered-in-salem/article36393731.ece
10 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Follow guidelines for celebrations’||District Collector S. Karmegham has advised the public to conduct Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations as per guidelines issued by the State government. The Collector said in a release that celebrations were not permitted in public places and idols must not be installed in public places. Processions not allowed Processions were not allowed and individuals were permitted to install idols at their homes and immerse it at nearest water bodies. Individuals were permitted to leave idols near temples which would be later handled by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. The Collector told presspersons on Thursday that executive magistrates have been deployed for all police station limits here. Safety norms The Collector requested the public to follow standard safety protocols and wear masks while visiting markets to procure materials for the celebrations. Meeting held Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav interacted with members of Hindu religious outfits and other organisations regarding conduct of Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations here. Mr. Abhinav appealed to the organisations to extend cooperation for conducting the celebrations in a peaceful manner here and requested organisations to conduct the celebrations as per the guidelines issued by the State government. Mr. Abhinav said that organisations interested in leaving idols on temple premises may do so with the permission of respective temple authorities and advised the members not to install idols at public places. He added that due to COVID-19 pandemic, public can place idols within their homes as part of the celebrations and may take the idols for immersion at water bodies close to their residence. Mr. Abhinav said that processions are not allowed as part of crowd control measures. Objection raised Members of Hindu Munnani, who took part in the meeting, raised objections to the restrictions issued by the State government and alleged that only Hindu festivities are being restricted. Close to 50 members of various organisations took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-guidelines-for-celebrations/article36393730.ece
10 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Plea for cut in VAT||The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) on Thursday demanded reduction in value added tax (VAT) on fuel consumed by State Transport Corporations for operating their fleet. In a statement here, it said the VAT should be reduced on a par with the levy on aviation turbine fuel. Pointing out that the VAT on aviation turbine fuel had been reduced to 1%, the union also demanded exemption from motor vehicle tax and toll collected by National Highways Authority of India. ‘Curb illegal services’ Welcoming announcements such as setting up of commercial complexes, modernisation of 16 depots, installation of solar power generation units, operation of electric vehicles, the All India Trade Union Congress urged the State government to consider the demand to curb illegal operation of services eating into the revenue of STCs. It also wanted operation of mini-bus services by private parties to areas devoid of proper roads, fulfilment of long-pending demands of STC employees such as pension and health insurance and other monetary requirements of the serving and retired employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aituc-demands-reduction-in-vat-on-fuel-supplied-to-stcs/article36393698.ece
10 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Kerala govt. sets up 3 panels to overhaul higher education||The Kerala Higher Education Department has constituted three commissions in a bid to modernise the sector that has been deemed outdated in several respects. Shyam B. Menon, former Vice-Chancellor, Ambedkar University, New Delhi, will head a seven-member commission to suggest reforms in the field of higher education in the State. The panel will be convened by Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize recipient Pradeep T., Professor, IIT, Madras, and have noted academics, including Mahatma Gandhi University Vice-Chancellor Sabu Thomas, Ayesha Kidwai of Jawaharlal Nehru University, State Planning Board member R. Ramkumar, Kannur University Pro Vice-Chancellor Sabu A. and M.V. Narayanan of Calicut University, as members. Former Vice-Chancellor of the National University of Advanced Legal Studies (NUALS) N.K. Jayakumar will head another commission formed to overhaul university Acts and statutes. Kannur University Vice-Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran, State Higher Education Council governing body member Joy Job Kulavelil, Malappuram Government College Principal K. Damodaran, and advocate P.C. Sasidharan are the members. Exam system revamp A third commission, tasked with revamping the examination system in universities, includes Mahatma Gandhi University Pro Vice Chancellor C.T. Aravindakumar, APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University Registrar A. Praveen, Kerala University Registrar K.S. Anil Kumar, and former Calicut University Registrar C.L. Joshi. Addressing mediapersons here on Thursday, Higher Education Minister R. Bindu said the panels would study the possibilities of bringing in reforms that are in tune with the changing times. Online courses The government hoped to utilise the potential of online courses and introduce a blended mode of learning for traditional courses. The curriculum of undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be revised. The possibility of conducting examinations through an online mode will also be studied. The commissions were expected to submit their reports within three months, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-panels-to-overhaul-higher-education/article36393597.ece
10 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||People throng flower markets||Prices of jasmine and rose, among other flowers, touched an all time high on Thursday, wholesale market traders said. Markets witnessed steady stream of buyers. Jasmine was sold at Rs. 1,000 a kg and rose was in high demand and it was available at Rs. 600 a kg. People purchased other pooja materials also from the markets since noon in view of Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations on Friday. As it was also an auspicious day for wedding on Friday, many wedding halls and hotels were full in the city and traders want to cash in the situation by procuring flowers from other cities since Wednesday. The district administration urged the public to wear masks and adhere to physical distancing. However, officials and police personnel remained mute spectators since public chose not to wear masks. As the government had announced closure of all shrines between Friday and Sunday, major shrines wore a deserted look. Meanwhile, Hindu outfits called for processions with Vinayaka idols but the officials were firm on denying permission. There was no restriction to offer puja at homes, the police clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-throng-flower-markets/article36394082.ece
10 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Four killed, 10 injured in accident||Four women workers died on the spot and 10 others suffered multiple injuries when a passenger van and a water lorry collided head-on at Pudiamputhur in Thoothukudi district on Thursday. Police said that daily wage earners from Oddapidaram and surrounding areas were picked up in vans by many companies, situated in the SIPCOT industrial estate. At around 7 a.m., the vans picked up the workers and left with them for the industrial estate. About 15 workers were travelling in a van towards Thoothukudi, when a water tanker, heading to Puthiamputhur from Thoothukudi collided head-on with the van. In the impact, a major portion of the van was damaged. While the van driver and nine others suffered injuries, police identified the deceased as Selvarani (45) wife of Ganesan, Kamatchi (40) wife of Ravindran, Sandya (48) wife of Arumugam and Manimegalai (20) daughter of Adaikalaraj. Superintendent of Police S. Jeyakumar, DSP Ponnarasu and others visited the accident spot. The Pudiamputhur police have registered a case and sent the four bodies to the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. The lorry driver, Pandaram (41) of Nainarpuram has been arrested. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-women-workers-killed/article36393709.ece
10 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Poor response to 24-hour vaccine centre at GH||The 24-hour vaccination centre at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital has drawn lukewarm response since it was set up a few weeks ago. The initiative was intended to benefit office-goers and those unable to visit vaccination centres during the day, but lack of awareness and patronage has affected its utility. Following instructions from Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, round-the-clock vaccination centres were inaugurated at all medical college hospitals in the State. However, since the setting up of the facility, the patronage has been low, staff here say. Those who visit the GH for other purposes find out about the centre and come, while a handful of them trickle in through the day as they try to avoid the crowds at the other vaccination centres in the city. While on the first few days, around 100 to 200 people were inoculated, but the number has reduced, a senior doctor told The Hindu . “On an average day, around 100 people take the jab during the day, while at night the number is negligible with even zero visits. While the initiative is well-intentioned, the public are unaware of it, the staff point out. Two data entry personnel, staff nurses and a doctor-on-call are deputed per shift to the centre. There are three shifts: morning, noon and night. “We could be deploying them to other duties. While the number of COVID-19 cases are low at the moment, if it does increase, we will need them in the wards and cannot waste manpower here," the doctor said. The district administration must also announce availability of vaccines at the centre, the staff added. Meanwhile, at other vaccination centres, too, the response has been depreciating. “This might be because nearly 50% of the district’s population has been vaccinated. Those who are yet to get the jab are unwilling and need to be motivated, which will take time,” a health official contends. At this time, those who need to venture out for work and employers insist that their workforce be vaccinated have been covered. Home-makers and work-from-home people are some of the groups yet to be covered. As on September 6, 44.6% of people in the district over the age of 18 has taken at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, according to data from the district administration. Of 22,82,552 people in the eligible population, 12,98,671 have taken the shot. “Experts say that if we can vaccinate at least 70% of the population, we can be safe from COVID-19. We need to make arrangements to bridge the gap,” the doctor adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-response-to-24-hour-vaccine-centre-at-gh/article36393693.ece
10 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Work on STEM park begins in Tiruchi||Work on construction of the region’s first Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) park has begun on Panchakarai Road on the banks of the Kollidam near Yatrni Nivas in Srirangam. According to sources, Rs. 15 crore will be spent for the project, which is aimed at creating awareness and demonstrating practical knowledge to the people, particularly students, on science, technology, engineering and mathematics that have become part and parcel of the day-to-day life of everyone. It will come up on six acres of land owned by Tiruchi Corporation near Yatri Nivas on Panchakarai Road, which was considered for establishing the bus stand in Srirangam for more than 10 years. The decision will eventually put an end to the long-pending and much-talked proposal to build the bus stand near Yatri Nivas. State-of-art facilities  The STEM park will have a number of state-of-art facilities to explain the importance and influence of science and technology in life, said P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, Commissioner, Tiruchi City Corporation. It will be established under the Smart Cities Mission and work on building the park has already begun. It is scheduled to be completed by November next. However,the project is expected to be completed before the deadline, he told The Hindu . The park will have an arch dedicated to Sir C.V. Raman, a Nobel laureate born in Thiruvanaikoil here. The arch will demonstrate the ‘Raman Effect’ that won him the Nobel Prize in physics in 1930. It will have a mini planetarium and an infotainment facility to project the images of stars, planets and constellations for the public, mainly science students. Establishment of an amphitheatre with a capacity of 104 seats for organising lectures, science demonstrations and screening infotainment films is also part of the project. Science, math pavilions Space corner, indoor and outdoor science pavilion and mathematics pavilion will also come up at the park. The outdoor science pavilion will have 75 exhibits of various areas of science including applied science, meteorology, geography, chemistry, harmonic motion, sound and light, and friction. The math pavilion will have 19 exhibits. Establishment of a math volume tank, Brahmos tower, giant abacus and electricity generation model are among the components of the park. Similarly, a herbal wall with a variety of aromatic plants will also come up, he listed out. In addition to the science and technology related depictions, the park will also have facilities to engage morning and evening walkers. Once the park is established, schools in Tiruchi will be encouraged to bring the students to gain practice experience in science and technology, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-stem-park-begins-in-tiruchi/article36393703.ece
10 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T stays at 9th spot in NIRF rankings with 66.08 points||National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) has retained its ninth position in the India Rankings 2021 under NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework) of the Union Ministry of Education. NIT-T has been ranked next only to the eight established IITs. It remains to be in the top position among NITs with a better overall score of 66.08, from 64.10 last year. In overall ranking NIT-T has moved up from 24th to 23rd spot. Increased scores The scores have increased in all five parameters of ranking: Teaching, Learning and Resources; Research and Professional Practice; Graduation Outcomes; Outreach and Inclusivity; and Peer Perception. “In research and professional factors, there is a substantial increase due to increase in numberof application and improvement in quality of publication. The Institute gave a strong push to Intellectual Property Rights and filing of patents and this proved to be game-changer in improving this parameter. The emphasis on submitting more projects and receiving rants,Consultancy and Continuing Education Programme also brought in credits,” NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said. “In graduation outcome, there was considerable improvement in placement and the medium salary offered to graduate and the number of Ph.D. scholars graduated also improved substantially,” the NIT-T Director added. SASTRA Deemed-to-be University, Thanjavur, has improved its ranking to move up to 22nd spot with a score of 51.83 marks. It was ranked 25 with score of 52.22 last year. Bharathidasan University has been ranked 53rd with score of 46.41 points. It has improved its ranking from 57th position last year with a score of 44.63. Arts, science colleges St. Joseph's College, Bishop Heber College, Holy Cross College, and Jamal Mohamed College in Tiruchi district figure among the top 100 colleges in India Rankings 2021 of National Instututional Ranking Framework of Ministry of Education, Government of India. St. Joseph's College has been ranked 27 with score of 59.09 out of 100. Bishop Heber College (55.97) has been ranked at 43, Holy Cross College (55.09) at 47, and Jamal Mohamed College has been ranked at 65 with a score of 53.55. Two colleges have moved up in the NIRF rankings. Last year, St. Joseph's College was ranked at 31 with a score of 58.27. Holy Cross College was ranked 66 with 53.27 points last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-stays-at-9th-spot-in-nirf-rankings-with-6608-points/article36393714.ece
10 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi temple elephant gets bathing pond and shower||Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple elephant Lakshmi has her own own bathing pond. The pond has been created at the nandhavanam of Naganathaswamy Temple situated on Nandhi Kovil Street, close to the Rockfort, the city’s famous landmark. Lakshmi took a liking to the facility straight away and splash around during the inauguration held on Thursday in the presence of R.Sudarshan, Regional Joint Commissioner of Hindu Religous and Charitable Endowments, T. Vijayarani, Assistant Commissioner, Thayumanaswamy Temple, and other officials. The bathing pond, measuring about 22x22 feet in size and four feet in depth, has six shower heads too to keep the pachyderm cool. “We have set up the facility at the direction of HR and CE Minister and in consultation with the Forest Department. at the nandhavanam of the adjacent Naganathaswamy Temple as the facility had to be on ground level and the immediate surroundings of the terrain around the Rockfort is rocky,” said Ms.Vijayarani. The facility has been established at a cost of about Rs. 5 lakh contributed by donors, she added. A bathing pond for Thiruvanaikovil Jambukeswarar Akilandeswari Temple elephant was inaugurated recently. Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple elephants too have bathing facilities with showers. No darshan today Rockfort temple authorities have said the temple will be out of bounds for the public on Vinayagar Chaturthi on Friday due to the pandemic. However, all pujas and rituals associated with the festival will be conducted as usual at Manicka Vinayagar, Thayumanaswamy and other shrines at the temple in strict adherence to the Standard Operating Procedure, Ms.Vijayarani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rockfort-thayumanaswamy-temple-elephant-gets-bathing-pond-shower/article36393690.ece
10 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Role of private sector critical to educational empowerment’||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday envisaged a critical role for the private sector in enabling the country to realise its dream of becoming educationally empowered. Inaugurating (through virtual mode) the Tiruchi Campus of SRM Institute of Science and Technology - Deemed to be University, Mr. Naidu said the latent skills and talent of the country’s youth needs to be optimised for fully realising the underlying potential of our demographic dividend, to build a strong India, . “The New Education Policy is a game-changer in this respect. The document encapsulates in it, a quest for excellence in teaching and learning,” he said. Science and Technology should provide solutions to everyday problems of the common man and improve the overall quality of life, Mr. Naidu emphasised. Citing a survey indicating that only 7% of the 1.5 million engineers produced by the country ever year were suitable for core engineering jobs, he made a call to increase employability by focusing on the skills required for industry. Complimenting the SRM group for emerging as one of the biggest educational conglomerates in India providing high-quality education in multi-disciplinary fields, Mr. Naidu urged all stakeholders, including the private sector, to build an all-encompassing support system for the country’s young and aspiring athletes. If an enabling ecosystem was created, India could double its medal tally in the 2024 Paris Olympics, he said. Governor Banwarilal Purohit said educational institutions, through collaborations, should promote more engagement with communities, industries, governments. India had one of the largest networks of higher education institutions in the world with 993 universities and 39,931 colleges. Tamil Nadu enjoyed a covetous reputation for higher education in the country and the State had a gross enrolment ratio of 51.4% compared to the national average of 27.1%. Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi and Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru lauded the steady growth of the SRM group, its philanthropic outreach, and the employment opportunities it had created. Presiding over, T. R. Pachamuthu, MP and Founder and Chancellor, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, said the multi-cultural environment on the campus was an enabling factor for scientific innovations. R. Shivakumar, chairman, SRM Groups, Tiruchi and Ramapuram campus; Niranjan, president, SRM Institute of Science and Technology; and VC of SRM IST C. Muthamizhchelvan also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/role-of-private-sector-critical-to-educational-empowerment/article36393697.ece
10 September 2021||TIRUCHI/TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports over 300 fresh cases; student tests positive||The central region reported 310 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. Five deaths were reported in the region. Two deaths each were reported in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur, and one in Tiruchi district. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the region — 92. Tiruchi reported 49. According to official sources, 13 patients were discharged from Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Thursday after recovery. Tiruvarur reported 40 and Nagapattinam reported 43 fresh cases, reflecting a spike in the cases registered in the the districts. Mayiladuthurai reported 30, while Pudukottai reported 22 fresh cases. In Karur, 18 patients reported positive, and in Ariyalur 13. Perambalur continued to report the least number of fresh cases with 10 on Thursday. A student of the Government Higher Secondary School in Gandharvakottai reported COVID-19 positive on Thursday. The girl student of class 12, had suffered from fever from September 4 onwards and had taken leave. She had visited a testing facility on her own and taken the RT-PCR test, official sources of the Health Department said. Following this, the Health Department had undertaken disinfection and sanitation work on the school campus at Gandharvakottai. The girl’s classmates -- around 20 of them, teachers and primary contacts including her family will be tested, the official added. A student from Kulamangalam in Pudukottai district tested positive for the virus a few days ago. Mega vaccine campaigns About 63,200 people are expected to be vaccinated at a mega campaign against COVID-19 to be held on September 12 in Tiruvarur district. Disclosing this in a press release, District Revenue Officer, P. Chidambaram has said that it has been planned to conduct vaccine camps at 633 locations in the district during the campaign. Those who have not been vaccinated even once should come forward to get the vaccine dose in the interests of the community, In Tiruchi, As part of a State-wide mega vaccination campaign on Sunday, the Tiruchi district administration has set a target of inoculating 1.37 lakh people through 650 camps. Collector S. Sivarasu told officials at a meeting to prevent overcrowding and ensure that people in the remote areas get vaccinated. He advised them to work in tandem for successfully conducting the camps. He also asked officials to set up special committees at the taluk-level to raise awareness of the importance of vaccination. He also gave instructions on creating adequate internet facilities and deputing staff for uploading details about vaccinated people on Cowin portal. District Revenue Officer T. Palanikumar, Project Director of District Rural Development Agency V. Pichai, and Deputy Director of Health Services A. Subramani were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-over-300-fresh-cases-student-tests-positive/article36393691.ece
10 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Tanker operators resent restrictions||The traffic police have proposed to permit petrol/diesel/kerosene tankers from Thatchanallur depots only between 12 noon and 4 p.m. to enter the city limits from Thursday in order to regulate movement of vehicles in the city and peripheries. The tanker operators said it would not be feasible for them to operate on a specific timings as it may lead to shortage of fuel in many filling stations. Oil company managers held talks with the police and persuaded them to permit at least those tankers, which had filled fuel in their vehicles, today and sought time to hold a meeting with representatives of the tanker operators association. Meanwhile, the tanker operators association representatives told reporters that 165 tankers operate round the clock to Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Kanniyakumari, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram districts from Thatchanallur. In view of new regulations, the tankers were off the road. Apart from petrol and diesel, kerosene was being lifted from the depots here operated by the HP and BPCL, they said. The sudden denial of permission to enter the city limits since morning had resulted in a few bunks turning dry, the operators said and added that providing fuel to all bunks in four hours was impossible as they cover other districts too. A police officer said that the oil tankers had posed problems to vehicular movement in the city. “We gave them ample time to cooperate and we imposed a fine of Rs. 600 on those who violated rules. Most of the other heavy vehicle operators cooperated,” he added. However, oil company managers, who had a meeting with senior police officers, said that they were hopeful of solving the issue soon and by Friday, it would be normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tanker-operators-resent-timing-restrictions/article36393893.ece
10 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||700 police personnel to be deployed in Tiruppur||The Tiruppur City Police will deploy around 700 police personnel on Friday across the city as part of the security arrangements for Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations. Police sources said on Thursday some outfits were likely to defy the restrictions on public celebrations announced by the State government amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Any violation of these restrictions would be dealt with seriously, the sources said. The district administration had also instructed the outfits to adhere to the directions issued by the government and restrict all celebrations to indoors, the sources noted. On August 30, the State government announced that installation of Vinayaka idols in public places and undertaking processions to immerse the idols in beaches and water bodies would be banned this year to prevent further spread of COVID-19. Appeal to people Requesting people to celebrate the festival in their homes, the government added that only individuals would be allowed to immerse their idols in water bodies and not organisations. On Wednesday, the Madras High Court refused to interfere with the ban on public celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/700-police-personnel-to-be-deployed-in-tiruppur/article36393635.ece
10 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Preparations under way for vaccination camp on Sunday||The administration of Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts are making preparations on a war-footing for the conduct of 3,121 camps to cover 3.5 lakh persons during Sunday’s mega vaccination drive. Helpline numbers (1077, 0416-2227016 and 0414-2228016) have been created by the Vellore district administration to enable the residents to know about the nearest centres. The Collectors and other officials met on Thursday to discuss the arrangements. Representatives of local traders’ associations, hotel associations, residents welfare associations, self-help groups and non-profit organisations have been roped in to mobilise residents. “We are also reaching out to residents through FM radio channels, door-to-door campaigns, and videos. A war room is opened at the Vellore Corporation to monitor the mega camp where we want to cover at least 90,000 persons,” Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian told The Hindu . 893 camps in Vellore In Vellore, 893 camps will be organised to cover 247 villages, four town panchayats and two municipalities with a total staff of 800 persons. Each village will have two camps covering at least 100 persons each. Apart from government staff, more than 6,000 teachers have been drafted for the work. The district has 13 lakh persons eligible for inoculation. However, only 6.5 lakh have so far been vaccinated. As Tiruvannamalai has 19.62 lakh persons aged above 18, Collector B. Murugesh has ordered that 973 camps (the highest among the four districts) be held to cover 1.24 lakh persons. At present, 9.84 lakh persons have been vaccinated. Among them are 1.45 lakh persons who have got the second dose. A total of 82,000 persons will be eligible for the second dose on Sunday. The newly created Ranipet and Tirupattur districts will conduct 760 and 500 camps respectively. In fact, Tirupattur Collector Amar Kushwaha has sent a video on WhatsApp to all registered mobile phone users, requesting them to get the jab. Of the total 11 lakh persons eligible for vaccination, only 4.4 lakh persons have been vaccinated so far. On Sunday, the district plans to vaccinate at least 70,000 persons. At present, 40 camps are held, covering around 8,000 persons daily. Ranipet has planned to cover at least 65,000 persons on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preparations-under-way-for-vaccination-camp-on-sunday/article36394092.ece
10 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 17 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,988 with 17 new cases reported on Thursday. While a total of 47,692 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 184. In Ranipet district, 22 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 42,703. In Tirupattur district, 13 new cases were reported on Thursday. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 31, taking the total number of cases to 53,660.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-17-new-cases/article36394093.ece
10 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination camp in Villupuram||As part of the State-wide mass COVID-19 vaccination drive planned on Sunday, the district administration will hold inoculation camps at 1,150 places across Villupuram district. According to Collector D. Mohan, the administration has kept 1.15 lakh doses ready for the vaccination drive on September 12. The camps would be held at 75 wards in Villupuram and Tindivanam municipalities, 688 village panchayats and work sites of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme in the district. About 10,000 health personnel, comprising doctors and nurses, are ready to conduct the camp. Mr. Mohan said that as many as 6,61,017 persons out of the total population of 20,69,482 have been inoculated so far in the district. “We are planning to vaccinate 1.50 lakh people above 18 years of age in the mega drive. We want to cover all rural areas in phases and eventually cover the entire population and make the district fully vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-camp-in-villupuram/article36393986.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No fear of the virus?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-fear-of-the-virus/article36393995.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festive season is here||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festive-season-is-here/article36393695.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No precaution||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-precaution/article36394085.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rush hour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rush-hour/article36393315.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Thamirabarani civilisation is 3,200 years old’||“The research will be done jointly with Kerala archaeologists to establish the ancientness and culture of the Chera empire,” he said. Similar studies would be conducted at Vengi in Andhra Pradesh, Thalaikadu in Karnataka and Palur in Odisha. The Chief Minister said the Tamil Nadu Archaeology Department would conduct research at Quseir al-Qadim and Pernica Anekke in Egypt, which were once part of the Roman empire, as well as in Khor Rori in Oman, to establish the Tamils’ trade relations with these countries. “Potsherds bearing Tamil scripts have been found in these countries. The study will be conducted with the help of the archaeologists of these countries,” he said. Mr. Stalin said studies would also be conducted in Southeast Asian countries, such as Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam, where King Rajendra Chola had established supremacy. Achieving literacy Recalling his visit to Keezhadi, where excavations had thrown up new findings, the Chief Minister said the carbon dating of objects unearthed there had proved that the Tamil society had achieved literacy even in the sixth century BCE. “Keezhadi has united Tamils across the world.” He said Calcutta University Professor Susmita Basu Majumdar had concluded that the silver coin with sun and other symbols was pre-Mauryan. Rakesh Tewari, former Director-General of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), had said the outcome of the excavations at Keeladi, Kodumanal and other sites in Tamil Nadu have corroborated that there might have been contacts between south and north India in 600 BC-700 BC or earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/porunai-civilisation-is-3200-years-old/article36393622.ece
10 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Public festivities likely to be a low-key affair in Belagavi this year||Public Ganesha festival in Belagavi is set to be a low-key affair due to COVID-19 regulations imposed by the State government and the general apprehension in the minds of the people of the prevalence of the epidemic. Usually, the 11-day festivities begin on Bhadrapada Shukla Chaturthi, which falls on September 10 this year, and end on Ananta Chaturdasi of the lunar calendar, which coincides with September 20 this year. However, the State government has issued a circular restricting the celebrations to three days. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has announced that the order will be strictly enforced. The State government has also asked that idols installed in public places have to be of mud and not made of plaster of Paris and that they cannot be taller than four feet each. The order advises organisers to choose community halls, marriage halls and temples and other public buildings to install idols, rather than public places such as roads or at traffic junctions. The Sarvajanik (public) Ganesh festivities are celebrated by Sarvajanik Ganesh Mandals that are found across the city. They usually choose road intersections, footpaths and other public places to erect pandals or mandaps and install the idols. They decorate the mandaps elaborately by investing money collected from public donations or from contribution of members. According to Police records, 380 Ganesh Mandals were active in 2019, before the epidemic hit. The district had 2,900 such committees installing idols in public places. The COVID-19 restrictions seem to have taken away the enthusiasm of the mandals. Traditional potter families that prepared tall idols every year are constrained to make only four-feet tall idols this year. Basavaraj Kumbar of Raghunath Pet whose family has been making idols for decades now says that they have been badly hit. “Ganesha festival was the biggest money earner for us. Usually, the money I and my brothers earned in the festival season helped me care for the family throughout the year. But for three seasons now, our earning has dropped to near zero,’’ he said.  Meanwhile, BJP leader and MLA Abhay Patil said that the Chief Minister had agreed to relax the restrictions for the festival in Belagavi. The Chief Minister has promised me that public festivities will be allowed to be celebrated for 11 days in Belagavi, as per local tradition, Mr. Patil said in a video message to his followers. The video was recorded on the steps of the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru, after he met the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister told me that the Deputy Commissioners in the districts will issue orders specific to their districts. The Belagavi Deputy Commissioner might issue the orders relaxing the restrictions by evening (Thursday), the MLA said. A few days ago, BJP leader and MLA Anil Benake had also released a video message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-festivities-likely-to-be-a-low-key-affair-in-belagavi-this-year/article36393751.ece
10 September 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Lack of understanding has cost Cong.’||Lack of understanding between some leaders cost the Congress a few seats in the Belagavi City Corporation elections, Satish Jarkiholi, KPCC working president, said in Belagavi on Wednesday. He said the Congress had lost around three wards in Belagavi south and five in Belagavi north. “I had told the KPCC president that we would win 15 seats, but we ended up winning 10. Five Independents are our supporters. I think it is quite satisfactory,” he said. “We are analysing the results and we will learn from them. However, our vote share remains intact. “Our candidates got a total of around 42,000 votes and the Independents supported by us got around 20,000 votes. This is equal to the BJP that got around 63,000 votes,” he said. To a query on reports that Laxmi Hebbalkar, MLA, was responsible for the loss in some wards, he said she could not be blamed for the results as her constituency lies outside the city. He said the BJP had gained politically, by some differences that arose between the voters of Maratha community and the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti supporters. BJP has used the Maratha community voters to win more wards, Mr. Jarkiholi said. Later, at the Rajiv Gandhi Panchayat Raj Sanghatan meeting, he accused the BJP of getting credit for the schemes started by the Congress government. “The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government is doing nothing but renaming good schemes started by the UPA government.” He felt that the government was spending money on civil construction works neglecting schemes and projects that could nurture human resource. “The government is building toilets for the sake of creating records. It is not bothered if people are using them. I see that in several villages, the new toilets have fallen into disuse,” he said. He urged the Congress workers elected to rural local bodies to utilise the government grants released to gram panchayats and other local bodies, for the development of villages and welfare of the people. He urged them to study the laws and administrative procedure to ensure smooth governance and avoid conflicts with officers. He also asked members to promote self-help groups of women so that they are financially independent and become entrepreneurs. Sanghatan leaders Vijay Singh, Binita Vohra, former MLAs D.R. Patil, Veer Kumar Patil, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lack-of-understanding-has-cost-cong/article36393756.ece
10 September 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Inquiry sought into bribery complaint||The State government should order a high-level enquiry into the allegations that Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil has accepted bribe of Rs. 200 crore in the procurement of agriculture equipment, KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi said in Gokak on Thursday. “A complaint has been filed against the Minister in the anti-corruption bureau. The government should not dismiss it as a frivolous complaint. It should be treated seriously,” the Congress leader demanded. Mr. Jarkiholi also alleged that Mr. Patil had taken huge bribes in the selection of agency to procure subsidised farm equipment to be distributed among farmers. This is a very serious allegation. It directly affects the welfare of farmers, he said. He commented that the government’s multiple orders on the restrictions about Ganesha festival was creating confusion among people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inquiry-sought-into-bribery-complaint/article36393762.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three State colleges in the top 100||Three institutions in Karnataka made it to the list of the top 100 colleges in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released by the Ministry of Education on Thursday. The three colleges are: M.S. Ramaiah College of Arts, Science, and Commerce, St. Joseph`s College of Commerce, both in Bengaluru, and St. Aloysius College located in Mangaluru. Three premier institutions in Bengaluru — the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIMB), the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), and the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) Bangalore retained their earlier rankings. Rishikesha T. Krishnan, Director, IIM Bangalore, in a release said: “IIM Bangalore, by offering the best management education to its students, aims to in turn advance and support important national initiatives. The recognition that IIMB has received is due to its deep commitment to excellence. The year 2020-21, despite the pandemic, was an encouraging year for us.” In engineering education, the State performed well with 19 colleges and universities making it to the list of top 200 engineering institutions . As many as nine medical institutions made it to the list of 50 institutions, while 12 out of the 40 dental colleges in the State made it to the top 40 list. Two out of the top 25 architecture institutions are from the State, while five out of the top 50 research institutions were from Karnataka with the IISc. topping the list. Even in the universities category, IISc. topped the list and nine other universities made it to the top 100 list. Among the overall rankings too, five out of 100 institutions were from Karnataka. In law, the NLSIU retained the top spot and Christ University bagged the 19th spot. Sudhir Krishnaswamy, Vice-Chancellor of NLSIU, said they were delighted to retain the ranking. “ In the near term, we aim to welcome a more diverse student and faculty body, revitalise and expand our academic programmes, and emerge as a research intensive multi-disciplinary university. We remain confident that with the support of our stakeholders, we will sustain and build on our leadership in legal education,” he said in a release. Meanwhile, three colleges in the State made it to the list of top 75 management institutions. IIMB-B bagged the second spot retaining its earlier ranking. Seven pharmacy colleges from the State were among the top 75 pharmacy institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-state-colleges-in-the-top-100/article36393564.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Festival organisers protest BBMP curbs on celebrations||There were protests before the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) announced that requests to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi beyond three days will be considered. Members of the Bengaluru Mahanagara Ganesha Utsava Samiti staged a protest on Thursday and gheraoed BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta’s car. Utsava samiti president E. Ashwathnarayan argued against certain guidelines, including restricting one public installation of the idol per ward, restriction on the idol size, demanding that organisers across the city be allowed to install as many idols for any duration between 11 days (chauti to chaturdashi as per the Hindu calendar), apart from setting up a single window system for according permissions. The samiti also sought unrestricted permission to immerse the idols during the 11 days. However, the samiti agreed to follow the guidelines on the number of people allowed during the procession and immersion of the idols. The samiti had given the BBMP time to revise its guidelines. Sources said that BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) D. Randeep met with the protesters later and convinced them to withdraw their protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festival-organisers-protest-bbmp-curbs-on-celebrations/article36393562.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru hospitals see rise in respiratory ailments, fever other than COVID-19||Although COVID-19 cases are on the decline, the city is now under the grip of fever, upper respiratory tract infections, and seasonal influenza. Doctors attribute this to fluctuations in weather and intermittent rains. Hospitals and telemedicine specialists are seeing a number of patients with lower and upper respiratory tract infections, viral fever, and other related infections. At least six out of every 10 patients are reporting with complaints of sore throat, fever, runny nose, cough, allergic bronchitis, asthma, and middle ear infection. Similar symptoms While a spurt in viral illnesses is common during monsoon, doctors said because the symptoms of these ailments are similar to COVID-19, people are becoming increasingly confused. With a low platelet count and a number of symptoms being common signs both in COVID-19 and dengue, some doctors are advising patients to get tested for both. Sudarshan Ballal, chairman of Manipal Hospitals, who is also part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said it is difficult to distinguish whether it is a common cold, flu, Influenza ‘A’ H1N1, or COVID-19 based on the symptoms alone. “During the pandemic last year, the usual seasonal influenza activity was curtailed for some time thanks to COVID-19 precautions such as hand hygiene, wearing masks, social distancing, and practising cough etiquette. However, now we are seeing a spurt in the number of respiratory illnesses and many of these patients have tested negative for COVID-19,” Dr. Ballal said. He said this could be due to a spike in the common flu and cold viruses and people becoming complacent with the reduction in COVID-19 cases. “So the take-home message is that we should not forget that in addition to COVID-19, other respiratory illnesses do exist and could come back when the conditions are conducive,” the doctor said. Sunil Kumar K., Lead and Sr. Consultant - Interventional Pulmonology at Aster CMI Hospital, said many respiratory infections, including influenza, seasonal respiratory viruses, and tuberculosis, share commonality in transmission with SARS-CoV-2. “Laboratory tests such as chest x-ray, RT-PCR, complete blood counts come up as handy options to differentiate between COVID-19 and other respiratory diseases,” he said. Haleema Yezdani, general physician who has been regularly tele-triaging and tele-treating COVID-19 patients through the Emergency Response Team and Project StepOne groups NGOs, said although symptoms are similar, there are certain subtle differences. “People should not panic with every symptom of respiratory illness that mimics COVID-19. If symptoms persist for more than four days with abdominal cramps and diarrhoea or any nausea and severe body pain, people should seek medical advice,” she said. Pointing out that there is a rise in the number of telemedicine consultations in the last two weeks, Dr. Yezdani said it is important to record the body temperature accurately. “A record of 99 degrees on the thermometer is also being febrile,” she said.  The take-home message is that we should not forget that in addition to COVID-19, other respiratory illnesses do exist. Sudarshan Ballal, Chairman of Manipal Hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospitals-see-an-increase-in-other-respiratory-ailments/article36393556.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||AC, tahsildar misused office for extraneous considerations: HC||The High Court of Karnataka has declared that Bengaluru South sub-division Assistant Commissioner M.G. Shivanna and tahsildar Shivappa Lamani have “misused their offices for extraneous considerations” in demolishing residential buildings by “colluding with the legal heir” of a grantee of government land at Doddathogur near Electronics City. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order while dismissing the appeals filed by the two officers and the State government challenging the March 15, 2021, single judge order. “The high-handed action on the part of the authorities [AC and tahsildar] has caused irreparable loss and hardship to the rightful owners. In the sphere of valuable property rights, the State, its instrumentality, public authorities or those whose acts bear insignia of public element are enjoined to act in a manner prescribed under the statues and rules,” the Division Bench observed. The Division Bench upheld the judge’s direction to the government to enter remarks in the service register of both the officers and hold an inquiry through the Lokayukta. Hasty demolition Noticing that both the officers acted hastily to demolish the buildings without following the due process of law when the matter was sub judice , the Division Bench said that this fact“speaks loudly to what extent the AC and the tahsildar have colluded with the legal heir of the grantee at whose instance the resumption proceedings were initiated during 2019–20 under the provisions of the Karnataka Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands) Act, 1978.” The Division Bench also noticed that Shivanna had passed the order of resuming the land to the legal heir of the grantee in the absence of affected parties but had also ensured that certified copies of his order were not immediately available to the affected persons while ensuring demolition of residential buildings within a span of eight days of passing the resumption order on February 18, 2020. The granted land was first sold way back in 2001 by the original grantee and later it changed many hands before the grantee’s legal heir, Muniraju M., sought to reclaim the land, the present market value of which is worth several crores, on the ground that its original sale was illegal. Meanwhile, the Division Bench also held that “the records also demonstrate that Muniraju has abused the process of law” and his conduct was “unfair”. Govt. collusion Observing that both these officers could not have resorted to such an arbitrary action fearlessly without backing of the government, the judge had urged the Chief Justice to initiate a suo motu proceedings against the State government to put an end to the “pernicious practice” of posting officers “for monetary considerations and reasons other than public interest”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ac-tahsildar-misused-office-for-extraneous-considerations-hc/article36393570.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students protest against road widening to save trees in school||“Basavaraj Bommai sir, we got to know that the road outside our school is being widened and around 40 trees will be felled. Our seniors have struggled to fetch water for the saplings, which have now become full-grown trees. We also care for the trees in our school. Engineers keep visiting our school and we are scared that the trees may be cut soon. Please help us save our trees,” said Priya, a student of Jindal Jubilee Government High School in Abbigere, in a video message to the Chief Minister. Scores of students of the school staged a protest on Wednesday against the proposed road widening for which the trees in the school’s ground would become the first casualty. They held placards and stood around the trees they have been playing around for several years. Another student pointed out that their textbooks teach lessons on protecting the environment and trees, but on the ground, the civic agencies gave scant importance to the same. An alumnus of the school, who spoke to The Hindu , said that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) proposed to widen the Abbigere Main Road that goes towards Lakshmipura and Hessarghatta. “As per information we have received, the road will eat into 20ft of the school ground. This means that 40-odd full-grown trees on the periphery will have to be cut,” he said, and added that the students’ only demand was for Mr. Bommai to visit the school and to also direct the BBMP not to fell any trees. When contacted, Narasimha Murthy, BBMP’s Joint Commissioner, Dasarahalli zone, said the road widening project was being spearheaded by the Department of Major Roads. “However, there has been no discussion on felling of trees,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-protest-against-road-widening-to-save-trees-in-school/article36393555.ece
10 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ensure attendance of all Ministers during session, Horatti tells CM||Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti has written to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai seeking mandatory presence of all the Ministers during the ensuing session of the Legislative Council beginning on Monday. Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri too has asked the Chief Minister to ensure this. In the letter to the Chief Minister, Mr. Horatti recalled that during the previous sessions, several Ministers had sought permission to abstain themselves from the session citing various constituency-related works. However, such a trend would tantamount to curtailing the rights of members as they would be deprived of seeking reply from the government, he observed. Ministers’ presence would help in finding solution to various problems gripping the State through discussion during the legislature debates, he opined. Mr. Horatti also asked the Chief Secretary to ensure attendance of all the officials concerned during the session. The presence of Ministers, members, and officials in the session was essential to help respond to the aspirations of people, he said. Names to be announced The Upper House Chairman said he would announce the names of Ministers and officials who have to attend the session during the beginning of the proceedings in the morning and also forward the list of Ministers and officials who abstain themselves from the session to the authorities concerned for appropriate action. Mr. Horatti appealed to the Ministers to voluntarily attend the session and execute their responsibilities towards democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-attendance-of-all-ministers-during-session-horatti-tells-cm/article36393573.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disruption in water supply on Sept. 12, 13||Owing to emergency repair works by the Bangalore Water supply and Sewerage Board, water supply to the following areas will be disrupted on September 12 and 13, according to a release. The areas are: Gandhinagar, Kumarapark East, Vasanth Nagar, High Grounds, Sampangiramnagar, CKC Garden, K.S. Garden, Town Hall, Lalbagh Road from 1st to 4th cross and Lalbagh Road. Dharmaraya Swamy Temple ward, Cubbonpete, Nagarthapete, Kumbarapete, Cottonpet, Chikpete, Bakshigarden and Bharathinagara. St. Johns Road, Haines Road, Narayana Pillai Street, Sangam Road, Kamaraj Road, Veerapillai Street and Infantry Road. Shivajinagar, Lavelle Road, Frazer town, Byadarahalli, Williams Town, Sindhi Colony, N.C. Colony, Coles Road, Cox Town, Doddigunta, Jeevanahalli, Vivekanand Nagar, Hutchins Road, Davis Road, Cook Town and old Byappanahalli. Nagayyanapalya, Sathyanagar, Maruthisevanagar, Pillanna garden-1, Muslim Colony, Kushalnagar , P&T Colony, Muneshwara Nagar, D.J. Halli, Pillannagarden-2 s/stn area- K.G. Halli, Nagawara and Samadha Nagar. Pillanna garden-1st,2nd, 3rd stages, New Bagalur, old Bagalur, Lingarajpuram, Chamarajpet, Bank Colony, Srinivasa Nagar, Gavipuram and Hanumanthnagar. Girinagar, Bytarayanapura, Raghavendra Block, Avalahalli, Muneshwara Block, Kalidas Layout, Srinagar, BSK 1st Stage, Yeshwanthapur (part), Malleshwaram and Kumarapark. Jayamahal, Seshadripuram, Nandidurga Road Extension, J.C. Nagar, Sadashivanagar, Palace Guttahalli, BEL Road (part), Sanjayanagar, Dollars Colony and RMV Extension. Geddalahalli, Boopasandra, Kavalbyrasandra, Ganganagara, R.T. Nagar, Manorayanapalya, Anandanagar, V. Nagenahalli, Shampura, Sultanpalya, Shanthala Nagar and Ashok Nagar. M.G. Road, Brigade Road, Part of HAL 2nd stage, Doopanahalli, Indiranagar 2nd stage, Lakshmipuram, Kadiraiahnapalya, Kalahalli, andhra Colony, LBS Nagar, LIC Colony, HAL 3rd stage, Jeevanbhimanagar, Kodihalli. Hanumanthappa Layout, Bazaar Street, Ulsoor,and the surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disruption-in-water-supply-on-sept-12-13/article36393552.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State-of-the-art data centre opened at BHEL||Mahendra Nath Pandey, Union Minister of Heavy Industries, on Thursday, inaugurated state-of-the-art data centre at BHEL’s electronics division. Established to commemorate ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, the data centre at EDN encompasses the data centres of all the three Bengaluru-based units of BHEL, namely Solar Business Division (SBD), Industrial Systems Group (ISG), and Electronics Division (EDN). BHEL, in a press release, said the facilities at these three units had been brought together and co-located in one place leading to optimisation of information technology infrastructure, better data security, and reduction in operating cost. The connectivity to SBD and ISG, located about 12 km from EDN, is provided through high-speed multi-protocol label switching for increasing the speed and also to control the flow of network traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-of-the-art-data-centre-opened-at-bhel/article36393569.ece
10 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bommai extends festival greetings||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has greeted people of the State on the occasion of Gowri–Ganesha festival. In his greetings, the Chief Minister has asked people to celebrate the festival in a safe and eco-friendly manner by following all COVID-19-related precautions. “May Lord Ganesha bring about peace and happiness in the State by removing the problems and strengthen co-existence,” he said in the greetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-extends-festival-greetings/article36393571.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSHDCL ropes in Amazon to enable better market reach||Karnataka State Handicrafts Development Corporation Ltd. (KSHDCL) has roped in amazon.in to enable over 55,000 of its artisans to get a better market reach. As part of this, Amazon, under its Karigar programme, launched the Cauvery Handicrafts Emporium, a unit of KSHDCL, on its marketplace. All artisans associated with KSHDCL Mysuru, Anegundi, Sandur, Vijayapura, Hiriyur, Channapatna, Sagar, Sirsi, Soraba, Kumta, Kinhal, Navalgund, Bidar, and Shivarapatna will benefit from this programme. “Under this, Cauvery Handicrafts Emporium will be able to avail benefits such as personalised training for a quick start, increased customer visibility, and dedicated marketing support,” said Amazon in a release. Larger audience By going digital, Cauvery Handicrafts Emporium will be able to sell its wide variety of unique Geographical Indication (GI) products like Bidriware, Channapatna toys and dolls, and other local items in sandalwood and rosewood, metal crafts, and lacquerware to a much bigger customer audience. D. Roopa Moudgil, Managing Director, Karnataka State Handicrafts Development Corporation Limited, said, “We are expanding the reach of Cauvery and working towards the welfare of our struggling artisans and craftsmen.” “It is our intent to encourage digital inclusion and empowerment of the artisan community across the country,” said Sumit Sahay, Director, Seller Partner Services, Amazon India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kshdcl-ropes-in-amazon-to-expand-market-reach/article36393560.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Intermittent power on Saturday, Sunday||There will be intermittent power supply from 2 p.m. on Saturday till 8 p.m. of Sunday in the areas serviced by the 66/11 kV Nelagadaranahalli MUSS. According to a press release from BESCOM, North Circle, the areas to be affected are: Peenya 2nd Stage, 10th Main Road, Pearl Road, Tigalarapalya Main Road, Amaravathi Layout, HMT Layout, Rukmininagar, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/intermittent-power-on-saturday-sunday/article36393554.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 toll drops to single digit in State||For the second time this week, COVID-19 fatalities in Karnataka fell to a single digit – four – on Thursday. On September 5, the State had reported eight deaths, the lowest after March 17 this year. Of the four new deaths, Bengaluru Urban reported three and Hassan one. While all the three deaths in Bengaluru occurred on August 3, August 18, and August 29, the death reported in Hassan occurred on September 8. With this, the toll rose to 37,462. This is apart from 23 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. Meanwhile, the State reported 1,074 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the total to 29,59,164. Of these, 343 are from Bengaluru Urban alone. As many as 1,136 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 29,04,683. The State now has 16,992 active patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-toll-drops-to-single-digit-in-state/article36393557.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Punjab & Sind Bank conducts customer interaction||Punjab & Sind Bank conducted a customer interaction exercise in connection with review of the operations of its local branches in the city. “The customer interaction was aimed at gathering feedback on the services offered by the bank especially with regard to various Atmanirbhar schemes of the government,” said the bank in a statement. Kollegal V. Raghavendra, Executive Director of the bank who participated in the review meeting held on September 8, interacted with bank officials and customers. The bank posted a net profit of Rs. 174 crore during the June-ended quarter fiscal 2022 and also registered a good performance in all parameters, it further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/punjab-sind-bank-conducts-customer-interaction/article36393559.ece
10 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Eggs to be included in midday meals in 7 districts||Eggs will be included in the midday meals for children in seven districts in Karnataka from the 2021-2022 academic year. Ballari, Bidar, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Raichur, Vijayapura, and Yadgir in north Karnataka have been chosen as they have a very high percentage of malnourished children. Over 14 lakh children are likely to benefit from the move. Sources in the department said that the plan was approved by the Union government to provide eggs in districts that have high malnutrition and anaemia rates as per the National Family Health Survey (NFHS). Although there have been several proposals in the past to provide eggs, the plan had been shelved owing to opposition from members of certain communities and for political reasons. While eggs will be distributed to those who are willing to eat them, department officials said that they are in search of an alternative for students who do not eat them. Public health doctors and nutritionists have welcomed the move. Sylvia Karpagam, who is part of the Right to Food campaign, said it was a long pending decision. “It should definitely be everyday and it will have multiple benefits: good-quality proteins, minerals, Vitamins except C, and many other nutrients like choline, fatty acids etc. that will help the development of bones and all other internal organs. There will definitely be resistance from the usual quarters but the government should know that it’s on the side of science and some of the most vulnerable children,” she said. She added that there is no need to limit it to these seven districts. Department officials are, however, worried about how it would be implemented this academic year with upper primary classes still being closed owing to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eggs-to-be-included-in-midday-meals-in-7-districts/article36393565.ece
10 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Idol sellers facing huge losses||The makers of Ganesha idols are not in a festive mood. The dip in the sale of idols owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and restrictions on celebrations in public has left them disappointed. “I don’t know for how long we should face this situation”, asked Prakash, an idol seller at Chikka Garadi Street in the heart of Hassan city on Thursday. His family has been into idol-making for years and every year the family made good business during the Ganesha festival. “This time, we did not receive orders for large-size idols as people were anticipating restrictions by the government. And, there are no many takers for the small idols as well. For the second consecutive year, we are facing loss”, he said. In normal years, they make clay idols of Ganesha ahead of the festival. They make pots for the rest of the year. “During the marriage season, we used to do business by selling clay pots. The sale of pots also has come down as the pandemic has forced people to either postpone marriages or keep them low key. We have no business for two years”, said Kiran, also an idol seller. The idol makers have demanded that the State government announce a package for them, considering their plight. “The government should respond to our problems as well. We are expecting a financial package for us”, Kiran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/idol-sellers-facing-huge-losses/article36393939.ece
10 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Police probing deaths of dogs||Bhadravati police, with the help of veterinarians, have collected samples from the carcass of stray dogs found near Hunasekatte in Kambadal Hosur Gram Panchayat for further investigation. The samples would be sent to a forensic laboratory to find out the cause of the deaths. Carcasses of more than 100 stray dogs were found near Hunasekatte on Tuesday. A team of experts from the Veterinary College in Shivamogga visited the spot on Wednesday. K.Basavaraj, Bhadravathi taluk veterinary officer, told The Hindu that the carcasses were in a decomposed state and not fit for the post-mortem. “Based on their advice we have collected hair, bones and other samples for forensic examination. The police will probe the matter.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-probing-deaths-of-dogs/article36393937.ece
10 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||More funds for housing complexes||The housing complexes being constructed by Shivamogga City Corporation at Gopishetti Koppa and Govindapura will get basic infrastructure facilities at a cost of Rs. 7.61 crore, said Minister for RDPR K.S. Eshwarappa on Thursday. He chaired a meeting to clear the proposals for grants under Nagaroththana Project and Mahatma Gandhi Nagara Vikasa Yojana (MGNVY) in Shivamogga. The corporation had taken up the construction of housing complexes with ground-plus-two floors under the Nagaroththana Project by spending Rs. 100 crore. So far it had approval for spending Rs. 92.39 crore. The meeting gave its approval to spend the remaining amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-funds-for-housing-complexes/article36393940.ece
10 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman, daughter found dead||A woman and her daughter were found dead in their house at Bhadravati on Tuesday. Sangeetha, 35, allegedly took her life after killing her 11-year-old daughter. It is said that Sangeetha was disappointed over the financial loss her husband suffered in his business. She took the extreme step worrying about the loan her husband had borrowed, it is said. The incident happened when her husband was not at home. Hosamane Police in Bhadravati have registered a case.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-daughter-found-dead/article36393942.ece
10 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two killed in accident||A person and his daughter died on the spot after the two-wheeler they were riding on was hit by a truck near Kade Kaluve in Chikkamagaluru taluk on Thursday. Sakharayapatna Police gave the names of the deceased as Jayanna, 60, and his daughter Rakshitha, 19. Jayanna was returning to his home with his daughter, after a visit to his elder daughter’s place, when the incident happened. It is said the Jayanna had been to her daughter’s place to offer bagina, as part of Gowri festival celebrations. Sakharayapatna Police have registered the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-killed-in-accident/article36393943.ece
10 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Fresh cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 81 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death on Thursday. With that, the number of cases increased to 1,10,173 and the death toll went up to 1,339. Among the fresh cases, one was reported in Alur taluk, 14 in Arkalgud, nine in Arsikere, six in Belur, seven in Channarayapatna, 37 in Hassan, three in Holenarsipur, two in Sakleshpur and two more in out of the district. As many as 655 people are under treatment in the district. Shivamogga reported 28 fresh cases of COVID-19. As many as 215 people are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fresh-cases-in-hassan/article36393761.ece
10 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||AIMSS urges govt. to not shut down Mahila Santwana Kendras||Taking exception to the government move to close down ‘Santwana Kendras’, members of All India Mahila Samskrutika Sanghatane (AIMSS) have urge the State government to withdraw the decision. A delegation of AIMSS comprising Dharwad district unit president Madhulata Goudar, Gangamma Kokare, and Devamma Devatkal met the district authorities in Dharwad on Wednesday and submitted a memorandum. The delegation members told authorities that ‘Mahila Santwana Kendras’ set up to provide temporary shelter, financial assistance, legal aid, and other types of assistance to women had been doing yeoman service from the last two decades. These centres had done great work in boosting the morale of women who were subjected to exploitation and harassment. In fact, there was need for further improving such centres and providing more services to the needy women. However, it was shocking that the government had proposed to close down the centres, they said. At a time when cases of domestic violence were increasing mainly due to economic crisis and cultural degeneration, such centres were required at every place. According to reports, nearly 10,000 cases of domestic violence were being reported from every taluk centre. There was a need to establish 25 to 35 such counselling centres in every district, they said. They submitted a memorandum in which they have pointed out that over 800 families would be adversely affected by the government’s decision. For the last two decades, over 800 people were serving the women and helping them get justice. However, the move to close down the centres would mean the needy would not get justice or protection, they have said in the memorandum. They have demanded job security to the staff serving in counselling centres and also immediate withdrawal of the order on closing down the santwana kendras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aimss-urges-govt-to-not-shut-down-mahila-santwana-kendras/article36393760.ece
10 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Infrastructure is being provided for Fire and Emergency Services’||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has said that steps are being taken to provide the requisite infrastructure and amenities to the Fire and Emergency Services Department which has been rendering tremendous services in times of fire accidents and natural calamities. He was speaking to presspersons after inaugurating a new station of Fire and Emergency Services at Belur Industrial Estate near Dharwad on Wednesday. The Belur Fire and Emergency Services Station is the 216th fire station in the State and the eighth in Dharwad district. In the Belur Industrial Estate spread over 2,035 acres, 592 various small and big industries are functioning where 18,000 employees are working. The total population of the area is 84,893 and the new fire station will cater to the needs of the industrial estate, he said. The Belur fire station has been built in an area of two acres at a total cost of Rs. 2.23 crore by the Karnataka State Police Infrastructure Development Corporation. Mr. Jnanendra said that as the Belur Fire Station is located close to Hubballi-Dharwad, it will be easier to send fire engines and personnel to various points in the vicinity in case of emergencies. To a query, the Home Minister said that the Police Department has initiated a recruitment drive for filling vacant posts and also begun work on upgradation of police stations. All efforts are being made to make police stations more people-friendly, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/infrastructure-is-being-provided-for-fire-and-emergency-services/article36393749.ece
10 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||BJP exudes confidence of landing Kalaburagi Mayor post||While speculation over who will get the Mayor post in Kalaburagi that saw a hung verdict in the recent city corporation elections continued on Thursday, BJP leaders strongly exuded the confidence that they will land it. Speaking to mediapersons in Bengaluru, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said talks are on with the Janata Dal (S) whose support will be crucial for the party to reach the magic figure of 32 seats for a simple majority in the corporation council. “Our talks with the JD(S) are in the beginning stage. But, I want to say that the BJP will get the Mayor post,” Mr. Bommai said. BJP State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel and vice-president Nirmal Kumar Surana, Large and Medium Industries Minister and Kalaburagi in charge Murugesh Nirani, Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur, and other senior leaders spoke on the same lines expressing the confidence that they will land the Mayor post. They were in Kalaburagi on Thursday to participate in the party’s programme to congratulate new members in the civic body and thank people for electing them. Mr. Kateel even hinted at his party’s readiness to employ tactics required to grab the post. “The BJP’s efforts to capture power in the city corporation is continuing. For the first time, the BJP has won more seats as the people of Kalaburagi want the BJP to rule the civic body for the sake of development. We will use all possible tactics to get the Mayor post and capture full-fledged power,” Mr. Kateel told reporters. Expressing his party’s inclination for having a political adjustment for the sake of Kalaburagi’s development, Mr. Surana expressed the confidence that they will get support from the JD(S). “I am confident that the JD(S) will accept a BJP member as Kalaburagi Mayor and extend its support,” Mr. Surana said. Mr. Nirani expressed confidence that JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy will shortly declare his party’s support to the BJP in the corporation. The JD(S), which has won four seats, had made it clear that it will go with any party that will offer the Mayor post to it. Kedaralingaiah Hiremath, district president of the party, also reiterated the party’s position. “We want the Mayor post and will go with the party that supports us. There is no change in the party’s stand. Mr. Kumarswamy will announce it within a day or two,” Mr. Hiremath told The Hindu . Of the 55 wards in the corporation, the Congress has won 27 seats followed by the BJP with 23. There is one Independent member who was earlier denied BJP ticket. The Congress has two additional members, an MLA and a Rajya Sabha member, and the BJP has six additional members, three MLCs, two MLAs and a Lok Sabha member. The magic number to achieve a simple majority is 32.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-exudes-confidence-of-landing-kalaburagi-mayor-post/article36393764.ece
10 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Replace defunct transformers within 24 hours of complaint’||Taking note of the increasing number of complaints over inordinate delays in replacing defunct transformers in rural areas, Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar has directed Gulbarga Electricity Company (GESCOM) officials to fix the problem within 24 hours of receiving complaints. “The unjustifiable delays in the replacement of defunct transformers are not tolerated. You should do it within 24 hours of receiving complaints. There are also complaints from farmers that officers in the State-owned power distribution companies demand money for replacement of defunct transformers. Stringent action will be taken against such officers found indulging in such corrupt practices. It does not matter even if such corrupt officers try to protect themselves by mounting pressure through influential people,” the Minister said at a meeting to review his department’s works at the GESCOM office here on Wednesday. The Minister also expressed unhappiness over issues relating to power supply to farmers irrigation pumpsets and improper response from GESCOM officials to power consumers who used helpline for redressal of their problems. “Irrigation pumpsets should get uninterrupted, quality power for seven hours a day. Uninterrupted power supply should not be on paper only. I will convene a special meeting during the Assembly session and find out a solution to the problem. If any legislator complains against any officer on the issue, I will take action against such officer. GESCOM is not properly responding to consumers calls to the helpline. It is said that the officers are simply not addressing issues citing technical reasons. It is because of non-resolution of problems at the local level, I am receiving calls from people,” he said, directing GESCOM officials to ensure that the problems are quickly solved locally. Appreciating GESCOM’s initiatives to establish 33 kV sub-stations at 54 locations, Mr. Kumar expressed dissatisfaction over the company’s failure to sanction even a single sub-station for Raichur district. “GESCOM should not give prominence only to Kalaburagi. There are other districts in its area of work. Of the 54 sub-stations, 17 are coming up in Kalaburagi district and none has been given to Raichur. This is not fair. It should treat all districts equally,” he said. Considering the increasing demand for electric vehicles in the State, the Minister said that his department will set up recharge stations in all districts. “We are thinking of establishing 500 recharge stations in the State in the first phase,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/replace-defunct-transformers-within-24-hours-of-complaint/article36393758.ece
10 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Over 50% of those vaccinated in twin districts are women||More number of women have been vaccinated against COVID-19 than men in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, a total of 18.38 lakh people have been vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada till 4.30 p.m. on Thursday. Of these, 50.15% (9,22,274) are women and 49.82% (9,16,200) men. Of the total number of people vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada, 74.68% have taken their first dose and 25.31% their second. The government’s website, dashboard.cowin.gov.in, said that 88.19% of people have taken Covishield and 11.33% Covaxin. In Udupi, of the 11.60 lakh people vaccinated, 52.39% (6,08,219) are women and 47.59% (5,52,478) men. Of these, 71.93% have taken their first dose and 28.06 % their second. The website said that 88.22% of people have been given Covishield and 11.58% Covaxin.  According to Chief Executive Officer of Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Kumara, six villages in the district have achieved 100% success in administering first dose of the vaccine among the targeted people. The villages are Alike and Peruvai Manila in Bantwal taluk, Badagannur, Paduvanur and Siribagilu in Puttur taluk and Laila in Belthangady taluk. “All those aged above 18 have been given the first dose in these villages,” Mr. Kumara said. Nodal Officer for vaccination in Dakshina Kannada B.V. Rajesh said that about 2,000 staff, including nurses, doctors, helpers and accredited social health activists, are involved in the vaccination drive which was launched on January 16. He said that the government has set a target of vaccinating 1.75 lakh college students, both general and professional, in the district. A majority of them have been given the first dose. Dr. Rajesh said that 99% of those aged above 60 have been vaccinated in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-50-of-those-vaccinated-in-twin-districts-are-women/article36393905.ece
10 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Udupi administration asked to bring TPR below 1%||Minister in-charge of Udupi district V. Sunil Kumar on Thursday asked the administration to make all efforts to bring down the test positivity rate to below 1% from the current 1.4%. Chairing a meeting on COVID-19 control and selecting gram panchayats under Amrut Gram Panchayat Yojana in Udupi, the Minister said that at least 8,000 swab samples should be tested in the district daily. Mr. Kumar, who holds the portfolios of Energy and Kannada and Culture, said that five gram panchayats should be selected daily for vaccinating targeted people completely. The Health Department should make all efforts to vaccinate first dose to all eligible people in the district by this month end. He instructed Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao to ensure that the medical oxygen manufacturing units being constructed in taluks are commissioned within the next 10 days. The Minister said that students who have arrived from Kerala could be subjected to another swab test as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Minister said that 18 gram panchayats have been selected under Amrut Gram Panchayat Yojana for integrated infrastructure development works in their jurisdiction to commemorate the 75th year of Independence. Some of the projects proposed comprised rejuvenating the water bodies, harnessing solar power, building gardens, installing street lights, providing drinking water connection, building solid waste segregation units, and digitising libraries. Such panchayats which implemented the projects taken up effectively will get Rs. 25 lakh grant from the government. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat, Kaup MLA Lalaji R. Mendon spoke. Chief Executive Officer of the zilla panchayat Y. Naveen Bhat participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-udupi-administration-asked-to-bring-tpr-below-1/article36393918.ece
10 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||A.B. Shetty Circle razed for circular one-way traffic||The iconic A.B. Shetty Circle, named after the erstwhile Vijaya Bank’s founding chairman Attavara Balakrishna Shetty, was razed to the ground on Wednesday. The circle located at the junction of Maidan Road and Mangaladevi Road in the Central Business district was renovated in 2011 by Vijaya Bank and further beautified in 2016 by the same bank. Removal of the circle is a part of creating a circular one-way traffic from Clock Tower to Clock Tower on Maidan Road via A.B. Shetty Circle, Hamilton Circle and Rao and Rao Circle as proposed by Mangalore Smart City Ltd. (MSCL). MSCL has already razed road medians along the stretch to pave way for the one-way traffic. Surendra Hegde, who was Vijaya Bank’s Regional Manager in Mangaluru in 2016 when the circle was further beautified, said he was pained to hear the news. With Vijaya Bank getting merged with Bank of Baroda, there appeared none to take care of the structure, he said. Mr. Hegde said the bank undertook renovation of the circle in memory of its founding chairman. The then chairman wanted the damaged circle repaired to keep the banking spirit of the region alive and accordingly, the damaged structure was repaired, lights were installed and sprinkler was provided for watering the lawn, he said. Social activist G. Hanumanth Kamath expressed regret over the razing of the circle and said the city has lost one of its prominent landmarks. The authorities concerned were implementing the one-way traffic system without consulting the general public. Even the Mangaluru City Corporation did not come to any conclusive decision on the proposal, he said. Quoting a senior MSCL official who reportedly told him that the one-way traffic was being implemented on trial basis, Mr. Kamath questioned the need for razing road medians and the circle for the trial of a new system. The roads were wide enough and there were no traffic jams in the locality, he told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ab-shetty-circle-razed-for-circular-one-way-traffic/article36393912.ece
10 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MRPL invents gelator to remove oil spills, gets patent||The Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) has invented an oil gelator chemical to remove oil spills from sea as well as earth surface and has obtained patent for the same from the Central government’s patent office. A release from MRPL said the invention comprises new organic gel-forming molecules derived from simple and cheaper chemicals that were synthesised and characterised. The molecules exhibit good gelation behaviour when they are exposed to oil spillages. Due to this behaviour, they get solidified quickly. These solidified gels could easily be recovered from the surface of the land or water bodies. It is an effective method to mitigate oil pollution from the environment. The invention comes at a time when oil spillages are causing detrimental effects on the environment and living organisms. Spillage includes any spill of crude oil, gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, kerosene, hydraulic oil, lubricating oil, etc. The clean up action in the event of spillage includes containing the spread of oil spill and recover or remove the floating oil from the water surface. One of the removal methods was to convert the oil film on the water surface into a semi-solid gel and contain the spread. Some mechanical exercise was needed to remove the jellified oil. The patent gives MRPL the exclusive right to exclude others from copying, manufacturing, selling, or importing the invention without permission. The patent for organic gelators was the third patent for MRPL with the first two being a patent for “Process Distillation of Petroleum Fractions – by using fuel gas/hydrocarbon vapours instead of steam” Oxidative Treatment of Refinery Spent Caustic.  The molecules exhibit good gelation behaviour when they are exposed to oil spillages. Due to this behaviour, they get solidified quickly. These solidified gels could easily be recovered from the surface of the land or water bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mrpl-invents-gelator-to-remove-oil-spills-gets-patent/article36393913.ece
10 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Buns and goli baje from paper pulp||In its continued initiative of introducing a variety of new eco-friendly products made from paper pulp, a city-based social entrepreneurship Paper Seed has now made miniature models of Mangalorean cuisine. Popular food items of Mangaluru such as buns, goli baje, gunda, kadubu (rice dumplings), bangude (mackerel) and crab can now be stored for long in the form of miniature paper pulp models. In addition, it has made masala dosa, idli and vada and kabab from paper pulp. Models of some more food items specific to Mangaluru are in the offing, founder and promoter of Paper Seed Nitin Vas told The Hindu . “Making them involves minute work as the models are lesser than palm size. Painting is a painful job. Enough care will have to be taken to give them the finishing touch. We use only natural colours,” he said. Making some of the products say, a plate of goli baje, requires one-and-half days, Mr. Vas said. Mr. Vas, also an artist, said that Paper Seed will make life size models of some cuisines such as buns and goli baje. The products can be gifted or displayed in homes and offices, he said and added that the entrepreneurship is also planning to provide training to people near Pakshikere to help them make such products in their homes. Thus, people can get employment. The entrepreneurship last month made tri-colour seed badges from areca palm leaf which grew into a plant when planted on soil after use. The badges were embedded with vegetable seeds like brinjal, tomato and leaf vegetables like palak. The new product was for 75th year of Independence. But the badges could not be sold enough due to restrictions on Independence Day celebrations in view of COVID-19, he said. It also shares the credit of making Mangaluru toys from paper pulp. They are on the lines of Channapatna toys which are made from soft wood. Those toys reflected coastal culture. The entrepreneurship had also made seed rakhi from areca leaf, seed masks which grew into plants while thrown. It used recycled cotton rags and cotton cloth for making the mask. It also makes eco-friendly jewellery, earrings, key-chain, ladles, cups from coconut shells, driftwood sculptures, baskets from locally available creepers and climbers. Some of the other products include seed pens, bamboo toothbrush, designed papier mache , seed paper notepad, paper straw, recycled paper cards, newspaper seed pencils, organic agarbatti and the like.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/buns-and-goli-baje-from-paper-pulp/article36393908.ece
10 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Tanjore paintings on display in city||The sixth edition of S Cube Art Gallery’s Art of the Week series with a collection of Tanjore style of paintings by B.P. Mohan Kumar has commenced at Kodialguthu Centre for Art and Culture here. B.M. Mahendra Rao from Manasa Developers and N.S. Pattar, head of painting department, Mahalasa College of Visual Art, Mangaluru, unveiled the display by Mr. Kumar, said a release. The paintings will continue to be on display till Saturday between 11 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. and 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. at Kodialguthu Centre for Art and Culture, G.G. Road, Ballalbagh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tanjore-paintings-on-display-in-city/article36393901.ece
10 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Best Teacher award for TAPMI director||Director of T.A. Pai Management Institute, Manipal, Madhu Veeraraghavan has been awarded the Dr. Pritam Singh Award 2021 in the category of Best Teacher by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). He received the award from Union Minister for Education Dharmendra Pradhan on Teachers Day in New Delhi, a release said. The award was created to recognise and honour teachers at the national level for their proficiency, uniqueness and ingenuity in the field of management education. The award is given to deserving professors from AICTE-approved institutes who have passed a comprehensive screening process that takes into account factors such as outreach activities, teaching effectiveness, funded research, academic research, management and leadership, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/best-teacher-award-for-tapmi-director/article36393903.ece
10 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Bank launches WisePOSGo||Karnataka Bank in collaboration with Mswipe Technologies Pvt., Ltd., on Wednesday launched WisePOSGo – a point of sales (POS) device that processes business payments of its merchant customers. The POS machine is an all-in-one swiping machine loaded with advanced features, including contact-less payment, mobile phone, QR Code, Pay by link, Magstripe, barcode scanner, 5 megapixel camera etc. It supports 4G, WiFi, Bluetooth and micro–USB and can connect through Facebook, YouTube, and WhatsApp also, said a release. Digital way Launching the product, bank managing director and CEO M.S. Mahabaleshwara said it was yet another product in line with Bank’s vision of becoming the ‘Digital Bank of Future’. The compact, light weight and user friendly device would be a game changer and transform the digital payment ecosystem associated with POS machines. The device lets the merchants make calls as well as process payments and was designed keeping in mind the specific cost-centric needs of Bank’s MSME customers. By integrating payments with business applications in one single device, small business establishments would benefit by having an agile and conducive platform to source business, he said. Simplify payment Speaking on the occasion, Mswipe Technologies CEO Ketan Patel said the company was happy to develop the product for Karnataka Bank’s MSME customers which would simplify payment processes. The introduction of ‘WisePOSGo’ was yet another step in the direction of expanding the digital payment infrastructure in the country and promote a cashless economy. Bank COO Y.V. Balachandra, Chief Business Officer Gokuldas Pai and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-bank-launches-wiseposgo/article36393909.ece
10 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Ganesha festival: Police to ensure smooth celebration||The Mangaluru city police have deployed nearly 1,300 police personnel as well as six city armed reserve and five Karnataka State Reserve Police platoons to maintain law and order during the Ganesha Chaturthi celebrations in commissionerate limits. A statement from the commissionerate here said as many as 157 public celebrations the festival were planned in the commissionerate limits from Friday. Of them, 90 celebrations would culminate on Friday with the immersion of idols by evening. The police would ensure strict adherence to all guidelines issued by the State and Central governments with regard to the celebration and following of COVID-19 protocol. Also, the police would ensure the celebrations would not affect vehicular movement, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganesha-festival-police-to-ensure-smooth-celebration/article36393916.ece
10 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man killed in road accident||A scooter rider died of injuries after a private bus hit his vehicle near Mahakalipadpu Junction on NH 66 recently. The police gave the name of the victim as Sunil (40). According to complainant R. Sandeep, who was also riding a scooter at the time of the accident, the private bus, being driven by Sampath Kumar, hit Sunil’s scooter that was on its way towards Kotekar. The rider, who sustained injuries on his head, was immediately taken to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead, the complainant said. Mangaluru Traffic Police (South) have registered a case. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-killed-in-road-accident/article36393910.ece
10 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||OPD services closed today||The out-patient department (OPD) at Kasturba Hospital in Manipal will remain closed on Friday on account of Ganesha Chaturthi. However, trauma and emergency services are available, a hospital release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opd-services-closed-today/article36393906.ece
10 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Insurance Week valedictory||The Kundapur branch of Life Insurance Corporation of India observed the valedictory of 65th Insurance Week recently. On the occasion, winners of various competitions conducted during the Insurance Week were given prizes. Kundapur Town Municipality president Veena Bhaskar spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/insurance-week-valedictory/article36393900.ece
10 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Janata Dal (S) and the art of making the most of least seats||By demanding the coveted post of Mayor despite winning only four seats in the 55-member Kalaburagi City Corporation council, the Janata Dal (Secular) appears to be resorting to an all-too-familiar strategy it has mastered: of milking the most of limited political presence amid the rivalry between the two national parties — the Congress and the BJP. Till late on Thursday, the JD(S) had kept both the parties guessing on whose side it would lean in Kalaburagi, while the BJP expressed confidence that the it would get the mayoral post with help from the regional party. The JD(S), which has aligned with the Congress and the BJP alternatively, both at the State level and in many local bodies across Karnataka that have thrown up a fractured mandate, is bracing itself to go with either of the two national parties that come up with the “best offer”. In Mysuru corporation Earlier, after sharing power with the BJP in the Mysuru City Corporation during its previous term that ended in 2018, the JD(S) had no qualms tying up with the Congress during the ensuing term to share the posts of Mayor, Deputy Mayor, and chairperson of different standing committees, till the alliance collapsed last month. The subsequent election of a Mayor from the BJP, which was the single-largest party in the council, led Congress leaders to accuse the JD(S) of shifting loyalties and indirectly supporting the saffron party. The JD(S) has had alliance with both the BJP and the Congress in the present term of the Mysuru Zilla Panchayat too. In 2015, the JD(S) won a mere 14 seats in the 198-member Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) council, but as neither of the two national parties secured a clear majority, it played the familiar “kingmaker” role. It helped the Congress, then in power in the State, to hold power for four years — 2015–2019. Every year the JD(S) had a refrain now being heard in Kalaburagi: that they will support any party that gives the mayoral post. Though the JD(S) never got the Bengaluru Mayor’s post, it cornered the posts of Deputy Mayor and chairmanship of key standing committees, including Taxation and Finance, as part of the bargain. In the State These developments in local bodies mirror a similar pattern at the State level. The JD(S), which had forged ties with the Congress after a fractured mandate in the 2004 Legislative Assembly elections — when N. Dharam Singh of the Congress became the Chief Minister and Siddaramaiah, then with the JD(S), occupied the Deputy Chief Minister’s post — went with the BJP barely two years later in 2006 with H.D. Kumaraswamy becoming the Chief Minister and B.S. Yediyurappa his deputy. In 2018, however, the equations changed again with the JD(S) and the Congress joining hands to form a coalition government headed by Mr. Kumaraswamy, who appears to have perfected the art of realpolitik to not only protect the identity of his regional outfit in a largely bipolar polity dominated by the two national parties, but also to remain in the reckoning by controlling the levers of power. The “secular” Congress–JD(S) coalition collapsed after 14 months, after the BJP wooed 16 Congress and JD(S) MLAs in ‘Operation Kamala’. There has been a constant and bitter war of words between the JD(S) and the Congress since, with the latter constantly accusing the former of warming up to the BJP ahead of the next Assembly elections.  (With inputs from K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/janata-dal-s-and-the-art-of-making-the-most-of-least-seats/article36393568.ece
10 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||UoM ranked 19th among universities||The University of Mysore has broken into the top league among the varsities and was ranked 19th in the country by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), Government of India. The NIRF list was announced on Thursday and the University of Mysore also has an overall ranking of 34th among all institutions. The varsity was ranked 27th among all universities in the country in 2020 and had an overall ranking of 47th whereas it was ranked 54 among varsities in the country in 2019 with an overall ranking of 80. Expressing his happiness over the rise in the ranking, G. Hemantha Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, said that it was a result of the teaching-learning module and process and focus on research and publications. The NIRF rankings are based on 5 parameters that includes teaching learning and resources, research and professional practice, graduation outcome, outreach and inclusivity, and perception. The Vice-Chancellor said the varsity will further improve its position in the years ahead and has a blueprint laid out for its long-term growth. He said the varsity could also be eligible for increase in grants from the Government and the Ministry of Human Resource Development as it is among the universities to have sustained the rankings within top 50 for three consecutive years. The varsity will offer engineering courses in specialised fields from this academic year, according to Prof. Hemantha Kumar and the focus will be on areas such as artificial intelligence and robotics. The current ranking will also help the varsity to bolster its rating by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The NAAC team will be in the varsity to assess its strengths and weakness besides apprising itself of the academic activities, from next week. The other university, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research, is ranked 34th in the country and has an overall ranking of 54th. The JSS College of Pharmacy was ranked 9th among the pharmacy colleges while the JSS Medical College was ranked 24th among medical colleges. JSS Dental College was ranked 12th.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uom-ranked-19th-among-universities/article36393941.ece
10 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Piped supply of LPG in Mysuru soon||Plans are afoot to start supply of piped natural gas for household as well as commercial and industrial use in Mysuru city. Representatives of AG&P Pratham, a private gas distribution company authorised by Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) to distribute piped gas in Mysuru and neighbouring Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts, held a meeting with Mysuru MP Pratap Simha here with a view to expedite various clearances necessary to lay the pipeline, and briefed the MP about their plans, the locations of their stations, and pipeline network. The presentation shared by the company had sought the MP’s assistance in securing clearances for laying a pipeline from Bidadi to Mysuru as well as to households and commercial establishments. The project seeks to provide piped cooking gas in Mysuru city and Nanjangud. Advantages Speaking to reporters, Mr. Simha said supply of cooking gas through a pipeline right up to the houses, like drinking water, has various advantages such as doing away with the transportation of a cylinder every time gas is exhausted in the households. “Mysuru is a growing city and let us not dig up the city when it has grown”, he said emphasising the need to complete the digging work and laying the pipeline at the earliest. Meanwhile, a representative of the company said work had already started on construction of a gas station in Mysuru. “But, we are awaiting permission for laying the pipeline”, he said. The company is hoping to begin supply of piped natural gas (PNG) to households in Mysuru by May next year. The process of registration is also expected to start in the coming days. “Our representatives will be visiting households in Mysuru and sharing the benefits of PNG with the people. Registrations will be done after collecting a deposit amount”, the representative said while adding that they will begin supply to households within three months of completing the registrations. Refundable deposit The company has been authorised by the PNGRB to collect an interest-free refundable deposit from domestic PNG consumers towards the security of equipment and facilities including the labour cost of installation towards last-mile connectivity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/piped-supply-of-lpg-in-mysuru-soon/article36393936.ece
10 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||New building for tribal research institute ready||The Karnataka State Tribal Research Institute, which has been functioning out of a rented premises in Kuvempunagar in Mysuru, will soon shift to its newly constructed building in Kergalli. It has been built on a 5,168 sq m Civic Amenities plot in Mysuru City Treasury Department Employees House building Co-operative Society Extension. Interior designing of the structure comprising a total built up area of 2,840 sq m including basement, ground floor, first floor and second floor is underway. The building, built at a cost of Rs. 9.95 crore including Rs. 5.95 crore sanctioned by the State government and Rs. 4 crore aid by the Centre, will house the Institute’s office, library, training centre and a museum. The museum will house tribal artefacts including agricultural implements, kitchen utensils, bird trapping instruments, musical instruments and necklaces made of beads used by various tribes such as Siddi, Koraga, Hakki Pikki, Yerava, and Jenukuruba. The Institute’s library has a collection of more than 4,000 books on research methodology and on Anthropology, Sociology, Economics, Political Science, Health and Medicine, Linguistics and Human Genetics related to tribal studies for the benefit of research scholars and others. The Institute, which came into being in July 2011, was allotted the CA site by MUDA in October 2015 and the construction of the building began in March 2018. Mysuru Lok Sabha MP Pratap Simha inspected the building on Wednesday in the presence of Institute Director T.T. Basavanagouda. An official statement said that efforts were underway to invite President Ram Nath Kovind for the inauguration of the new building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-building-for-tribal-research-institute-ready/article36393754.ece
10 September 2021||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Bring back confidence in the depressed: DC||Expressing deep concern about suicide incidents, R. Ragapriya, Deputy Commissioner, has vehemently appealed to each citizen to prevent possible suicidal incidents by bringing the confidence back in those suffering from depression. She was speaking after inaugurating ‘World Suicide Prevention Day’ held by the district administration, zilla panchayat, Health and Family Welfare Department, and District Mental Health division in Yadgir on Thursday. “A study revealed that suicide incidents are related to people in the age group of 15 to 35 in India. Family members and society should join hands to convince those suffering from depression,” Dr. Ragapriya said. Apart from depression, blind beliefs were on the rise among people. The younger generation should try to build a healthy society. Education is the only way to handle any situation, Dr. Ragapriya reiterated. Venkatareddy Mudnal, MLA, said unfortunately farmers were committing suicide for farm related reasons. Around 1,75,000 people reportedly end their lives in India for various reasons, he said. Shilpa Sharma, Chief Executive Officer of zilla panchayat, said confidence can help change any tough situation in one’s life. Indumathi.K., District Health Officer, Bhagawanth Anwar, District Mental Health Officer, Laxmikanth, Basavaraj Chandriki and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bring-back-confidence-in-the-depressed-dc/article36393767.ece
10 September 2021||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||‘Prepare for flood situation’||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has instructed the officials to make ready Kalaji Kendra in the Bhima river bank villages, if situation demands, as they face a threat of flood. She was attending a meeting of officials in Yadgir on Thursday. “The outflow in Bhima has crossed 2 lakh cusecs; the bridge constructed near Joladadagi village will be submerged. If water rises up to 3 lakh cusecs, there is a possibility of submerging a bridge near Kanadalli village in Wadagera taluk. If outflow increases to 3.5 lakh cusecs, the bridge near Anur (B) will be submerged,” the officials informed the Deputy Commissioner. The officials further said flooding is possible in Thanagundi, Arakera (B) Mudnal, Warkanalli, Mushturu, Kouluru, Lingeri, Malhar, Belagundi, Anur ( K), Gondadagi, Gudur, Badiyal in Yadgir taluk and Anabi, Roja (S) Sirwal, Hursagundagi, Ibrahimpur, Tangadagi and Chatnalli in Shahapur taluk and Naikal, Gurasanagi, Birnal, Babalad, Gaddesugur, Halagera, Godihal, Kumnur, Arjunagi, Kandalli, Machanur in Wadagera taluk if water rises to 4-5 lakh cusecs. C.B. Vedamurthy, Superintendent of Police, said nodal officers deployed for flood duty should coordinate with the local police to extend better service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prepare-for-flood-situation/article36393766.ece
10 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Provide required facilities at places of idol immersion’||Deputy Commissioner of Raichur B.C. Satish has suggested to officials of the department concerned to provide the required facilities in places where Ganesh idols are to be immersed. He was addressing a peace committee meeting in Raichur on Wednesday. Dr. Satish said that as per the government’s instructions and guidelines issued on Ganesh festivities, idols should be immersed within five days from their establishment. Officials should ensure that legal action is taken against those violating these restrictions, he added. The Deputy Commissioner further suggested that life jackets be provided to those who will be present during immersion of idols in ponds or tanks. The other important initiatives include setting up CCTV cameras, providing adequate lighting and keeping ambulance and medical staff ready. Children aged less than 18 are not allowed to set up Ganesh pandals, while those who have permission to install idols in public places should be fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/provide-required-facilities-at-places-of-idol-immersion/article36393747.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ready for festivities||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ready-for-festivities/article36393753.ece
10 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Infra work at Idukki MCH reviewed||District Collector Sheeba George and district development commissioner Arjun Pandian reviewed the progress of works at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) at Cheruthoni on Thursday. The MCH had not received the Medical Council of India (MCI) recognition when its team visited the hopsital last time. The meeting also discussed the facilities required in the new building. Doctors in charge of each section explained the facilities and the staff needed. The construction of the ICU is in the last phase. In a month It is expected that all arrangements will be done within a month to shift the departments to the new building. The Collector also directed the district medical officer to call back doctors working outside the district. The participants of the meeting also visited the 50-acre land given by the district panchayat to the medical college near the district Ayurveda hospital at Paremavu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/infra-work-at-idukki-mch-reviewed/article36393854.ece
10 September 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||New Collector assumes office||The newly appointed Wayanad District Collector A. Geetha assumed office on Thursday. Ms. Geetha, who was formerly the Entrance Examination Commissioner, succeeds Adeela Abdulla, who has been posted as the new director of the Women and Child Welfare Department. Ms. Geetha was welcomed to the collectorate here by Additional District Magistrate N.I. Shaju, District Development Commissioner G. Priyanka and Wayanad Sub Collector R. Srelakshmi. Speaking to media after assuming the office, Ms. Geetha said that she would give priority to complete development works in the district in a time-bound manner. “All possible measures would be adopted to expedite vaccination drive to contain the spread of COVID-19,” she said adding that issues of the public would also be addressed in a time-bound manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-collector-assumes-office/article36393806.ece
10 September 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Pattaya Mela in Kasaragod on Sept. 14||District Collector Bhandari Swagat Ranveer Chand has said that as part of the 100-day action plan of the State government, a Pattaya Mela will be held on September 14 in various taluks of the district to achieve the goal of land for all. The district-level inauguration would be held at 11.30 a.m. at the collectorate main conference hall by Ahmed Devarkovil, Minister for Ports and Archaeology. The event will be held in accordance with the COVID protocol. During the mela, 585 pattas will be handed over in various categories. N.A. Nellikunnu, MLA, will preside over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pattaya-mela-in-kasaragod-on-sept-14/article36393810.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Water Metro terminal work draws flak||Heritage enthusiasts are up in arms, as Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has begun piling work to construct a terminal tucked in between the iconic Chinese fishing nets on the Fort Kochi beachfront, to berth Water Metro ferries. Piling work is in full swing, despite the Art and Heritage Commission directing the metro agency to halt the work, based on complaints given by the Kerala unit of INTACH, a heritage body, to the Archaeology Department. The organisation had in its complaint cited an alternative to redevelop the unused tourist and Kochi Corporation jetties at Kamalakadavu, located around 250 metres away from the Chinese nets and near the bus stand, to host Water Metro ferries. “The metro agency’s insistence on going ahead with piling for a new terminal will have safety repercussions, since the beach-front [harbour mouth] is prone to tidal variations and undercurrents. Ferries will also have to vie for space with fishing vessels that berth at a refuelling facility nearby. Even worse, the terminal could seal the fate of the few Chinese fishing nets that are left on the beach,” said former Mayor K.J. Sohan, who is the convener of INTACH-Kerala. A fishing vessel that took off from here had collided with a ferry operating in the Vypeen-Fort Kochi sector in 2015, resulting in 10 commuters losing their life. In December 2020, a row of three heritage buildings located behind the nets, on land owned by the Cochin Port Trust, were demolished to make space for the Water Metro’s Fort Kochi terminal, despite opposition from different quarters. “Boats brought commuters and tourists to Kamalakadavu since 1872 when a ferry service began. The British rulers chose the space, since boats could call at here safely, irrespective of high and low tides,” Mr. Sohan said. KMRL officials were unavailable for comment, including on the work of the terminals it had mooted on the Marine Drive waterfront, from where ferries to Fort Kochi and Mattancherry are slated to operate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-metro-terminal-work-draws-flak/article36393823.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Gains for Maharaja’s, Cusat in NIRF ranking||The autonomous Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, and Cochin University of Science and Technology (CUSAT) made significant gains by finding a place among the top 100 in the categories of colleges and universities respectively in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released on Thursday. While CUSAT improved its position from 62 last year to 44 this time, Maharaja’s College found place among the top 100 for the first time. Four colleges in Ernakulam, including Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kalamassery; St. Teresa’s College, Ernakulam; Sacred Heart College, Thevara, and Mar Athanasius College, Kothamangalam, also figured in the top 100 list. Rajagiri College bagged the 31st rank, while St. Teresa’s College was ranked 45 followed by Sacred Heart College in the 63rd position. Mar Athanasius College was ranked 86. “It is a major leap for Maharaja’s College, as we were among the six government colleges in the State that figured in the first 100 ranks in NIRF. The advancements in curriculum development, research, and quality of teachers helped the institution achieve this feat,” said Mathew George, Principal. CUSAT Vice Chancellor K.N. Madhusoodanan said enhanced research output and increase in the appointment of permanent faculty members were among the key factors that helped the varsity scale up its position. “We could also mobilise additional funding considerably,” he added. Binoy Joseph, principal, Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, said the institution was able to score big under the ‘perception’ parameter of assessment aided by the A ++ rating by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. Lizzy Mathew, principal, St. Teresa’s College, attributed the improved rankings to the teaching-learning activities and outreach activities carried out by the college. “We were also able to score under the parameter of perception included in the evaluation process,” she said. Winny Varghese, secretary, Mar Athanasius College, said the institution was able to make considerable progress in teaching, learning, research consulting, and collaboration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gains-for-maharajas-college-cusat-in-nirf-ranking/article36393834.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam sees dip in hospitalisation||Hospitalisation rate and intensive care unit (ICU) admissions seem to be showing a stationary phase in Ernakulam district despite the large number of new cases, according to official estimates. Around 1,900 patients were receiving treatment at COVID-19 hospitals in the district as on September 7, while the expected numbers are between 2,114 and 2,818 by September 15. Nearly 800 beds are available at these hospitals. Over 27,000 of the infected people were in home isolation. “There has been a steady decline in hospitalisation rate. A clear picture on whether the number of positive cases has attained a steady decline will be clear only after 10 days. It is too early to say whether we have achieved a steady plateau in the number of new cases,” said M.I. Junaid Rahman, nodal officer for COVID-19 management, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kochi. Of the total 1,669 beds at 41 domiciliary care centres, 712 remain vacant. The corresponding figures in two private and nine government first-line treatment centres are 43 and 307 respectively. The combined intake capacity of private and government first-line treatment centres is around 750. As many as 227 of the 652 beds at government second-line treatment centres are lying vacant. A total of 336 patients were admitted to ICUs as on September 7. The corresponding figure in the last week of August was 321. Of the 336 patients in ICUs, 159 were women, while the number of men was 177. The highest number of patients in ICU was in the age bracket of 61 to 70 years (74 cases), while 70 of them were in the age category of 71 to 80 years. Only six are below the age of 10, as per official records. An analysis by the District Surveillance Unit pointed out that the focus should be on testing people with high social contacts. Mobile teams have to be utilised to carry out testing among such categories. Test-isolate-treat and vaccinate should go hand in hand. Only sero-surveillance can accurately measure the current state of the pandemic in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-sees-dip-in-hospitalisation/article36393832.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Chargesheet soon in murder case||A team from the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the murder of a young dental student and the subsequent death by suicide of her alleged murderer at Nellikuzhi near Kothamangalam town is set to conduct an elaborate evidence collection in Bihar and adjoining Uttar Pradesh with Adithyan, a friend of the prime accused Rakhil. The five-member team led by the investigation officer and Kothamangalam Station House Officer reached Bihar on Thursday. Adithyan, a close friend and business partner of the key accused, was arrested for travelling with Rakhil allegedly to buy the pistol illegally from Bihar. “The team will be visiting Patna, Munger, and Varanasi as part of collecting evidence and recording the statements of witnesses and officials there. Various aspects like the arms licence of the weapon suppliers will be looked into,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Three arrested The SIT has so far made three arrests in connection with the tragic incident. Sonu Kumar, 20, a resident of Parsando village in Munger district, and Maneesh Kumar, 23, of Buxar district, were arrested last month. Sonu Kumar was the one who allegedly provided the country-made pistol with which the murder was committed while the latter was the intermediary between Rakhil and Sonu Kumar. Both remain in judicial custody. Police confident The police remain confident of having largely wrapped up the investigation and do not expect more arrests at least for the time being. The SIT also remains confident of filing the charge-sheet within the mandatory 90 days, about two months from now. The 24-year-old BDS student from Kannur, doing her house surgeoncy at a dental college at Nellikuzhi, was shot dead allegedly by Rakhil of Melur in Kannur at a house in the neighbourhood of the campus where the victim was staying as paying guest along with her friends on July 29. They were reportedly known to each other after meeting over Instagram about a year ago. It was learned that the accused had probably followed the victim and had been moving around in the locality for nearly a month before the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-collecting-evidence-from-north-india-in-nellikuzhy-case/article36393829.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court dismisses Chennithala’s plea||An impleading petition filed by the Bharatiya Abhibhashaka Parishad and an oral permission sought by Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala to be heard in the discharge petitions filed by General Education Minister V. Sivankutty and others in the Assembly ruckus case were dismissed by a trial court on Thursday. Dismissing the petitions, R. Rekha, Chief Judicial Magistrate, Thiruvananthapuram, noted that the petitioners had no role in the registration of first information report in the case. It was important to note that two private persons, who had no connection with the case, came forward seeking permission to intervene in the matter. The petitioners were neither the de facto complainants nor the informants in the case. The fact that public properties were damaged by the members of the Assembly on the floor of the House was not a ground for the petitioners to seek permission or to file written objections and to advance argument in the discharge petitions, the court noted. Mr. Sivankutty and six Left Democratic Front leaders had earlier filed a petition to discharge them from the case. The case against the accused was that they barged on to the dais of the Speaker on March 13, 2015 in an attempt to prevent the then Finance Minister K.M. Mani from presenting the annual Budget. The legislators were booked under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act for causing a loss of Rs. 2.20 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-dismisses-chennithalas-plea/article36393872.ece
10 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Now, two block panchayats say no to ‘Sir’ and ‘Madam’||Angamaly and Paravur block panchayats in Ernakulam district have decided to ban the use of salutations like ‘Sir’ and ‘Madam’. The move comes a few days after the Mathur grama panchayat in Palakkad district became the first local body in the country to ban such salutations after the panchayat council termed it as “remnants of the colonial rule”. People reaching Angamaly and Paravur block panchayats will no longer have to call officials or elected representatives ‘Sir’ or ‘Madam’. Visitors can address officials by their designation or names. “We will set up a board in front of the block panchayat office stating that the public need not address any official or elected representative of the local body as Sir or Madam any more. “The rule will be applicable to all the institutions under the block panchayat,” said K.V. Abhijith, member representing the Parappuram division, who moved the resolution in the council meet. Saneesh K.S., vice president of Paravur block panchayat, said that the decision to ban the use of such salutations was taken unanimously at the council meet held on Tuesday. “We have also decided to drop words like apeshikunnu or abhyarthikunnu (meaning I request) in letters submitted before the council or the Secretary of the local body. Instead, people can use avakashapedunnu (I demand) or thalparyapedunnu (I desire),” he said. Mr. Abhijith pointed out that Angamaly block panchayat has also taken a similar decision. Complaints People visiting the block panchayat offices can lodge complaints before the council or the secretary, if anyone refuses to offer them services for not using the banned words.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-two-block-panchayats-say-no-to-sir-and-madam/article36393826.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Steady rate in infection among vaccinated population||An average 27% of the vaccinated population in Ernakulam figured among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the last four weeks. The percentage of the vaccinated among the 15,755 positive cases in the first week was 27.93. It went up to 28.38% in the second week and hovered around the 28% mark in the third week. The percentage of the infected among the vaccinated was 26.99 in the fourth week. Breakthrough infections, which occur among people 14 days after the second shot, also witnessed a spike in the last four weeks. The number of such infections reported in the first week was 590. It slipped to 521 in the second week and went up to 757 in the third week. The fourth week had 803 breakthrough infections, as per official records. In July, 19.33% of infections were among the vaccinated, while the corresponding figure in August was 27.21%. The percentage of breakthrough infections in August was 3.4%. Around 26% cases were among the vaccinated from September 1 to September 7. The elderly constituted 16.14% of the infected, while the corresponding figure in August was 15.26%. Nearly 18% of the cases from September 1 to September 7 were among children. In August, the corresponding figure was 18.18%. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for immunisation in Ernakulam, said around 90% of the target population in the district had received the first dose. Around 2.5 lakh people have to be administered the first dose to attain the 100% target, he added. Nine local bodies have achieved the 100% target of administering one dose to the target population. The health authorities remain hopeful of attaining the 100% target of providing the first dose to the target population soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steady-rate-in-infection-among-vaccinated-population/article36393839.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Take stern action against attack on doctors: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday asked the State Police Chief (SPC) to instruct all station house officers (SHOs) to act swiftly on complaints of attacks against doctors, nurses and other health-care workers and to oversee the investigation in such cases. Justices Devan Ramachandran and Kauser Edappagath passed the directive when a review petition filed by the Kerala Private Hospitals Association relating to the COVID-19 treatment charges fixed by the State in private hospitals came up for hearing. The court asked the SPC to see that the investigations in cases registered in connection with attacks on doctors and other health-care workers were concluded without delay and the prosecution was taken forward swiftly. The court made it clear that the circular by the SPC on the issue should percolate down to lower-level officials. The court observed that attacks on doctors and other health-care workers could never be tolerated. The steps now taken by the government were only in a nascent stage. It should be enforced across State strictly. When the petition came up for hearing, senior government pleader S. Kannan submitted that 278 cases were registered in connection with attacks on doctors and other health-care providers and hospitals. As many as 441 persons were arrested and produced before various courts. Earnest efforts were being made to arrest 95 absconding accused. The court said the attack on doctors and health-care workers could not be tolerated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/take-stern-action-against-attack-on-doctors-hc/article36393818.ece
10 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Fans elated over Ronaldo’s return to Manchester United||Naveen James, a young lawyer in the city, was in tears as he almost gave away his old Cristiano Ronaldo jersey from the time when the Portuguese maestro burst onto the football world as an exciting winger at the English Premier League giants Manchester United in the mid-2000s. Known as a fanatic Ronaldo and Manchester United fan in his friends’ circle, Naveen, who started watching the game around the time Ronaldo first started making waves around the world, did the unthinkable when news broke that his idol was set to join bitter rivals Manchester City before the transfer window drew to a close on August 31. A few hours and a twist in the tale later, the youngster was smiling ear-to-ear with his Ronaldo jersey safely put back in his collection, as it emerged that the Portuguese was all set to make his grand comeback to the Theatre of Dreams, home of Manchester United. “Ronaldo made me cry thrice in my life. First, when he left United for Real Madrid in 2009, last month when it was rumoured that he was about to join our rivals, and then again when he rejoined United though the last was out of pure joy,” said Naveen. With Ronaldo expected to make his second debut of sorts for United this Saturday against Newcastle United in English Premier League, fans seem incapable of raving about anything else but the serial record breaker. “We are flooded with requests for organising screenings of the match from across the State, though we cannot owing to the COVID-19 restrictions. That there will be such screenings in other States will make it one of the greatest regrets of fans here,” rued Akash Kesavan, chairman of Manchester United Supporters Club Kerala. For Abish Puthussery, a young techie, the return of Ronaldo is a nostalgic throwback to his younger days when the supremely talented footballer mesmerized fans like him with his audacious skills. “Back during his initial playing days at United, we used to chat about the days when Ronaldo will be a world-beater one day. Now, he is one, and he is coming back to us. This is pure bliss,” said Amal Aleyas, an engineer. Boarding the flight back to his workplace in Bahrain on Wednesday, Sandeep K.V., another United fan, made his wife promise that nothing would be planned this Saturday when Ronaldo is expected to play his first game after the return. “Everything else can wait,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fans-elated-over-ronaldos-return-to-manchester-united/article36393831.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pay revision: judicial officers move SC||The Kerala Judicial Officers Association has moved the Supreme Court seeking to implead itself in the case for the implementation of the second national judicial pay commission recommendations. The All India Judges Association has filed a petition before the apex court seeking to issue directions to the government to implement the pay commission proposals. In her petition, V. Vinitha, secretary of the Kerala Judicial Officers Association and sub judge, submitted that the pay scale of court staff in Kerala was higher than that of judicial officers after the State government revised the salaries of its employees. The disparity in the salary had led to a situation where the whole mechanism of the judiciary was disrupted. It had also upset the seniority of the judicial officers over the court officers, the association submitted. The salary of the court officers had gone up significantly after the implementation of the recommendations of the 11th Pay Revision Commission. It had also widened the disparity between the pay scale of judicial officers and court officers, the organisation submitted. Once the recommendations of the judicial pay commission are implemented, the starting pay of a Junior Civil Judge/First Class Magistrate will be Rs. 77,840 against the existing Rs. 27,700. The pay of Senior Civil Judge will go up to Rs. 1.1 lakh and the District Judge Rs. 1.44 lakh. The highest pay of a District Judge will be enhanced to Rs. 2.24 lakh, according to the association. The association represented all the judicial officers of the district judiciary in the State. All the judges, including ex-cadre judges and others of the subordinate courts, were part of the organisation, it submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pay-revision-judicial-officers-move-sc/article36393841.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MVD officers told to use prescribed uniform||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the State government to strictly implement Rule 406 of the Kerala Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 which prescribes uniforms for regional transport officers (RTOs) and joint regional transport officers, and other officers. The court issued the directive on Thursday on a public interest litigation seeking to restrain the officers of the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) from wearing ‘blue beret caps’ and badges embossed with the Ashoka emblem or any other uniform deceptively similar to the uniform prescribed for senior police officers under Section 43 of the Kerala Police Act, 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-officers-told-to-use-prescribed-uniform/article36393869.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC orders police protection for Thrikkakara municipal chairperson||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the police to ensure that Thrikkakara municipal chairperson Ajitha Thankappan is adequately protected so as to enable her to conduct herself in her official capacity. Issuing the interim order, Justice Devan Ramachandran observed that since the petitioner was the chairperson of the municipality, the court deemed it appropriate to make certain arrangements to enable her to discharge her duties. When the petition by the chairperson came up for hearing, the government pleader submitted that the petitioner did not face any problem. There was no breach of peace, and the police were maintaining law and order effectively. The chairperson had sought police protection for entering her office and discharging her duties. In her petition, she alleged that the Opposition councillors had created a “dreadful situation” where criminal forces were used against the petitioner to deter her from discharging her lawful duties. They had forcibly restrained and confined the petitioner wrongfully in her official chamber with an intention to torture her from 3 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. on September 1. She said the Opposition councillors had formed an unlawful assembly and resorted to intentional assaults on her. They had also insulted her “racially by raising humiliating, insulting and annoying slogans”, referring to her caste and ridiculing her for being a member of the Scheduled Caste. They had also unleashed attacks on the ruling party councillors and staff members after she was rescued by the police from confinement. They had also disrupted the smooth functioning of the council on September 3 as well. It had now become impossible for her to get into her office and discharge her official duties due to threat from Opposition councillors.  The chairperson seeks police protection for entering her office and discharging her duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-orders-police-protection-for-civic-body-chief/article36393827.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Oxygen concentrators to be handed over||As a part of efforts to ensure oxygen availability for COVID-19 patients, the Alumni Association of National Institute of Technology, Warangal, jointly with the Vijayawada and Kerala Chapters, and NSS units of MBITS Engineering College, Kothamangalam, procured 15 oxygen concentrators for use by the grama panchayats in Kothamangalam taluk and St. Joseph Dharmagiri Hospital, Kothamangalam. Antony John, MLA, inaugurated the programme by handing over the first oxygen concentrator to Sr. Abhaya, Administrator, Dharamagiri Hospital, Kothamangalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oxygen-concentrators-to-be-handed-over/article36393824.ece
10 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC reserves order on bail plea||The Kerala High Court on Thursday reserved its order on an anticipatory bail petition moved by Sessy Xavier, an accused in a case relating to misrepresenting as a lawyer and practising in courts in Alappuzha without a law degree. Plea opposed The prosecutor opposed the anticipatory bail plea and submitted that custodial interrogation of the woman was required to know who provided her with the forged documents and certificates which enabled her to misrepresent herself as a lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-reserves-order-on-bail-plea/article36393870.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3,175 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 3,175 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. A total of 3,102 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 57 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate is 15.22%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 50 included Kalamassery (91), Pallipuram (87), Thripunithura (86), Payipra (86), Kavalangad (83), Vengola (82), Edakkatuvayal (72), Thrikkakara (64), Kothamangalam (61), and Chottanikkara (54). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Poonithura, Sreemoolanagaram, Perumpadapu, Okkal, Panayappilli, Pallarimangalam, Edakochi, Elamkulam, and Chakkaraparambu, according to an official release. As many as 32,155 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district, and 20,885 tests were conducted on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3175-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article36393828.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Excise collects evidence in MDMA case||The Excise Crime Branch probing the seizure of over 1 kg of MDMA, a premium drug, from an apartment at Thrikkakara last month, took Thaiba, one of the six accused in the case, around the city and suburbs for evidence collection on Thursday. She was initially taken to an apartment at Thrikkakara where she had lived with Sreemon, another accused, as husband and wife. Excise officials, however, do not suspect the apartment to have been used for hiding the contraband at any point. Later, she was taken to Nettoor, Panangad, Madavana, and Cheppanam where the gang is suspected to have moved around to sell drugs. Her three-day custody expired on Thursday, and she will now be returned to judicial custody. “More arrests in the case may follow,” said investigation sources. In the dark The Excise, however, is still in the dark about the original source of what is considered to be a premium party drug. While officials are confident that the drug was sourced from the Triplicane area in Chennai, they are not sure whether it was domestically manufactured or imported in the guise of cargo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-intensifies-probe-into-mdma-case/article36393835.ece
10 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Marriage outside diocese: HC stays order||The Kerala High Court has kept in abeyance for one month an order of the Kottayam Additional District Court staying a decree of a subordinate court restraining the Metropolitan Archbishop, the Archeparchy of Kottayam, from expelling members who got married outside the diocese. Justice V.G. Arun passed the interim order on Thursday on a petition filed by the Knanaya Catholic Naveekarana Samiti, Kottayam, and two others challenging the Additional District Court order. Fundamental right The judge observed that the issue involved was the curtailment of the fundamental right of a citizen to marry a person of his/her choice, by insisting that the partner should also be a member of the Archeparchy of Kottayam. There should be sufficient cause for the court to stay the decree of the trial court, thereby suspending an individual’s right to marry a partner of his/her choice. For now, the issue had been decided in favour of the petitioners. Being so, the appellate court should not have stayed the operation and execution of the decree, that too without assigning valid reasons, the court added. The subcourt had declared that by entering into a marriage with another Catholic of other diocese, a member of the Archeparchy of Kottayam would not forfeit the membership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marriage-outside-diocese-hc-stays-order/article36393868.ece
10 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CMP seeks compensation for COVID victims||The ruling parties of the Centre and the State should come out with their stand on the compensation to COVID victims as the Supreme Court has asked the Central government to announce its policy regarding the compensation, said Communist Marxist Party (CMP) leader C.P. John on Wednesday. It would be improper for the Kerala government, which is led by a working class political party, to ignore the plight of the victims. It has been revealed that over 70% of the victims of the pandemic were people aged above 60 years. The pandemic has thrown the lives of millions into crisis, he said. The CMP had been demanding the appointment of a COVID compensation commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cmp-seeks-compensation-for-covid-victims/article36393975.ece
10 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Century-old school fights to stay afloat||While several schools across the State have turned smart under State’s Public Education Rejuvenation Mission, Government Higher Secondary School, Peringalam, is an exception. Plagued by many problems, including staff shortage and inadequate infra, the only high school in the Munroe Thuruthu panchayat is staring at an unpromising future. The 100-year-old school is located in Peringalam, the remotest part of the panchayat with no motorable roads. Students and teachers have to first commute by a canoe and then walk the nearly 2-km distance to the school, a daily task that can be very hard considering the topographical features of the island. In the absence of basic amenities, including connectivity, the school has been struggling to provide quality education to its students. Shrinking population While the school has around 200 students in the higher secondary segment, the total strength from Class 1 to 10 is only 65. “Ninety-nine percentage of our students come from underprivileged families and the school is their only hope for a better future,” says M.R. Purushothaman, headmaster. The population of the island has been shrinking over the years with several families migrating to other parts. “Earlier hundreds of students used to attend the school and now the numbers have come down drastically. We recently visited the homes of all students and majority of the parents are Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme workers. They cannot afford other schools and they seemed extremely distressed about the current situation.” Link from Malappuram Mr. Purushothaman adds that there won’t be enough teachers to handle classes when the school reopens. “Last year the students had to attend the exams without classes and this time we have managed by providing the online class links of a school in Malappuram,” he says. A small bridge used to connect Perungalam to the mainland earlier. But it was washed away in the floods of the 90s, cutting off all connectivity. Contractors are not very keen on taking up any work in the island as they will have to ferry the material in boats and later carry it to the site with the help of headload workers. “The last LDF government had announced the construction of Konnayilkadavu bridge, but the work has not started. A bridge and connecting roads can end the woes of the islanders and offer a new life to this school,” adds Mr. Purushothaman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/century-old-school-fights-to-stay-afloat/article36393858.ece
10 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||GST has affected State’s fiscal powers: Balagopal||COVID-19 has thrown the State into a severe financial crisis and the policies of the Centre have aggravated the situation, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said here on Thursday. Addressing the media on the occasion of LDF government completing 100 days, Mr. Balagopal added that the State government had stood strong despite all odds. “Revenue has come down and the current GST system has hit the State’s fiscal powers. All States are facing a similar situation,” he said. Pointing out that the government had taken all possible measures to support the crisis-hit cashew sector, he added that including cashew in Onam kit has immensely helped the industry. “Procuring more than 4 lakh kilos of cashew gave a major boost to the sector and it benefited both labourers and processors. Adding cardamom to the kit was another move to support the farmers.” Mr. Balagopal said that efforts were on to revive the economy by exploiting various possibilities in agriculture, industry, IT and tourism sectors. “Along with welfare measures, the government is also focusing on infrastructure development and the projects have been conceived considering long-term results,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gst-has-affected-states-fiscal-powers-balagopal/article36393862.ece
10 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Nipah victim’s contact has no symptoms||The primary contact of the Nipah victim under observation in the district has not developed any symptoms and all precautionary measures are in place to tackle emergencies, the Health officials said on Thursday. The department had stepped up surveillance and issued an alert after a Kollam resident was identified as a primary contact of the deceased 12-year-old boy. “We have placed a doctor under observation as he had examined the boy at Kozhikode. He had reached Kollam before the boy’s samples tested positive for Nipah. He drove alone in his car to Kollam and since his family had tested positive for COVID-19, he remained in quarantine after reaching home. “He had used mask, shield, and gloves while examining the patient and is currently asymptomatic,” said Deputy DMO R.Sandhya. The department has made all arrangements to shift the person to Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital if he develops symptoms. The officials have started tracing travellers and a couple of ambulance drivers from Kozhikode with high fever have been already shifted to MCH, Thiruvananthapuram. ‘Avoid self-medication’ “Since the COVID-19 protocol is in place and people are wearing masks, the risk level is not high. Those with respiratory issues and the persons taking care of them should use N95 masks. Nipah is a zoonotic disease transmitted from animals and infected persons. Health workers should remain cautious and the public should avoid self-medication for fever,” she said. The incubation period of the virus is 4 to 14 days and sometimes it will take around 21 days for the infected persons to develop symptoms like fever, headache, vomiting, fatigue, dizziness, and fainting. Though very rare, symptoms including cough, stomachache, nausea, blurred vision, convulsions, disorientation and delirium are also seen in patients. The infection can lead to encephalitis or myocarditis leaving the patients comatose. The department has urged the public to stay alert as Nipah treatment is complicated with a very high mortality rate. Since fruit bats spread the disease, the officials have asked the public not to go near bat habitats and avoid eating damaged fruits. “Do not buy fruits with broken skin and use them after washing with warm saline water. Wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, and washing hands are also mandatory.” Control room The department has opened a Nipah control room in Kollam and training sessions will be conducted for doctors and ASHA workers. The public can reach the department by dialling 0474-2797609.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nipah-victims-contact-shows-no-symptoms/article36393859.ece
10 September 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Honour for hospital||N.S. Cooperative Hospital has bagged the Health Department’s honour for its tuberculosis prevention measures. The hospital had provided treatment to the highest number of tuberculosis patients from the district last year. Senior pulmonologist S. Soniya won the honour for leading prevention and treatment-related activities. Health Department Assistant Director Dev Kiran handed over the citations to hospital president P. Rajendran and Dr. Soniya on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/honour-for-hospital/article36393860.ece
10 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||2,124 cases in Kollam||Kollam district reported 2,124 new cases of COVID-19 and 2,118 recoveries on Thursday. Of these, 2,118 patients contracted the virus through local transmission. There was one NRI and five health workers among the infected. At present the district has 32,653 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 23,19,842. On Thursday, 2,901 persons completed home quarantine. The test positivity rate in the district is 16.08%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2124-cases-in-kollam/article36393864.ece
10 September 2021||Kollam,KERALA||MBA admissions at TKM institute||The TKM Institute of Management has invited applications for admissions to the 27th full-time (accredited) MBA batch. Online applications can be submitted on the official website of the institute. For more details, visit www.tkmim.ac.in or call 8075246005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mba-admissions-at-tkm-institute/article36393861.ece
10 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Action plan devised for collection of Nipah-related samples||The Health Department has devised an action plan for collection of samples related to the Nipah infection in Kozhikode and their dispatch to laboratories. The plan, to be implemented in coordination with other government departments, was formulated during online review meetings chaired by Health Minister Veena George on Thursday. Officials from the National Institute of Virology and Forest and Animal Husbandry Departments’ officials too were present. There had been reports of lack of coordination among government departments on the collection and examination of samples. It had also been reported in a section of the media that the samples collected were not finding their way to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases Lab in Bhopal because cargo companies were reluctant to dispatch them. The Minister said crowding should be avoided in Kozhikode city and other public places in view of COVID and Nipah cases. Some people were found to be mildly symptomatic for Nipah infection during a house-to-house survey in Chathamangalam grama panchayat and nearby wards in Mukkom municipality and Kodiyathur grama panchayat. Two mobile labs have been set up to test their body fluid samples for Nipah and COVID. The staff of the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, have been trained for the purpose. Report sought Meanwhile, the Kerala State Human Rights Commission has sought a report within 15 days from the District Medical Officer, Kozhikode, and the District Collector, who is also Chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority, on the alleged lapses in ensuring treatment to Hashim, who died of Nipah. The action by commission judicial member K. Baijunath follows a complaint filed by Noushad Thekkayil, an activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-plan-devised-for-collection-of-nipah-related-samples/article36393803.ece
10 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IIM-K secures 4th position in NIRF rankings||Making its silver jubilee year all the more special, the Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode (IIM-K) has secured the fourth rank in the coveted National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) India Rankings 2021 released by the Ministry of Education on Thursday. By climbing up two slots from the previous year, the IIM-K has surpassed IIM-Lucknow and is now placed at a career best fourth rank overall among management schools in the country. The parameters for ranking include Teaching, Learning & Resources (TLR, 30%), Research and Professional Practice (RP, 30%), Graduation Outcomes (GO, 20%), Outreach and Inclusivity (OI, 10%) and Perception (PR, 10%). IIM-K’s overall score has improved from 69.96 in 2020 to 73.34 in 2021, and has also significantly reduced the gap with other major competitors. The Research and Professional Practice has registered a significant growth of 18.09% during the year which has resulted in the improved rankings. IIM-K’s pursuant endeavours on gender inclusivity, outreach efforts and the resultant enhancement in perception have greatly contributed to the significant achievement in the 25th year of its inception. Sharing his thoughts on the major milestone achieved, Prof. Debashis Chatterjee, IIM-K Director, said that the career best ranking is a testimony to the selfless contribution of our proficient faculty members, efficient administration, our magnificent students, alumni, recruiters and the ever supportive governments. “We will continue on the path of embracing dynamic reforms, encouraging research and propagating our institute’s mission of globalising Indian thought,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iim-k-secures-4th-position-in-nirf-rankings/article36393799.ece
10 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Traders continue to defy containment zone curbs||Despite stringent legal action by the police, more traders owing allegiance to the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) are defying containment zone regulations by opening shops that fall under the non-essential category. In some of the rural areas, traders locked horns with the police on Thursday when they were asked to down the shutters in micro containment zones. A section of traders from Koodaranhi, where many shops were opened on Thursday flouting regulations, said they had been going through an acute financial crisis for over 24 days. It was at a time when the majority of the traders tested negative for COVID-19 and cooperated with all the important regulations, they said. Those who opened shops also staged a protest in the Koodaranhi market against the local panchayat authorities. According to them, the authorities were trying to portray traders as those responsible for the rapid increase in COVID-19 cases. Similarly, non-essential category of shops were opened in many rural areas like in Perambra, Kuttiyadi and Nadapuram. To prevent mass protests, the police remained silent in many locations. However, cases were registered against violators under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Trade union leaders said they would fight the case. In the wake of the rising protests, State functionaries of the KVVES said they would extend all moral and field support to traders who wanted to open their shops in containment zones. They reiterated that traders were not spearheading any protest to defy rules but trying to resume their business as usual for survival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-continue-to-defy-curbs/article36393817.ece
10 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Regional Passport Office resumes services||After several months of lockdown-induced lull, the Kozhikode Regional Passport Office, which issues more passports than the two other regional passport offices in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram, has resumed near-normal functioning. However, appointments at the Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) in various districts in Malabar as well as the Post Office Passport Seva Kendra (POPSK) in Kasaragod district have been restricted to 75% of the pre-COVID-19 levels to strictly comply with the mandatory protocols. A source in the Ministry of External Affairs said the travel restrictions imposed by various countries on account of the pandemic saw an almost 50% drop in the number of applications. There was huge dip in passport applications in April, May, June and July last year. During this period, the number of passports issued were below 10,000 a month. From September onwards, the official said, the number of applications received and passports issued rose in the range between 25,000 and 35,000 a month. In January this year, about 40,000 passports were issued. The trend continued for the next two months before falling again in the months of April, May and June. The drop in the number of applicants was attributed to the lockdown in the State. Now, with restrictions easing and the Gulf sector opening up, passport and its related services would receive a better response. This would also mean a longer waiting period, the sources said. Normally, the Kozhikode Regional Passport office receives and clears over five lakh applications a calendar year. The figure for 2019 was 5,34,406. But in 2020, it went down to 2,96,534, and this year up to August 31, the office processed 2,16,143 applications. In the past several years, Kerala stood second, after Maharashtra, in the list of States issuing most number of passports in the country. The official said that the lockdown had also cast a shadow over proposals for opening two POPSKs, one each either in Kalpetta or Mananthavady in Wayanad district, and in Tirur in Malappuram district. Wayanad is the only district in north Kerala which lacks a passport-service facility. The Regional Passport Office, Kozhikode, caters for five districts — Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasaragod, Wayanad, Malappuram and Mahe (Union Territory). PSKs are functioning at Kannur, Payyannur, Kozhikode, Vadakara and Malappuram. The first POPSK under the regional office was opened at the Kasaragod head post office four years ago. At the same time, the closure of the Malappuram Regional Passport Office and its merger with the Kozhikode office in 2017 did not affect the residents of Malappuram district, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-regional-passport-office-resumes-services/article36393808.ece
10 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Chakkittappara residents in grip of fear||From where do they come or where they disappear is an enigmatic question for villagers of Chakkittappara, an upland area 48 km from Kozhikode city. The entry of armed men who introduce themselves as “Maoists” trigger fear in the minds of both local administrators and settlers here where the anti-terror squad and the local police force are yet to emerge as a trustworthy force for protection. The village, which shares borders with the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary, witnessed two recent incidents in which armed men made their entry with open threats against the local panchayat president and those who allegedly adopt anti-labour policies. Till now, reports of seeing “Maoists” have just been narratives for many. There are no security persons in the area to monitor entry of suspicious persons. Similarly, there is no quick mechanism to launch a search operation at short notice. “What we see is a cat and mouse game where a few make their entry as Maoists and the police launch a futile search after their disappearance into the forest. These futile operations have been going on in many rural areas,” says a local farmers’ organisation leader at Chakkittappara . “We do not want to see any bloodshed. What we seek is an end to this armed people’s entry to our place,” he adds. Many villagers consider police action as an attempt to hoodwink the public . The settlers do not want bloodshed but they seek protection for their own life . Meanwhile, the call to open police outposts in vulnerable villages and intensify security at short-listed police stations remains ignored. As per Intelligence reports, Peruvannamoozhi, Thottilpalam, Koorachundu and Valayampolice stations are vulnerable to Maoist attacks and security measures have to be strengthened. “We have taken up the demand of a police outpost again at Chakkittapara considering the public fear over the issue,” says Sunil Kallunkal, president of the Chakkittappara grama panchayat, who has already sought police protection. He says the direct entry of Maoists with weapons is a first experience for the settlers and they are fearful of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chakkittappara-residents-in-grip-of-fear-after-maoist-threat/article36393813.ece
10 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NIT-C ranking slips||The National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NIT-C) has retained the top position among the engineering colleges in the State. However, it slipped two slots to 25th rank in National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2021. In NIRF ranking of architecture institutions, the Department of Architecture and Planning at NIT-C was ranked second in the country. Last time, its rank was third. The institute was placed third among the NITs after Tiruchirappalli and Surathkal in one of the five parameters, Graduation and Outcome (GO) which covers placement and opportunities for higher studies. Besides, GO also covers examination results and number of Ph.D scholars. The GO of NIT-C was 77.94 whereas for NIT-Warangal, it was 74.62 and NIT-Rourkela 72.53. “But we have retained the position within the top 25,” P.S. Sathidevi, director-in-charge, NIT-C, said. She said that the NIT-C score in parameters — Research and Professional Practice (RPP) and Peer Perception — were 34.63 and 37.53 respectively. Some of the new Indian Institutes of Technology were climbing the ladder in the NIRF ratings with each passing year, Prof. Sathidevi said. However, sources said that the NIT-C could not score better in the parameters like Teaching, Learning and Resources (TLR) and RPP due to the lack of permanent faculty. “The NIRF considers the faculty-student ratio under TLR. It takes only the permanent faculty, not ad hoc,” sources said. Sources said that more research publications would be possible only with permanent faculty. The faculty recruitment took place in 2018 and 2020 after a long gap. All the vacancies were not filled together as recruitments happened in stages, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nit-c-ranking-slips/article36393801.ece
10 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Expert team collects samples from Pazhoor||An expert team from the State Institute of Animal Diseases of the Animal Husbandry Department on Thursday collected samples of arecanut and rambutan fruit from the house premises of Mohammed Hashim, the 12-year-old boy from Chathamangalam in Kozhikode district, who succumbed to Nipah infection earlier this week. The team led by Disease Investigation Officer Mini Jose inspected house premises in the Munnur locality in Pazhoor village near Chathamangalam. They also visited the nearby plot where rambutan trees grow. The arecanut samples collected were half-eaten by fruit bats, considered to be the natural carriers of the virus. They directed the local residents to stop fishing in the river next to the plot. Since a bat habitat had been found across the river, grazing of animals on the path leading to the rambutan trees was also asked to be stopped. The team members also sought steps to help dairy farmers, who have been hit hard by the declaration of the area as a containment zone. The farmers were found to pour milk on the ground as they were unable to sell it. Steps have been taken to procure the milk and take it to houses and milk cooperative societies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expert-team-collects-samples-from-pazhoor/article36393804.ece
10 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||TPR declines to 15.98% in district||The test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 declined to 15.98% in Kozhikode district on Thursday when 2,332 people tested positive for the virus. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, the active caseload came down to 31,568 as 4,488 people recovered from the infection. Of the fresh cases, 2,302 are locally acquired infections and the source of 26 others is not known. As many as 14,876 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 338 cases of local transmission of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-declines-to-1598-in-district/article36393809.ece
10 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Solar power set to light up Sabarimala||With a view to confronting the rising power cost, a new source of renewable energy is now rising on the horizon of Sabarimala. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has embarked on a mission to turn power neutral with the commissioning of a two megawatt solar power plant on the holy hillock. The project is being established with the technical support of Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL), a pioneer in megawatt scale solar projects. At Sannidhanam According to TDB president N. Vasu, the project envisages installation of solar panels on the large and shade-free rooftops of various buildings at the Sannidhanam. The switch to green energy makes good sense not only environmentally but economically as well. “The solar plant will cater to the power needs at the Sannidhanam, while bringing down the mounting electricity bills, which currently stands around Rs. 10 crore a year. The consumption of power at Sabarimala has come down significantly due to COVID-19 shock but considering the diminishing financial profile of the TDB, cutting down such additional costs will be of great help,” he said. The distribution and transmission of power in and around Sabarimala pilgrimage zone is currently entrusted with Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). CIAL team’s visit As part of implementing the project, a technical team from CIAL visited the Sannidhanam last month for a feasibility study. According to Managing Director of CIAL S. Suhas, the agency is slated to submit the report by the last week of September. The feasibility study will be followed by a detailed project report (DPR) and works on the plant is slated to be completed in a year. Through sponsorships Official sources said the TDB was looking to implement the project through sponsorships from business groups and had already kick-started consultations in this direction. A couple of business groups, which are based out of Kerala, are learned to have evinced interest in supporting the project, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-power-set-to-light-up-sabarimala/article36393855.ece
10 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||COVID at old-age homes: probe ordered||Health Minister Veena George has ordered a probe into several residents of two old-age homes in the district testing positive for COVID-19. One of the incidents came to light after a resident of Karunalayam, an old-age home at Aranmula, tested positive for COVID-19 after death. Following this, 143 residents and 18 employees of the home were subjected to COVID-19 tests and of this, 107 residents and six employees tested positive. “During an inquiry, it was found that one of the staff members of the old-age home had earlier tested positive. The person, however, failed to apprise the home authorities of the result though she abstained from duty afterwards,” said the Minister. District Collector Divya S. Iyer said that the Adoor Revenue Divisional Officer had been entrusted with holding an inquiry into the incident and action would be taken based on the report. “Had the person who tested positive earlier informed the authorities about the test result, the massive transmission could have been averted,” the Collector said. Made FLTCs Meanwhile, 26 residents and one staff member of Government Old Age Home at Vayalathala too tested positive for the virus. Based on the findings, both institutions have been converted into first-line treatment centres (FLTC).  A staff member who earlier tested positive did not inform authorities 26 residents, one staff of govt. old-age home at Vayalathala too infected||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-at-old-age-homes-probe-ordered/article36393856.ece
10 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State institutions slip in NIRF rankings||Bringing little to cheer for Kerala, the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) has seen most State universities and several prominent colleges drop several rungs. However, the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) and a few Centrally run institutions, including the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode, and the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, have bucked the trend to provide a silver lining to the dismal show. While Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi, and Calicut universities have slipped in the rankings, Cusat has climbed 18 ranks to reach 44 among universities in the country. The IIM-K has been ranked the fourth best among B-schools in the country. Despite falling two rungs among engineering colleges, the NIT-C has impressed by becoming the second best among architecture institutes. Thrissur college Except Thrissur Government Engineering College, none of the top-100 engineering institutions could improve their rankings in 2020. While the College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, has fallen from 85 to 95, the NIT-C has dropped two ranks to reach 25. The Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology is ranked 40th, a fall from 33 last year. The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology and the National University of Advanced Legal Studies have come 11th and 26th in the medical and law categories respectively. The State had no representation in these categories last year. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu said here on Thursday that the State had been able to put up a decent show, despite being unable to realise its true potential as an education hub. Hoping to kick-start a massive overhaul of the education sector, the government had announced three commissions comprising eminent academics on the same day. Rise in competition Kerala State Higher Education Council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal said the higher education institutions that figured in the top-100 ranks could largely maintain their positions despite an increase in competition. He pointed out that the State differed from many others by ensuring priority in distributive justice of resources. Amruth G. Kumar, Professor of Education, Central University of Kerala, said State universities lacked competence in attracting research funds. Faculty members often faced administrative hurdles while bringing research projects to universities. Scant regard was also ensured towards extension activities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-institutions-slip-in-nirf-rankings/article36393878.ece
10 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Only three colleges from capital in top 100||The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings have come as an indicator of Thiruvananthapuram’s waning influence as the education capital of the State.The State capital, which had five of its colleges in the top-100 bracket last year, only has three now. University College fell two rungs to reach 25, while the Government College for Women dropped to the 46th position (from the 40th last year). However, Mar Ivanios College (44) improved its rankings by four positions. Government Arts College and MG College fell outside the top-100 group to figure in the 101-150 rank band. Engineering colleges Among engineering colleges, the College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, (CET), fell 10 spots to figure in the 95th position. CET managed to maintain its 11th position among architecture institutes. The Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST) was 40th among engineering institutions, down from the 33rd position. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) which had bagged the 80th position among all higher education institutions last year fell into the 101-150 rank band this time. While the University of Kerala dropped from 23rd to 27th rank among universities in the country, it fell one position to become the 43rd best higher education institution in the country. However, Kerala University Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai pointed out that the university could ensure a high standing despite competition increasing by a double. While there were 3,771 applicants in 2020, as many as 6,000 higher education institutions had registered for the rankings this year. The university that had maintained the top position among universities in the State since the launch of the ranking system in 2016 had the potential to break into the top-10 ranks nationally, Prof. Pillai said. Several measures have been initiated to address shortcomings that have persisted for long. These included filling vacancies for faculty positions. The government has also adopted steps to increase faculty strength wherever necessary. Such measures is bound to enable more students to take up research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-three-colleges-from-capital-in-top-100/article36394029.ece
10 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A day of more recoveries||The State logged 26,200 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 1,56,957 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate stood at 16.69% on the day. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals showed a dip on Thursday and they now have 2,404 patients (2,479 on Wednesday), while the number of patients requiring ventilator support remained steady at 1,022 (1,021 on Wednesday). Active case pool dips The active case pool is also dipping slowly, with the State reporting a good n umber of daily recoveries. The active case pool has 2,36,345 patients now, with 29,209 recovering on Thursday. The cumulative case fatality now stands at 22,126 with the State adding 125 deaths to the toll on Thursday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,466. Among the districts, Thrissur continued to report the highest number of new cases at 3,279, followed by Ernakulam 3,175, Thiruvananthapuram 2,598, Malappuram 2,452, Kozhikode 2,332, Kollam 2, 124, Palakkad 1,996, Alappuzha 1,604, Kottayam 1,580, Kannur 1,532, Pathanamthitta 1,244, Wayanad 981, Idukki 848 and Kasaragod 455 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-day-of-more-recoveries/article36393874.ece
10 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Revenue dept. launches more online services||The State government intends to expand e-services to more areas to ensure an efficient and people-friendly civil services, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday. He was speaking after launching various online services of the Revenue Department including a mobile app for remitting land tax. The easy-to-use mobile app will enable the public, especially non-resident Keralites, to remit their land tax from anywhere in the world, the Chief Minister said. Other services provided by the Revenue Department also will be added to the mobile app soon, Mr. Vijayan said. Services launched E-services for accessing field measurement sketches, ‘thandaper’ accounts, and location maps online; filing online applications for the conversion of land; and websites for all 1,666 villages in the State were launched on Thursday. The Chief Minister also launched a module for disbursing social security pension online for patients with cancer, leprosy and tuberculosis. A refurbished e-payment portal was also launched. Digital card The government is planning to introduce a digital card or digital locker or a village information system for storing land-related information pertaining to each individual, Revenue Minister K. Rajan, who presided over the function, said. The proposal for a ‘unique thandaper,’ which has received approval from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, is the first step towards the concept of digital cards, Mr. Rajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revenue-department-launches-more-online-services/article36393821.ece
10 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree opens veg kiosks||The Kudumbashree mission has launched urban vegetable kiosks to ensure market for organic vegetables and tuber crops produced by its farming joint liability groups (JLGs) in the State. Besides ensuring market for pesticide-free organic produce cultivated by the JLGs and value-added products made by various Kudumbashree units that have been hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic, the kiosks will ensure an income for the groups managing them. While the produce of the farming groups reaches ‘nattuchanthas’ or weekly markets, they cater mostly to rural areas. With demand for quality agriculture produce high in urban areas, the Kudumbashree targets setting up 100 kiosks in select urban areas by including them under the Kerala State Planning Board’s special livelihood package. 90 locations Ninety urban locations have been identified for setting up the kiosks that are uniformly branded with one single design. Kudumbashree has issued the guidelines for this. The space for the kiosks is identified through the municipality or Corporation concerned. They will function under the Kudumbashree urban community development societies (CDS) concerned. A management committee will be set up for the smooth functioning of the kiosks. The committees will have one CDS representative, Kudumbashree district mission representative, and district programme manager as members. Already functioning The urban vegetable kiosks have already started functioning in Kottayam, Thrissur, Wayanad, and Ernakulam districts. In Thiruvananthapuram, one kiosk each has opened at Pazhakutti and Kallingal in Nedumangad municipality. The latest is set to be inaugurated at TB Junction in Neyyattinkara on September 15. Another kiosk will come up at Pathamkallu in Nedumangad soon, and three more are slated to come up in the Corporation limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-opens-veg-kiosks/article36393977.ece
10 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State plans to expand oil palm farming||The Agriculture Department is eyeing the possibility of increasing the area under oil palm cultivation in the State. At a meeting with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar earlier this week, the State had sought support for expanding oil palm cultivation to all districts under the National Mission on Oilseeds and Oil Palm (NMOOP), Agriculture Minister P. Prasad said. “The Centre had agreed to oil palm cultivation on 6,500 hectares in eight districts. We have informed the Centre that all 14 districts have potential,” Mr. Prasad said. Seed garden Additionally, the State had requested support for establishing a second seed garden for ensuring the availability of quality planting material, Mr. Prasad said. “We have a seed garden in Thodupuzha which produces 10 lakh sprouts. The State has placed a request for one more seed garden in the State,” the Agriculture Minister said. At present, the Oil Palm India grows oil palms at Yeroor, Chithara and Kulathupuzha in Kollam district. The Plantation Corporation also has oil palm plantations in Thrissur district. New mission The State has expressed its keenness at a time when the pros and cons of the new oil palm mission announced by the Narendra Modi government are being hotly debated. In mid-August, the Union Cabinet had given its approval for the new Rs. 11,040-crore National Mission on Edible Oils – Oil Palm (NMEO-OP). Biodiversity concerns While the stated aim is to reduce dependence on edible oil imports, the mission has drawn criticism on the grounds that oil palm monoculture could spell disaster for the biodiversity-rich North-East region and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the two focus areas of NMEO-OP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-plans-to-expand-oil-palm-farming/article36393978.ece
10 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM has endorsed my crusade, claims Jaleel||Left Democratic Front (LDF) Independent legislator K.T. Jaleel on Thursday appeared to suggest that his anti-corruption crusade against Indian Union Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty had Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's blessing. His Facebook post on the subject contradicted the widespread speculation that Mr. Vijayan was averse to Dr. Jaleel cooperating with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to investigate the AR Nagar Cooperative Bank controlled by the IUML. Dr. Jaleel said he had "met the Chief Minister in the morning and talked in detail.” He said the fight to bring out the truth behind “the hawala and black money dealings of Mr. Kunhalikutty” would continue forcefully. The Pinarayi Vijayan government has a history of taking decisive actions against economic offenders. “IUML leaders can wish for anything. If wishes were horses, beggars would ride,” Dr. Jaleel said on FB. Earlier, IUML State secretary P.M.A. Salam claimed that Mr. Vijayan had doused Dr. Jaleel's overzealousness to slur Mr. Kunhalikutty's integrity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-has-endorsed-my-crusade-claims-jaleel/article36393876.ece
10 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Programme to check suicide among children||The State Women and Child Development Department is set to launch ‘Ninavu,’ a child suicide prevention programme under the Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS). The intervention comes in the wake of the alarming rate of suicide among children in the State. The most significant initiative under Ninavu is the setting up of a suicide-prevention cell that will aim at nipping in the bud problems faced by children that lead to anxiety and feelings of forlornness. Their emotional well-being and social connectivity will be ensured and support for impulse control provided. Scientific studies and research, trainings, interventions, sustainable support, and awareness creation of the importance of positive mental health in society are the other objectives of the cell. Feasible strategies and protocols for preventing suicides and screening programmes are planned.  Early identification and interventions for high-risk groups such as children from vulnerable families, those in need of care and protection, and those in conflict with law will be made. It will enhance the capacity of potential gatekeepers in the child protection system such as staff of child-care institutions and non-governmental organisations, professional social workers, psychologists, school teachers, and school counsellors for early identification of children who have suicidal thoughts. Another goal of the programme is to equip children to face tough situations in life. e-learning portal The Women and Child Development Department will also roll out an e-learning portal developed with the support of the Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management Kerala and UNICEF that will allow child protection functionaries to undergo online trainings and sessions to update their knowledge and skills.  Children to be equipped to face tough situations in life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ninavu-to-check-child-suicides/article36393802.ece
10 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Poovachal, Attingal win Nava Kerala awards||Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan on Thursday announced the Nava Kerala awards for local self-government institutions that facilitated arrangements for solid waste management in their limits. One grama panchayat and one urban body in each district have been presented with the award, citation, and a purse of Rs. 2 lakh. In Malappuram, Keezhattoor grama panchayat and Tirur municipality were selected for the award; in Kozhikode, Azhiyoor panchayat and Vadakara municipality; in Wayanad, Meenangadi panchayat; in Kannur, Chembilod panchayat and Anthoor municipality; and in Kasaragod, Badiadka panchayat and Neeleswaram municipality became eligible for the awards. In Palakkad, Vellinezhi grama panchayat and Chittoor-Thathamangalam municipality were selected for the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nava-kerala-awards-announced/article36393811.ece
10 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NGOs help woman realise dream of house||Lailakumari from Kallara, Pangode, had all but given up hope of a house of her own when help came from an unexpected quarter. The widow with an ailing son who needs a heart surgery had knocked on several doors after she realised that the grant received from the government was insufficient to complete the construction of a house since the land she bought in Moozhinada in the Chanthavila ward had water logging problems. Thanks to the College of Engineering Trivandrum (CET) Bharatheeyam group and Sevabharathi Kazhakuttam, the house was completed in a year’s time. The CET Bharatheeyam group provided financial and technical assistance while the Sevabharathi arranged volunteers and materials. Sevabharathi State president Renjith Hari handed over the key of the new house to Ms. Lailakumari on Thursday in the presence of BJP district president V.V. Rajesh. Sevabharathi Kazhakuttam unit president V.K. Suresh Kumar presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngos-help-woman-realise-dream-of-house/article36394038.ece
10 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Special vaccination camps||Health Minister Veena George on Thursday said the vaccination of college students against COVID-19, a prerequisite to the reopening of higher education institutions, would be taken up jointly by the Higher Education and Health departments. The list of all unvaccinated teachers and college staff members would be collected from all universities and special vaccination camps would be organised at the respective institution, she said. Already, 77.42% of those above 18 years had been covered with one dose of vaccine and 29.70% in the same group fully vaccinated. The State aimed to complete the first dose coverage of the entire population above 18 years within September 30, she said. The State received eight lakh doses of Covishield and 1,55,290 doses of Covaxin on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-vaccination-camps/article36393875.ece
10 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assistance for neighbourhood groups||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday inaugurated through videoconferencing a project for assisting Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups experiencing financial crisis in the wake of COVID-19. The government will provide 19,489 area development societies (ADS) under the Kudumbashree and 133 ‘ooru samitis’ (settlement committees) in Attappady Rs. 1 lakh each as revolving fund. In his inaugural address, the Chief Minister said that in the past 25 years Kudumbashree had grown from a poverty-alleviation mission to a women-empowerment mechanism. The government has sanctioned Rs. 196.22 crore to the Kudumbashree for providing the revolving fund. Nearly 1.75 lakh groups will benefit from the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assistance-for-neighbourhood-groups/article36394030.ece
10 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State puts forth slew of projects for Central aid||The State has submitted projects worth Rs. 567.14 crore to the Centre for assistance under the agriculture infrastructure fund, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. At a review meeting convened by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday, Mr. Prasad said the State had requested Central support for the export of gandhakasala rice, vazhakkulam pineapple and nendran banana. The State has also put forth a slew of other demands in connection with Centralised schemes. The State reiterated its demand that curbs be imposed on the import of agricultural products such as pepper, since their re-export in the form of value-added products is hitting local farmers. Further, the State had also sought Central assistance for the establishment of a quality assessment laboratory for agricultural produce. Credit guarantee coverage should be provided to farmer producer organisations (FPO). The NABARD loan provided to primary agricultural cooperatives at 1% should be made available to FPOs also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-puts-forth-slew-of-projects-for-central-aid/article36393879.ece
10 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Laws will be amended: Bindu||Acts and Rules related to higher education will be amended to explore the possibilities of digital education, Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu has said. She was speaking after inaugurating four blocks and a solar plant at Attingal Arts and Science College here on Wednesday. She also inaugurated online an indoor stadium at Krishna Menon Memorial Women’s College, Kannur. The Minister said all campuses would be turned into women-friendly and differently abled friendly spaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laws-will-be-amended-bindu/article36393976.ece
10 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘State a model’||The State’s stance in the education sector during the COVID-19 crises is a model for all, General Education Minister V. Sivankutty said, after inaugurating a hall adjacent to the KSTA Kollam district centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-a-model/article36394033.ece
10 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,598 COVID cases in district||The district reported 2,598 new COVID-19 cases and 2,390 recoveries on Thursday. The test positivity rate remains high at 17.3%. As on Thursday, 17,793 people were under treatment for COVID-19. In all, 43,172 people are under quarantine in the district, including 2,559 people who were prescribed isolation on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2598-covid-cases-in-district/article36394034.ece
10 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Quarantine violations: case against 15||The City police have registered cases against 15 persons over the past week for breaching COVID-19 quarantine regulations. Inspections carried out by the police had revealed that the 15 persons had violated the quarantine norms, City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. The cases have been registered under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. They will be transferred to treatment centres at their own expense, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarantine-violations-case-against-15/article36394036.ece
10 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC plans to lay off staff, end loss-making services||Struggling to remain afloat, the cash-strapped Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is looking at tough measures to pull through the crisis. The KSRTC will recommend the government to either lay off excess personnel or place them on leave extending from one to five years on 50% salaries as was done by the Madhya Pradesh government, KSRTC chairman and managing director Biju Prabhakar said on Thursday. The KSRTC is in no position to move forward without cutting costs, he informed employees unions of the corporation at a meeting. Fiscal discipline Calling for fiscal discipline, Mr. Prabhakar pointed out that the KSRTC is heavily dependent on the State government for paying the monthly salaries. Only 3,300 buses of the 4,800-strong fleet are plying services at present. Every month, the corporation requires nearly Rs. 100 crore from the State government to pay the salaries of the employees. Neck-deep in a financial crisis, the KSRTC management has also asked units to discontinue loss-making services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-plans-to-lay-off-staff-end-loss-making-services/article36393883.ece
10 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medical college teachers observe protest day||The faculty in Government Medical Colleges across the State observed protest day on Thursday, in protest against the government’s indifference to implementing pay revision of medical college teachers. In a statement here, the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association said that the government order (GO) on the pay revision was issued, after a delay of four years, on September 11 last year. However, the majority of medical college faculty were yet to receive even a single payslip in accordance with the revised pay. This apart, the government has chosen to turn a deaf ear to several anomalies in the GO. The KGMCTA observed the first anniversary of the issue of the pay revision GO as protest day, by getting together its members through social media. Resolve anomalies The KGMCTA said that the pay revision anomalies affecting young entrants to the Medical Education Service needed to be resolved immediately. Doctors would be forced to adopt overt and organised protests if the government continued to ignore their just demands, the KGMCTA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-teachers-observe-protest-day/article36394031.ece
10 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vehicle tax for stage, contract carriers waived||The government has issued orders waiving vehicle tax in full for the April-June quarter for stage carriers and contract carriages, Transport Minister Antony Raju said. The decision has been taken in view of the financial constraints faced by vehicle operators due to COVID-19, Mr. Raju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vehicle-tax-for-stage-contract-carriers-waived/article36393880.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-festival/article36393882.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against privatisation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-privatisation/article36393866.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sea rage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sea-rage/article36393837.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Novel protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/novel-protest/article36393815.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Heavy rain in Palakkad||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-in-palakkad/article36393980.ece
10 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not much headway in HNSS canal works, alleges TDP||The TDP, which went on a day-long tour of all the places where the Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS) canal widening works were taken up in Guntakal and surrounding areas of Anantapur district on Thursday, alleged that works had not progressed “even by a single inch” since the YSRCP government came to power. Party Polit Bureau member K. Srinivasulu, who led the team comprising, among others, former Anantapur Urban MLA V. Prabhakar Chowdary, alleged that the Rs. 1,030 crore released by the TDP government was not utilised. The operation of the canal for supply of water to the ayacutdars had become very difficult, the TDP leaders said. Had the money been spent, the 3,850 cusecs capacity of the canal could have been completed, they said, and alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy did not bother to keep his promise of increasing the carrying capacity of the canal to 6,000 cusecs. “The Chief Minister has stopped irrigation water to Anantapur and Chittoor districts,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. “Bushes have not been cleared on the bund road near Ragulapadu, which shows the state of its maintenance,” he added. The government must get more water allocated to the HNSS and ensure that the project proposed to enhance the capacity to 6,300 cusecs was taken up immediately. The TDP proposes to convene a meeting of all the organisations from Rayalaseema in Anantapur on September 11. As part of the effort, former Minister Mysoora Reddy had met Tadipatri Municipal Chairperson J.C. Prabhakar Reddy in his house on Wednesday to chalk out future plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-much-headway-in-hnss-canal-works-alleges-tdp/article36393964.ece
10 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctor dies in road accident||Desai Guru Rajesh, 39, a doctor working in the Atmakur Primary Health Centre, 39, was killed in a road accident on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday night. Police said that the accident occurred his vehicle veered off the national highway and hit the signboard before ramming into a tea kiosk. His body was flung from the vehicle. Dr. Rajesh is survived by his wife Lakshmi, a doctor at B. Pappur , a son and a daughter. Post-mortem The Anantapur Police shifted the body to Government General Hospital for post-mortem. It is yet to be ascertained if it was a case of drunken driving or overspeeding, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctor-dies-in-road-accident/article36393949.ece
10 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Godavari crosses first warning level||The government machinery has been activated in the riverside areas in seven mandals of the district as the Godavari continued to flow well above the first warning level of 43 feet at Bhadrachalam on Thursday. The authorities have issued the first flood warning for the flood-prone villages and low-lying areas along the river course in the seven mandals after the Godavari crossed the 43 feet mark at the temple town in the early hours of Thursday. The water level in the river hovered above 46 feet on Thursday night and inched closer to the second flood warning mark of 48 feet. The field staff of the Revenue, Irrigation and other government departments have been put on high alert to expeditiously shift people living in flood-prone areas to the relief camps and provide them food and other amenities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/godavari-crosses-first-warning-level/article36393973.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Thamirabarani civilisation 3,200 years old’||A carbon dating analysis of rice with soil, found in a burial urn at Sivakalai in Thoothukudi district in southern Tamil Nadu, by the Miami-based Beta Analytic Testing Laboratory, has yielded the date of 1155 BCE, thereby indicating that the Thamirabarani civilisation dates back to 3,200 years. Encouraged by this finding, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday announced in the Assembly the establishment of Porunai Museum in Tirunelveli at a cost of Rs. 15 crore. “The finding has established that the Porunai river [Thamirabarani] civilisation dates back to 3,200 years. It is the government’s task to scientifically prove that the history of the Indian Subcontinent should begin from the Tamil landscape,” he said in a suo motu statement. The Beta Analytic Testing Laboratory in Miami, U.S., released the test report on August 27. Mr. Stalin said archaeological excavations would be carried out in other States and countries in search of Tamil roots. In the first phase, studies would be undertaken at the ancient port of Musiri, now known as Pattanam, in Kerala. “The research will be done jointly with Kerala archaeologists to establish the ancientness and culture of the Chera country,” he said. Research in Egypt Similar studies would be conducted at Vengi in Andhra Pradesh, Thalaikadu in Karnataka and Palur in Odisha. The Chief Minister said the Tamil Nadu Archaeology Department would conduct research at Quseir al-Qadim and Pernica Anekke in Egypt, which were once part of the Roman empire, as well as in Khor Rori in Oman, to establish the Tamils’ trade relations with these countries. “Pot shreds with Tamil scripts have been found in these countries. The study will be conducted with the help of archaeologists of these countries,” he said. Mr. Stalin said studies would also be conducted in southeast Asian countries such as Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam, where king Rajendra Chola had established supremacy. Recalling his visit to Keezhadi, where archaeological excavations had thrown up new findings, the Chief Minister said carbon dating of the objects unearthed there had proved that Tamil society achieved literacy even in 6th century BCE. “The world Keezhadi has united Tamils across the world,” he added. He said Calcutta University professor Susmita Basu Majumdar had come to the conclusion that the silver coin with Sun and other symbols was pre-Mauryan. Rakesh Tewari, former Director-General of the Arachaeological Survey of India, had said the outcome of recent excavations in Keeladi, Kodumanal and other sites in Tamil Nadu, including NBP, black slipped ware and good number of potshreds with Brahmi inscriptions, have corroborated the view that contacts between South India and North India might be as early as 600-700 BCE or even earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thamirabarani-civilisation-3200-years-old/article36393309.ece
10 September 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||15 tribal habitations cut off from mainland||Nearly 15 Koya tribal habitations nestled between Sokileru rivulet and Sabari river have been cut off from the mainland in Chintoor Agency in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The Sokileru rivulet, on the outskirts of Chintoor, is in spate, cutting off road connectivity for a few villages to enter Chintoor, the administrative headquarters of the Agency. Villages situated along the stretch of Sabari river have been cut off from the mainland. Integrated Tribal Development Agency Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana said the road had been under water at eight locations. In V.R. Puram mandal alone, the road had been blocked at three locations. Two State Disaster Response Force teams were ready for evacuation. Mr. Venkata Ramana said evacuation of people would begin only after flood level exceeded 11 lakh at Peruru in Telangana. Meanwhile, the government machinery has been activated in the riverside areas in seven mandals of Telangana’s Bhadradri-Kothagudem district as the Godavari continued to flow well above the first warning level of 43 feet at Bhadrachalam on Thursday.  (With inputs from Bhadradri)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-tribal-habitations-cut-off-from-mainland-in-ap/article36393307.ece
10 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven held, copper wires worth Rs. 20 lakh seized||The Chittoor police on Thursday nabbed seven members a gang that has been allegedly involved in the theft of copper wire from 116 transformers across the district since 2019, and seized material worth Rs. 20 lakh from their possession, besides three motorcycles. A special party that was investigating the series of thefts and tampering with the transformers installed in fields nabbed three accused when they were moving suspiciously near Tavanampalle, 20 km from here. After preliminary investigation, four more were arrested from various mandals. Copper wires weighing 2 tonnes were seized from their possession, Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy told the media on Thursday. “The accused, in the age group of 21 to 64 years, are natives of GD Nellore, Chittoor and Chandragiri mandals. They would select the transformers installed in isolated areas. They would tamper with the transformers and steal copper wires. They took advantage of the lockdown imposed in the wake of coronavirus pandemic since March last year,” the Deputy SP said. Investigation is on to ascertain the involvement of more members. One among the accused was wanted in three cases pertaining to theft from temple hundis. The Deputy SP appreciated Sub-Inspector (Tavanampalle) K. Rajasekhar and his team for cracking the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-held-copper-wires-worth-rs-20-lakh-seized/article36393952.ece
10 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan promises support to Ramya’s family||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday assured family members of Nallapu Ramya that the State government would stand by them and ensure that the family was taken care of. Ramya was killed allegedly by her friend on August 15 in Guntur. The murder shook the conscience of the people. The accused was arrested within hours of the incident. The family members along with Home Minister M. Sucharita , accompanied by MLA M. Nagarjuna, met the Chief Minister at his camp office on Thursday. “We stand by the family during this difficult time. The accused in the murder of Ramya has been caught within hours and we will ensure that he is punished under law. Further, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has shown a great deal of concern and has provided a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh. “The district administration has provided half of compensation under PoA (SC and ST) Act and now, we have handed over a house site patta. We will ensure that Mounika, elder sister, is provided a job after she completes graduation and an agricultural land would be provided,’’ said Ms. Sucharita. The Home Minister said that in spite of financial assistance provided by the State government, the Telugu Desam Party was bent on creating disturbance. Telugu Desam Party general secretary Nara Lokesh’s proposed visit to Narsaraopet only showed the desperation of the party, Ms. Sucharita said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-promises-support-to-ramyas-family/article36393517.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stop A.P. from illegally diverting Krishna water, says Telangana||The Telangana government has requested the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) one more time to restrain Andhra Pradesh from diverting huge quantity of water from Srisailam reservoir to the areas outside the basin beyond 34 tmc ft approved and awarded by Central Water Commission and Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-I. In a letter addressed to Chairman of KRMB M.P. Singh on Thursday, Engineer-in-Chief (General-Irrigation) of Telangana C. Muralidhar said Andhra Pradesh was diverting huge quantity of Krishna water illegally through unauthorised structures of Pothireddypadu Head Regulator, Bankacharla Cross Regulator, Escape Regulator (Channel) and Telugu Ganga Link Channel Regulator. “As per the inter-state agreements of 1976 and 1977 among the riparian States, it was agreed to divert 15 tmc ft water to Chennai for drinking needs during the July-October period in an open, lined canal with a discharge not exceeding 1,500 cusecs with the stipulation that the water drawn is only for drinking needs of Chennai and no other purpose”, he explained. In 1981, the Planning Commission had given clearance for Srisailam Right Bank Canal (SRBC) by reallocating 19 tmc ft out of 811 tmc ft allocated to AP. The CWC too had given clearance for drawing during the flood period with SRBC taking off at Banakacharla Cross Regulator. Accordingly, the capacities (flow) approved by the CWC were 11,150 cusecs from Srisailam reservoir (Pothireddypadu) to Srisailam Right Main Canal (SRMC) up to Banakacharla, 4,960 cusecs to SRBC to fill Gorakallu and Owk reservoirs and 6,150 cusecs to Velugodu reservoir through link channel en route to Chennai in the upstream of Banakacharla, the ENC wrote to KRMB Chairman. However, disregarding the inter-state agreements and CWC approval and KWDT-I award, the Andhra Pradesh government had, in 1984, increased the capacity of SRMC to 20,000 cusecs from 11,150 cusecs, that of link channel to 11,150 cusecs from 6,150 cusecs, increased the regulator capacity of SRBC to 11,150 cusecs from 4,960 cusecs and also created a new regulator with a capacity of another 11,150 cusecs, contrary to CWC approval and KWDT-I award, Mr. Muralidhar said. “Escape regulator is a misnomer and is actually intended for irrigation needs (to supplement water to KC Canal ayacut in total contravention of KWDT-I award, Planning Commission approval and inter-state agreements,” the ENC explained. Later, the capacity of SRMC was increased to 44,000 cusecs in 2006 by constructing new drawal system at Pothireddypadu in addition to 11,150 cusecs and “now it is being further increased to 88,000 cuecs with an additional regulator created to Banakacharla to carry 22,000 cusecs for Galeru-Nagari project. He urged the river board to take the matter to the notice of Ministry of Jal Shakti to include all those capacity enhancements under the “unapproved projects category in the Schedule-2 of the July 15 notification on the board’s purview”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stop-ap-from-illegally-diverting-krishna-water-says-telangana/article36393972.ece
10 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||ED grills actor Ravi Teja, his driver Srinivas in drugs case||A day after Baahubali fame Rana Daggubati was grilled by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with high-end drugs and money laundering case, actor Ravi Teja and his driver Srinivas on Thursday appeared before the central agency for questioning. He was asked to produce his bank statements. The Idiot actor was among 10 Tollywood personalities and about four more persons summoned by the ED as part of the ongoing money laundering probe in connection with a drugs racket busted in the city in 2017. Mr. Ravi Teja and Mr. Srinivas went to the ED office at Basheerabagh around 10 a.m. and was questioned till 3.30 p.m. Starting August 31, filmmaker Puri Jagannadh, his business partner and actor Charmme Kaur, Rakul Preet Singh, Nandu and Rana Daggubati appeared before the agency after summons were issued to them. Later in the day, the ED officials also questioned an event manager and accused in 2017 drugs racket case Mohammed Zeeshan Ali Khan, 26, alias Jack from Murad Nagar in Mehdipatnam. In July 2017, Khan along with his Nigerian partner Bernard Wilson aka Williams was caught by the Excise officials while selling drugs. Sources confirmed that there were money transactions between Khan and actor Ravi Teja’s driver Srinivas. “Srinivas could have transferred the money to Khan on behalf of the actor,” an official said. In June, Khan along with 67 youngsters, including 21 women techies, were booked by the Cyberabad police for taking part in a birthday party organised at a farm house in Kadthal village of Ranga Reddy district in violation of COVID-19 safety guidelines. Ravi Teja was questioned by the State Prohibition and Excise Department sleuths back in 2017 too after the racket was busted. It followed the arrest of several people, including an American, a South African and a Netherlands national. The US national was a former aerospace engineer who worked with NASA. The drug racket involved supplying high-end drugs such as LSD MDMA. The central agency has also questioned Calvin Mascarenhas, a musician and the alleged mastermind of the three-member drug supplying gang arrested by the Excise sleuths in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ed-grills-actor-ravi-teja-his-driver-srinivas-in-drugs-case/article36393499.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana HC puts curbs on idol immersion||Telangana High Court on Thursday issued a slew of directions, including ban on immersion of Ganesh idols in Hussainsagar and other lakes, that may change the way Ganesh idols are immersed in the State capital this time. Pronouncing the verdict in a contempt of court plea based on a writ petition seeking protection of Hussainsagar from pollution due to immersion of idols, the HC said immersion of Plaster of Paris ( PoP) Ganesh idols should be allowed only in ‘baby ponds’ already set up by the GHMC. Such idols can also be immersed in separate places or ponds which do not pollute the main water body, a bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Vinod Kumar said. “The government can also explore the use of inflatable rubber dam wall as was used while carrying out dredging operations in Hussainsagar earlier by encircling the area for immersion of idols as an alternative,” the bench said. The bench also made it clear to the authorities that no Ganesh idol should be permitted for immersion from Tank Bund side of Hussainsagar. However, non-PoP idols not having synthetic paint can be immersed through the other side of the lake like PV Ghat, Secretariat road or Sanjeevaiah Park road. Authorities should encourage people to use eco-friendly and low height idols to check environmental pollution. They should ask people to keep the rituals simple and conduct them without attracting massive crowd, the bench said. Officials should advise pandal organisers to switch over to online darshan or relay celebrations through social medial platforms, websites or local cable television networks. The bench instructed the government to implement guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board on May 12, 2020. For next year’s Ganesh festival, appropriate orders in this regard should be issued by March 31, 2022. If this was not complied with, the State Pollution Control Board must ensure the guidelines were adhered to by invoking its statutory powers under Environment Protection Act or Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-hc-puts-curbs-on-idol-immersion/article36393299.ece
10 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIRF rankings: Central institutions in Telangana fare better||Four institutions from Telangana found place in the top 100 engineering institutions in the country with the IIT Hyderabad taking the overall 8th rank followed by the National Institute of Technology, Warangal that stood at 23rd position; IIIT Hyderabad at 54th rank and JNTU College of Engineering Hyderabad at 62nd rank. The ranking of universities and higher educational institutes in the country based on the National Institute of Ranking Framework (NIRF) of the Ministry of Education was released on Thursday. The rankings were given based on teaching, learning, and resources; research and professional practice, graduation outcome; outreach and inclusivity; and peer perception. In the overall rankings including institutions from all streams of education IIT Hyderabad was placed at 16th with a score of 58.53; University of Hyderabad at 17th place with 57.67 score, NIT Warangal at 59th rank with 46.69 score and Osmania University at 62nd rank with a score of 46.57. Engineering category In the engineering category, 10 institutions from Telangana figured in the 101-200 band ranks with the University College of Engineering, OU getting the 132nd rank followed by Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology (CBIT) at 133rd rank; SR University, Warangal (134); VNRVJIT (135); Vardhaman College of Engineering (141); Anurag University (146); CVR College of Engineering (155); Institute of Aeronautical Engineering (159); Goka Raju Ranga Raju Institute of Engineering & Technology (165) and Kakatiya Institute of Technology & Science, Warangal (197). Some colleges from Hyderabad figured in the 201-250 band and these include BVRIT Hyderabad College of Engineering for Women, CMR Technical Campus, Marri Lakshman Reddy Institute of Technology (MLRIT), Vasavi College of Engineering, Siddartha Institue of Technology and Science and Vignan Institute of Technology and Science. Varsity rankings In the rankings exclusively for the universities, University of Hyderabad was placed at 9th rank, Osmania University at 32nd, GITAM at 67th and IIIT Hyderabad at 83. Anurag University, which is a private university and the English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) found themselves in the 101-150 rank band. Among the Management institutions, the ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education secured the 27th rank and Institute of Management Technology (IMT) Hyderabad was at 63rd rank among the top 75. The Institute of Public Enterprise (IPE) and the Management School of the UoH found place in the 75-100 rank band. Not a single medical college from Telangana found place in the top 50 medical institutions, and the only medical college from the two Telugu States was Narayana Medical College, Nellore at 43rd rank. Army College of Dental Sciences in Secunderabd was the only among Dental Colleges and placed at 30th rank. In the Law stream, NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad figured at the 3rd position and ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education at the 29th place. Among the conventional degree colleges only St. Francis College for Women, Begumpet could find place in the top 100 figuring at the 85th position. In the research institutions category only two institutions from Telangana were found in the top 30 and they include IIT Hyderabad and University of Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nirf-rankings-central-institutions-in-state-fare-better/article36393778.ece
10 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revanth calls for CBI probe into land sale||Telangana Congress president A. Revanth Reddy has submitted a letter to the Central Bureau of Investigation Director in New Delhi, seeking investigation into the recent sale of lands at Kokapet, alleging that the government suffered a loss of Rs. 1,000 crore, and the role of officers involved in the entire process as the beneficiaries were close to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. In the letter, Mr. Reddy claimed that a Central PSU, MSTC, helped certain public servants of the Telangana government in ensuring that only a few companies could bid. The previous record of MSTC in the manipulation was well known, given the cases booked against its officials by the CBI. The Congress chief alleged that two real estate groups of Hyderabad — Rajapushpa Group and My Home Group — garnered a major share of the land while a portion of it was taken by the brother of a ruling party MP. The huge price variation in the plots bought at the same place indicated that the sale was not fair. While one plot was purchased at Rs. 60.2 crore, the plot beside it fetched Rs. 31.2 crore only. The entire extent of 50 acres was purchased by the two big players, he said. The Congress leader also claimed that the officials concerned had dissuaded many bidders from participating in the auction misusing their power. Both these groups had earlier obtained hundreds of acres in the IT Hub of Hyderabad at highly discounted prices and through questionable deals, he alleged. Mr. Reddy claimed that MSTC, being the intermediary, did not reveal the names of the bidders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revanth-calls-for-cbi-probe-into-land-sale/article36393295.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala MLA K.T. Jaleel denies demanding probe by ED||K.T. Jaleel, MLA, on Thursday denied reports that he had demanded a probe by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) into the alleged irregularities in the A.R. Nagar Cooperative Bank, and that Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had summoned him in connection with the demand. Talking to mediapersons after submitting to the ED the evidence he had reportedly gathered regarding the alleged money laundering using the Chandrika daily, the mouthpiece of the Indian Union Muslim league, here on Thursday, Mr. Jaleel said he “used to meet the Chief Minister occasionally”. Stern action was in the offing regarding the corruption in the bank. It was up to the State government to decide whether a probe by the Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau had to be instituted, he said. It was after a notice from the ED that the evidence gathered regarding the money laundering was submitted, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-mla-kt-jaleel-denies-demanding-probe-by-ed/article36393305.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allow spying without nod, says Kerala Bill||The police can listen in on any communication, without waiting for official approval of the competent authority, to curb organised crimes, a draft of the Kerala Control of Organised Crimes Bill has proposed. The draft Bill suggests that an officer not below the rank of Additional Director-General of Police (ADGP) can authorise an application made by the investigating officer within 48 hours of interception. The ADGP can permit the interception of wire, electronic or oral communication if he ‘reasonably determines’ that an emergency situation involving ‘conspirational activities threatening the security or interest of the State’ or ‘imminent danger of death or serious physical injury to any person’ exists, says the draft. The draft will be scrutinised by a panel led by the Chief Secretary on Friday. The bill comes even as a petition, filed by senior journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, for an independent probe into the mass surveillance of over 142 potential “targets”, including journalists, lawyers, Ministers, Opposition politicians, constitutional functionaries and civil society activists using the spyware Pegasus, is under the consideration of Supreme Court. The draft bill further states that the interception shall immediately terminate in the absence of an order approving the interception or the communication sought is obtained or when the application for the order is rejected, whichever is earlier. The evidence collected through such interception will be admissible against the accused in the case. The contents of the intercepted communication shall be, if possible, recorded on tape or wire or other comparable devices. Under normal circumstances, the Act suggests that a police officer not below the rank of Superintendent of Police can approach the competent authority to be formed for the purpose of seeking permission for interception.  The ADGP can permit the interception of wire, electronic or oral communication if he ‘reasonably determines’ that an emergency situation involving ‘conspirational activities threatening the security or interest of the State’ or ‘imminent danger of death or serious physical injury to any person’ exists, says the draft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allow-spying-without-nod-says-kerala-bill/article36393498.ece
10 September 2021||Kottayam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Some Muslim groups indulging in love jihad’||Close on the heels of his circular on alleged attempts by fraudsters to entrap young women, Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, Bishop of Palai (Syro-Malabar Church), has accused a section of the Muslim community of targeting Christians through ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotic jihad’. Addressing the laity on the occasion of the eight-day lent in connection with the birth anniversary of St. Mary on Wednesday, the bishop urged the laity to be conscious of the pitfalls of “befriending people from other communities”. “A very few Muslim groups have been indulged in promoting communal violence and religious hatred. They are present everywhere, including Kerala.” Warns of ‘jihadists’ Citing a sharp rise in cases of young Christian women being subjected to abuse or religious conversion after eloping with men from the other community, the bishop warned that these ‘jihadists’ had cast their nets over places including schools, colleges, training centres and even commercial centres. Objection “To ask what's wrong with a man and woman from different communities loving each other is a simple question. But how such marriages are taking place and what happens to them afterwards is indeed a grand question. Women are seen directed towards compromising faith and then to terrorism. Our objection lies in here,” the bishop said. Regarding “narcotic jihad”, he said the rising number of drug cases was a pointer to the existence of the practice. “These gangs operate out of ice cream or soft drinks parlours and restaurants run by jihadists and deploy different types of narcotics as a tool to destroy non-Muslims. These facts are reinforced by the rising cases of rave parties and the identities of those organising such parties,” noted the bishop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/some-muslim-groups-indulging-in-love-jihad/article36393313.ece
10 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||150 red sanders logs, Rs. 22 lakh cash seized in Kurnool||The Kurnool Police in association with the Forest Department officers busted a gang of red sanders smugglers on the Kurnool-Prakasam district border and seized 150 logs weighing 2,575 kg and arrested two persons on Thursday. At a press conference in Nandyal, the police said they confiscated cash to the tune of Rs. 22 lakh, which was allegedly used for purchasing the consignment by someone in Hyderabad and the material was to be transported from the Nallamalla forest area where it was hidden close to the Giddalur-Nandyal highway. The value of red sanders in the international market is estimated between Rs. 70 lakh and Rs. 1 crore a tonne. The arrested were identified as Kalamalla Nagoor Basha and Aadiboyina Lakshmi Narayana hailing from Kadapa town and Uppuguntapalli respectively in Kadapa district. Lakshminarayana used to allegedly get logs cut from Nallamala and transport to the Kurnool border through porters. The Mahanandi police, acting on credible information, raided the place on Wednesday evening and confiscated the logs and three cellphones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/150-red-sanders-logs-rs-22-lakh-cash-seized-in-kurnool/article36393951.ece
10 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Idol makers buoyed by nod for Ganesh fete on private premises||Even as the High Court upheld the government decision of prohibiting the Vinayaka Chavithi celebrations at public places, the devotees thronged the markets for purchasing Ganesh idols and other puja paraphernalia in Prakasam district on Thursday, bringing the much-needed relief to the idol makers. With no restrictions on the celebrations at houses and apartment complexes in strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols, the market were abuzz with people doing pu8ja shopping. The idol makers in Chagallu and other places in Prakasam district were a happy lot as people made a beeline for idols of the elephant-headed god of different shapes and sizes for the celebrations at their homes. The artisans from Rajasthan, West Bengal, Gujarat and other places have been camping on the outskirts of Ongole since January to make idols fopr the festivakl season. Gandhi Road, Trunk Road, Kurnool Road and other arterial roads were flooded with devotees who turned up in large numbers to pick up the idols of their choice as the idol makers offered discounts ranging from 20% to 30% for the idols priced in the range between Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000. Young and old alike had a gala time as big idols were brought on earth-movers for installation on the private premises spruced up for the nine-day festival. “Vendors selling puja material also did a brisk business on the eve of the festival. In view of the stringent curbs in place, the idol makers have sent a large number of idols to Hyderabad anticipating fall in demand locally,” said K.Venkateswarlu, a wholesale idol maker from Chagallu. He said the idol makers had been incurring huge losses for the second year in a row in the wake of restrictions imposed by the authorities to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 protocol Now, the authorities will have tough time in ensuring that the devotees adhere to the COVID-appropriate behaviour including wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining social distance during the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganesh-fete-on-private-premises-brings-solace-to-idol-makers/article36393955.ece
10 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||12th Century Lord Ganesh idol discovered||A 12th Century stone idol of Lord Ganesh has been unearthed at a sleepy village of Motupalli in Prakasam district. Giving details of the discovery, E. Sivanagi Reddy, archaeologist and CEO of Pleach India Foundation, said Siripudi Venkateswaralu discovered the idol while he was tilling his farm on Thursday. People in and around the village rushed to have a glimpse of the idol unearthed on the eve of Vinayaka Chavithi. The 800-year-old idol measuring three-foot six-inch in length, two-foot six-inch in breadth and one-foot six-inch in height is in a ‘Padmasana’ posture on a lotus pedestal. Two hands of the idol are broken. On one hand there is a ‘danta’ and on the other a ‘modaka’. The elephant head is devoid of any headgear and wears all the ornaments, including a ‘Naga yagnopavita’ on the belly. Based on the stylistic grounds and the Tamil inscriptions on the dilapidated Kodanda Ramaswamy temple recently, the indologist dates it to the 12th Century, during which period the area was ruled by the Cholas. The Ganesh idol was shifted to the Kodanda Ramaswamy temple in the once-flourishing port town by the Motupalli Heritage Society team comprising, among others, Pridhviraj and M. Balaji Kumar and the temple priest S Sai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12th-century-lord-ganesh-idol-discovered/article36393795.ece
10 September 2021||ONGOLE/ NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 3 more lives in South Coastal A.P.||Three more patients —two in Prakasam district and one in SPSR Nellore district — succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the 24 hours, ending 9 a.m. on Thursday, taking the toll in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh to 2,082. The virus has claimed 1,064 lives in Prakasam district and 1,018 in Nellore district till date, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Nellore reported 260 fresh cases during the period, second highest among the districts. However, the single-day tally remained below the 100-mark in Prakasam district. The number of active cases rose to 2,327 in Nellore district and 2,311 in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-3-more-lives-in-south-coastal-ap/article36393953.ece
10 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Secretariats playing a vital role in implementation of Disha Act’||Srikakulam Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar said that Mahila Police personnel working in 915 village and ward secretariats had been directed to play a vital role in extending quick support to the victims and creating awareness on the Disha Act-2019 and other recent initiatives taken up by the State government. He said that the Grama Mahila Samrakashana Secretaries were re-designated as Mahila Police and their role would be crucial in achieving the objectives of the Act. “A perfect institutional arrangement has been made for the effective implementation of Disha Act-2019 with the presence of Mahila Police in 915 village and ward secretariats. They are being trained to handle cases related to the Act. Victims can approach them easily as the local secretariats are in their vicinity,” Mr. Amit Bardar told The Hindu . “As part of our public outreach programme, we are ensuring that all women, including young girls, register themselves on the Disha App since downloading itself is not enough. Fortunately, the response for registration is good as 4.7 lakh women have downloaded the app created by the State police department,” he said. He said that women constables were directed to patrol vulnerable and sensitive places to ensure that women passing through these areas feel safe. “The patrolling of women constables in vulnerable places will prevent occurence of crime. Mahila Mitra teams are being formed to inform constables about suspicious persons. This step will prevent eve-teasing and harassment of women in public places,” Mr.Bardar added. “Domestic violence, gender-based violence, crimes against children and other issues are also being monitored to instill confidence among the victims. With the support of legal experts, we are holding training programmes for Station House Officers to meet the expectations of the government in implementing the Disha Act and other important Acts which were designed to protect women and children,” said Mr. Bardar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/secretariats-playing-a-vital-role-in-implementation-of-disha-act/article36393997.ece
10 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fervour marks Varaha Jayanti||Varaha Jayanti was on Thursday celebrated amid religious fervour at the temple of Sri Bhu Varaha Swamy here. Special rituals like Kalasa Sthapana and Punyavachanam marked the festivities followed by Thirumanjanam to the utsava deities. Speaking on the occasion, TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar reddy said that the first Naivedyam (food offering) was done to the deity who also is referred to as the Kshetra palaka. In view of the Balalayam, while prokshanam was rendered on the main deity, tirumanjanam was done to the utsava deities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fervour-marks-varaha-jayanti/article36393956.ece
10 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vishnu Nivasam’ complex to be made available for devotees from tomorrow||‘Vishnu Nivasam’, the mammoth pilgrim complex run by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) in the heart of the city, will resume operation from Saturday (September 11). The building is at a stone’s throw away from the railway station and walkable from the APSRTC central bus station, making it the most preferred by the devotees arriving in the pilgrim city. The TTD had handed over the ‘Vishnu Nivasam’ to the Chittoor district administration during the first wave of coronavirus pandemic and the facility has been serving as a COVID Care Centre till recently. Allotment of rooms remained suspended for a long and there is a semblance of action at the sprawling campus as Tirumala-bound crowd started picking up. TTD Joint Executive Sada Bhargavi, who inspected the facility on Thursday, asked the officials to ensure cleaning, sanitation and strict adherence to the COVID-29 guidelines before allotting the rooms. Ms. Bhargavi asked the engineering officials to erect signboards on every floor near the lift, highlighting the details on the temples nearby. The TTD is operating buses to the local temples from the Srinivasam Rest House. Online booking The TTD’s in-house Information Technology wing has been told to reserve 50% of the rooms for online booking and the rest to walk-in guests from Saturday. Ms. Bhargavi also visited the second and third choultry located on the other side of the railway station and asked the officials concerned to maintain hygiene on the premises. TTD Executive Engineers Krishna Reddy, Sumathi, Senior Medical Officer Kusuma and Assistant Executive Officer Sita Mahalakshmi accompanied Ms. Bhargavi during her inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vishnu-nivasam-complex-to-be-made-available-for-devotees-from-tomorrow/article36393519.ece
10 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||No crowding, sound systems during celebrations, warn police||Ahead of the Vinayaka Chavithi festival, the Tirupati Urban police have sounded caution to the public not to gather in groups around Vinayaka idols or resort to frolicking in public places. Installation of idols in public places and blaring of songs on DJ sound system are strictly prohibited. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu on Thursday inspected the Vinayaka Sagar water body on Karakambadi Road, where almost all the idols of Tirupati are dumped immersed. He said that the State and Central government’s guidelines and the High Court’s orders would have to be strictly adhered to while conducting the festivities. He pointed out that the norms specifically allowed up to five persons and warned the devout not to violate the stipulated number. Across the Tirupati Urban police district, the water bodies identified for immersion are Vinayaka Sagar, Venkatapuram, Karakambadi, Daminedu, Oteru, Peruru and Gollapalli tank (in Tirupati), Chakralagunta, Mallimadugu, Rallakaluva, Thukivakam, Elamandyam, Athuru, Gajulamandyam, Vadamalapet and Rayalacheruvu (all in Renigunta limits), Vikruthamala, Swarnamukhi river, Durgiperi, Anjimedu, Papanaidupeta, Merlapaka, Kandada and Kobaka (in Yerpedu limits), Telugu Ganga canal, Swarnamukhi, Vellavedu and Inguluru (in Srikalahasti), Nukalagunta and Nagalacheruvu (in Chandragiri police limits). Meanwhile, the Vinayaka Mahotsava Committee led by its president Samanchi Srinivas held a meeting with Mayor R. Sireesha, MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha and Mr. Appala Naidu on streamlining traffic and arrangements for the immersion. The municipal corporation will temporarily fill the water body with the help of tankers. Members G.Bhanuprakash, P. Naveenkumar Reddy, Gundala Gopinath, R.C. Munikrishna took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-crowding-sound-systems-during-celebrations-warn-police/article36393957.ece
10 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPMVV retains position in NIRF rank band||Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) has retained its position in the 151-200 band in the latest rankings announced by the National Institutional Ranking Framework India (NIRF-2021). The ranks were released by Minister for Education Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday. Vice-Chancellor D. Jamuna said the varsity excelled in parameters such as teaching, learning resources, research and professional practice, graduation outcomes, outreach & inclusivity and peer perception. The varsity’s pharmacy institution obtained 44th position in that category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spmvv-retains-position-in-nirf-rank-band/article36393967.ece
10 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Serving the poor should be your aim, Sonu Sood tells students||An aspiring civil servant should work hard to crack the UPSC exams with an aim to serve the poor in society, said actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood. During his visit to the city on Thursday to inaugurate a private hospital, the actor took time to interact with students of Sarat Chandra IAS Academy, which is providing free IAS coaching 500 meritorious students from economically backward sections from across the country, in association with Sonu Sood Charity. Mr. Sood said every individual could make a difference provided one has unconditional love for humanity. Managing Director of the academy Sarat Chandra said Mr. Sood, who was an actor by profession, had turned a real-life hero through his acts of charity, especially during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic that wreaked havoc in the lives of the migrant labourers. Besides helping lakhs of workers reach the safety of their homes while the virus was raging during the lockdown, he had been providing free medical treatment to the poor, feeding the hungry and providing scholarships to deserving students to pursue engineering, medicine and other professional courses. Mr. Sarat Chandra urged the students to draw inspiration from Mr. Sood and follow the path of service to the mankind. Inaugurates hospital Earlier, Mr. Sood inaugurated Ankura Hospital for Women and Children on Pinnamaneni Polyclinic Road. It is the 11th branch of the hospital chain in Telugu States having 110 beds in a 70,000 square feet area. Mr. Sood said that he was impressed with the holistic care provided to women and children. “During the pandemic, I have referred some critical cases in gynaecology and paediatrics to the hospital and remarkable results were shown. Every person who got treated there had returned home hale and health,” he said. Ankura Hospital managing director V. Krishna Prasad said the super-speciality hospital catered to the neonates and children up to 18 years of age and took care of all stages of a woman’s lifespan. Meanwhile, a large number of youth gathered outside the hospital to have a glimpse of Mr. Sood, who gained nationwide popularity as a ‘real hero’ for his humanitarian work during the COVID pandemic across the country. Youth took selfies and also shook hands with Mr. Sood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/serving-the-poor-should-be-your-aim-sonu-sood-tells-students/article36393312.ece
10 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 more succumb to COVID-19||The State reported 14 COVID-19 deaths and 1,439 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 13,964 and 20,26,042 respectively. The number of active cases increased to 14,624 as 1,311 patients recovered in the past day. The recovery rate and total recoveries stood at 98.59% and 19,97,454 respectively. The daily positivity rate of 62,856 samples tested was 2.29% and that of the 2.71 crore tests conducted remained at 7.46%. Krishna district reported the highest toll of four deaths in the past day while Chittoor reported three and Prakasam and West Godavari two each. Nellore, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. Chittoor reported 261 new infections. It was followed by Nellore (260), West Godaari (182), East Godavari (170), Guntur (142), Krishna (131), Prakasam (87), Visakhapatnam (79), Kadapa (66), Anantapur (23), Srikakulam (22), Kurnool (8) and Vizianagaram (8). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,87,320), Chittoor (2,40,063), West Godavari (1,75,543), Guntur (1,73,645), Anantapur (1,57,319), Visakhapatnam (1,55,573), Nellore (1,41,945), Prakasam (1,34,680), Kurnool (1,23,909), Srikakulam (1,22,323), Krishna (1,14,918), Kadapa (1,13,344) and Vizianagaram (82,565).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-more-succumb-to-covid-19/article36393961.ece
10 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID registers case against 16 in ‘AP Fibernet scam’||The Crime Investigation Department has registered a case in the “AP Fibernet scam” case naming at least 16 persons as accused on Thursday. Following the complaint given by AP State Fibernet Limited Managing Director on July 17, the CID took up an investigation and booked the case after preliminary inquiry. The accused include a former member of the Governing Council, e-Governance Authority Vemuri Hari Krishna Prasad, former vice-chairman and MD of Infrastructure Corporation of AP (INCAP) K. Sambasiva Rao, Tera Software Pvt Ltd and its board of directors including chairman Koteswara Rao SSR and vice-chairman and MD T. Gopichand and six directors and Himachal Futuristic Communications and its board of directors. The FIR also named “government officials” as accused. It was alleged that Mr. Vemuri Hari Krishna Prasad, who was also a member of the Tender Evaluation Committee, colluded with Tera Software Limited and illegally awarded tender worth Rs. 321 crore though the company was not qualified. The case was booked on charges of forgery, cheating, criminal breach of trust, criminal intimidation and others under IPC Sections 166, 167, 418, 465, 468, 471, 409, 506 and Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cid-registers-case-against-16-in-ap-fibernet-scam/article36393962.ece
10 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh detained while proceeding to Narasaraopet||High drama prevailed at the Gannavaram airport here when the police detained Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh on his arrival to proceed to Narasaraopet in Guntur district to console the family of Anusha, a degree student, who was allegedly murdered by her classmate Vishnuvardhan Reddy in February. The police took him into custody on the ground that his visit would lead to protests, and gathering of crowds could not be allowed due to the COVID situation. The police intercepted Mr. Lokesh’s convoy at the airport where an attempt to detain him was made in vain. Later, Mr. Lokesh’s convoy proceeded in a convoy towards Guntur and he was detained at Kankadurga Varadhi and sent to his home in Undavalli. Police served a notice under 41A of the Cr.P.C. on Mr. Lokesh for conducting a rally without permission and causing inconvenience to the public. Guntur police said that Mr. Lokesh was not permitted to conduct a rally and visit the victim's family to avoid a law and order situation. Several other party leaders and activists were arrested at the airport and others in Guntur were reportedly placed under house arrest. Copies burnt Protesting against the high-handedness of the police, Mr. Lokesh reportedly burnt copies of the Disha Act. The TDP leader objected to his detention, saying that he was only going to meet the members of the bereaved family and speak to the media. He alleged that instead of maintaining law and order, the police were harassing him on flimsy grounds. TDP cadres tried to stall the convoy of vehicles in which Mr. Lokesh was being taken away by the police, resulting in scuffles at various places on the national highway. Mr. Lokesh spoke to the family members of Anusha through a video call after the police denied him permission to see them personally. He promised to extend all possible support to the girl’s family and said that the accused had come out on bail even as the government boasted of the Disha Act as a great achievement, claiming that the offenders would be given stringent punishment within 21 days of the offence. Mr. Lokesh promised to take responsibility for the education and employment of Anusha’s brother and to meet other needs of the family. Meanwhile, speaking to mediapersons at the Chief Minister’s camp office, Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha said Mr. Lokesh should fight for the approval of Disha Act in Parliament if he was really concerned about women’s safety. She said the accused was arrested immediately and a charge sheet filed against him in seven days. Mr. Lokesh took to the streets nearly seven months after the incident took place. The Minister further said the Disha Act was yet to secure the President’s assent, but the police were implementing it in letter and spirit. The result was evident from the filing of charge sheets in over 1,600 cases within seven days. Women’s Commission chairperson Vasireddy Padma condemned the burning of the copies of Disha Act by Mr. Lokesh. She said it was unfortunate that the TDP leader was politicising the attacks on women and young girls in spite of sincere efforts being made by the government to bring the culprits to justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-detained-while-proceeding-to-narasaraopet/article36393970.ece
10 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Monetisation of railway properties opposed||The South Central Railway Mazdoor Union (SCRMU), Vijayawada division, has opposed the Union government’s proposal to monetise railway properties, including railway stations, tracks and colonies. The union representatives submitted a representation to the Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager against monetisation. SCRMU divisional secretary G.N. Srinivasa Rao said in the representation that there was a proposal for monetisation of railway properties to the extent of 400 railway stations, 1,400 km of tracks, 15 railway sports stadia, goods sheds, hill railway stations and several railway colonies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/monetisation-of-railway-properties-opposed/article36393513.ece
10 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apollo Hospitals donates Rs. 1 cr. to CMRF and Rs. 1 cr. to ‘Connect to Andhra’||Apollo Hospitals Group has donated Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) and Rs. 1 crore to ‘Connect to Andhra’ as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activity. Apollo Hospitals group executive vice-chairperson Preetha Reddy accompanied by president (procurement and corporate development) Narotham Reddy, Apollo Hospitals Educational and Research Foundation CEO K. Prabhakar and the group’s knowledge vertical CEO Siva Rama Krishnan handed over the cheques to the Chief Minister at his camp office on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apollo-hospitals-donates-rs-1-cr-to-cmrf-and-rs-1-cr-to-connect-to-andhra/article36393516.ece
10 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Canada, America Telugu literary event on Sept.25, 26||Telugu literary seminars, the first Canada Telugu Sahiti Sadassu and 12th America Telugu Sahiti Sadassu, will be conducted online on September 25 and 26. According to the organisers, for the first time, 100 speakers from America and Canada will address the online meeting hosted in Toronto, Canada. The programme will be conducted from 9 a.m. EDT (6.30 p.m. IST) and 7 p.m. EDT (4.30 a.m. IST) featuring book launches, literary discussions and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/canada-america-telugu-literary-event-on-sept25-26/article36394098.ece
10 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction worker electrocuted||A construction worker was reportedly electrocuted in Mirjapuram village of Nuzvid mandal in Krishna district on Thursday. According to police, Srinu, who was engaged in the construction of a house in the village, accidentally came in contact with a live electric wire.The Nuzvid police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-worker-electrocuted/article36393514.ece
10 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||More time to register for RGUKT CET-21||The last date for applying for the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies Common Entrance Test 2021 (RGUKT CET) was September 6, but candidates can still apply with a late fee of Rs. 1,000 up to September 11, according to Chairman, RGUKT CET-2021 K. Hemachandra Reddy. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Reddy, who is also Vice-Chancellor of RGUKT, said thatcandidates can edit entries online in the application, if entered incorrectly, from September 9 to 11. Applicants can download hall tickets from September 18. The CET is scheduled to be held on September 26 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.. in select centres across mandals in the State, Eight exam centres were being set up in Telangana also. The result would be declared on October 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-time-to-register-for-rgukt-cet-21/article36393520.ece
10 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suryachandra Rao is OAC convener||Darapureddy Suryachandra Rao, a professor of Commerce and Business Management in Krishna University, Machilipatnam, who has been nominated as Convener of the Online Admission Committee (OAC) constituted by the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) for online admissions-2021 in undergraduate programmes offered by degree colleges in the State, assumed office on Thursday. APSCHE Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy handed over the official orders to Prof. Rao. A statement by the APSCHE said a G.O. had been issued authorising the council to implement online process for admission to undergraduate courses from the 2020-21 academic year. The OAC will undertake admissions in arts, science, social science, commerce, management, computer applications and social work, including honours, in all faculties in government colleges, private, aided and unaided colleges and private-autonomous colleges (aided and unaided).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suryachandra-rao-is-oac-convener/article36393968.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Markets teem with shoppers on eve of Vinayaka Chavithi||Rythu bazaars, fruit and flower markets, and sweet shops in the city saw a huge rush on the eve of Vinayaka Chavithi on Thursday. Poorna Market and markets at Akkayapalem, Gajuwaka and Jagadamba Junction were teeming with shoppers, with many throwing COVID-19 safety norms to the wind. A large number of stalls were set up adjacent to all rythu bazaars and major junctions in the city from Thursday morning. Idols of Lord Ganesh in various shapes and sizes, fruits, flowers and decorative items were sold in large volumes. Shopkeepers selling fruits and flowers did brisk business throughout the day. Many youth set up stalls of ‘Palavelli’ which is used in the Ganesh pandal, colours and decorative lights at various places. Traffic police had to step in at many places to ensure smooth flow of traffic after crowds converged at these stalls. Many buyers complained that the rates of flowers and fruits had doubled keeping in view the demand. “We generally buy several varieties of fruits to offer to Lord Ganesh and also hang it to the ‘Palavelli’. The prices have gone up, especially of custard apple, grapes, bananas and even flowers,” said K. Harish, who was shopping outside MVP Rythu Bazaar. Meanwhile, several sweet shops owners prepared special Ganesh Pooja sweets for customers. Several shopkeepers prepared special types of laddus weighing one to three kg which were sold in large numbers. Idol makers were happy as many apartment associations started purchasing idols ranging from small to medium sizes after permission was given to celebrate the festival in private areas. The prices of Ganesh idols which were sold at several places varied from Rs. 100 to Rs. 6,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/markets-teem-with-shoppers-on-eve-of-vinayaka-chavithi/article36394107.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traffic police to crack down on MV violations||The traffic wing of the city police will conduct special drives to crack down on six Motor Vehicle (MV) violations from September 10. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said that the special drives would focus on unauthorised usage of stickers of police, press, MPs, MLAs, use of loud music systems/sound horns in vehicles, improper registration plate designs, high-pitch sounds and high-beam lights. Apart from the five violations, drives will also be conducted to check overloading of auto-rickshaws, which is another area of concern, he said. “We have identified 33 major locations in the city police limits, where teams of traffic police would conduct the drives. Action will be taken as per law against vehicle users who are found to be violating traffic norms,” the ADCP said. Officials from the Transport Department are also conducting drives against illegal registration plate designs at various places across the city. Deputy Transport Commissioner G. Raja Ratnam said that a fine of Rs. 1,150 will be imposed on vehicle users if the registration plates are not in accordance with norms. He said that vehicle users should have High Security Registration Plates (HSRP) as per the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, Rule no. 50 and 51. There should not be any other writings on the registration plate. Drive against loudspeakers “This month, we have conducted special drives at various places and have booked cases against 61 persons. The drives would continue,” he said. The traffic police have organised a drive against auto-rickshaw drivers who are using loudspeakers which may result in sound pollution apart from troubling passengers, on Thursday. On Thursday, as of 5 p.m., traffic police teams removed loudspeakers from 46 auto-rickshaws at various places in the city. Last week, the traffic police organised a meeting with members of auto-rickshaw unions explaining the consequences of using loudspeakers in the vehicle. Police said that 60% of auto-rickshaw drivers have removed the loudspeakers after the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traffic-police-to-crack-down-on-mv-violations/article36394117.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP slams govt. over true-up charges||BJP State vice-president P. Vishnu Kumar Raju on Thursday slammed the State government over the levying of ‘true-up charges’. “The YSRCP has several firsts to its credit. These include: first to get the maximum number of seats in the Assembly, first in implementation of welfare schemes and first to levy ‘true-up charges’,” Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju said. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, the former MLA alleged that the YSRCP leaders also occupied the top slot in looting the State. “The petrol rate in Andhra Pradesh is among the highest in the country, and neighbouring States are putting up signboards at petrol bunks showing the price in their States, to show the difference in fare compared to that of A.P. The rate of ‘cheap liquor’ is also the highest in A.P.,” he alleged. “Similarly, the State bags the dubious distinction of being the number one State in debt and also in failing to pay contractors their dues for the works done. A.P. is also the State with the most number of religious conversions. Roads in the State are in a bad shape but the funds allocated to construction and repair of roads was a mere Rs. 55 crore,” Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju claimed. The BJP leader appealed to the Chief Minister not to harass contractors and alleged that PMAY funds were also being looted in the State. He said that he would pray to Lord Ganesha on Vinayaka Chavithi to ensure that better sense prevailed in the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-slams-govt-over-true-up-charges/article36394104.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP urges focus on seasonal diseases||The Jana Sena Party (JSP) has demanded that special attention be given to control the spread of seasonal diseases like viral fevers, dengue and malaria. In a letter to the District Collector on Thursday, JSP PAC Member Kona Tata Rao said that 36% of dengue cases in the State were being recorded in Visakhapatnam district alone. Quoting National Health Mission (NHM) statistics, he said while the number of dengue cases in the State stood at 2,072, Visakhapatnam district reported over 745 cases. He alleged that the Medical and Health Department was only concentrating on COVID-19 but was neglecting seasonal diseases. The shortage of staff for conducting tests and lack of equipment at government hospitals was delaying the generation of test reports, he said, alleging that dengue patients were dying as their platelet count was falling drastically even before the test report could be generated and treatment started. Mr. Tata Rao sought that adequate supply of test kits for confirmation of dengue, malaria and viral fevers be made available at the government hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-urges-focus-on-seasonal-diseases/article36394106.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infant with rare disorder treated at city hospital||A baby born with Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C), associated with COVID-19, was successfully treated at Medicover Women and Child Hospital. The female infant, born to a woman named Tejaswi, was delivered at another hospital in the city through Caesarean section due to restricted foetal growth and lack of blood supply. The baby weighed only 900 grams at birth and was referred to Dr. Sai Sunil Kishore, chief neonatologist of Medicover, for further treatment. The baby was admitted to the NICU for necessary medical aid in view of her condition. Dr. Sunil noticed that the baby had ischemic changes in her left leg due to stoppage of blood supply to the leg. An Ultrasound Doppler study confirmed left femoral artery thrombosis (clot). Evaluation showed there were strong positive COVID antibodies with elevated inflammatory markers. Further, a 2D echo showed dilated coronaries and decreased cardiac function as well. Dr. Sunil treated the baby with nitroglycerin (vasodilator) infusion, LMW heparin and other supportive treatment for thrombosis. The baby’s limb could be salvaged. A repeat Doppler and 2D echo showed normal after the line of treatments. The baby was treated for other prematurity problems also. The baby was discharged after 36 days of admission at the hospital, with good weight and in good health. Dr. Sunil explained that this was made possible only due to round-the-clock care given by the expert team of neonatologists and trained staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infant-with-rare-disorder-treated-at-vizag-hospital/article36394100.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solar energy being tapped to water fallow land in Agency||A large extent of land in Paderu region in Visakhapatnam Agency is being left fallow even though the area has healthy soil and receives high rainfall, with many people migrating to other places in search of work. As per the District Development Report 2019, about 36% of cropped area is irrigated and the remaining land is rainfed, which means over 74% of the land is being left as rabi fallow land. To bring the rabi fallow land into the regular irrigation system, Wassan, an NGO engaged in welfare of tribal farmers, designed community solar-based lift irrigation systems in the tribal villages of Goppulavalasa and Chinarama, in the summer of 2020. While Chinarama has already yielded two crops of paddy and horticulture was produced almost throughout the year, the tribal farmers of Goppulavalasa are happy doing horticulture across the year. “This year, we have extended the facility to Pedagaruvu, and the first produce of seasonal horticulture is on its way,” said Dr. M.L. Sanyasi Rao, regional programme manager of Wassan. Farmers of these villages are managing with social regulation norms in the distribution of water among them in their respective villages. Pedagaruvu is a tribal hamlet located in Kotnapalli panchayat of Hukumpeta mandal. As many as 74 families from various tribes such as Konda Kammara, Kotia, Konda Dora and Valmiki inhabit the village. Agriculture is the major livelihood and a total of 200 acres of rainfed land is available in the village. Farmers grow crops majorly in Kharif season. “Desi varieties of turmeric and pippali (Piper longum) are grown locally which are crops with a duration of 18 months, so farmers choose specific plots which have shade and retain moisture in summer. About 20% of the total land is occupied by these crops and the remaining 80% of the land is left fallow. Youth from these villages seasonally migrate in search of work soon after harvesting of kharif crop,” said Dr. Sanyasi Rao. To make water available throughout the year, Wassan has provided facilities for lift irrigation using solar energy to secure crops from dry spells and irrigate rabi crops. Due to lack of three-phase electricity connection, the tribals are unable to use high-power pump sets to draw water from the perennial streams. A few farmers have tried using diesel engines but they could not continue due to an increase in production cost. “In Pedagaruvu village, we have used a PVC pipeline for a length of 3.1 km, and a 10 HP motor is used with the support of solar energy, a combination of 28 solar panels, to provide water for irrigation for 54 acres of 23 farmers,” he said. In Chinarama village a 10 HP pump-set has been installed and now 25 acres of land belonging to 22 farmers is being irrigated. In Goppulavalasa village, 64 acres of fallow land has come under irrigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solar-energy-being-tapped-to-water-fallow-land-in-agency/article36394097.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety Driving Education Centre marks first anniversary||Officials from the Andhra Pradesh Transport Department and Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt. Ltd. (HMSI) celebrated the first anniversary of its Safety Driving Education Centre (SDEC) at the Regional Transport Office at Marripalem here on Thursday. Deputy Transport Commissioner, G.C. Rajaratnam said that the objective of the centre is to train applicants coming for learner’s licence. Despite being closed for a few months due to COVID-19 restrictions, the safety instructors have trained 28,713 learner licence applicants at the centre strictly adhering to the COVID-19 safety guidelines, he said. “Ever since the start of road safety training, the percentage of students passing the test has also increased,” he added, appreciating the efforts of HMSI. Senior vice-president, Brand & Communication, HMSI, Prabhu Nagaraj said HMSI would continue to instill more discipline among the learner licence applicants and make them responsible road users in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-driving-education-centre-marks-first-anniversary/article36394108.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clay idols distributed||Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari and Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana distributed clay idols of Lord Ganesh at the GVMC office here on Thursday, as part of creating awareness to protect the environment and encourage eco-friendly celebration of the festival. Ms. Hari Venkata Kumari said that the corporation, with the support of Pollution Control Board (PCB) and a few other corporate companies, is providing 100 idols made of clay to every corporator, who would distribute it to the poor in their localities. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao and Chief Medical Officer K.S.L.G. were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clay-idols-distributed/article36394109.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. keen on improving nutrition in tribal areas’||The State government is according top priority to improving the health of tribal people, Paderu MLA K. Bhagyalakshmi said. Speaking at the nutrition month celebrations, being organised under the auspices of the ICDS at Paderu on Thursday, Ms. Bhagyalakshmi said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was keen on ensuring nutrition of tribal people through the implementation of ‘Poshana’ and ‘Poshana plus’ programmes for pregnant women and children. She called upon the officials to create awareness among the people of interior tribal areas on the importance of proper nutrition. She attributed the problems in childbirth due to the varied conditions in the tribal areas and anaemia among women. She said that healthy foods like millets provide nutrition and contribute to the health of babies. She directed the officials to supply millets to the Anganwadis to promote nutrition among tribal women and children. The milk being supplied through the Anganwadis should be used exclusively for children, she said. Araku MLA Chetti Phalguna said that the traditional foods of the tribal people were rich in nutrition and suggested that they should be consumed more. He, however, called for a change in the food habits of the tribal people. ITDA Project Officer Ronanki Gopalakrishna said that a balanced diet was essential for the proper growth of children. He called for greater coordination between Health Department and ICDS officials. Additional DMHO Leela Prasad and CDPO B. Lalitha Kumari were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-keen-on-improving-nutrition-in-tribal-areas/article36394113.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam Rural tahsildar suspended||Collector A. Mallikarjuna placed Visakhapatnam Rural tahsildar K. Narasimha Murthy on suspension, two days after the city police reportedly unearthed a land scam in Madhurawada. The Collector has also appointed deputy tahsildar Kiran Kumar as the in-charge tahsildar, it is learnt. The city police had on Monday arrested two persons for allegedly trying to sell 12.26 acres of land at Kommadi on the basis of forged documents. The land belongs to one T Krishna Chowdhary who is settled abroad. U. Sukumara Varma, son of YSRCP MLA U.V. Ramanamurthy Raju (Kannababu) was lured by the fraudsters to buy the land and he had reportedly paid an advance of Rs. 5 crore, after a deal was settled to sell the land for Rs. 18.7 crore. The land scam came to light after the prospective buyers had published a paper notification and the wife of T. Krishna Chowdhary saw it and lodged a complaint with the Visakhapatnam police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-rural-tahsildar-suspended/article36394101.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl tries to end life after poor showing in exam||A 19-year-old girl reportedly attempted to end her life by consuming sanitiser at her house at Kurmannapalem area in the city, late on Wednesday night. The girl tried to take the extreme step allegedly after failing to secure a good rank in the Andhra Pradesh Engineering, Agriculture, and Pharmacy Common Entrance Test (EAPCET). The test results were announced on Wednesday morning. Duvvada police said that the girl was rushed to hospital by her family members, where doctors said she is now out of danger. “In her statement, the girl said that she failed to get a good rank despite studying hard,” police said. Duvvada police registered a case. Those struggling with depression or battling suicidal thoughts are urged to call the 100 helpline for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-tries-to-end-life-after-poor-showing-in-exam/article36394115.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to late prof.||A condolence meeting was organised by the Department of Fine Arts, Andhra University, on the memorial day of late C. Ravi Shankar Patnaik, former Head of the Department, on Thursday. The faculty recalled his contribution to the department and his dedication in grooming the students. D. Simhachalam, Head of the Department, eminent sculptor G. Ravinder Reddy, Prof V. Ramesh, T. Sudhakar Reddy and B. Maheswar Das recalled their association with Ravi Shankar Patnaik. Prof. Vijay Kumar, Director of Physical Education, Hawa Mahal owner Mayank Kumar Deo, teaching and non-teaching staff of the Department participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-late-prof/article36394105.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed in separate accidents||Three persons were killed in separate road accidents in Visakhapatnam district on Thursday. In one accident, a 60-year-old pedestrian named Appa Rao was hit by a lorry while he was reportedly crossing NH-16 near BHPV area under Gajuwaka police station limits. The incident reportedly occurred at 5.15 a.m. on Thursday. Gajuwaka police said that the elderly person hailed from Bheemavaram village of Chodavaram mandal and had come to visit his daughter in Gajuwaka. Police are investigating the case. In another incident, a 25-year old youth died after reportedly being run over by a lorry near Birla Junction under Kancharapalem traffic police station limits. The youth died while he was being shifted to hospital, according to sources. Police are yet to reveal further details. In another accident, a 32-year-old person named M. Girish Kumar from Narsipatnam died after ramming into the rear of a truck near Bayyavaram junction under Kasimkota police station limits in Visakhapatnam district. Girish was riding a motorcycle and the accident reportedly occurred after the truck driver applied sudden brakes. The bodies were sent for post-mortem and cases were booked, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-killed-in-separate-accidents/article36394102.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU slips to 48th place in Centre’s rankings||Andhra University, the oldest and largest State-run public university in Andhra Pradesh, has seen its ranking fall in the India Rankings 2021 released by the Union Education Ministry under the National National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) compared to its 2020 ranking. AU was placed in the 36th position overall in 2020, and this year it slipped to 48th place. In the ranking under universities, it has slipped down to 24th rank from 19th in 2020 and under the engineering colleges category, it has fallen to 74th from 69. On the brighter side, the College of Pharmacy has been ranked 30 this year, up from 34 in 2020. The NIRF rankings were released in New Delhi on Thursday. The Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru was ranked the best university while IIT, Madras was ranked the best engineering institute. IIT, Hyderabad found a place in the top 10 engineering institutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-slips-to-48th-place-in-centres-rankings/article36394110.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Renovation of Rushikonda resorts begins||D.E.C. Infrastructure and Projects India Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad, which was entrusted with the redevelopment of the old resorts of APTDC at Rushikonda, has began work on the project. The existing buildings, some of which were constructed 35 years ago and others around 20 years ago, were demolished completely. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that the project, which would be taken up in two phases, at an estimated cost of Rs. 160 crore, was scheduled to be completed in 15 months. The government had issued a G.O. on the redevelopment of Rushikonda in March and subsequently, tenders were invited. M/s D.E.C. Infra, which quoted the lowest amount was given the contract.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/renovation-of-rushikonda-resorts-begins/article36394114.ece
10 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag district records 79 COVID cases||The district recorded 79 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,083. Once again, new infections outnumbered recoveries in the district. Fifty-five COVID-19 patients recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. The toll increased to 1,077 after one more person succumbed to the virus. It may be noted that this is the third COVID-19 death in the district this month. The number of active cases and recoveries stand at 1,117 and 1,53,889 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-district-records-79-covid-cases/article36394000.ece
10 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DCMS can play a vital role in serving farmers: Collector||Vizianagaram Collector A.Suryakumari assured support for Vizianagaram District Marketing Society (DCMS) in extending maximum services to farmers. She said that the farmers would get hassle-free services without the interference of middlemen when DCMS would play an active role. Vizianagaram DCMS chairperson Avanapu Bhavana and YSRCP senior leader Avanapu Vikram met the Collector and said that there was a wide scope for improvement of the activities such as distribution of more fertilizer, seeds and other services with the storage points and availability of ample space in the DCMS office. Dr. Bhavana said that DCMS could do around Rs. 15 crore business last year and it might go up to Rs. 25 crore with the effective implementation of the new proposal. The Collector assured to look into those proposals and extend the support from the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dcms-can-play-a-vital-role-in-serving-farmers-collector/article36393999.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homecoming||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/homecoming/article36394112.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taking the Lord home!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/taking-the-lord-home/article36393523.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homebound||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/homebound/article36393959.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Civic body yet to decide on immersion action plan||The GHMC is yet to devise a plan of action on the lines of the High Court’s directions for immersion of Ganesh idols at the end of the Ganesh Navratri festivities. The court has ruled against immersion of idols made of Plaster of Paris in the Hussainsagar, and other lakes of the city. The idols, instead, may be immersed in baby ponds already existing, or separate ponds. Alternatively, they can explore the use of inflatable rubber dam wall to separate the immersion area. Besides, immersion of even idols made of clay has been prohibited from the Tank Bund side. The GHMC has to now alter its arrangements already under way, for immersion of idols, which technically starts from the third day of the festival and continues up to the 10th day. Within the short span of time, a review meeting needs to be conducted with regard to the decisions about deployment of cranes, preparation of baby ponds, and rubber dams. Additionally, the procession routes may need major changes, because the single immersion pond in Hussainsagar cannot take the load of thousands of idols from across the city. The GHMC is already prepared with 44 cranes for deployment near Hussainsagar, and several other static and mobile cranes at all the other 26 immersion sites. Provisions for mobile toilets and sanitation will anyway be made in expectation of large congregations. As per the court’s directions, the civic body will also have to make provision for masks and sanitisers along the procession routes, and at the immersion sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/civic-body-yet-to-decide-on-immersion-action-plan/article36393791.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Consumer forum raps TSSPDCL for defective meter||Pulling up the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company for overcharging a consumer due to a defective electricity meter, a consumer commission directed it to pay Rs. 25,000 as compensation. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission-II, Hyderabad bench, comprising president Vakkanti Narasimha Rao, and members P.V.T.R. Jawahar Babu and R.S. Rajasree, was dealing with a complaint filed by Bura Srinivas (46), a government teacher, and S. Dhanalakshmi (52). Inflated bills The complainants stated that their premises is powered by a domestic electric connection. While the bills received for the months of January 2020 to May 2020 were between Rs. 584.08 and Rs. 725.04, the bills for June 2020 and July 2020 shot up to Rs. 23,095 and Rs. 25.950, respectively. They claimed that these were ‘false’ bills and approached the Assistant Engineer of the TSSPDCL with a complaint. They paid Rs. 120 for testing the meter. The commission noted that the TSSPDCL had disconnected power and in the meantime, the complainants filed an interlocutary application seeking its restoration. They also sought the commission’s intervention in restraining the TSSPDCL from demanding the excess amount. The commission stated that the power company was directed to restore power, and accept payment of arrears, except the amounts as mention on the disputed bills. The meter-testing showed that it was defective. “The complainants suffered a lot due to the defective meter of the opposite party. The acts of disconnection of power supply upon the part of the opposite party amounts to high quantum of negligent and deficiency of service that leads to unfair trade practice,” the commission stated. In an ex parte order, apart from directing TSSPDCL to pay compensation, costs of Rs. 5,000 were also imposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/consumer-forum-raps-tsspdcl-for-defective-meter/article36393781.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR can lead the way for railways in tapping solar energy||South Central Railway (SCR), with a potential solar power generation between 394-625 MW, could easily power the Indian Railways to save almost seven million tonnes of carbon a year with at least one in four trains in the national network running on solar power. A study by voluntary organisation ‘Climate Trends’ and UK-based green tech start-up ‘Riding Sunbeams’ has found that direct supply of solar energy to railway lines could rapidly cut emissions by as much as 6.8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) each year. Indian Railways has made plans to become a zero carbon emitter by 2030 with a mix of electrification, renewable energy and energy efficiency. It has decided to make use of the vast railway land for solar power development with plans underway to deliver 20GW of solar power to match growing demand for energy to move trains. The study highlights that around a quarter of this new solar capacity — up to 5,272 MW — could be fed directly into the railways’ overhead lines instead of being procured over the electricity networks, reducing energy losses and saving money Incidentally, SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya has mentioned earlier about commissioning 8.2MWp solar power plants, 1.75 KWp solar hybrid plants, 2.18 lakhs LPD solar water heating, 570 kWp water pumping and 52 KW equivalent day pipe light system in offices. The zone has also electrified more than 4,000 km of total of about 6,400 km while it has been pioneer in introducing head on generation system where power is directly tapped from the overhead lines reducing air and noise pollution along with reducing carbon emission by 700 MTs per year per train. Now, 32 trains are run through this mode removing the need for two power cars equipped with diesel alternator sets about 32 trains. If 100% LED lighting in stations/offices is another first in railways, 20 ‘energy neutral’ stations with solar roof cover over platform, energy efficient gadgets, brushless electric motor energy-saving fans, inverter type ACs, etc., of 150 kWp has been achieved. With anticipated energy generation from these stations coming to around 2 lakh units annually, savings of Rs. 1.8 lakh each is expected and reduction of carbon footprint of 1,700 tonnes per annum. Other potential solar-to-rail potential are: Central Railway (299-475MW), Northern Railway (290-459MW), Western Railway (280-443MW) and West Central Railway (278-440MW). “India is leading the world in rail electrification and solar power deployment. Connecting these two low-carbon technologies can drive economic recovery from COVID pandemic and its efforts to transition off fossil fuels to tackle the climate crisis,” said report co-author, Riding Sunbeams founder Leo Murray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-can-lead-the-way-for-railways-in-tapping-solar-energy/article36393772.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Discoms get ready to provide quality power to pandals||Power utilities in the State have made necessary arrangements for safety and to ensure uninterrupted power supply to Ganesh ‘pandals’ during the 11-day festivities starting from September 10. Chairman and Managing Director of Southern Discom (TSSPDCL) G. Raghuma Reddy on Thursday reviewed the arrangements being made and appealed to general public and pandal organisers – Ganesh Utsava Committees – to follow safety precautions. He suggested the organisers not to allow anybody, other than the power utilities’ staff, to climb electricity poles for temporary electricity connections and instead take proper connection by approaching the departmental staff. Use of service wire with standard specifications, use of proper capacity multi-circuit breakers (MCBs) for protection and safety, examine the surroundings of power line locations before taking up any electrical work in and outside the pandals and not allow children to come close to power lines, poles and other hazardous electrical equipment. He also asked the pandal organisers not to allow anybody get in contact with snapped electrical conductor/wire and alert the electricity staff immediately by calling 1912 or 100 or local fuse off call office. MoU inked The Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Limited and Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) have signed a memorandum of understanding for the implementation of utility-led Demand Side Management (DSM) programme for the benefit of consumers. The agreement would address the barrier of upfront high purchase cost of energy efficient appliances, thereby encouraging more consumers to buy and use high-efficiency appliances. As part of the MoU, a programme would be designed and piloted with selected consumers. It would subsequently be rolled out to all consumers of Southern Discom. According to officials of TSSPDCL, the programme would enable the distribution utility to implement several DSM projects with major benefits such as no burden of investment on the Discom for implementing certain DSM projects, help reduce peak demand and would help its ability to comply with the State DSM regulation. With the technical support from Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), EESL would facilitate the proposed programme by bringing in necessary investments and technology required for providing the consumers of TSSPDCL with access to super-efficient air conditioners, IE3 (high efficiency) motors and BLDC (brushless direct current) fans. International Copper Association India (ICA India) would provide knowledge support for designing and piloting the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/discoms-get-ready-to-provide-quality-power-to-pandals/article36393786.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hospital penalised for medical negligence||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Mahabubnagar, directed doctors at a Kalwakurthy hospital to pay Rs. 2 lakh as compensation to a patient who suffered renal problems post-surgery on grounds that the hospital had not filed sufficient evidence to prove that there was no medical negligence. The commission was dealing with a complaint filed by G Neelamma (47), a Kalwakurthy resident. The opposite parties (OP) were Dr P Vani and Dr Umakanth from Srivani Hospital Maternity and Surgical Nursing Home. The complainant was diagnosed with fibroid uterus and operated upon in April 2016. Soon, she began to show signs of dehydration, and problems in passing urine. She was not taken to the ICU, but moved to a ward. The OP referred her to the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) in Hyderabad where she was treated. The complainant stated that despite being treated there, the renal problem persisted and she has been on dialysis since. She approached the Kalwakurthy Police Station where a case was booked. For their part, the OP denied all allegations. They stated that the complainant had approached a corporate hospital in Malakpet where she was asked to undergo hysterectomy, a procedure which the OP too had advised. She was given post-operative care, and her condition was diligently monitored. No risk factors were observed, therefore, monitoring the said condition in the ICU was not required. They pointed out that her condition after surgery was stable, but she suddenly developed anuria, a renal problem, for which she was given treatment, but remained unresponsive to it. OP stated that test reports at OGH showed that the problem did not arise due to surgery. She was diagnosed with Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), a rare disease, caused by several factors, including genetics. After the police case was booked, an expert committee was constituted which stated that renal problems were not a result of surgery, and can be a result of several factors. Taking statements and evidence placed on record, the commission stated that the OP did not produce documents to show all precautionary measures followed. The commission observed that while the OP’s counter mentioned the expert committee’s observations, it was not produced before the commission as evidence to establish that there has been no medical negligence. It also observed that there was no evidence to show that the OP had managed precautionary measures for TMA. Apart from compensation, costs of Rs. 10,000 were imposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hospital-penalised-for-medical-negligence/article36393782.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MIDHANI’s super alloys on way to HAL for LCA, ALH projects||Mishra Dhatu Nigam ( MIDHANI ), the defence public sector undertaking, flagged off consignment of titanium and superalloy products to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) for Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) and Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) programmes. The consignment was flagged of by MIDHANI chairman & managing director S.K. Jha and the HAL chairman & managing director R. Madhavan in the presence of senior officials including N. Gowri Sankara Rao of MIDHANI on Thursday. The firm has been supplying various critical raw materials and products of titanium alloys, speciality alloys, super alloys and special steel to meet the strategic need of HAL, space, defence and nuclear power programmes. An official spokesman informed that MIDHANI had developed more than 50 high performance alloys used in manufacture of fighter aircraft and helicopters for HAL and the Indian Air Force (IAF) which were earlier procured from foreign vendors by Indian companies. These alloys are developed and manufactured with active support of airworthiness agencies like CEMILAC and DGAQA meeting the specific quality and technical requirements considering its critical applications. A titanium alloy airframe for the Advanced Medium Combat Aircraft (AMCA) was also recently supplied and developed for the first time in the country Both firms have been working together in setting up a joint facility for development and production of composite raw materials to be used for projects for not only LCA, ALH but also for Light Combat Helicopter (LCH) and Light Utility Helicopter (LUH) which are currently being imported, he added, in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/midhanis-super-alloys-on-way-to-hal-for-lca-alh-projects/article36393787.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Missing link roads being taken up||A set of eleven stretches are being taken up by the Hyderabad Road Development Corporation Limited, for the second phase of the project to develop ‘missing link roads’ in the city. Conceptualised by the Town Planning wing of GHMC, a ‘missing link road’ connects two ends of already existing roads, thereby completing an alternative stretch to any of the major corridors. Built simultaneously with the roads being developed under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), the missing link roads are envisioned to provide cost-effective relief from traffic congestion on main thoroughfares. After a study of the traffic pattern on the road network of the city and technical feasibility, a total of 135 missing links totalling to a length of 126.2 km have been identified by a project consultant engaged by GHMC, to be taken up for development in phased manner. Of these, 37 stretches with a length of 44.7 km., have been taken up in the Phase-I, with an estimated cost of Rs. 313.65 cr. Responsibility of executing the project has been given to the HRDCL, which has already completed laying the roads on 16 stretches, in the first phase. Seven more stretches are in various stages of progress. A total of 14 roads have been kept on hold due to Right of Way constraints. Government has meanwhile sanctioned 11 more roads in the phase-II of the project, at an estimated cost of Rs. 70 crore. Two of these roads have already been grounded while two more are in tender process. Work is in progress for two corridors-- one between Alkapuri Township up to Radial road at Narsingi by laying missing link of 750 metres, and for another between Dollar Hills and Neknampur Road by completing the missing link of 1.74 kilometres. Other missing links being taken up during the Phase-II are from Nallagandla to Serilingampally zonal office (1.94 kilometres), Nagole Metro Depot to water treatment plant (3 kms), Anand Nagar to Bowenpally RUB (1 km), Bachupally to Nizampet (1.7 kms), Prakash Nagar to Brahmanwadi (800 metres), Cherlapally New Railway Station to Chengicherla Road via FCI godowns (1 km), and NH 163 to Uppal Stadium (2 kms), apart from a slip road of two kilometres in Gowlidoddi, and an additional lane from Road No.78 in Prashasan Nagar to Nyaya Vihar in Jubilee Hills (500 metres).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/missing-link-roads-being-taken-up/article36393789.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sajjanar visits alert driver in hospital||Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) Managing Director V. C. Sajjanar on Thursday visited a driver who fell ill at the steering wheel, but managed to steer the bus away from vehicles and pedestrians, and thus averted an accident. On September 7, Jaganmohan Reddy, a driver of the Cantonment Depot, completed his first trip from Secunderabad towards Mehdipatnam. On his second trip on the way from Secunderabad, he felt numbness in his arms, and faced difficulty in driving. However, he managed to steer the vehicle towards the right side of the road and used a pillar to stop the vehicle. The TSRTC said that on account of his quick thinking, he managed to save lives and prevented injuries to 30 passengers on board, besides commuters on the road. Mr Sajjanar appreciated Mr Reddy’s alertness which greatly reduced chances of crashing into other vehicles. He assured Mr Reddy’s family that the TSRTC would take care of his treatment. The MD also spoke to the doctors and discussed with them the course of the driver’s treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sajjanar-visits-alert-driver-in-hospital/article36393793.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NFC develops indigenous plasma melting furnace||Nuclear Fuel Complex (NFC) Chairman and Chief Executive Dr. Dinesh Srivastava has, on Wednesday, inaugurated the indigenously developed Rs. 10 crore plasma melting furnace, on the occasion of the firm completing 50 years journey in nuclear fuel fabrication technology. NFC has led the technological advancement in fabrication of critical components required for departments of atomic energy, space and other defence requirements. The furnace is utilised for processing reactive and refractory metals on industrial scale. The existing plasma melting furnaces installed in 1980s were imported from Japan. NFC had taken up its indigenous development in association with the fabrication capability of an Indian manufacturer at a much lower cost compared to Rs. 30 crore for an imported equipment, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nfc-develops-indigenous-furnace/article36393774.ece
10 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MGIT gets autonomous status||The Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Technology (MGIT) has been conferred with Autonomous Status for 10 years by the University Grants Commission (UGC) from the academic year 2021-22, a press release said. MGIT is a technological institution located in Gandipet, Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mgit-gets-autonomous-status/article36393784.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Virtual conference on public health tomorrow||Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad, Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIM-A) and L.V. Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI) will be jointly hosting the first virtual conference on ‘I-HOPE 2021’ - Indian Health Outcomes Public Health Economics Research Centre’ on September 11, at 5 p.m. Theme of the conference is ‘Research to Policy’ and it will pivot around - Public Health, Big Data, Health Economics and Policy, which are also IHOPE’s focus areas of work. Log intowww. hope20for registrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/virtual-conference-on-public-health-tomorrow/article36393788.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases spike in Hyderabad city and environs||COVID cases across Telangana continue to hover above the 300 mark with 315 new cases with a majority from the twin cities and reports of 1,936 samples awaited on Thursday. There were also two deaths taking the overall official death count to 3,891 and the effective case count as of now to 5,470 positives either in isolation or treatment. About 340 persons have also recovered taking the total number of recovered to about 6.51 lakh while the total number of people infected since March 2020 is about 6.60 lakh. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivas Rao informed in the daily bulletin that 75,199 tests were conducted and GHMC tops the list with 83 cases, up from 78 a week ago; followed by Warangal -Urban and Nalgonda at 21 cases each and then Karimnagar at 20 cases. Double digit cases were also reported from Rangareddy 17, Khammam 15, Jagityal 14, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Peddapalli 13 each. Zero cases in Jogulamba Gadwal, Komarambheem-Asifabad, Narayanpet; one case in Medak, Adilabad, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally and Kamareddy; two cases each in Nirmal, three cases each in Vikarabad and Mulugu districts. The Call Centre ‘104’ can be contacted for any help, telemedicine or grievances while the whatsapp number - 9154170960 is for complaints against private hospitals or diagnostic laboratories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/315-new-covid-cases-in-telangana/article36393775.ece
10 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Series of events for Azaadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav||The State government has lined up a series of cultural programmes across the State to celebrate Azaadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav , the 75th year of Independence. The State government has decided to organise year-long celebrations starting this month, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said while participating in a video conference conducted by the Union Culture Ministry Secretary on Thursday. As part of it, rallies and series of other events were planned across the State. Programmes had been planned with a view to rekindle the spirit of freedom struggle and they would showcase the values and glories of the freedom struggle. Cycle rallies would be held from 75 locations in the State. A special exhibition on freedom struggle would be organised at the State Art Gallery. Bathukamma festivalwould also be organised. The government had decided to rope in the IT sector and the film industry for the purpose and it was also decided to conduct workshops and seminars through the Higher Education department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/series-of-events-for-azaadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav/article36393776.ece
10 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NPK fertilizer fortified with zinc launched||Coromandel International introduced GroShakti Plus, an NPK fertilizer fortified with zinc, for A.P., Telangana and eastern region markets. Executive vice chairman Arun Alagappan, who launched the product in the city, said the advanced Enphos technology behind the complex fertilizer will enable higher phosphorous availability to crop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/npk-fertilizer-fortified-with-zinc-launched/article36393783.ece
10 September 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Victory Flame’ reaches Nalgonda amid patriotic fervour||Contingent of the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) carrying the ‘Victory Flame’ rolled into the streets of Nalgonda town, as part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh, the commemorative year to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Indo-Pakistan War, on Thursday. The flame that was lit from the eternal flame of the National War Memorial, New Delhi, by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last December, has been travelling all directions of the country. When it arrived at Port Blair, the ENC received the flame and carried it to Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry and Vijayawada, before arriving in Nalgonda, Captain V.S.C. Rao said. Special convoy A special military convoy carrying the flame moved from Panagal to Ravindra Nagar, displayed a sense of pride and patriotism, as cadets of NCC, armed with national flags shouted Vandemataram and Bharat Mata ki Jai, accompanied by the police band, marched. The State Directorate of Sainik Welfare, led by Col. P. Ramesh Kumar, which organised the commemorative event put the ‘Victory Flame’ for public display at a private hall. According to Captain Rao, the 1971 war, spanning 13 days between December 3 and the Instrument of Surrender on the 16th, was also unique because India, unlike any victorious countries after war, did not annex the liberated Bangladesh. “Even today India continues to support Bangladesh politically and financially, that is this country’s greatness,” he said. For Addl. Collector Rahul Sharma and Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath, who simplified the 1971 war for the understanding of the young audience – cadets, taekwondo students and others - “The 1971 war is an example of victory of good over evil. And knowing history or being part of commemorative celebrations such as ‘Victory Flame’ are important to learn values.” The programme saw nostalgic war veterans and ex-servicemen from undivided Nalgonda who were individually felicitated with a shawl, a golden jubilee cap and a bag of other memorabilia. The flame, military officials said, would be carried to Hyderabad for public display on Friday, then to Maharashtra and back to New Delhi by December 16, for the commemoration at the National War Memorial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/victory-flame-reaches-nalgonda-town/article36393780.ece
10 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||In 8 years, Haryana panel gets only 7 complaints||The Haryana Right to Service Commission, set up in 2014 to ensure timely delivery of various services notified under the law, has received only seven complaints in as many years. It was revealed by the commission’s newly appointed Chairperson T.C. Gupta, a retd. IAS officer, at a meeting with the representatives of the Residents’ Welfare Associations, NGOs and municipal councillors at Apparel House auditorium in Sector 44 here. Mr. Gupta said he had held six meetings across the State to create awareness on Haryana Right to Service Act within three months of his appointment. Lack of awareness Mr. Gupta said that 546 routine services were notified under the Act and 277 of these were available online through Antodaya Saral portal. He said the commission had sent notices to 250 officials for not providing the notified services in the time-bound manner, but regretted that there was lack of awareness among the masses to report the delays to the commission. The Commission can impose penalty on the designated officers or any other official involved in the process of providing such services up to a sum of Rs. 20,000 and can also allow compensation up to Rs. 5,000 to be paid to the eligible person by the defaulter. Where the commission is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds to enquire into a matter arising out of the provisions of this Act, it may also, suo moto, initiate an enquiry for better implementation of this Act. The Commission under Section 17 of the Act can take suo moto notice of failure to deliver services in accordance with this Act and refer such cases for decision to the First or the Second Grievance Redressal Authority and pass appropriate orders. Mr. Gupta said as per the Act the power supply in the city must be restored within four hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/in-7-years-haryana-panel-gets-only-7-complaints/article36393676.ece
10 September 2021||Mumbai,||BMC defends Rs. 15 cr. tender for upkeep of penguins||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has defended the Rs. 15.26 crore tender it had floated for the upkeep of penguins at Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan, popularly known as Byculla zoo, and claimed that the birds had helped increase the civic-run facility’s revenue. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the BMC said the zoo’s income had surged to Rs. 14.36 crore between April 2017 and March 2020, as against Rs. 2.10 crore between April 2014 and March 2017, with the arrival of the birds. Last month, the BMC floated the tender for the upkeep of seven penguins for three years, which comes to an expenditure of around Rs. 5 crore for a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bmc-defends-rs-15-cr-tender-for-upkeep-of-penguins/article36393682.ece
10 September 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC to State: transfer blast accused to hospice||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to transfer alleged Maoist leader Nirmala Uppuganti, an accused in the 2019 Gadchiroli IED blast case, from prison to a hospice for palliative care. A Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar directed authorities to shift Ms. Uppuganti from the Byculla women’s prison to a hospice by September 15. Ms. Uppuganti had filed a plea in the high court earlier this month seeking that she be shifted from the prison to a hospice as she is terminally ill with cancer. In her plea filed through senior counsel Yug Chaudhry and advocate Payoshi Roy, Ms. Uppuganti urged that she be shifted to a hospice so that she was “properly taken care of during her final days”. The State’s counsel Sangeeta Shinde, however, had opposed her plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bombay-hc-to-state-transfer-blast-accused-to-hospice/article36393683.ece
10 September 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Woman constable ordered hit on colleague to settle scores: police||Three weeks after a police constable was killed in a road accident, the Panvel City police have found out that it was actually a hit ordered by a woman colleague. The police have arrested Sheetal Pansare (29) who was earlier posted with the victim, Shivaji Madhavrao Sanap (54), at Nehru Nagar police station. In 2019, Ms. Pansare had filed complaints of molestation and rape against Sanap. “While the rape case was quashed, a charge sheet has been filed in the molestation case,” said senior police inspector Ajay Landge. On August 15, Sanap was mowed down by a vehicle outside Panvel station. The main witness in the case was Dhanraj Jadhav, who identified the assailants, Vishal Babanrao Jadhav and Ganesh Lakshman Chavan, from CCTV footage. The police said that Ms. Pansare married Mr. Jadhav, a bus driver, four days after befriending him on Instagram. Two days after their marriage, she asked him to run over Sanap with his bus. When he refused to do the job, she divorced him and booked a case against him for clicking her intimate pictures. “Ms. Pansare had transferred Rs. 70,000 into the accused’s account,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone II) Shivraj Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/woman-constable-ordered-hit-on-colleague-to-settle-scores-police/article36393685.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||Teachers visiting homes to help with COVID relief||Around 1 p.m., clutching a temporary identity card from the District Magistrate’s office, 33-year-old Chitra Suyal, a primary school teacher, rang the doorbell of a house and took a step back. As an elderly woman half opened the door, Ms. Suyal said, “We are from the SDM (Sub-Divisional Magistrate) office for the COVID compensation scheme. We had talked to your son.” The elderly woman returned to the door with son Navneet Singh, 36, and invited them inside. However, there is one thing that stood out: The family had never applied for the scheme. Hundreds of teachers like Ms. Suyal are hopping from house to house to get people registered for a scheme to provide compensation for those whose family members have died due to COVID-19. For non-applicants too A list of names from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has been shared by the Delhi government with all 11 districts, and teachers are contacting people in the list to tell them about the scheme and visiting their houses, even if they haven’t applied for it. They are also visiting people’s houses for verification and helping them fill the form online. “Initially, we were going to people’s houses only for verification. However, later we reviewed the scheme and to increase the number of people benefiting from the scheme, we started going to houses of people who were on the list, but not yet applied to make them aware about the scheme and help them with the process,” said Isha Khosla, District Magistrate (North Delhi). Not easy work Inside the house in Mukherjee Nagar, Ms. Suyal and another teacher Ajay Gaur, 38, waited for Mr. Singh’s younger brother whom they had met on their first visit about two weeks ago. “First, you have to make a surviving member certificate (SMC), for which each member has to get an affidavit,” Mr. Gaur started explaining the process. The teachers detailed them the entire process and the specific things to watch out for while filing the application, besides telling them to contact them if they had any doubt. “My parent had tested positive last year. My father was completely alright and we were worried about mother as she has heart-related ailments. When we decided to move her to a hospital, my father said, ‘I will also get admitted with you to give you company’ and went to the hospital. But, in the end, he died due to COVID-19,” Mr. Singh said. After they stepped out of the house, Mr. Gaur said, “In the last 10-12 days, this work has picked up speed and more teachers were called to do the visits.” Ms. Suyal said that she has done close to 90 such visits and it is not that easy every time. Address and numbers “In at least 20-30 cases, the address was not properly given in the list and there were no phone numbers. We had to go to the area and ask around to find the address. Tracing people like that becomes difficult at times. But we traced most of the addresses except for three or four,” she said. The primary school teacher also said that people behave rudely at times. “In middle class and poor neighbourhoods, people are very cooperative, but in posh areas, many don’t even answer the door. Once, a family was talking from the balcony and I was standing under the sun and responding to them. I felt really bad. Don’t invite us inside, but at least open the door,” she said. No facilities provided The teachers are not provided transportation or money for it by the government. The beneficiaries of the scheme include children, and on August 23, the High Court had said that it “would be unfair to expect children who lost their parents to be able to procure documents and avail benefits” and directed the government to fix issues in the process to get compensation. The HC had also noted that the government should take a proactive approach rather than taking the applications in a routine way. “Officers are working overtime and we have cleared most of the applications now,” a Delhi government official said. “If people come with the affidavits and their ID proofs, then we issue them the SMC on the same day,” said Model Town SDM Rahul Saini. He said that there are currently 15 teams who are doing house visits in his area alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/teachers-visiting-homes-to-help-with-covid-relief/article36393680.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||Capital to soon get first, unique multilevel parking for DTC buses||The Delhi government will develop multilevel bus parking facilities at various Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) sites which, the government claimed, would be uniquely designed and be a first in the history of the city. The project, executed by the National Buildings Construction Corporation Limited (NBCC), will also aim to develop two prime DTC Depot sites — Hari Nagar and Vasant Vihar — into world-class depots with twice to thrice their current parking capacity as well as retail spaces. According to the government, these facilities will be built to be self-sustaining and zero energy. The depots at Hari Nagar I and II and Vasant Vihar, of 5 acre and 6.21 acre, respectively currently house 100 and 230 buses, each. This will increase to accommodate 330 and 400 buses, each, over 4 and 7 floor depots after the redevelopment and will also account for basement parking spaces of over 2.6 lakh square feet accommodating over 690 cars and retail spaces. These depots, the government stated, are designed with a vibration isolation system by use of steel helical springs after noise and vibration impact analyses and a 45° angle for maximum parking efficiency. Detailed research According to the government, these design considerations have been made after detailed research of similar projects abroad and live case studies and simulations, and the use of 45° angles would also enable 10-15% more buses to be parked at each depot. Various other depot features such as washing pits, fuel filling stations which will in future be replaced by electric charging stations will also be incorporated at these sites, the government stated. Apart from these two sites, DTC colonies at Shadipur and Hari Nagar 3 are being redeveloped into residential units along with retail and commercial facilities and will also include EWS housing as per the Delhi Master Plan 2021 norms. In October 2020, the DTC had signed an MoU with the NBCC as part of which the NBCC will act as project management consultants for development of its major land parcels in various locations across Delhi for multilevel bus parking depots, redevelopment of residential colonies of DTC and more commercial facilities. The construction of these multilevel bus depots will start by the end of this year and will be completed in a phased manner by 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/capital-to-soon-get-first-unique-multilevel-parking-for-dtc-buses/article36393675.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. for 10-point winter pollution plan’||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said that the government is preparing a winter action plan based on 10 focus points to protect the people of Delhi from pollution. “The Arvind Kejriwal government, with the support of the people of Delhi, is taking concrete steps to tackle the rising pollution levels. In this prospect, we have started preparations for the winter action plan. A high-level review meeting was held today with officials of the Environment Department, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee, the Development Department and Forest Department,” the Minister said. “Our 10 focus points are curbing stubble, garbage, vehicular and dust pollution, identification of hotspots, study of smog towers, communication with neighboring States, War Room and Green App upgradation, coordination with the Central government and Commission For Air Quality Management,” he added. Mr. Rai said that another area of concern would be holding discussions with other States and seeking their cooperation, and a team will be put together to hold such discussions. An airshed issue “The problem of pollution is not limited to Delhi alone. Experts have ruled that this an airshed issue. However, administrators of our neighbouring States do not consider it to be a reason for pollution. The airshed of North India impacts pollution levels immensely. If there’s a bump in pollution levels in Ghaziabad, it will naturally impact Delhi as well,” he said.  The Kejriwal government, with the support of Delhiites, is taking concrete steps to tackle the rising pollution levels Gopal Rai Environment Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-for-10-point-winter-action-plan/article36393681.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Processing over 6,700 applications for ex gratia to kin of COVID victims’||The Delhi government informed the Delhi High Court on Thursday that it is processing over 6,700 applications received for release of ex gratia of Rs. 50,000 each to the families of persons who have died due to COVID-19 or related problems. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh was informed that the Delhi government has prepared a list of around 25,000 persons who may be entitled to receive Rs. 50,000 ex gratia on account of death within the family due to COVID-19 or COVID-19 related issues. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said as on Thursday, 6,719 applications have been received for release of the amount and money has already been released to 3,200 people and rest of the work is in process as there are still 18,000 people who are out of the system. Post-complications Mr. Mehra said the ex gratia amount is being released for COVID deaths and it also includes those persons who had recovered from COVID-19 but died within a month due to post-COVID complications. Share data with DSLSA The High Court asked Mr. Mehra to share the data with the Delhi State Legal Service Authority (DSLSA) secretary Kanwal Jeet Arora who shall render assistance to those who are left out or finding it difficult to apply for ex gratia. The High Court was dealing with several aspects relating to COVID-19 crisis in the Capital, including grant of ex gratia to those who lost their family members to COVID-19 and rehabilitation of children who have become orphans following the death of one or both parents due to the virus. It will hear the case again on October 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/processing-over-6700-applications-for-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-covid-victims/article36393671.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP celebrates administration of free vaccine||The State BJP on Thursday celebrated the administration of an estimated 1.43 crore free vaccination doses to the citizens of the Capital at over 200 locations, expressing hope that the country would soon tide over the COVID pandemic. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, while thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for free vaccination, said the city had seen about 1.43 free vaccination jabs being administered to citizens till Wednesday. Mr. Gupta, addressing a meeting at the ITO crossing, said in a country of over 130 crore people, the way Modi government handled the COVID-19 pandemic was an example for the world. “The Central government is running the free vaccination drive in the entire city in top gear and party workers are going to every household to create awareness among people about the necessity for the vaccination,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-celebrates-administration-of-free-vaccine/article36393672.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 36 new cases, no deaths||The city reported no one new COVID-19 death in 24 hours for the second consecutive day and the total number of deaths stood at 25,083, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 36 new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,38,118. A total of 79,003 tests were done in a day and that test positivity rate was 0.05%. Of the total cases, 14,12,620 people have recovered and there are only 415 active cases. The COVID-19 vaccine stock of the city on Thursday morning would last for six days, as per another bulletin. A total of 1,44,963 vaccinations were administered in the city on Wednesday and a total of 1,45,85,525 doses have been given till now. Meanwhile, RT-PCR, the most recommended method for tracing the virus, accounted for over 70% of the total tests conducted to identify infected patients in Delhi in the last five months, according to government data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-reports-36-new-cases-no-deaths/article36393673.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||Personal appearance for registration of marriage includes online mode, says Delhi HC||The High Court on Thursday said the requirement of personal appearance before the authority concerned for registration of marriage would include appearance through videoconferencing. The HC had permitted registration of marriage through virtual mode earlier as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/personal-appearance-for-registration-of-marriage-includes-online-mode-says-delhi-hc/article36393678.ece
10 September 2021||Pune,||Heavy rain continues in Marathwada||Around 31 persons have died in rain-related accidents across Maharashtra in a week, while the water level in the Godavari has touched the “alert” mark as heavy rainfall continued to pound the Marathwada region and other parts of the State on Thursday. Parbhani, Nanded, Jalna and Aurangabad were badly-hit in the region, while rainfall also pummelled districts in Vidarbha, including Gondia, Amravati and Nagpur. Of the 31 rain-related deaths, seven casualties were from Nanded. “The water level has reached the ‘alert’ mark in the Godavari river after nearly 15 years. Over the years, several buildings have come up along the river. I have also seen certain structures that have been built in the nullahs in Nanded city,” State Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan, who is also the guardian Minister of Nanded district, said while reviewing the situation in Marathwada. He said aid would be disbursed to those whose homes were flooded, adding that agriculture and infrastructural losses would also be looked into immediately. According to officials, Nanded has received 962.7 mm of rainfall this monsoon, which was 118% of its average annual rainfall. A total of 145 circles in Marathwada, which comprises eight districts, recorded rainfall above 65 mm in 24 hours till Tuesday. The circles were from Aurangabad, Jalna, Latur, Osmanabad, Beed and Nanded districts. According to officials, 1,687 domesticated animals, including 598 poultry birds in Jalna district, had perished in the region as a result of the heavy rain since September 1. More than 60 houses in the region were damaged due to the rainfall, while water reservoirs in the region — two each at Kannad (Aurangabad) and Ahmedpur (Latur) — were destroyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/heavy-rain-continues-in-marathwada/article36393687.ece
10 September 2021||Pune,||Lookout circulars issued against Rane’s wife, son||Lookout circulars have been issued against Union Minister Narayan Rane’s wife Nilam and son Nitesh in connection with cases related to unpaid loans taken from a financial institution, the Pune police said on Thursday. Confirming the development, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Srinivas Ghadge said the lookout circulars were issued on September 3. He said Artline Properties Pvt Ltd (main borrower), a firm owned by Ms. Nilam Rane, had availed a loan of Rs. 25 crore from DHFL (Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd). She was the co-borrower and the outstanding amount was over Rs. 27.13 crore. Likewise, Nilam Hotels, owned by Nitesh Rane, too, had availed of a loan from the private financial institute whose outstanding was over Rs. 34 crore. Both loan accounts were later classified as NPAs (non-performing assets) by DHFL due to non-repayment. It approached the Centre, which issued directions to the State government to issue the lookout circulars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lookout-circulars-issued-against-ranes-wife-son/article36393684.ece
10 September 2021||Kabul,||Rallies called off in Kabul after Taliban outlaw demonstrations||Protest organisers cancelled rallies in Kabul on Thursday after the Taliban effectively banned demonstrations, warning that violators “will face severe legal action”. Earlier this week, armed fighters dispersed hundreds of protesters in cities across Afghanistan, including the capital Kabul, Faizabad in the northeast and in Herat in the west, where two people were shot dead. Late on Wednesday, the Taliban moved to snuff out any further civil unrest, saying protests would need prior authorisation from the Justice Ministry, adding that “for the time being” no demonstrations were allowed. There was a noticeably stronger Taliban presence on the streets of Kabul on Thursday morning as armed fighters, including special forces in military fatigues, stood guard on street corners and manned checkpoints. An organiser of a protest outside the Pakistan Embassy — where gunmen sprayed shots into the air on Tuesday to disperse a rally — said on Thursday it had been cancelled because of the overnight ban. At the site of another planned protest in the city, there were no signs of a demonstration. A Taliban interim government, drawn exclusively from loyalist ranks, formally began work this week with established hardliners in all key posts and no women. All the top positions were handed to key leaders from the movement and in particular the Haqqani Network — the most violent Taliban faction. The feared Ministry for the Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice — previously responsible for arresting and punishing people for failing to implement the movement’s restrictive interpretation of sharia — is being reinstated. There were other superficial signs of the Taliban tightening their grip. Images on social media showed the country’s main airport — previously dubbed Hamid Karzai International, after the first post-Taliban President — had been renamed Kabul International. A public holiday scheduled for Thursday honouring Ahmad Shah Massoud, the famed anti-Taliban resistance fighter assassinated 20 years ago by an al-Qaeda suicide squad, was also cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rallies-called-off-in-kabul-after-taliban-outlaw-demonstrations/article36393239.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||20 years on, an inconclusive war on terror||“Our war on terror begins with al-Qaeda, but it does not end there,” former U.S. President George W. Bush said days after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. “It will not end until every terrorist group of global reach has been found, stopped and defeated,” he told the U.S. Congress. Afghanistan was the first outpost in what the Bush administration called a “global war on terror”. The U.S. invaded Afghanistan to get rid of the Taliban regime, which refused to hand over 9/11 mastermind Osama bin Laden, and defeat al-Qaeda. Twenty years later, the U.S. exited a Taliban-controlled Afghanistan with al-Qaeda networks spread across many countries. War on al-Qaeda When the 9/11 attack was planned and executed, al-Qaeda had a permanent base in the Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. The U.S. invasion toppled the Taliban regime and killed many al-Qaeda terrorists and disrupted their network in Afghanistan. It was the heaviest blow to al-Qaeda, which had carried out multiple bombings in the past targeting the U.S., including the Embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998 and the attack on USS Cole off Aden, Yemen, in 2000. But al-Qaeda would find an opportunity to regroup and rebuild its organisation in Iraq after the 2003 American invasion. Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the Jordan-born al-Qaeda leader, established al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI), capitalising on the chaos Iraq fell into after the invasion. Zarqawi also exploited the resentment among Iraq’s Sunni community towards the political changes in Baghdad (Shias, the country’s oppressed majority under Saddam Hussein’s rule, rose to power after the invasion) and launched a sectarian civil war. So within a few years of the U.S.’s Afghan invasion, al-Qaeda found a new haven in post-Saddam Iraq. The rise of IS Zarqawi was killed in 2006 and AQI suffered setbacks as Iraqi Sunnis, backed by U.S. forces and the central government, formed local militias to take on the terrorists. This calmed Iraq, but it did not last long. When Arab regimes were rocked by protests in 2011, jihadists found a new opportunity amidst the chaos that followed. In Syria, regional rivals of President Bashar al-Assad and their allies, including the U.S., offered support to different rebel groups, pulling the country into a deadly civil war. Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who was the leader of the Islamic State of Iraq, the new avatar of AQI, sent a group of his militants under the command of Abu Mohammad al-Joulani across the border to Syria. Joulani would set up a new al-Qaeda branch in Syria — Jabhat al-Nusra — which declared war on President Assad’s government. Nusra’s brutal tactics and Islamist vigour helped the group capture territories in the chaotic, multi-directional Syrian civil war. An ambitious Baghdadi announced the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), involving his group in Iraq and al-Nusra in Syria. Joulani, who was backed by the al-Qaeda core led by Ayman al- Zawahiri, bin Laden’s successor, fell out with Baghdadi. But the faction of the Nusra that backed Baghdadi’s call for an Islamic State joined his new outfit, which would emerge as the most ferocious jihadist group from the Syrian civil war, capturing territories from Syria’s Raqqa to Iraq’s Mosul and Falluja, practically erasing the border between the two countries. For a few years, the IS would reign as the world’s most dangerous terrorist outfit, but it would be defeated by concerted attempts by several players, including Kurdish and Shia militias and the U.S., Syria. Iraq, Iran and Russia. Metastasised threat If al-Qaeda was concentrated in Afghanistan before September 11, they decentralised themselves and spread to different parts of the world during the course of the war on terror. The IS did the same when its ‘Caliphate’ came under attack in Iraq and Syria. It opened new provinces in other war-torn countries such as Afghanistan, where the civil war was going on, and Libya, which fell into chaos after the NATO invasion of 2011. Boko Haram, a jihadist group that came up in Nigeria, declared its loyalty to the IS, allowing the group to expand its operations in Africa. Baghdadi is dead, but the man he sent to Syria to open a local branch of al-Qaeda, Abu Mohammad al-Joulani, is now the de facto ruler of Idlib, the province that stays outside the control of Mr. Assad’s government. Al-Qaeda has different operational branches now such as al-Qaeda of the Arabian Peninsula and al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. In Africa, both al-Qaeda and the Islamic State (IS Greater Sahara and IS West Africa Province) have set up units, which have carried out brutal attacks in recent years, especially in the Sahel region. In Somalia, al-Shabab still remains strong. When the U.S. withdrew from Afghanistan, its first outpost in the war on terror, after 20 years of fighting, the terror threat, as President Joe Biden said, has “metastasized across the world”. Instead of one centralised outfit with a base, the world now has many al-Qaedas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/20-years-on-an-inconclusive-war-on-terror/article36393250.ece
10 September 2021||Kuwait City,||Al-Qaeda may seek a comeback in Afghanistan: Pentagon chief||U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said on Thursday al-Qaeda may attempt to regenerate in Afghanistan following an American withdrawal that has left the Taliban in power. Mr. Austin spoke to reporters in Kuwait City at the conclusion of a four-day tour of Gulf states. He said Washington was prepared to prevent a return of the extremist group in Afghanistan that would threaten the U.S. “The whole community is kind of watching to see what happens and whether or not al-Qaeda has the ability to regenerate in Afghanistan,” he said. “The nature of al-Qaeda and (the Islamic State group) is they will always attempt to find space to grow and regenerate, whether it’s there, whether it’s in Somalia, or whether it’s in any other ungoverned space. I think that’s the nature of the organisation.” The Taliban had provided al-Qaeda with sanctuary while it ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001. The U.S. invaded and overthrew the Taliban after it refused to turn over al-Qaeda leaders following the September 11, 2001 attack on the United States. During the course of the 20-year U.S. war, al-Qaeda was vastly diminished, but questions have arisen about its future prospects with the Taliban back in Kabul. “We put the Taliban on notice that we expect them to not allow that to happen,” Mr. Austin said, referring to the possibility of al-Qaeda using Afghanistan as a staging base in future. In a February 2020 agreement with the Trump administration, the Taliban leaders pledged not to support al-Qaeda or other extremist groups that would threaten the United States. But U.S. officials believe the Taliban maintain ties to al-Qaeda, and many nations, including the Gulf Arab states, are concerned that the Taliban’s return to power could open the door to a resurgence of al-Qaeda influence. Mr. Austin asserted that the U.S. military is capable of containing al-Qaeda or any other extremist threat to the U.S. emanating from Afghanistan by using surveillance and strike aircraft based elsewhere, including in the Gulf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/al-qaeda-may-seek-a-comeback-in-afghanistan-pentagon-chief/article36393247.ece
10 September 2021||Kabul,||‘They crushed my face against the concrete’||Two Afghan journalists were left with ugly welts and bruises after being beaten and detained for hours by Taliban fighters for covering a protest in Kabul. The pair were picked up at a demonstration on Wednesday and taken to a police station in the capital, where they say they were punched and beaten with batons, electrical cables and whips after being accused of organising the protest. “One of the Taliban put his foot on my head, crushed my face against the concrete. They kicked me in the head... I thought they were going to kill me,” photographer Nematullah Naqdi said. Mr. Naqdi and his colleague Taqi Daryabi, a reporter, who both work for Etilaat Roz (Information Daily) had been assigned to cover a small protest in front of a police station in Kabul by women demanding the right to work and education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/they-crushed-my-face-against-the-concrete/article36393237.ece
10 September 2021||Kabuk,||200 foreigners, including Americans, fly out of Kabul||Nearly 200 foreigners, including Americans, flew out of Afghanistan on a commercial flight from Kabul airport on Thursday, the first such large-scale departure since the U.S concluded its frantic withdrawal at the end of last month. The Qatar Airways flight to Doha marked a breakthrough in the bumpy coordination between the U.S. and the new Taliban rulers. A senior U.S. official said two senior Taliban officials had helped facilitate the departure. Americans, green card holders and other nationalities including Germans, Hungarians and Canadians were on the flight. As Taliban authorities patrolled the tarmac, passengers presented their documents for checking, and sniffer dogs inspected luggage. Some of the airport workers had returned to their jobs after fleeing during the harrowing chaos of the U.S.-led airlift.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/200-foreigners-including-americans-fly-out-of-kabul/article36393248.ece
10 September 2021||COlombo,||Sri Lanka suggests delaying pregnancy over COVID risks||Sri Lankan women were urged to delay getting pregnant after more than 40 expectant mothers died of COVID-19 in four months, the Health Ministry said on Thursday. The island nation, which recorded its first maternal coronavirus death in May, is battling a spike in Delta variant infections after travel restrictions were eased for local New Year celebrations in mid-April. “Usually, we have 90 to 100 maternal deaths a year, but since the start of the third wave we have recorded 41 deaths of pregnant women from COVID alone,” said Chitramali de Silva, a director of the government’s Health Promotion Bureau. Government obstetrician and gynaecologist Harsha Atapattu said he was urging “newly-weds, as well as those who are trying to have a baby, to delay it by at least a year because of the risks of COVID-19”. Mr. De Silva said about 5,500 expectant mothers had been infected. About 70% were fully vaccinated, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/lanka-asks-women-to-delay-pregnancy-over-covid-risks/article36393242.ece
10 September 2021||London,||‘Brexit pact could sink N. Ireland govt.’||The leader of Northern Ireland’s biggest party on Thursday suspended cooperation with Dublin and warned he might collapse the province’s devolved government in protest against a protocol between the United Kingdom and the European Union regulating post-Brexit trade. Democratic Unionist Party leader Jeffrey Donaldson demanded “significant and substantial changes” to the Northern Ireland Protocol. Mr. Donaldson said it was “a matter of political reality, that our political institutions will not survive a failure to resolve the problems that the protocol has created”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brexit-pact-could-sink-n-ireland-govt/article36393240.ece
10 September 2021||Berlin,||Merkel downplays poll ratings||Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Thursday that her party is fighting and was always aware that it wouldn’t “automatically” hold on to Germany’s top job after her 16 years in power, downplaying alarming poll ratings. Recent polls have shown Ms. Merkel’s Union bloc under would-be successor Armin Laschet in second place behind the centre-left Social Democrats, with very low support of around 20%. It is running short of time to turn things around before the September 26 parliamentary election. Asked whether she was worried about her record being sullied by her party losing the chancellery, Ms. Merkel said, “We are in the middle of the election campaign and I can see that (it is) really fighting”. She added that what happens on election day counts, so she won’t speculate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/party-is-aware-of-tough-fight-in-poll-merkel/article36393243.ece
10 September 2021||Seoul,||AS--NKorea-Military Parade||Military search dogs and goose-stepping trainers. Health workers wearing gas masks and red hazmat suits. And a slimmed down, beam- ing Kim Jong-un in a business suit. The parade marking North Korea’s celebration of its 73rd anniversary was a marked departure from past militaristic displays, with a domestic audience worried about the pandemic likely in mind. The parade on Wednes- day centred around paramili- tary organisations and public security forces protecting the capital, Pyongyang, instead of the military units that handle the weapons in the North Korean leader's nuclear and missile arsenal.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-nkorea-military-parade/article36393245.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Why hasn’t marital rape been criminalised in India yet?||In 2017, the Supreme Court, in Independent Thought v. Union of India, refused to delve into the question of marital rape of adult women while examining an exception to Section 375 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which allows a man to force sex on his wife. Recent rulings by High Courts have been contradictory — one backed marital rape as a valid ground for divorce, while another granted anticipatory bail to a man while concluding that forcible sex is not an “illegal thing”. Why do differences persist despite the Justice J.S. Verma Committee recommendation to criminalise marital rape? Shraddha Chaudhary and Manuraj Shunmugasundaram discuss why marital rape has not been criminalised in India yet, in a conversation moderated by Sudipta Datta . Edited excerpts: Recent rulings by High Courts pointing out that any sexual act between a man and his wife, even if it involves force, is not rape perhaps highlights the lacuna in the IPC. Why does a provision like this exist in the IPC in the first place? Shraddha Chaudhary:Section 375 of the IPC defines the offence of rape. It lays down which physical acts are required to make out the offence, and it is a very broad definition. The second important element of this definition is consent. Where these acts are done without the consent of the woman, then the offence of rape is made out. This is the general rule, but there is an exception, which says that sexual acts by a husband with his wife, if she is 18 years of age and above, would not be rape. While the rest of the provision is centred on consent, this exception does not talk about consent at all. It creates the legal fiction that a wife always consents to her husband, which in effect means that her non-consent is irrelevant. It is of course possible for there to be reprieve for rape within a marriage, but not as rape. If there are physical injuries, then there can be reprieve for that separately. Marital rape may be recognised as a form of cruelty, it may be a ground for divorce, but it is not punished as rape, which is a very distinct wrong and has very distinct terms. That is where the lacuna in the law lies. Insofar as fixing it is concerned, either Parliament may legislate and remove this exception, or a constitutional court has to strike it down. Manuraj Shunmugasundaram:How did we end up here? Partly because we inherited an IPC prior to the enactment of the Constitution, but that doesn’t absolve us of the deficiencies in the present legal structure and ‘legal fiction’, as Ms. Chaudhary says. The so-called marital rape immunity or the exception to rape, as we have structured it in our penal code, has been done away with in other jurisdictions, and rightly so. Marital rape today exists in a very unique sort of stratosphere wherein it can be a ground for cruelty and therefore, for divorce under the personal laws, but it will not render the offender guilty of the offence itself. Where does the fault lie? SC:Primarily, it should have fallen on Parliament to legislate and remove this exception. But we should also keep in mind that courts have noted the cruelty of this exception and they have acknowledged its problems. They have not gone on to strike it down entirely. As far as Parliament is concerned, it is quite common to leave to the court legislation that may not give very good political returns. We saw this with Section 377 as well. It had to be struck down by the court finally. Why were the Justice J.S. Verma Committee recommendations on marital rape not adopted when the criminal law was amended in 2013? MS:Parliament did miss an opportunity to enact changes, as recommended by the Justice Verma Committee. The official response was that they wanted further discussions around marital rape laws before they could enact it because it involves other questions of law as well. There might be some element of truth to that, but it exposes a vulnerability to issues that may not have political mileage or in fact may have other political ramifications. The Supreme Court missed a fantastic opportunity to go into these matters in the Independent Thought case in 2017. Under Article 142, the Supreme Court has powers almost equivalent to that of a lawmaking power. Like with the Navtej Johar case (2018) when the Supreme Court missed an opportunity to provide the entire spectrum of civil marital inheritance rights to non-heterosexual couples, the Supreme Court equally missed an opportunity during the course of the Independent Thought case to extend its remit to look at all forms of marital rape and not only that restricted to women below 18 years. When the Supreme Court was reading down the exception to Section 375, shouldn’t it have afforded the same protection to adult women as well? SC:The court made the conscious decision to restrict itself to the question of minors. The case was framed as a question of parity between the IPC on the one hand and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, on the other. I am sure a lot of constitutional commentators will talk about the merits of judicial restraint, and there is an argument to be made for that. The issue is sensitive and can be controversial because a lot of people, including educated, seemingly liberal people, still believe that criminalising marital rape will somehow threaten the ‘institution of marriage’ and will become some sort of a witch-hunt against husbands. These arguments channel the Victorian morality of the IPC, which we have tried to counter but have not quite done it fully, or as well as perhaps we would have liked to. That morality also captured the common law of coverture, under which women had no rights after marriage, their rights were to be exercised by their husbands, so they were completely reduced to the status of chattel, of property. Judgments of courts around the world, such as the European Court of Human Rights, have stressed on the offence and violence of rape, rather than the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim. To what extent are these developments relevant to India? MS:They are extremely relevant in terms of how our own jurisprudence could evolve in the coming years. We have seen how LGBTQ jurisprudence over the last 15 years in other countries has impacted to some extent how India’s own jurisprudence from Navtej Johar has changed with regard to LGBTQ rights. Ultimately, the recognition of the perversity of the marital rape exception must come from within. For that we only need to look towards Article 14. The most compelling argument in support of the marital rape exception as it is prevalent in our statute today is that the institution of marriage is sacrosanct and that it should not be disturbed. But the Constitution places no importance on any particular institution; the Constitution is unequivocal in the significance given to the individual. A person deserves equality, equal protection and autonomy. Therefore, the exception to marital rape in itself is unconstitutional and violative of Article 14. Further, marital rape is an affront to the dignity of the individual, which is protected under Article 21. Just because the nature of the relationship between the victim and the offender is one of marriage, it does not absolve a person of the crime. The argument that is built around the institution of marriage and its sanctity needs to be broken, which is what has happened in other jurisdictions around us. Once we realise that, our society will have no choice but to remove the marital rape exception. SC:We can also learn from the experiences of countries which have criminalised marital rape. It did not lead to a witch-hunt against husbands and definitely not to the destruction of marriage. There are socio-economic differences between India and some of the countries that have criminalised marital rape. I was reading that the government has used that as well as a rationale against criminalising marital rape, saying that the poverty, illiteracy and diversity in this country make the issue complex. But we need to question to what extent these factors map on to criminalising marital rape, and to what extent we can let them hamstring us. What are the hurdles in reporting and prosecuting a crime like marital rape? MS:Most acts of sexual violence are away from eyewitnesses, and to lead evidence is a challenge in itself. I don’t see why marital rape should be more difficult to report or prove in court than any other sexual offence. The POCSO Act has been an important step in ensuring that there is justice for child sexual abuse victims. Now we know that most offenders of child sexual abuses are within the family, but we don’t give them immunity, right? We don’t say there’s an institution of family, so let’s protect offenders who are within the same family. We need to show that it is as absurd to ask for protection of a husband from marital rape as it is to ask for protection of a family member from child sexual abuse. SC:The marital space does create issues in reporting and prosecuting crime — not because of the nature of the offence or what is being criminalised but because of the way that the functionaries in the criminal justice system think of these things. The police, judges, prosecutors and anyone with whom the complainant will have to interact — it is they who are likely to create, either unwittingly or intentionally, barriers in reporting and prosecution because in their minds, consent being presumed within a marriage may persevere, even if the law happens to have changed. Would you agree that social structures that justify violence against women pose a challenge to the implementation of laws on rape. Even if laws are amended, have mindsets changed? MS:Societal change is very important. It is not only patriarchy or misogyny that needs to change, we need to challenge notions about the sanctity of marriage. We need to check ourselves every time we indulge in blaming the victim. We also need to challenge our conservative mindsets when it comes to discussing sexual offences or offences that take place within the family. Just going back to POCSO, till date, such crimes are largely under-reported, because most of the abuse is within the family. SC:There have existed certain power structures in our society, typically based on caste and gender. When these power structures are challenged by laws, the rhetoric of misuse comes in. That is the strongest kind of weapon operationalised against the implementation of such laws. It’s important to counter such narratives as well as to establish that misuse is extremely unlikely. We must believe victims, complainants, and [see this] hullabaloo of misuse as a red herring. We need to counter this [misuse argument] strongly in politics, judgments, civil society. MS:The roadmap is readily available for either the constitutional courts or Parliament to act on this. We need to frame the discussion around rape as an offence against bodily integrity and we need to emphasise the importance of the rights of the individual, as laid down in Article 14. We need to tell people that every act must be protected with consent.  We need to show that it is as absurd to ask for protection of a husband from marital rape as it is to ask for protection of a family member from child sexual abuse. Manuraj Shunmugasundaram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-hasnt-marital-rape-been-criminalised-in-india-yet/article36393236.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The fall of Afghanistan, the fallout in West Asia||On September 7, three weeks after they walked into Kabul without any resistance, the Taliban announced an interim Council of Ministers. This government-formation was tightly controlled by Pakistan: the head of its Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed, had made a high-profile descent on Kabul a few days earlier to signal the success of Pakistan’s 20-year project to install the Taliban in power and, more immediately, to ensure that the incoming government would safeguard its interests. The chord with Pakistan Pakistan appears to have got its way. Afghanistan’s acting Prime Minister is Mullah Hassan Akhund, close associate of former Taliban founder Mullah Omar. But this could be a short-term appointment as he has not shone in Taliban ranks either as warrior or administrator. Abdul Ghani Baradar is his deputy, but again, this could be a token position. Baradar had been arrested in 2010 by the Pakistanis for pursuing a dialogue with the Hamid Karzai government without Pakistani sanction and jailed for eight years. Pakistan’s true protégés are Sirajuddin Haqqani, the acting interior minister, and Mohammed Yaqoob, the acting defence minister, a son of Mullah Omar, who is also close to Haqqani. Both have long-standing ties with Pakistan and should be the real wielders of power in Kabul. The West Asian players While Pakistan is playing the lead public role in Afghan affairs, the country’s West Asian/Gulf neighbours will be a significant influence in shaping the future of that beleaguered country. Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Iran have been direct role-players in Afghan affairs for over 25 years. In the 1990s, the first two were supporters and sources of funding for the Taliban, while Iran was an antagonist, backing the Northern Alliance against the emirate in Kandahar. After the 9/11 attacks, all three countries became deeply involved with the Taliban. From 2005, the Gulf sheikhdoms have contributed millions of dollars to different Taliban leaders and factions. Iran began a substantial engagement with various Taliban leaders from 2007 and provided funding, weapons, training and refuge, when required. It wanted the Taliban to maintain pressure on the U.S. forces to ensure their speedy departure from the country. In the 2010s, when the U.S. began to engage with Iran on the nuclear issue, Saudi Arabia became more directly involved in Afghan matters to prevent Iran’s expanding influence among Taliban groups. Thus, besides Syria and Yemen, Iran and Saudi Arabia have also made Afghanistan an arena for their regional competitions. In 2012, Qatar, on U.S. request, allowed the Taliban to open an office in Doha as a venue for their dialogue with the Americans. This has made Qatar an influential player in Afghan affairs, with deep personal ties with several leaders, many of whom keep their families in Doha. Competitions for influence The low-key reactions of the Gulf countries to recent developments in Kabul reflect the uncertainties relating to the Taliban in power, i.e., their ability to remain united, their policies relating to human rights, and, above all, whether the Taliban will again make their country a sanctuary for extremist groups. The country already has several thousand foreign fighters, whose ranks could swell with extremists coming in from Iraq and Syria, and threaten the security of all neighbouring states. Three sets of regional players are active in Afghanistan today: one, the Pakistan-Saudi coalition, which has been the principal source of support for the Taliban-at-war. They would like to remain influential in the new order, but neither would like to see the Taliban revert to their practices of the 1990s that had justifiably appalled the global community. Two, Turkey and Qatar represent the region’s Islamist coalition and, thus, share an ideological kinship with the Taliban. Both would like to see a moderate and inclusive administration, but Turkey is seen as a political and doctrinal antagonist by Saudi Arabia, while Qatar remains a rival for the kingdom as it backs political Islam and improved ties with Iran. The inter-play of these rivalries will resonate in Afghanistan. The third player is Iran: while many of its hardliners are overjoyed at the U.S. “defeat”, more reflective observers recall the earlier Taliban emirate which was viscerally hostile to Shias and Iran. Iran also sees itself as the guardian of the Tajik, Uzbek and Hazara minorities in the country. This consideration, as also its suspicions of Wahhabi influence in the country, led its spokesman, on September 6, to “strongly condemn” Pakistani participation in the Taliban attacks on the resistance fighters, largely Tajik and Uzbek, in the Panjshir valley. The outlook for security Besides the challenges that individual countries are grappling with, in West Asia there is the larger issue of regional security after the U.S. withdrawal. The region now has two options: one, an Israel-centric security order in which the Arab Gulf states would link themselves with Israel to confront Iran. This is being actively promoted by Israeli hawks since it would tie Israel with neighbouring Arab states without having to concede anything to meet Palestinian aspirations. The weakness of this arrangement is that while the regimes of some Gulf states could be attracted to it, their populations are likely to be opposed. The proposal will also ensure that West Asia remains confrontational and unstable. The other option is more ambitious: a comprehensive regional security arrangement. The facilitators and guarantors of this security arrangement are likely to be China and Russia: over the last few years, both have built close relations with the major states of the region. i.e., Iran, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Recent developments suggest that this need not be a far-fetched proposition any more: one, in January, the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states led by Saudi Arabia lifted the over three year blockade of Qatar; two, since April, there have been three rounds of discussions between Iran and Saudi Arabia and plans are in place for the next meetings; and, three, Turkey has initiated diplomatic overtures towards Egypt and Saudi Arabia. None of these initiatives involves the Americans. Other significant events have also taken place recently. On August 24, Saudi Arabia’s Deputy Minister of Defence, Khalid bin Salman, the younger brother of the Crown Prince, signed a military cooperation agreement with Russia, in Moscow. This is an obvious case of “strategic hedging” as the U.S. has placed restrictions on defence supplies to the kingdom. Besides this, there were the two conferences in Baghdad — one set up a coalition of Iraq, Jordan and Egypt for economic cooperation, while the other, on August 28, brought together the principal regional states to confront shared challenges — all these interactions have taken place without U.S. presence. These developments suggest that the germ of a new regional security order in West Asia is already sown in fertile ground. Talmiz Ahmad is the former Indian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Oman and the United Arab Emirates, and holds the Ram Sathe Chair for International Studies at Symbiosis International University, Pune||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-fall-of-afghanistan-the-fallout-in-west-asia/article36393226.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The national security discourse is changing||The global security landscape is undergoing a churn, creating complexities and new realities unlike any time in the recent past. From a rising China to the pressures of climate change; from the challenges of counter terrorism to a seemingly never-ending COVID-19 pandemic (the four Cs), the old order is collapsing much faster than the ability of nations to create the foundations of a new one. National security debates and discourse are, quietly but surely, undergoing an almost revolutionary transformation. While the academic world has long talked about the need for a ‘holistic’ conception of national security, much of that debate was considered far too esoteric by practitioners. Today, it is the policymakers and practitioners themselves that are leading the emerging consensus on the need to fundamentally reassess our assumptions about national security thinking. Change in the U.S. The U.S. policymakers have started changing their cognitive lens when it comes to national security policy making. A process that was started by former U.S. President Donald Trump has been taken forward with gusto by the Biden Administration. Asserting that “foreign policy is domestic policy and domestic policy is foreign policy,” U.S. President Joe Biden’s National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan has suggested that his team’s task is to re-imagine American “national security for the unprecedented combination of crises we face at home and abroad: the pandemic, the economic crisis, the climate crisis, technological disruption, threats to democracy, racial injustice, and inequality in all forms”. He has gone on to argue that “the alliances we rebuild, the institutions we lead, the agreements we sign, all of them should be judged by a basic question. Will this make life better, easier, safer, for working families across this country?” The U.S. Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, too has reiterated this message in his comments that “more than at any other time in my career — maybe in my lifetime — distinctions between domestic and foreign policy have simply fallen away” and that “our domestic renewal and our strength in the world are completely entwined, and how we work will reflect that reality”. Both Mr. Sullivan and Mr. Blinken have taken their cue from their boss, President Biden, who had campaigned on a “foreign policy for the middle-class” and has been unabashed about the need for the U.S. “to invest in our people, sharpen our innovative edge, and unite the economic might of democracies around the world to grow the middle-class and reduce inequality and do things like counter the predatory trade practices of our competitors and adversaries”. There is a growing bipartisan acknowledgement in the U.S. today that if the requirements of American national security during the Cold War could be largely met by its fleets of bombers, nuclear missiles, aircraft carriers and overseas bases, today’s strategic environment requires a different response: one that shores up domestic industrial base, helps in maintaining pre-eminence in critical technologies, makes supply chains for critical goods more resilient, protects critical infrastructure from cyberattacks, and responds with a sense of urgency to climate change. Not a novel idea The idea that foreign and domestic policies are tightly intertwined is not a novel one. All serious grand strategic thinking in democracies, at the end of the day looks for sustenance in popular public support. Mr. Trump’s rise and his ideas challenged both the liberals and the conservatives in the U.S. foreign policy establishment as they underscored the widening gulf between the policy community and the American hinterland. Mr. Biden and his team have learned their lessons. Mr. Sullivan is working towards integrating the National Security Council with the other components of the White House such as the National Economic Council, with the Domestic Policy Council, with the Office of Science and Technology Policy. This will inevitably present its own sets of challenges but there is no shying away from this new reality. The Indian situation In India too, we have seen a greater recognition of the challenges emanating on national security from domestic vulnerabilities. One of the most significant consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, underscored by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself, has been to reveal how deeply India has been dependent on Chinese manufacturing for critical supplies. At a time when Indian armed forces were facing the People’s Liberation Army across the Line of Actual Line, this exposed India to a new realisation that dependence on overseas supply chains is a national security challenge of the highest order, one that cannot be overlooked any more. India has since moved towards shoring up domestic capacities in critical areas and also started looking at free trade agreements through a new lens. The Indian Army chief, General M.M. Naravane, in his remarks, has also made it apparent that views of the military leadership in this country are also evolving. He has argued that “national security comprises not only warfare and defence but also financial security, health security, food security, energy security and environment security apart from information security” and suggested that instead of viewing national security “primarily from the perspective of an armed conflict, there is a need to take a whole-of-government approach towards security”. Highlight the synergies In the post-pandemic world with a serious strain on national resources, it will be important for policymakers to underline the synergies between the civilian and the military spheres. The Army chief has rightfully pointed out a range of tangible and intangible ways in which investment in the armed forces contributes to the national economy such as indigenisation of defence procurement, providing an impetus to indigenous industries, aid to civil authorities or Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) operations protecting infrastructure, demand for hi-tech military products by the armed forces spurring entire industries, and transportation and logistics capacities of the armed forces acting as force enablers for the Government in times of emergencies. The Army leadership has done well to highlight the role of armed forces in sustaining a broader conception of national security than primarily focusing on war fighting. As nations across the world reconceptualise their strategic priorities to bring their ends, ways and means into greater balance, questions of resource allocation will become even more contentious and policymakers will need to think more creatively about the roles of various instruments of statecraft. National security thinking is undergoing a shift. India cannot be left behind. Harsh V. Pant is Director of Research, Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and a Professor of International Relations, King’s College London||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-national-security-discourse-is-changing/article36393229.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Where are the programmers?||Every year, lakhs of youngsters graduate with computer science, computer application and engineering degrees from Indian universities. A few years ago, Aspiring Minds created a stir when it published a report that stated that 95% of engineers were not fit for software development jobs. The report said only 1.4% of them could write functionally correct code. Computer programs are the foundation of applied computer science, and writing them is an important skill for students to have. Every IT company in India looks for fresh graduates with programming skills. Since the companies are convinced that new computer science graduates don’t have these skills, they screen them for logical reasoning/aptitude tests and train them in programming languages. Missing programming culture The problem is that new graduates are often afraid of programming or lack the right understanding of basic concepts. The aversion to programming is so prevalent in campuses that even graduates with high marks prefer to move to non-programming careers with lower salaries. Thousands of talented students drift away from highly rewarding programming careers because of poor teaching of programming. Except some elite institutions, the faculty in computer science departments of a majority of the colleges do not put their knowledge to use, to solve real-life problems. They may have graduated with excellent academic credentials, but they lack expertise in programming. The faculty memorise programs and then go on to teach their students the same method. As a result, over the last two decades, selling graduate-level computer science projects has become a parallel industry. Students buy ready-made projects for a fee from marquee institutes to submit to the university as bonafide projects. We need computer science faculty with good programming skills. They need to be comfortable explaining or teaching computer science concepts using any computer language in the classroom. For example, data structure and algorithms (ds-algo) must be taught along with a programming language, not just as a separate theory. A minimum of three years of software development experience for faculty should be made mandatory. The college management or even the government could step in and incentivise or bear the cost of this experience. If the faculty are well-versed with programming language and coding, the students will pick up these skills easily in the classroom. And then programming will become the default culture and language in computer science classrooms and we will have excellent programmers. Before the first year of graduation class begins, students can be asked to complete assignments on platforms like ‘Scratch’ from MIT. A week’s crash course in a simple scripting language like Python can be taught before the first semester starts, so that programming can be used while teaching computer science concepts in the classroom. Nowadays, everyone has a laptop. For programming languages and related subjects, the program needs to be written and executed in the classroom on every student’s laptop while theory is being taught, not in a separate laboratory. Programming assignments must be given frequently. These should be checked into some cloud repositories like GitHub. Benefiting both parties If students are guided this way, companies would be more than happy to take these students as interns. These students can assist their development team. This industry-academic partnership will benefit both parties, as industry funds academic research to solve the latest real-life problems and academia provides employable and productive graduates to industry. Once the right programming culture is inculcated in campuses, it will unleash the huge human technological potential of India and help the country become the technological superpower of the coming decade. James K. Varkey is an IT Professional (Architect) with more than 20 years of experience in the IT industry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/where-are-the-programmers/article36393231.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Catching up||The Cabinet’s approval of a Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for the textile sector that is expressly targeted at the man-made fibre (MMF) and technical textiles segments is a belated acknowledgment by the Government that the ground has inexorably shifted in the global textiles trade. A relentless shift in consumer preferences and fashion trends saw MMF surpass cotton as the fibre of choice in the 1990s, since vaulting its share in worldwide textile consumption to about 75%. India’s textile and clothing exports on the other hand have continued to remain dominated by cotton and other natural fibre-based products, with MMF having contributed less than 30% of the country’s $35.6 billion in overall sectoral exports in 2017-18. And MMF’s share remained relatively unchanged in the last fiscal as well when the sectoral exports were about $33 billion. While policy makers have been cognisant of the need to bolster support for the MMF segment, the task of crafting a meaningful initiative that would engender enhanced investment in capacity creation, leading to increased exports, has been a while in coming. Wednesday’s decision on the focused PLI scheme, with a budgeted outlay of Rs. 10,683 crore, is the second time in 11 months that the Cabinet has approved what is broadly the same plan, with the Government using the intervening period to incorporate amendments to the incentive structure based on industry feedback. The aim of the scheme is to specifically focus investment attention on 40 MMF apparel product lines, 14 MMF fabric lines and 10 segments or products of technical textiles. These 64 items have been chosen on account of being among the top-traded lines in the global market as well as India having less than a 5% share in each of them. The inclusion of intermediate products at industry’s request also reflects the Government’s keenness to ensure the scheme ultimately delivers on the broader policy objectives. The incentives have been categorised into two investment levels. Firms investing at least Rs. 300 crore into plant and machinery over two years for making a specified product would need to hit a minimum turnover of Rs. 600 crore before becoming eligible to receive the incentive over a five-year period, and at a second level an investment of Rs. 100 crore with a pre-set minimum turnover of Rs. 200 crore would enable qualification for the incentive. On the face of it, the scheme appears designed with a fair deal of thought, but its operational success is likely to hinge on how new entrepreneurs and existing companies weigh the risk-reward equation, especially at a time when the pandemic-spurred uncertainty has already made private businesses leery of making fresh capital expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/catching-up/article36393221.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Return of the Mullahs||The debate on whether the Taliban would form an “inclusive government” representing all sections of Afghan society was laid to rest by the Taliban themselves on September 7 when the group’s spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, announced the formation of the new administration of the ‘Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’. Of the 33 Cabinet Ministers named, 30 are Pashtun, two ethnic Tajiks, and one is Uzbek. The Taliban are predominantly Pashtun, who make up some 40% of Afghanistan’s ethnically diverse population of 40 million. Women and the Hazara Shia minority — both faced targeted harassment and discrimination when the Taliban were in power in the 1990s — were excluded completely. Seventeen Ministers are on the UN sanctions blacklist for terrorists, including the head of the government, Mullah Hassan Akhund, and Sirajuddin Haqqani, the head of the Haqqani Network. Mullah Hibatullah Akhundzada, the Taliban’s reclusive emir, will be the ‘Amir ul-Momineen’ (commander of the faithful), a title Mullah Omar had assumed in the 1990s. With the Cabinet portfolios allocated to the Taliban’s core and the Haqqanis, and introducing a system that resembles the previous Islamic Emirate known for its disregard for basic human rights, the Taliban have sent a clear message that they care little about what the world thinks about them. Today’s Taliban appear to be stronger than their last avatar. In the 1990s, only three countries recognised the Islamic Emirate; the Taliban also never controlled the whole of Afghanistan. But now, more regional powers are ready to engage with them, including China and Russia. The group has also claimed total control over the country, with Panjshir, the last holdout, overrun earlier this week. With the new government, a stronger Taliban are trying to tighten their grip, though it may not be easy. Ever since Afghanistan became a republic in 1973, no government in Kabul has managed to stabilise the country. The ethnic, religious and political contradictions are too deep to be glossed over by the Taliban’s divisive Islamist Pasthun nationalism. In Panjshir, the rebels may have withdrawn to the mountains, like the Taliban did in 2001, but they could regroup and hit back like the Taliban did after 2005. The total exclusion of Shias and marginalisation of other ethnicities could blow back in the near term. Afghanistan has also seen the emergence of a vibrant civil society, especially in its cities, which may not accept the Taliban’s rule of the Mullahs quietly. Already, the crackdown on women’s rights has sparked large-scale protests by women in Kabul and elsewhere, which was unimaginable in the 1990s. If the Taliban were wise, they would have focused on healing the wounds of the long war and rebuilding the ruptured state and society. But the Pashtun, Islamist, sectarian Taliban seem programmatically incapable of doing that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/return-of-the-mullahs/article36393222.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Demand for independence||The Awami League and four other political parties of Bangla Desh have declared that nothing short of total independence would satisfy the fighting people of Bangla Desh. At a two-day meeting which concluded at Mujibnagar last night, the parties also set up a joint consultative committee to advise the Bangla Desh Government on the liberation struggle, according to a Bangla Desh Government press release here to-day [Calcutta, September 9]. The members of the committee are Maulana Bhashani (National Awami Party), Prof. Muzaffar Ahmed (National Awami Party Wali Muzaffar group), Mr. Moni Singh (Communist Party of Bangla Desh), Mr. Manoranjan Dhar (Bangla Desh National Congress), Mr. Tajuddin Ahmed, and Mr. Khandaker Moshtaque Ahmed, Prime Minister and Foreign Minister respectively of the Bangla Desh Government, and two other members of the Awami League. The meeting by a resolution expressed indignation and anguish at the illegal detention of Sheikh Mujibur Rehman by the West Pakistan army junta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/demand-for-independence/article36393230.ece
10 September 2021||COIMBATORE,||Centre to pay incentive dues of Rs. 56,000 cr. in relief to exporters||The Centre will release Rs. 56,027 crore in the current fiscal to disburse all pending export incentives. In a release on Thursday, the government said the benefits will be disbursed to more than 45,000 exporters, of which 98% are MSMEs. “This amount includes claims relating to MEIS, SEIS, RoSL, RoSCTL, other scrip-based schemes relating to earlier policies and the remission support for RoDTEP and RoSCTL for exports made in the 4th quarter of FY 20-21,” it said. Total disbursements will include Rs. 33,010 crore for MEIS, Rs. 10,002 crore for SEIS, Rs. 5,286 cr for RoSCTL, Rs. 330 crore for RoSL, Rs. 2,568 crore for RoDTEP, and Rs. 4,831 crore for other legacy Schemes like Target Plus. This amount is over and above the duty remission amount of Rs. 12,454 crore for the RoDTEP scheme and Rs. 6,946 crore for RoSCTL scheme already announced for exports made in this fiscal. Merchandise exports for April-August 2021 rose 67% to almost $164 billion from a year earlier, marking a 23% growth over 2019-2020. Clearing all pending export incentives in this fiscal “will lead to even more rapid export growth in coming months,” it said. For merchandise exports, all sectors covered under MEIS, such as pharma, iron and steel, engineering, chemicals, fisheries, agriculture and allied sectors, auto and auto components will be able to claim benefits for exports made in earlier years. Service sector exportersmay claim SEIS benefits for 2019-2020, for which Rs. 2,061 crore has been provisioned. Exporters should file claims relating to earlier years by December 31. An online portal will soon be enabled to accept MEIS and applications, the Centre said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-to-pay-incentive-dues-of-rs-56000-cr-in-relief-to-exporters/article36393528.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ford’s exit to impact dealers employing 40,000, says FADA||In the wake of Ford Motor Company’s announcement that it would stop manufacturing vehicles in India, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) on Thursday said the move would severely impact almost 170 dealers across the country, who had invested about Rs. 2,000 crore and employ 40,000 people. Renewing its demand for the ‘Franchisee Protection Act’, the federation pointed out that Ford India had appointed multiple dealers as recently as five months ago. These dealers would be the most hit, it said. The industry body noted that Ford Motor’s was the fifth big exit from India since 2017, after General Motors, Man Trucks, Harley-Davidson and UM Lohia. Besides, several small electric vehicle players had also wound down operations. ‘Shocking development’ Terming the announcement as “shocking”, FADA President Vinkesh Gulati said Ford India President & MD Anurag Mehrotra had called and assured him that the company would adequately compensate dealers who continue to offer vehicle service to customers. “Though this is a good beginning, it is not enough as there are about 170 dealers who, in turn, have about 391 outlets and have invested approximately Rs. 2,000 crore for setting up their dealerships,” Mr. Gulati said. He added that while Ford India employed 4,000 people, these dealerships employed about 40,000 people. The federation also pointed out that Ford India dealers currently hold about 1,000 vehicles worth Rs. 150 crore via inventory funding from reputed Indian banks, besides hundreds of test- drive vehicles. “FADA has been requesting the Government of India to roll out a ‘Franchisee Protection Act’... due to its unavailability, auto dealers are not adequately compensated like their counterparts in Mexico, Brazil, Russia, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Japan, Italy, Australia and Sweden, among others,” FADA said. The group also pointed out that a Parliamentary panel had recommended in December 2020 that the Ministry of Heavy Industries should enact the Franchisee Protection Act to help protect the interests of automobile dealers in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fords-exit-to-impact-dealers-employing-40000-says-fada/article36393532.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC stays proceedings in Amazon-Future case||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed proceedings in the dispute between Future Group and Amazon over a nearly Rs. 25,000-crore merger deal with Reliance Retail taking into consideration the “balance of interests of both parties”. Notice to authorities A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, while issuing notice, ordered statutory authorities, including the National Company Law Tribunal, the Competition Commission of India, and the Securities and Exchange Board of India to not pass any orders in matters connected to the dispute for the next four weeks. The order was passed after Future Group and Amazon consented. The court’s stay order and subsequent freeze on any action by statutory authorities for the next four weeks comes as a relief for the Future Group, which had moved the apex court to stay an order passed by the Delhi High Court to attach the assets of Future Coupons, Future Retail and Future Group promoter Kishore Biyani. A Single Judge of the Delhi High Court had ordered the attachment of assets in March. It had directed the Future Group firms and promoters to file their affidavits giving details of their assets for violating an Emergency Arbitrator award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-stays-proceedings-in-amazon-future-case/article36393529.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC upholds arbitral award against DMRC||The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld a 2017 Arbitral Tribunal direction to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation to make a termination payment of Rs. 2,782.33 crore to Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. (DAMEPL), promoted by Reliance Infrastructure, in connection with the Airport Metro Express Line (AMEL) project. The metro line extends 22.7 km from New Delhi Railway Station to Dwarka Sector 21 via Indira Gandhi International Airport. The Arbitral Tribunal concluded that there were 1,551 cracks in 367 girders, i.e., 72% of the girders were affected by such cracks. However, when the case went to the Delhi High Court in appeal, a Division Bench set aside the Tribunal order. Following this, DAMEPL moved the apex court. The main question before the apex court was whether the Division Bench was ‘right’ in interfering in the Arbitral Tribunal’s order. Overruling the Division Bench decision, an SC Bench held that High Courts cannot interfere with Arbitral Tribunal awards as a matter of routine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-upholds-arbitral-award-against-dmrc/article36393531.ece
10 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Das says RBI still wary of cryptocurrency||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday said the central bank continues to have “serious and major” concerns about cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and has conveyed them to the government. It is for the government to take a call on what to do in the matter, Mr. Das said at an event, adding that he would like to have “credible explanations and answers” on the value such instruments can get to the Indian economy. Private cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, which are unregulated, mined through a complex process and have highly volatile prices, are under the regulatory gaze in India despite their proliferation as an asset class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/das-says-rbi-still-wary-of-cryptocurrency/article36393534.ece
10 September 2021||COIMBATORE,||Sugar exports set to cross 70 lakh tonnes||Sugar exports during the 11 months of the current sugar season (October 2020 to September 2021) stand at 66.70 lakh tonnes, almost 11 lakh tonnes higher compared with the same period last season, according to the Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA). According to ISMA, the data for the current season includes about 4.49 lakh tonnes of exports done under the Maximum Admissible Export Quota (MAEQ)of the 2019-2020 season. As on September 6, 2021, another 2.29 lakh tonnes of sugar is at the ports, implying that by the end of this season in another 20 days, total exports will cross 70 lakh tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sugar-exports-set-to-cross-70-lakh-tonnes/article36393527.ece
10 September 2021||London,||England loses perfect record||England’s perfect record in World Cup qualifying vanished after conceding a stoppage-time equaliser in Poland, while Italy, Germany, Spain and Belgium all won to build big leads in their groups on the road to Qatar. Harry Kane’s 41st goal for England — a 30-metre pile driver — was cancelled out when Robert Lewandowski crossed for Damian Szymanski to head home in the second minute of injury time in a 1-1 draw in Warsaw. England’s five-match winning run in qualifying ended, leaving Denmark as the only nation with a 100% record so far. Four-point advantage Still, England holds a four-point lead with four games remaining and should have no problem getting to next year’s World Cup. Italy shouldn’t, either, after dispatching Lithuania in a 5-0 win to open up a six-point lead in its group. The recently crowned European champion extended its record unbeaten run to 37 games. No country has a bigger lead than Belgium, which won 1-0 in Belarus to move nine points clear and to the brink of securing first place.  The results:   Group B: Kosovo 0 lost to Spain 2 (Fornals 32, F. Torres 90); Greece 2 (Bakasetas 62, Pavlidis 78) bt Sweden 1 (Quaison 80).   Group C: Northern Ireland 0 drew with Switzerland 0; Italy 5 (Kean 11, 29, Utkus 14-og, Raspadori 24, Di Lorenzo 54) bt Lithuania 0.   Group E: Belarus 0 lost to Belgium 1 (Praet 33); Wales 0 drew with Estonia 0.   Group I: Hungary 2 (Szalai 9-pen, Botka 18) bt Andorra 1 (Llovera 82); Albania 5 (Manaj 32, Laci 58, Broja 61, Hysaj 68, Uzuni 80) bt San Marino 0; Poland 1 (Swiderski 90+2) drew with England 1 (Kane 72).   Group J: Armenia 1 (Mkhitaryan 45+5-pen) drew with Liechtenstein 1 (Frick 80); North Macedonia 0 drew with Romania 0; Iceland 0 lost to Germany 4 (Gnabry 4, Ruediger 24, Sane 56, Werner 89) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-loses-perfect-record/article36393544.ece
10 September 2021||MUMBAI,||India’s physio tests positive, but final Test set to go ahead||The weather forecast for Friday at Manchester is not very encouraging. Even if the sky clears, the series-deciding fifth Test between India and England may be a non-starter, with a member of India’s support staff having tested COVID-19 positive.  The Hindu understands that soon after India finished its training at Old Trafford on Wednesday morning, physiotherapist Yogesh Parmar’s lateral flow test returned positive. As a result, India’s training session on Thursday was cancelled and all the members of the contingent were asked to remain in their rooms until further notice. Following Parmar’s positive result, all the members of Virat Kohli’s squad underwent RT-PCR tests on Wednesday night. The reports of all the players, except Parmar, returned negative on Thursday. India’s team management also cancelled its customary pre-match media interaction without citing any official reason. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly admitted the Test match was in doubt. “We don’t know if the Test will happen. Hopefully, we can get a game,” Ganguly said at a book launch on Kolkata on Thursday evening. Though Parmar was part of many India players’ recovery sessions till Wednesday, none of them have been infected with COVID-19. He is believed to have treated at least five senior members of the squad after the team’s practice session on Wednesday. The England camp, meanwhile, stressed that it was getting ready for the crucial game of the series which leads 2-1. “We don’t know too much about it at the moment. It would be naive to speculate on what’s going on. At the moment we are fully expecting the game to go ahead and we are preparing for it... so fingers crossed that the game will go ahead,” said Jos Buttler, the England vice-captain, after his team’s net session. Parmar’s positive test has taken the number of COVID-19 cases in India’s entourage to four, with head coach Ravi Shastri, bowling coach B. Arun and fielding coach R. Sridhar having been diagnosed positive during the fourth Test at The Oval in London last week. Nitin Patel, the senior physio, was isolated in London after being traced as the trio’s close contact. He is understood to have travelled to Manchester on Thursday after clearing two negative RT-PCR tests. Even as the India players waited anxiously in their rooms, the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) and the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) were discussing the possibilities that may arise in case of an abandonment. With the IPL scheduled to resume in the United Arab Emirates on September 19, the BCCI isn’t keen on risking the health of players days before the tournament. The ECB, on the other hand, has been insisting that the Old Trafford Test needs to go ahead as the players have returned negative tests. Despite the members of the squad getting cleared, if the BCCI decides not to risk them taking the field on Friday, the ECB may press India to forfeit the game. The visitors, it is believed, may press for rescheduling the Test during the limited-overs tour to be held in England next year. Though uncertainty surrounds the Test, should the captains Kohli and Joe Root walk out for the toss, R. Ashwin is set to be drafted into the XI as a niggle has ruled Ravindra Jadeja out of the game.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cloud-over-fifth-test-after-indias-physio-tests-positive/article36393320.ece
10 September 2021||London,||It’s all about Ronaldo in the Premier League||The public relations push has been relentless at Manchester United these past few days, detailing everything about Cristiano Ronaldo from his movements in training, his greatest goals, his reclaiming of the “iconic” No. 7 jersey, to the inside story of his goal celebration. One of the best players in the history of soccer is making an emotional return for a second spell at one of the world’s biggest teams, so it’s understandable that Ronaldo has been the talk of the town since his stunning transfer from Juventus was completed last week. First appearance His first appearance back at United is likely to be against Newcastle on Saturday and it is one of the most anticipated occasions in the history of the Premier League. Does his presence virtually ensure United will be “closer to winning” trophies? Certainly, Ronaldo is a still a guarantee of goals. He has a staggering 785 goals in 1,075 appearances for club and country, after all. He has just become the record scorer of all time in men’s international soccer, with 111 goals. The top scorer in Champions League history with 134, Ronaldo has delivered the following number of league goals in his last five seasons at club level: 29 in 33 games (2020-21), 31 in 33 games (2019-20), 21 in 31 games (2018-19), 26 in 27 games (2017-18), and 25 in 29 games (2016-17). However, even if he was top scorer in Serie A last season and had 101 goals and 22 assists in a total of 134 appearances for Juventus, his three years in Turin should perhaps act as a warning for United. Juve steadily declined with Ronaldo there, to the extent that the team only just scraped a fourth-place finish last season to qualify for the Champions League. In the Champions League, Juve reached the quarterfinals just once with Ronaldo — before he arrived, it got to the final in two of the previous four seasons. That maybe was not all his doing yet his presence did wind up being divisive purely for the fact it meant the team seemed to exist as a function to get the best out of him as opposed to working as a unit. Does Ole Gunnar Solskjaer turn his team into one whose main function is to supply Ronaldo, and is that a wise strategy? If Ronaldo starts as a lone striker, does United have the wingers who can deliver a regular supply of crosses that he lives off? In Marcus Rashford and Mason Greenwood, who — when fit — might be first choice, that could be a no, given they are inverted wingers who like to cut inside and shoot. Jadon Sancho, signed this offseason from Borussia Dortmund, could potentially be more valuable due to his ability to stretch defences out wide and send in more dangerous crosses. Solskjaer has said he sees Ronaldo as “more of a centre forward for me at the moment.” “I want him in the box, scoring goals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-all-about-ronaldo-in-the-premier-league/article36393217.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Arun spins a web around Nelson||Off-spinner B. Arun’s eight-wicket haul gave UFCC (T. Nagar) the first innings lead against Nelson in a TNCA first division league match here on Thursday. Defending 252, UFCC bowled out Nelson for 212. Another off-spinner, M.E. Yazh Arun Mozhi, scalped five as Swaraj bundled out IOB for 69 chasing 118. B. Aparajith’s unbeaten 102 powered Jolly Rovers past India Pistons’ total of 201 while Ashwin Venkataraman’s undefeated 120 wasn’t enough as MCC lost the first innings race against Globe Trotters.  The scores: At Wahe Guru ‘A’: UFCC (T. Nagar) 252 & 27/1 in 15 overs drew with Nelson 212 in 58.5 overs (U. Vishal 60, B. Arun 8/40). Points: UFCC 5(11) ; Nelson 1(7).   At SSN: Young Stars 108 & 119/3 in 27 overs (M. Kamalesh 41) drew with MRC ‘A’ 222 in 76.1 overs (R. Sanjay Yadav 62, R. Rohit 4/59, S. Mohan Prasath 4/44). MRC ‘A’ 5(11), Young Stars 1(7).   At SRMC (turf): Swaraj 118 & 175 for six decl. in 53 overs (A. Aarif 60) drew with IOB 69 in 38 overs (M.E. Yazh Arun Mozhi 5/39) & 41/0 in 11 overs. Swaraj 5(7), IOB 1(3).   At IC-Gurunanak: Vijay 334 drew with Grand Slam 281 in 89.4 overs (L. Suryapprakash 84, R. Kavin 53, A. Aswin Crist 4/53). Vijay 5(15), Grand Slam 1(3).   At IITM–Chemplast: India Pistons 201 drew with Jolly Rovers 246/3 decl. in 72.1 overs (B. Sai Sudharsan 46, B. Aparajith 102 n.o., Ankeet Bawne 50 n.o.). Rovers 5(15), Pistons 1(3).   At MAC: Globe Trotters 368/7 decl. drew with MCC 257 in 72.5 overs (Ashwin Venkataraman 120 n.o., Naushad Shafi Shaikh 60, T.D. Lokesh Raj 4/47, Monish Satish 4/66). Trotters 5(7), MCC 1 (7) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arun-spins-a-web-around-nelson/article36393584.ece
10 September 2021||Chennai,||Varun — a game-changer with a bag of tricks||The ball, flicked off the middle finger, holds its line. The batsman, playing for the turn, is soon walking back. Here is a bowler with unique skills. Someone who can make the ball turn either way from a high-arm action. And the deliveries are laced with bounce. The Indian team-management had pencilled in Varun Chakravarthy’s name long before the squad for ICC World Twenty20 was announced on Wednesday. The think-tank comprehended Varun would be the crucial X-factor in the attack. A game-changer with a bag of tricks. Representing India in the Twenty20 World Cup has been a dream that has fired the 30-year-old ‘mystery’ spinner’s career. Back in favour It enabled him overcome fitness concerns and a failed Yo Yo test and turn the tide back in his favour. His is a remarkable story about destiny and life’s second chances. Varun, pursuing a career in architecture and playing cricket for ‘fun’ was languishing in the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association’s fourth division league when a chance opportunity to bowl at the State batsmen in the nets transformed his life. So impressed were the Tamil Nadu batsmen with his different types of deliveries that he soon found himself a team in the TNPL Twenty20 league. The batsmen finding it hard to pick his deliveries, he struck telling blows in the TNPL. Creating a buzz The buzz around the new kid on the block was so much that Varun was picked up at a mind-boggling Rs. 8.4 crore by Punjab ahead of IPL 2019. But then, Varun hurt his shoulder after a lone IPL game and was staring into darkness. Crucially, he held on to his belief. As the Tamil Nadu captain, Dinesh Karthik comprehended his value. Varun underwent sessions under Karthik and Abhishek Nayar to strengthen his mind. In the auction for IPL 2020, Varun was picked up for Rs. 4 crore by the Kolkata Knight Riders, Karthik’s team. Entire repertoire He bowled beautifully for KKR, bringing his entire repertoire into play. He bowled the leg-spinner, the carrom ball, the leg-cutter, the off-spinner, the flipper, the top-spinner and the arm ball. Importantly, he held his nerve in high pressure situations bowling at big names. And he conjured magic deliveries. Rajasthan’s Rahul Tewatia was bowled by a ball that pitched on leg and hit the top of middle stump. On the fitness front, he’s worked hard with both Shankar Basu in Chennai and at the NCA. Picked for India, Varun made the right impression in the away series against the Sri Lankans. Rahul Dravid was watching him from close quarters. Now Varun, destiny’s child, is eyeing World Cup heroics. What a story!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/varun-a-game-changer-with-a-bag-of-tricks/article36393578.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||India joins Hungary at top of the table||Holding her nerve when it mattered, R. Vaishali pulled off a sensational draw against her Belarus rival to complete India’s third win of the day for a share of the lead after six rounds of the FIDE Online Chess Olympiad on Thursday. With three rounds to go, India and Hungary (11 match-points each) led the 10-nation Group B of the top section. India scored over Shenzhen China (5-1), second seed Azerbaijan (4-2) and Belarus (3.5-2.5) while overnight leader Hungary posted narrow 3.5-2.5 victories over Egypt and France but in between, drew 3-3 with Belarus. This drawn encounter helped India catch up with Hungary after the fifth round. These leaders, likely quarterfinalists from this group, clash in the seventh round on Friday.  Fresh from beating Azerbaijan, with the victorious duo of K. Humpy and Nihal Sarin providing the decisive difference, India struggled to beat ninth-placed Belarus. Spearhead Viswanathan Anand shut out 48-year-old Aleksej Aleksandrov in just 23 moves and Bhakti Kulkarni doubled the lead. Tania Sachdev drew but R. Praggnanandhaa suffered his second loss in as many days.  The results: Sixth round: Belarus lost to India 2.5-3.5 (Aleksej Aleksandrov lost to Viswanathan Anand, Alexei Fedorov drew with Vidit Gujrathi, Aliaksandra Tarasenka drew with Tania Sachdev, Kseniya Norman lost to Bhakti Kulkarni, Denis Lazavik bt R. Praggnanandhaa, Kseniya Zeliantsova drew with R. Vaishali); Hungary bt France 3.5-2.5; Azerbaijan bt Moldova 5-1; Shenzhen China lost to Slovenia 2.5-3.5; Sweden bt Egypt 5.5-0.5.   Fifth round: India bt Azerbaijan 4-2 (Anand drew with Teimour Radjabov, Vidit drew with Shakhriyar Mamedyarov, K. Humpy bt Gunay Mammadzada, D. Harika drew with Gulnar Mammadova, Nihal Sarin bt Vugar Asadli, Vaishali drew with Khanim Balajayeva); Belarus drew with Hungary 3-3; Moldova lost to Shenzhen China 0.5-5.5; Slovenia bt Sweden 4-2; Egypt lost to France 1.5-4.5.   Fourth round: Shenzhen China lost to India 1-5 (Zeng Chongsheng lost to P. Harikrishna, Yu Ruiyuan lost to B. Adhiban, Zhao Xue bt Humpy, Xu Tong lost to Bhakti, Xue Haowen lost to Nihal, Li Xinyu lost to Vaishali); Hungary bt Egypt 3.5-2.5; Azerbaijan bt Belarus 3.5-2.5; France bt Slovenia 3.5-2.5; Sweden bt Moldova 4-1.   Standings (after six rounds): 1-2. India, Hungary (11 match-points each), 3. France (8), 4. Azerbaijan (7), 5-6. Sweden, Slovenia (6 each), 7. Moldova (4), 8-9. Shenzhen China, Belarus (4 each), 10. Egypt (1) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-joins-hungary-at-top-of-the-table/article36393317.ece
10 September 2021||New delhi,||Prime Minister felicitates the Paralympic contingent||India’s Paralympians presented Prime Minister Narendra Modi with an autographed stole on Thursday during a breakfast hosted by him to felicitate the contingent at his residence here. The Indian para-athletes returned from Tokyo on the back of a sensational campaign that saw them win an unparalleled 19 medals, including five gold, eight silver and six bronze. Best-ever campaign This was the country’s best-ever Paralympics campaign as it finished 24th in the overall tally. The PM was presented with a white stole signed by all the medal winners, which he was seen wearing around his neck. Modi, who has been the first to congratulate the para-athletes on call after their medal winning feats, was seen talking to shuttlers Suhas Yathiraj, the District Magistrate of Noida, who won a silver, gold medallist Krishna Nagar (badminton) and young Palak Kohli (badminton). Indian shuttlers bagged four medals including two gold, in para badminton, which made its debut in the Paralympics. Shooters Avani Lekhara and Singhraj Adana, who both won two medals each in the Tokyo Games, also chatted with the PM. Lekhara, who was paralysed waist down after being involved in an accident, had scripted history by becoming the first Indian woman to win a Paralympic gold before adding a bronze to her kitty. The 39-year-old Adana, who is afflicted with polio, clinched a silver and a bronze. The PM also interacted with veteran javelin thrower Davendra Jhajharia and high jumper Mariyappan Thangavelu, who won gold medals in 2016 Rio Games. The duo finished on podium again, this time with silver medals. Also present were table tennis player Bhavina Patel, who won a silver, and bronze medallist recurve archer Harvinder Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prime-minister-felicitates-the-paralympic-contingent/article36393322.ece
10 September 2021||New York,||Djokovic’s campaign stays on track||Novak Djokovic moved within two matches of completing the first men’s calendar Grand Slam in 52 years, rallying to defeat Italian Matteo Berrettini in a US Open quarterfinal on Wednesday. Top-ranked Djokovic stretched his Grand Slam win streak to 26 matches by eliminating sixth seed Berrettini 5-7, 6-2, 6-2, 6-3 at Arthur Ashe Stadium in a rematch of July’s Wimbledon final. The World No. 1 booked a semifinal date against Olympic champion Alexander Zverev, who beat Djokovic in the semifinals in Tokyo. The 34-year-old Serbian is also seeking his fourth US Open title and men’s record 21st career Slam trophy, which would lift him one above the mark he shares with Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. German fourth seed Zverev reached his fourth career Slam semifinal eliminating South Africa’s 46th-ranked Lloyd Harris 7-6(6), 6-3, 6-4. Zverev denied Djokovic’s bid for a Golden Slam, but Djokovic leads their all-time rivalry 6-3. Zverev is on a 16-match win streak that includes a title last month at Cincinnati. Djokovic improved to 4-0 in his rivalry with Berrettini, who was chasing his third Slam semifinal after the 2019 US Open and his career-best Wimbledon runner-up effort. Berrettini secured the first break with a forehand cross-court winner to seize a 6-5 lead, then squandered three set-points before Djokovic sent a forehand wide to surrender a tension-packed first set after 77 minutes. After dropping the opening set for a third consecutive match, Djokovic broke for a 3-1 lead in the second when Berrettini sent a backhand long, his power struggling to cope with the all-round finesse of Djokovic’s game. Berrettini netted a backhand to surrender a break and the second set and Djokovic broke again in game two of the third and again in the last to claim the set. A passing forehand winner to break gave Djokovic a 2-0 lead in the fourth set and he held out from there to win in three hours and 27 minutes.  Sakkari in semis Also, Greek 17th seed Maria Sakkari advanced to the women’s semifinals defeating Czech fourth seed Karolina Pliskova 6-4, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovics-campaign-stays-on-track/article36393324.ece
10 September 2021||KOLKATA,||FC Bengaluru United books knockout berth||FC Bengaluru United (FCBU) downed IAF 4-2 in a preliminary leg Group A match at the Kalyani Stadium on Thursday, becoming the first team to make it to the knockout stage of the Durand Cup. Spanish forward Pedro Manzi found the target twice and set up Yumnam Gopi Singh for the other two as FCBU registered its second consecutive win. Captain Vivek Kumar scored both goals for IAF. 21st minute penalty FCBU, which had beaten CRPF by a solitary goal in its opening match, went ahead in the 21st minute when Manzi scored off a penalty. It doubled the lead seven minutes later through Gopi. Three minutes before the break, Vivek pulled a goal back for the Airmen before nodding home the equaliser off a corner in the 52nd minute. Vivek had a few chances to put IAF ahead, but failed to do so. On the other hand, the Manzi-Gopi combination helped FCBU regain the lead in the 72nd minute before the Spaniard made it 4-2 in stoppage time. Red downs Rifles At the Salt Lake Stadium, Army Red defeated Assam Rifles 4-1 to begin its campaign in style in Group D.  The results:   Group A: Indian Air Force 2 (Vivek 42, 52) lost to FC Bengaluru United 4 (Pedro Manzi 21-pen, 90+1, Yumnam Gopi Singh 28, 72).   Group D: Assam Rifles 1 (Samujal Rabha 41) lost to Army 4 (Liton Shil 39, Bikash Thapa 66, Sushil Shah 75-pen, Suresh Meitei 82).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-bengaluru-united-books-knockout-berth/article36393536.ece
10 September 2021||SAN PEDRO SULA (Honduras),||United States drubs Honduras, revives its campaign||Antonee Robinson and Ricardo Pepi scored their first international goals after a halftime change in formation, Brenden Aaronson and Sebastian Lletget added late goals and the United States revived its World Cup qualifying campaign with a 4-1 win over Honduras on Wednesday night. U.S. captain Christian Pulisic joined the lengthy American injured list, limping off in the 60th. Brayan Maya put Honduras ahead in the 27th minute of a one-sided first half as the Catrachos dominated before a horn-blowing full house at Estadio Olimpico Metropolitano. Slick pass Robinson scored in the 48th minute and Pepi, starting in his international debut, in the 75th. Aaronson scored off a slick pass from Pepi in the 86th, and Lletget added his eighth international goal in the third minute of stoppage as Catrachos fans cheers turned to boos and whistles. “We just fought,” Lletget said. “We knew we just had to match their intensity. That was the biggest change in the second half.” Criticised for waiting too long to insert substitutes on Sunday against Canada, U.S. coach Gregg Berhalter injected Robinson, Lletget and Aaronson to start the second half for John Brooks, George Bello and Josh Sargent. Mexico leads the North and Central American and Caribbean with seven points, followed by Panama, Canada and the U.S. with five each. Honduras and El Salvador have two each, and Jamaica none. Decent shape Following draws at El Salvador and at home against Canada, the U.S. is in decent shape after three of the 14 matches. Qualifying resumes in October. Canada beat visiting El Salvador 3-0 on goals by Atiba Hutchison, Jonathan David and Tajon Buchanan. Mexico got a 76th-minute goal from Jesus Corona in a 1-1 draw at Panama, which went ahead on Rolando Blackburn’s 28th-minute goal. Costa Rica was held to a 1-1 draw by visiting Jamaica. Jimmy Marin scored in the third minute for the hosts and Shamar Nicholson tied the score in the 47th.  The results: Canada 3 (Hutchinson 6, David 11, Buchanan 59) bt El Salvador 0; Panama 1 (Blackburn 28) drew with Mexico 1 (Corona 76); Costa Rica 1 (Marin 3) drew with Jamaica 1 (Nicholson 47); Honduras 1 (Moya 27) lost to United States 4 (Antonee Robinson 48, Pepi 75, Aaronson 86, Lletget 90+3) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-states-drubs-honduras-revives-its-campaign/article36393546.ece
10 September 2021||KOCHI,||Riding on Neeraj’s shoulders, it’s time for athletics to take a big leap||Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra’s stunning Olympic gold in Tokyo, and the way it was won, have made many corporate houses run to him to promote their brands. The 23-year-old’s annual brand endorsement fees have now shot up impressively. “Neeraj’s brand endorsement fees have gone up by 10 times. He is now among the top three in the country among active sportspersons,” Divyanshu Singh, Head-Commercial Strategy at JSW Sports which manages the Olympic champion, told The Hindu on Thursday. “He has surpassed many cricketers too.” That should inspire Indian athletics to think big. The Athletics Federation of India was a bold and busy body this year conducting many national championships which brought rich rewards at the Tokyo Olympics and the Nairobi under-20 Worlds (3 medals) but now this is a time to make giant leaps. Here are a few things that could lift the sport: During the Tokyo Olympics, athletics was the most watched sport in the country with hockey at No. 2 but far behind. Push for live coverage So, it is time the AFI pushed the many sports channels for live television coverage of its nationals. The AFI has been livestreaming its championships the last few years but more needs to be done to keep its new followers hooked. The SAI and Sports Ministry have done much good work this year, still life can be made a lot better for athletes. Hard, cracked poorly-maintained tracks, torn pole-vault and high jump beds and lack of safety nets for throws are some of the dangerous conditions athletes have to go through even in some State meets. Now is the time for all, especially Government agencies and corporate houses, to join hands to ensure better days which could see more Neerajs and Shaili Singhs popping up. Even national camp conditions – athletes have often spoken about hard tracks at Patiala and many leading quartermilers are injured – need to be improved. There is also a need to take national championships around the country and synthetic track-relaying work which are progressing slowly in many cities need to be completed soon. With 2022 crowded with Worlds, under-20 Worlds, Commonwealth Games and Asian Games, that could give the AFI more options for conducting competitions and camps. Statistics enrich sport and athletics could offer more on its websites, including progression charts of events, athletes’ background info, top rivalries to watch out for at championships, frequently updated lists of national campers, coaches accompanying athletes at majors and list of athletes who have failed dope tests or caught fudging age. Neeraj’s Olympic gold moment could be to athletics what India’s 1983 World Cup triumph was to cricket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riding-on-neerajs-shoulders-its-time-for-athletics-to-take-a-big-leap/article36393209.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Svayam celebrates with paralympians||The contingent of 54 athletes, which returned with 19 medals including five gold from the Tokyo Paralympics, was felicitated at a dinner hosted by accessibility partner Svayam on Thursday. The athletes were provided specially modified accessible vehicles by Svayam right before their departure for the Games, and for their visit to the Prime Minister’s home on Thursday. “It is possible for every individual to discover the best version of themselves if given the right opportunity. We can do that by making our infrastructure and facilities accessible to everyone. India’s triumph at the Paralympics is a clear example. Accessibility for all is what we strive for at Svayam,” said Sminu Jindal, founder Svayam. Accessibility Deepa Malik, president Paralympic Committee of India (PCI), thanked Svayam for its efforts and stressed the importance of accessibility. “Accessibility is one of the most important features of Para Games. If we are able to make our grounds and stadiums accessible for our para athletes, we will definitely get champions. “Our association with Svayam has been very fruitful. It also reminds us that there is still so much to do in this field,” she said. Gursharan Singh, secretary general PCI, stressed that accessibility was not restricted to persons of disability. “Our athletes will inspire the youth and spread awareness about the need for holistic development of infrastructure for the differently abled. It is for everyone,” said Gursharan. In its comprehensive drive towards accessibility, Svayam has made the PCI website accessible and had a social media campaign to cheer the paralympians right through the Games. Svayam has played a significant role in making the Indira Gandhi International airport in the capital, and many other airports across the country, accessible. It has been a constant drive by Svayam. A lot has been done to encourage and inspire the Indian athletes to win 19 medals in Tokyo, a big leap from four medals in the last edition in Rio in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/svayam-celebrates-paralympians/article36393212.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Royals need more match-winners: Sangakkara||Kumar Sangakkara is looking forward to match-winning efforts from more Rajasthan Royals players in the second phase of the IPL. The Jaipur-based side was in the fifth spot when the league was suspended in May; it will resume its campaign with a match against Punjab Kings at Dubai on September 21. “If one player can win us the odd game here and there, different players become match-winners in different games, and that’s really what you’re looking for in terms of formulating a winning side,” Royals’ director of cricket said on Thursday in Dubai, where he is quarantining after his arrival earlier in the week. “What I want to see from them is their best efforts, competing as hard and for as long as possible to create opportunities and taking games by the scruff of the neck and winning them... that’s the key.” The team will have to play the remainder of the tournament without its England trio of Ben Stokes, Jos Buttler and Jofra Archer, who have had to pull out due to different reasons. “We really miss those guys because they’ve been brilliant due to what they bring to the franchise, not just on the field but also off it,” said the Sri Lankan legend. “With Ben, we understand the situation and realise the importance of this period in his life. We will continue to provide all the support and love he needs. “Archer is brilliant to watch when he’s playing not just for RR. I think world cricket needs him back because he’s been such a great performer and athlete.” Sangakkara was impressed with Royals’ new captain Sanju Samson. “He’s a very bright young man. He’s got a balanced head on his shoulders and I like the way he keeps everything simple, clear and direct. His captaincy was very impressive given that he had to take over at a tough time without a full-strength squad,” said Sangakkara. Looking back at the first phase of the league, he said there were positives and negatives. Immense focus “The guys showed a lot of character, patience, and understanding in a tough period with what was happening in India and around the world due to COVID,” he said. “I was very impressed with all the players and the management because they all had tough jobs, but their focus was immense.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/royals-need-more-match-winners-sangakkara/article36393214.ece
10 September 2021||Paris,||Europe united against biennial WC plans||European Leagues, the body representing professional competitions in Europe, said on Thursday it was against FIFA’s proposal of staging a World Cup every two years. On Wednesday, FIFA president Gianni Infantino said the extensive shake-up would cut out “too many meaningless matches”. European Leagues, whose board of directors include members from La Liga, the Premier League, the Bundesliga, Ligue 1 and Serie A, met on Tuesday. “On this occasion, the Leagues have firmly and unanimously opposed any proposals to organise the FIFA World Cup every two years,” the group said in a statement. “The Leagues will work together with the other stakeholders to prevent football governing bodies to take unilateral decisions that will harm domestic football which is the foundation of our industry and of utmost importance for clubs, players and fans across Europe and the world,” it added. Earlier this week, UEFA president Aleksander Ceferin warned hosting the World Cup every two rather than four years would “dilute” the tournament. Fans join chorus Fans from across the globe were also in favour of keeping the World Cup status quo. “The overwhelming majority of fans oppose a biennial World Cup cycle, and if FIFA had bothered to engage with us on the subject, they would have known this to be the case,” 58 national fan organisations across the sport’s six confederations said in a joint-statement on Tuesday. “Why abandon almost a century’s worth of tradition on a whim and with no evidence that it will improve the global game?” it added. Decision soon Meanwhile, Infantino promised “decisions by the end of the year” on the controversial proposal. The plan is backed by former Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger, who is now FIFA director of development. “We have to have a system which is simple and is clear, which everyone understands, which clearly defines when there are national team games and when there are club games,” Infantino said in an SNTV interview made available to AFP by FIFA. With the existing international match calendar ending in 2024, “we need to take some decisions by the end of this year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/europe-united-against-biennial-world-cup-plans/article36393220.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ankit strives for international excellence||Coaching comes naturally to Ankit Patel, the founder and director of Tennis Vidyalaya in Gurugram. Son of the late Rajesh Patel, a legendary basketball coach who made Chhattisgarh a remarkably strong team, the 34-year-old Ankit is preparing his trainees to excel at the international level. “To become a good player one needs to become a better human being. The right attitude and positive approach are important to succeed. It was my father’s dream that I should have my own academy,” said Ankit, who has a few experts to drive the kids on the right path. Sayantan Dutta doubles up as fitness trainer and sports psychologist, apart from Vishal Kumar who serves as fitness trainer. Manav Bajaj is highly qualified in sports nutrition, sports performance analysis and sport and exercise science. After having trained under highly successful coach Aditya Sachdeva, when he was ranked No.3 junior in the country behind Rupesh Roy and Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan and worked for him at the Team Tennis Centre for more than 11 years, Ankit opened his centre in 2017. Wrist surgery in both his hands had put an end to his playing career. Prominent trainer Sandeepti Rao has been one of his prominent trainees, and he trains a number of bright youngsters like Victor Mohan Ram, Meher Mishra, Raja Sarvagnya Kilaru, Tamanna Tikoria, Param Pratap Singh, Arjun Pandit, Yana Dhamija, among many others. The trainees not only work on tennis and fitness, but have yoga and meditation in a holistic approach towards development. “I believe in quality training, rather than quantity,” said Ankit, who works in two sessions from 6 a.m. every day. Sustaining good work Ankit believes in sustaining the good work, not worrying about the results. “You don’t have to run after success. Do such things that success comes to you automatically. I am confident that my trainees will make a mark at the world level. The journey has just begun,” he said. Ankit’s brother Rohit Patel serves as the coach at the Basketball Stadium in Bhilai, named after their father Rajesh, who passed away while travelling from the Federation Cup basketball in Chittoor to the National junior championship in Ludhiana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankit-strives-for-international-excellence/article36393216.ece
10 September 2021||Madrid,||Real Madrid to make Bernabeu return||More than 18 months later, Real Madrid is returning to Santiago Bernabeu Stadium. Madrid will get to play at its venue when it hosts Celta Vigo in the Spanish league on Sunday, 560 days after it last hosted a match at the stadium. City rival Atletico Madrid, the defending league champion, boosted its squad ahead of its match at promoted Espanyol on Sunday by bringing back Antoine Griezmann on a loan from Barcelona. “I can’t stop smiling,” Griezmann said. “I had been waiting for this moment. I will give it my all in every match to repay the effort the team made for me to be able to return. I wanted to be back no matter what. It’s the best place for me. It’s where I can be happy on and off the pitch.” Barcelona — already without Lionel Messi — brought in striker Luuk de Jong from Sevilla to help make up for Griezmann’s departure. The Catalan club made more salary cap room available by selling youngster Illaix Moriba to Leipzig and sending defender Emerson to Tottenham on a loan. Barcelona won’t play this weekend as its match at Sevilla was postponed to give rest time to players on international duty with South American nations. The game between Villarreal and Alaves also was postponed. Madrid’s match against Celta was moved from Saturday to Sunday for the same reason. Only two games will be played on Saturday: Levante vs. Rayo Vallecano and Athletic Bilbao vs. Mallorca.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-madrid-to-make-bernabeu-return/article36393218.ece
10 September 2021||Sydney,||CA threatens to cancel Afghanistan Test||Cricket Australia (CA) said on Thursday it would have “no alternative” but to cancel the historic Test against Afghanistan unless the Taliban retracts a reported ban on women playing sport. CA said the Test was under threat after the deputy head of the Taliban’s cultural commission, Ahmadullah Wasiq, said women would not play cricket or any other sport under new regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ca-threatens-to-cancel-afghanistan-test/article36393318.ece
10 September 2021||NEW YORK,||Alcott and de Groot chase the Golden Slam||Australia’s Dylan Alcott and Diede de Groot of the Netherlands have a chance at tennis history Novak Djokovic can no longer make. Unlike Djokovic, the wheelchair stars both won gold medals in Tokyo. Having already won the three Majors this year, they arrived at the U.S. Open in position for the Golden Slam. But, both insist they aren’t thinking about it. “If I win everything, amazing. If I don’t, the sun will come up tomorrow. I think my girlfriend will still love me, my family won’t disown me, so I’ll be OK. So I want to do it, but I don’t think about it that much,” said Alcott said. “I think it’s more of a thing that the media and people around me are very busy with,” de Groot said. The Australian is the No. 1 seed in the eight-man wheelchair quad division, while de Groot is on top of the bracket for the women’s singles tournament. Their biggest challenge might be fatigue. The Paralympics just ended over the weekend before the players had to make their way to New York. Steffi Graf in 1988 is the only player to win the four Slams and a gold medal in the same year. A Golden Slam wasn’t even possible for wheelchair players until recently, as Wimbledon didn’t add wheelchair singles until 2016. Alcott is nearing the end of a stellar sporting career. The 30-year-old quadriplegic won a Paralympic gold medal in basketball in 2008 before switching to tennis. The 24-year-old de Groot, whose right leg is shorter than her left, already made wheelchair history in 2019 when she became the first women’s player to hold all four Grand Slam singles titles at the same time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alcott-and-de-groot-chase-the-golden-slam/article36393492.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI:,||Wakeful for Victoria Harbour Handicap||Wakeful, who maintains form, may score an encore in the Victoria Harbour Handicap (1,000m), the main event of the races to be held here on Friday (Sept. 10).  JACK SPARROW HANDICAP (1,000m), 5-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25, 2-00 p.m.: 1. Azeria (4) Koshi Kumar 60, 2. Fantastic Hit (3) Ajeet Kumar 59.5, 3. Pragmatic (10) H.M. Akshay 59.5, 4. Street Cat (9) P. Sai Kumar 59, 5. Vibrant Approach (6) Janardhan Paswan 59, 6. Haran (7) Nikhil Naidu 58.5, 7. Flame Of Diablo (1) R. Manish 58, 8. Benin Bronze (5) S. Sunil 57.5, 9. Driftwood Pacific (2) K. Mukesh Kumar 55 and 10. Jericho (8) Ramandeep Singh 52.  1. AZERIA, 2. STREET CAT, 3. HARAN   HONEST PLEASURE HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Protea (4) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Glorious Legend (9) Nikhil Naidu 58, 3. Bohemian Grandeur (3) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 4. Arapaho (2) P. Sai Kumar 55.5, 5. Break The Silence (10) K. Mukesh Kumar 55.5, 6. Moment Of Life (7) Janardhan Paswan 52, 7. Carnoustie (1) D.S. Deora 51.5, 8. Antigua (5) Ashhad Asbar 51, 9. Jagathi (8) R. Manish 51 and 10. Samdaniya (6) Azfar Syeed 51.  1. PROTEA, 2. BREAK THE SILENCE, 3. GLORIOUS LEGEND   FLASH DANCE HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 3-00: 1. Manzoni (6) P. Vikram 60, 2. Mighty Princess (7) H.M. Akshay 59.5, 3. Chaitanya (1) Ishwar Singh 59, 4. Glorious Victory (3) C. Umesh 58.5, 5. Star Glitter (2) S. Manohar 58.5, 6. Full Bloom (4) Shahar Babu 58, 7. Asian Empress (5) Kuldeep Singh 53 and 8. God’s Wish (8) Manikandan 51  1. MANZONI, 2. GLORIOUS VICTORY, 2. MIGHTY PRINCESS   COONOOR CUP (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-30: 1. Coup De Etait (5) Kiran Naidu 56, 2. Mystical Magician (1) Nikhil Naidu 56, 3. Proposed (6) P. Sai Kumar 56, 4. Regal Kid (9) Azfar Syeed 56, 5. Royal Eminence (8) Kiran Naidu 56, 6. Amarone (7) D.S. Deora 54.5, 7. Amber Lightning (4) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 8. Mujer (3) Zervan 54.5 and 9. Sweet Fragrance (2) Ashhad Asbar 54.5.  1. PROPOSED, 2. MYSTICAL MAGICIAN, 3. AMARONE   VICTORIA HARBOUR HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 60 to 85, 4-00: 1. Fast Car (2) Ajeet Kumar 62, 2. Galvarino (9) A. Imran Khan 61.5, 3. Cuban Pete (8) Zervan 60, 4. Wakeful (1) D.S. Deora 59, 5. Storm Flag (6) Shahar Babu 57.5, 6. Lordship (5) Koshi Kumar 55, 7. Mon General (7) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 8. Magnetism (4) Md. Farhan Alam 53.5, 9. Star Guitar (—) (—) 53 and 10. Celeritas (3) R. Manish 50.  1. WAKEFUL, 2. CUBAN PETE, 3. GALVARINO   THOUGHTS OF YOU HANDICAP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65, 4-30: 1. Shalem (9) Nikhil Naidu 60, 2. Renegade (5) Azfar Syeed 59, 3. Decisive (4) C. Umesh 56.5, 4. Eagle Prince (1) Nakhat Singh 55, 5. Emelda (6) Akshay Kumar 53.5, 6. Trending Princess (2) D. S. Deora 53, 7. Dominant (8) Md. Farhan Alam 50.5, 8. Otus (7) Ajeet Kumar 50.5 and 9. Pacific (3) Manikandan 50.5.  1. EMELDA, 2. SHALEM, 3. EAGLE PRINCE   FLASH DANCE HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 5-00: 1. Song Of Glory (5) R. Rupesh 60, 2. Wonderful Era (3) K. Mukesh Kumar 59, 3. Beauty Of The Turf (2) Farid Ansari 58, 4. Demesthenes (4) P. Sai Kumar 58, 5. Lady Blazer (8) Azfar Syeed 58, 6. Sifan (6) C. Umesh 57, 7. Uncle Sam (7) Ashhad Asbar 55 and 8. Kasi Masi (1) Janardhan Paswan 53.  1. DEMESTHENES, 2. UNCLE SAM, 3. BEAUTY OF THE TURF  Jkt: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; Mini Jkt: 4, 5, 6 & 7; Tr (i): 2, 3 & 4; (ii): 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wakeful-for-victoria-harbour-handicap/article36393579.ece
10 September 2021||CHENNAI:,||Amendment wins feature event||Amendment (Akshay Kumar up) won the first division of Mauna Kea Handicap, the main event of the races held here on Thursday (Sept. 9). The winner is owned by Mr. A.C. Muthiah and trained by B. Suresh.  1. WHAT A WONDER PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): SOUL MATE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Fashion Of Stars (Nakhat Singh) 2, The Intimidator (C. Umesh) 3 and Wisaka (Shahar Babu) 4. Not run: Elegant Touch. 4-1/2, 3/4 and shd. 1m, 15.70s. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: B. Suresh.  2. DAY’S BEST PLATE (1,200m), 3-y-o only (Terms): SKYLIGHT (Kuldeep Singh) 1, Tudor (Akshay Kumar) 2, Wind Symbol (Nikhil Naidu) 3. Joanna (P. Sai Kumar) 4. Not run: Beauregard. 3/4, 3-1/4 and 1-3/4. 1m, 14.31s. Owners: M/s. Manjri Horse Breeders Farm, Mr. Madhavan Srinivasan & Mrs. S. Nirmala. Trainer: Mandanna.  3. MIRACLES OF LIFE HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (no whip): SIRONA (H.M. Akshay) 1, Glorious Sunlight (Inayat) 2, Moonlight Night (M. Bhaskar) 3 and Andromeda Sky (Farid Ansari) 4. Nose, 4-3/4 and 2-3/4. 1m, 14.92s. Owners: Mr. Joydeep Datta Gupta, Mr. Shouryabrata Mondal, Mr. Anand Bose, Mr. Jayanta Mukhopadhyay, M/s. Sigma Scan Systems, Mr. Samira Piperno, Dr. Bhaskar Baberjee, Mr. Biswajit Dutta & Mr. Marthand Singh Mahindra. Trainer: J.E. Mckeown.  4. MAUNA KEA HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,000m), rated 40 to 65: AMENDMENT (Akshay Kumar) 1, Rippling Waters (Nakhat Singh) 2, Angel Heart (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Fun Storm (Farid Ansari) 4. Not run: Shadow Of Love. 2-1/4, 1/2 and 1/2. 59.47s. Owner: Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: B. Suresh.  5. AVALANCHE CUP (1,600m), rated 00 to 25: SEA SCRIPT (Nikhil Naidu) 1, Roses In My Dreams (S. Sunil) 2, Betty Boop (Janardhan Paswan) 3 and Blue Patent (C. Umesh) 4. 4-1/4, 1 and 2-1/2. 1m, 43.46s. Owners: Mr. Saif Hoosein Nensey, Mrs. Nissa Hoosein Nensey, & Mr. Husain Sultan Ali nensey. Trainer: Sebastian.  6. BLING HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 20 to 45: WAYTOGO (C. Umesh) 1, Hallucinate (Zervan) 2, Diamond And Pearls (Nikhil Naidu) 3 and Swiss Agatta (Ashhad Asbar) 4. 1-1/2, shd and 2-3/4. 1m, 41.65s. Owners: M/s. Hyperion Blood Stock rep by Mr. & Mrs. Farouq Rattonsey, Mr. Sameer F. Rattonsey & Mr. Zaheer F. Rottonsey & Mrs. Nissa Hoosein Nensey. Trainer: J.E. Mckeown.  7. MAUNA KEA HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,000m), rated 40 to 65: PIRATE’S LOVE (K. Mukesh Kumar) 1, Katahdin (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Incredible Star (H.M. Akshay) 3 and Charliez Angel (Koshi Kumar) 4. 1, 6-1/4 and 1-1/2. 59.88. Owner: Mr. Tatineni Prasad Rao. Trainer: Vishesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/amendment-wins-feature-event/article36393585.ece
10 September 2021||CASSIS (France),||Ramkumar in quarterfinals||Qualifier Ramkumar Ramanathan beat Frenchman Hugo Grenier 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 to reach the quarterfinals of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here.  Other results: $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Pre-quarterfinals: Dane Sweeny (Aus) bt Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-4, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo, Egypt: Pre-quarterfinals: Santiago De la Fuente (Arg) bt Nitin Kumar Sinha 6-4, 7-6(6) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-in-quarterfinals/article36393538.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||TTFI calls for executive committee meeting||The Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) has called its executive committee meeting on Saturday to discuss star player Manika Batra’s allegations of match-fixing against national coach Soumyadeep Roy. After Manika’s allegation, in response to the TTFI’s showcause notice, that the national coach had asked her to throw a match during the Olympic qualifiers in March, the federation had asked Roy for a written response which he has submitted. “The issue will be discussed in the virtual meeting and I will propose formation of an inquiry panel but the committee will take the final call,” TTFI secretary Arun Banerjee said on Thursday. TTFI president Dushyant Chautala is expected to attend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ttfi-calls-for-executive-committee-meeting/article36393539.ece
10 September 2021||Johannesburg,||India to tour South Africa in December||Cricket South Africa director of cricket Graeme Smith announced on Thursday that South Africa will welcome India during the 2020/2021 season in what he described as “a full tour” which will include three Test matches. Smith was speaking at a televised launch of the forthcoming campaign. Two Tests will be played in Johannesburg, from December 17 to 21 and from January 3 to 7. Centurion will host the second Test from December 26 to 30. They will be part of the World Test championship. India has never won a Test series in South Africa. The Tests will be followed by three ODIs and four T20Is, which will be held at Cape Town and Paarl.  Test schedule  First Test: Dec. 17 to 21 (Johannesburg)  Second Test: Dec. 26 to 30 (Centurion)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-to-tour-south-africa-in-december/article36393319.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Jas do it!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jas-do-it/article36393326.ece
10 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Gharami stars in Warriors’ win||Kanchenjunga Warriors rode on opener Sudip Gharami’s half-century (58, 40b, 5x4, 2x6) to beat Kolkata Heroes by four wickets in the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens on Thursday. Sumanta Gupta (34), Mithilesh Das (23 n.o., 7b, 3x6) and Dipanjan Mukherjee (16, 7b, 2x4, 1x6) also contributed in Warriors’ second win. Earlier, Suvankar Bal (66 n.o.) and captain Ritwik Roy Chowdhury (62) guided Heroes to 174 for four.  The scores: Kolkata Heroes 174/4 in 20 overs (Suvankar Bal 66 n.o., Ritwik Roy Chowdhury 62, Ranjot Singh Khaira 31) lost to Kanchenjunga Warriors 175/6 in 19.2 overs (Sudip Gharami 58, Sumanta Gupta 34) .   On Wednesday: Krishnanagar Challengers 112/8 in 20 overs (Koushik Ghosh 39) lost to Kharagpur Blasters 115/1 in 16.4 overs (Kazi Saifi 57 n.o., Dip Chatterjee 43 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gharami-stars-in-warriors-win/article36393842.ece
10 September 2021||London,||Zimbabwe beats Ireland||Zimbabwe claimed its first One-Day International win in nearly a year with a 38-run victory over Ireland in Belfast on Wednesday. Half-centuries from Craig Ervine and Sikandar Raza saw the tourists post a competitive 266 for seven from their 50 overs before Blessing Muzarabani took four for 29 to strangle Ireland’s run chase. Despite the win, Zimbabwe remains last on the World Cup Super League points table, but moves level on points with the Netherlands and will hope for more in two more ODIs to come in the Northern Irish capital over the next week. Muzarabani, Wellington Masakadza and Sean Williams took seven wickets for 41 runs in the final 10 overs as Ireland threw away a promising position after recovering from a slow start thanks to a 75 by William Porterfield and Harry Tector’s half-century. Raza’s 59 not out off 44 balls proved the match-winning innings after Ireland had put the squeeze on Zimbabwe in the middle overs.   The scores: Zimbabwe 266/7 in 50 overs (Brendan Taylor 49, Craig Ervine 64, Sean Williams 33, Sikandar Raza 59) bt Ireland 228 in 48.4 overs (William Porterfield 75, Paul Stirling 32, Harry Tector 50; Blessing Muzarabani 4/29).   Toss: Ireland; Zimbabwe won by 38 runs to lead three-match series 1-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zimbabwe-beats-ireland/article36393210.ece
10 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||BWF cancels Syed Modi tournament||The Syed Modi International Super 300 tournament, to be held here from October 12 to 17, was on Thursday cancelled by the Badminton World Federation for the second year in a row.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bwf-cancels-syed-modi-tournament/article36393535.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 07:19 IST,||Sudoku — September 10, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-10-2021/article36394198.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Sea and sand, on an expressway||On the cylindrical facade of a former cyclone shelter in Thiruvottiyur, a scene unfolds: smiling fisherfolk, some wielding oars and others holding baskets of their haul, invite you into the frothy ocean. The expansive sea meets the sky dotted with clouds in what reminds one of simpler, happier times. The two-storied building of around 17,000 square feet, located where Ennore Express Road meets Kathivakkam High Road, is now a canvas. The debris that once surrounded this shelter has now disappeared; and so have the empty liquor bottles. Cut to Manali, and atherukoothuartiste gazes into the distance from the compound wall of the bus terminus. These are only a couple of the new-found canvases that North Chennai is now home to. As part of the Greater Chennai Corporation’s Singara Chennai 2.0 initiative that looks at multiple beautification drives across the city, this wall art project bolstered by CSR initiatives is a work-in-progress. The artists? Chennai’s very own, born out of a near-forgotten practice called banner art. Leg up to local talent Helmed by JPK Vijay, this team of artists who have had a difficult couple of years due to the pandemic, has worked on the facades of Chennai Primary School, Manali; Manali bus terminus; Madhavaram roundabout; and the former cyclone shelter/Amma Unavagam, Kathivakkam. The overarching theme of these murals points to Tamil Nadu’s culture. “The first site I got was the Amma Unavagam building and I wanted it to be one-of-a-kind. I wanted to use the art to spread awareness. I took inspiration from the area and depicted the fishing community that forms the heart of Ennore,” says Vijay. He recalls resentment from the local community when they started work. “But as soon as we started painting, they became curious and wanted to help us. It has now become a special place for them to preserve,” he says, adding that their success lies in how the artwork helped bring behavioural changes indirectly. “We are looking for sponsors to fund landscaping and fountains in the entrance to the building, benches for senior citizens and toilets. The wall art project is only one part of the beautification planned for the site,” says R. Jayakumar, Assistant Executive Engineer, Zone 1, Kathivakkam. “We want the public to benefit from this.” On the compound walls of Chennai Primary School, Manali, a group of children in uniform play a heated game ofgilli-danda. “Games likegilliremain forgotten. Children don’t know of them anymore,” says Vijay. In the bus terminus, on the other hand, therukoothu takes centre stage. The fact that therukoothu is not portrayed as often as other traditional artforms likesilambamis what led him to pick the folk form. On another plastered wall, stone sculptures of Mamallapuram seamlessly blend onto the texture of the facade. “When it comes to Madhavaram roundabout which was a small site, we thought of depicting traditional foods,” says Vijay. What makes these murals stand out is their realistic portrayal of people: familiar faces that call for an instant, rather personal connection for a passer-by. This life-like quality is an offshoot of the artists’ years of experience with handpainted boards and cine banners. This expertise with banner art, which uses emulsion paints and acrylics, helps them move from wall to wall swiftly. A public art project usually takes anywhere between two weeks to months to be completed, but some of these walls were done in a day’s time. “Wall art is also eco-friendly. Flex prints for instance, leave a huge carbon footprint. Now, after seeing such works, the public is also slowly moving back to hand painted boards, banners and walls,” adds Vijay. In the noughties most banner artists lost their livelihood, owing to the digital shift and the flex culture. Handpainted boards that ensured employment to many small-scale artists were the norm until then. Vijay’s father JP Krishna, president of Bharatiya Kalakar Sangh, was one among them; a pioneer in cine banner art in the 1990s. “There were lakhs of artists in Chennai who lost work around the time when flex printing started dominating,” says Vijay. Singara Chennai 2.0 is a revival, and a tribute to their talent.  Vijay’s next for the city will be the one-kilometre-long subway near the RBI building and Secretariat. “The walls and the ceiling will be inspired by the wall paintings inside the Brihadeeswara temple’s gopuram , which gave birth to the Tanjore style of paintings,” says Vijay. The biggest advantage of such beautification projects is its scope for employment, especially for those who belong to the widely-hit arts sector, he adds. “Many of the large-scale artworks that we see in Indira Nagar MRTS and Kannagi Nagar are done by artists from across India and abroad. We have the talent, right here in our State, but we don’t utilise them,” he says. A silver lining to these projects is that the Greater Chennai Corporation is also identifying local, upcoming artists from each zone to beautify their own localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sea-and-sand-on-an-expressway/article36393843.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Professor, you looked different on Zoom||How sad is it that my first day of college, in offline mode, is also one of the final days of my college life? That students of this generation have spent more than one-and-a-half years staring at screens from closed spaces. Nevertheless, I consider myself lucky: at least I enjoyed two-and-a-half years of my under-graduation in a real classroom, before COVID wreaked havoc on the world, before we began to live our lives online, from March 2020. I finished my third year at Ethiraj College online, and then joined the University of Madras for a two year post-graduation in November 2020. After 10 months of studying at the University of Madras, last week, I finally walked through its doors. September 1 will be cherished by many students, as ‘the’ day we got to finally step into college after spending an academic year entirely online. I entered my post-graduate classroom with mixed emotions. There were traces of uncertainty but the excitement to meet my friends, whom I had only connected with virtually till now, surpassed the doubt and nervousness. Social distancing was not a problem, since the classroom is huge and only 50% of the class strength is present for offline classes, set to be held on alternate days. The rest have chosen to continue learning online. The room bustled with greetings, gossip and laughter. I walked in seeing a familiar face (despite the mask) and yelled out, “Atul”. I expected Atul Ignatius David’s eyes to light up with equal joy in response, but he seemed confused. It took him a minute to realise that it was me. “You’re tall. I’ve always assumed that you’d be short,” exclaimed Shermin Oviya Jegath, another surprised classmate. I too had assumptions about my classmates, made over a year of corresponding via Zoom and WhatsApp, only to have them shattered the moment we met. Rasmi M., who always looked serious on screen, turned out to be funnier than the rest of us. Despite the awkwardness of having just met, we managed to connect. Informal online meets back in our first year had ensured that we didn’t ‘disconnect’ after class like our modems, making this easier. A sight we never get to see online, that gave me goosebumps, is when our professors walked into the classroom together. Four hours a day of virtual class did not give us much of a chance to engage with professors. The six offline lectures so far have been a completely different experience. We do not have to go running to answer the doorbell, and there are no Internet glitches to worry about. Small joys During virtual classes, we had missed the little connections: passing chits during lectures, or making eye contact with a classmate till they giggle. These memories were finally created on our first day. Until I got home, I did not realise that I hadn’t used my mobile for almost five hours. Locked in our homes, the only entertainment most of us had were binge-able webseries and social media. My eyes would tear up, just to remind me that I have been staring at the screen for hours. Many of my classmates travel for almost an hour to reach college before classes start at 10 a.m., since most of us live in different corners of the city. I was surprised to see many students from other districts and States in class: They somehow managed to arrange university hostels and private hostels within a week’s notice, despite being given the choice to continue online. Given the possibility of a third wave, I am unsure about how long offline lectures will continue. Since we do not know how much time we will get together, we are going all out to create memories as quickly as we can.  SOPs for reopening colleges All colleges should ensure that the classes, chairs and sporting equipment are properly cleaned and sanitised All students, teachers and support staff should compulsorily have taken both doses of vaccination. Certificates should be kept ready for government inspection If any student shows symptoms of COVID-19, people in close contact should undertake RT-PCR test Clean drinking water should be made available for all students||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/professor-you-looked-different-on-zoom/article36393845.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A gift from Gajaraj||There once lived a zamindar, who had an elephant named Gajaraj. A mahout named Shankar had been appointed to look after it. Shankar lived in a village on the banks of a river. He had built a shelter for Gajaraj and, at night, would tie it to a tree with a long rope. During the day, the elephant would foray into the jungle to feed and bathe in the river. Gajaraj often returned to Shankar’s house, where Ramu, the mahout’s son, would play with it. Whenever the zamindar wanted the elephant, Shankar would take it to his mansion. Often Gajaraj was lent out for marriage processions or temple festivals. A howdah would be fitted over its back and it would be led in procession through the streets. People would marvel at it and children would offer it bananas. One day, when the zamindar sent for Shankar and Gajaraj, the elephant had wandered off into the forest. By the time they reached his mansion, it was late. The annoyed zamindar dismissed Shankar and appointed another mahout. Gajaraj on strike Though the new keeper was kind, Gajaraj missed Shankar and Ramu. It refused to move and also would not eat. Despite being coaxed, the elephant sat like a statue and refused to accept any food. The zamindar panicked after a few days passed. He did not want the elephant to die. Convinced that it was pining for Shankar, the zamindar called Shankar back and gifted the elephant to him. When Gajaraj saw Shankar, it rose from his seat. The two of them went back to the village. However, Shankar was a poor man and did not have money to buy the elephant special food or fruits like bananas and coconuts. So he let it roam in the forest for longer spells and find its own food. As days passed, Gajaraj cultivated friendships with other elephants and did not return home for days together. As time passed, Shankar grew old. Ramu had moved to the town and returned to the village only occasionally. Finally, when Gajaraj had not returned to the village for over a week, Shankar dismantled the thatched shelter he had built for the elephant. He thought the elephant had bidden him farewell. A final goodbye Some days later, Gajaraj suddenly appeared at the house. It stood quietly, as if remorseful for its absence. Shankar came out of his house, though he had to use a stick to support himself. He patted Gajaraj and showed it the way to the forest. He was bidding his friend a final goodbye. Gajaraj too knew it was a final visit to the master who had looked after it so well for so many years. It raised in trunk in salute and walked away into the jungle. Shankar watched as the elephant was soon lost to sight. But the next morning, there was a surprise in store for Shankar. He found a pair of tusks attached to a portion of an elephant’s skeleton placed over the thatched roof, which now lay in the clearing across his hut. Gajaraj had returned in the night to leave behind a parting gift for its master.  Gajaraj too knew it was a final visit to the master who had looked after it so well ...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-gift-from-gajaraj/article36394161.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Night-time spectacles||This month you’ll be treated to a series of planet-gazing opportunities, and the September equinox. With the season change, it’s the perfect time for those in the hemisphere to watch the Northern Lights.  Asteroid Pallas: Between September 11 and September 14 will be ideal to see this asteroid belt, which will be close to Neptune in the night sky. Try to spot these two objects in the constellation Aquarius using a telescope.  Neptune at Opposition :The blue giant planet will be closest to Earth and super bright on September 14. It will be brighter than at any other time of the year and visible all night long. This is the best time to view and photograph Neptune. However, due to its distance, it will only appear as a tiny blue dot even if you use a telescope.  Mercury at Greatest Eastern Elongation: The planet Mercury reaches Greatest Eastern Elongation on September 14. This is the best time to view Mercury since it will be at its highest point above the horizon in the evening sky. Look for the planet low in the western sky just after sunset.  Moon and Jupiter and Saturn: On September 16, you can see Saturn near the Moon. Although the Moon will be quite bright, use a powerful telescope to see Saturn’s rings or any of its own moons. A day later, the Moon will be closest to Jupiter. Make sure to spot Jupiter and its Galilean moons using a telescope.  Full Moon: The Moon will be located on the opposite side of the Earth as the Sun and its face will be will be fully illuminated on September 20. Known to early Native American tribes as the Corn Moon or Harvest Moon because corn was harvested around this time, this full moon occurs closest to the September equinox each year.  September Equinox: The September Equinox is on September 22. The Sun will shine directly on the equator and there will be nearly equal amounts of day and night throughout the world. This is also the first day of Fall (Autumnal Equinox) in the Northern Hemisphere and the first day of Spring (Vernal Equinox) in the Southern Hemisphere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/night-time-spectacles/article36394181.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Designing a simple airship||As the Vaihasaya gets close to Venus, the realm of Sukracharya, Meghanth is amazed by its beauty. It looks like a polished crystal ball with a thick atmosphere.  Meghnath: Grandpa, Venus looks similar to Earth in size, but it looks polished. Why??  Mayasura: What happens when you heat something at a high temperature?  Meghnath: It will melt.  Mayasura: Exactly… Venus’s surface temperature is 464°. That is why the it looks polished. Most things on Earth cannot survive on its surface. Much later in the future, in 1966, humans from Russia tried to land on the surface using the Venera 3 space probe. It crash landed. Venera 4,5 and 6 were crushed by the atmospheric pressure after successful entry. Some return of data showed that the atmospheric pressure is around 90 times that of the Earth’s. Venera 7 was designed with material that can withstand high pressure and it landed successfully in 1970. However, it was crushed 23 minutes after successful landing, and showed that the surface temperature was 455° to 475°.  Meghnath: But, Grandpa, guru Sukracharya seems to have a huge city floating here already. Can’t this knowledge be carried to the future? Knowledge transfer  Mayasura: No, it is not possible as most humans with this knowledge were destroyed by various cataclysmic events on Earth. In 1982 and 1985, the Soviet Union launched Vega 1 and 2 respectively, where they deployed a floating helium balloon (Aerostat), which was active for more than 46 and 60 hours.  Meghnath: Grandpa, what are aersotat vehicles and how do they work?  Mayasura: These are aircraft that lift up or defy gravity with the help of density variation. The average density of the craft (airships, hot air balloon and so on) is lower than the density of atmospheric air, which provides buoyancy to float.  Meghnath: What is buoyancy?  Mayasura: When you jump inside water, have you ever felt being pushed up? That is buoyancy, an upward force exerted by a fluid that opposes the weight of the object that tries to immerse.  Meghnath: So, like how we swim in water, airships and hot air balloons swim in air?  Mayasura: Yes. Since the atmospheric density and pressure is too high in Venus, it is easy to build an aerostat. While talking, Mayasura walks towards the cockpit, takes the pilot’s seat, and presses a button. Suddenly, the Vaihasaya is inflated, and now looks like huge bubble. Meghnath is awestruck. Slowly, the Vaihasaya starts to float towards Tripura.  Ravana: I can handle this, Uncle. Looks like Meghnath is going to trouble you with more questions. Ravana and Mayasura shift places, and Mayasura comes to the fuselage  Meghnath: How did this vimana inflate, grandpa?    Mayasura: That’s due to the compressed helium stored in a canister. We released it to make sure the Vaihasaya can float on Venus.  Meghanth: We can also use hydrogen, right?  Mayasura: Yes, but it is highly inflammable. Helium is an inert gas, and hence safe.  Meghnath: I read that all inert or noble gases are non-reactive and non-corrosive, due to a stable atomic structure.  Mayasura: Yes, I released it at the height of 53km.  Meghanth: Anything specific about this altitude?  Mayasura: Yes. At 50-60km, Venus is more Earth-like in pressure and temperature.  Meghnath: Then, it will be easy to colonise. Also, grandpa, can you teach me design a simple airship??  Mayasura: It needs only four parts. First, an Envelope to fill the air. Then the Gondola, a cabin for people or payloads. Next, control surfaces like fins and rudder to control direction. Finally, a small engine (electric, piston and so on) to generate airflow for direction control  Meghnath: It seems simple. Why are people trying to build complicated aerodyne vehicles like aeroplanes and helicopters?  Mayasura: Well, for simple payloads, aerostats are fine. But, for higher payloads, we need to design bigger vehicles. Speed also matters. It is also highly unsafe for defence purpose as well.  Meghanth: This place is full of science, which is new to me, Grandpa. I am so excited about meeting Sukracharya. Vaihasaya slowly lands in Tripura, on top of a beautifully built palace.  ...to be continued   The author is the founder and CEO of Vaayusastra Aerospace, an IIT-Madras incubated ed-tech startup that offers Air Science workshops for children between five and 14 years.   Venera 7 was designed with material that can withstand high pressure and it landed successfully in 1970.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/designing-a-simple-airship/article36394166.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhuvan’s Secret Freaky Friday||Story so far: Bhuvan is bored when lockdown begins. Then he discovers that Mrs. Miranda has been admitted to the hospital.  Friday morning didn’t bring any joy. He fed the chickens some bajra and sat near the front door, drawing a kitten on a piece of paper. He waved to a tall turbaned figure in khaki walking along the street. He knew it was Popo Singh, the neighbourhood policeman, even though he was wearing a mask. A man in a tempo entered the street and delivered a message through a microphone: “Protect yourself from the Corona virus! Cover your nose and mouth with a mask when you leave the house. Wash your hands before you eat. Stay away from people who cough and sneeze.” Aai walked into the house, clutching an enormous shopping bag. “What took you so long?” asked Bhuvan, after she had a wash. “There was a long queue,” replied Aai, emptying the contents of her bag into a corner of the living room. There were onions, potatoes, chillies, tomatoes, brinjals and a small packet of raw peanuts. “Why did you buy raw peanuts? I wanted peanut chikki !” asked Bhuvan. “The store shelves were empty!” said Aai. “Where have all the peanut chikkis disappeared?” “People don’t go to work. No sweet factories are open. How can chikkis appear in shops?” Bhuvan didn’t answer. A charred smell came from the kitchen and he found Baba standing in front of the stove, spluttering over a cloud of black smoke. Ever since the lockdown started, Baba often tried his hand at cooking. Baba grinned, tossing the pan into the sink. “I have made some khichdi and roasted papads .” Nowhere to go Knowing there was no use complaining about the lunch menu, Bhuvan looked out of the window. Stella and Mercy were standing near their doorstep and waving to their parents. “Mrs. Miranda has been admitted to the hospital. There is nobody to feed her kittens. Do kittens eat peanuts, Stella?” “No! They need milk, minced eggs and fish!” she replied. Bhuvan rolled his eyes and went looking for Baba. He found him repairing a radio in the bedroom. “Baba! I am bored. Can I go out for a few minutes?” “No!” he answered, without looking up. “What’s the use of a holiday if we can’t go outside?” asked Bhuvan. “Stella’s parents are not staying at home. Why should we?” “Stella’s mother is a nurse. Her father works for the municipality. They are allowed to step out of their house.” Bhuvan rushed to the kitchen, clanged a ladle against a steel plate, singing, “Go, corona, Go!”  To be continued   “People don’t go to work. No sweet factories are open. How can chikkis appear in shops?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/bhuvans-secret-freaky-friday/article36394134.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||An attack that changed the world||On September 11, 2001, four aeroplanes, hijacked by terrorists, rammed into buildings in the U.S. — one crashed into a field in rural Pennsylvania — and left a trail of death and devastation, whose effects are felt to this day. The date in American terms (month/day) is symbolic; for 911 is the number dialled for emergency. The targets too reflected American prestige and power. The twin World Trade Center Towers constructed in 1973, were a New York landmark. The Pentagon in Arlington is where the country’s military and intelligence wings are headquartered. The attacks were coordinated and planned by terrorists belonging to the Al-Qaeda group then based in Afghanistan and the horrific events claimed over 3000 lives. What happened next? Airspace over the U.S. was immediately blocked, and several hundred flights were diverted to Canada and Mexico. The Department of Homeland Security was constituted, and the ‘Patriot Act’ gave the FBI greater powers in monitoring intelligence. There were also attacks on innocent minorities across the country. A Sikh gas attendant, Balbir Singh Sodhi, was killed in Arizona. The then President, George W. Bush visited an Islamic centre in Washington D.C. in a welcome gesture of assurance. In October 2001, the U.S. led several other nations in an invasion of Afghanistan, targeting the Al-Qaeda, its leader Osama bin Laden, and the Taliban. Several hundred terrorists and sympathisers were detained in the US. In 2011, Osama bin Laden was killed in Pakistan, in a targeted operation led by American Navy Seals. Looking back In the U.S., a competition was held to build a memorial in honour of those who had perished. It was won by Michael Arad of Handel architects whose design was called ‘Reflecting Absence’ and inaugurated in 2011. The 9/11 museum was dedicated in May 2014. One of its first artefacts is the ‘survivors’ staircase’, made of stone that led out from the towers to a street outside. A ‘calley pear’ tree, or the ‘survivor tree’, which was found badly burnt after the attacks also stands in the grounds. Impact The attacks changed how we fly. Today, there are more protocols and safeguards in place. War too became sophisticated, with drones being used in carefully orchestrated attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/an-attack-that-changed-the-world/article36394139.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Mix of old and new||Devdutt Pattanaik introduces the story of Krishna, fondly known as Shyam, to a new generation of readers. Told simply, Shyam: Our Little Krishna offers fascinating bite-sized stories, myths and trivia about the loveable god and features over 40 colourful artworks accompanied by pages dedicated for colouring. When other kids were busy playing hopscotch, seven-year-old Ravi Varma was painting on the walls of his house. Spotting his nephew’s artistic talent, his uncle Rajaraja Varma took him to the court of the Maharaja of Travancore to study and practice art. The rest, they say, is history. This illustrated biography will help young readers discover the life and works of Raja Ravi Varma, the artist who was born into royalty but earned the title of ‘Raja’ for his creativity on canvas. Set in British India of 1857, the book tells the story of 13-year-old Meera, who is on the run, escaping a life and a death she has no say in. On the other hand, Indian soldiers’ are rebelling against their British commanders. As Meera finds her strength and confidence, she must choose between helping the cause of the mutiny for the greater future of the country and her plans for her own secure future. Will she be as strong and fierce as fire as she writes her own destiny?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/mix-of-old-and-new/article36394171.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||City lights||Across  1 The river Thames flows through this city (6) 5 Brussels is considered the capital of this continent (6) 7 The Kremlin is situated in this city (6) 8 Open market in ancient Greek cities (5) 9 Capital city of Emperor Vikramaditya (6) 12 Pochampally: “____ City of India” (4) 14 San Juan is the capital city of ____ Rico (6) 16 Old name of Chennai (6) 17 Darjeeling is known for this beverage (3) 18 “A ___ of Two Cities”, novel by Charles Dickens (4)  Down  1 You will find the Petronas Towers in Kuala _____ (6) 2 Pune - “Queen of the _____” (6) 3 ___ York - “The Big Apple” (3) 4 “The City of Hundred Spires” (6) 6 The Jagannath Temple is in this city (4) 10 Indian city famous for oranges (6) 11 Jamshedpur - “____ City of India” (5) 12 ____ Lake City, capital of Utah (4) 13 Capital of Peru - “The City of Kings” (4) 15 Beirut - “Paris of the Middle ____” (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/city-lights/article36394142.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||What is the meaning of endemic, epidemic and pandemic?  Endemicmeans permanently present in a population or a region. In other words, they are constantly present in a certain locality or area. Endemic can be applied to a species of plant/animal or a disease. An epidemic, on the other hand, is an outbreak that affects several people at the same time and can rapidly spread through communities. The bubonic plague, cholera, and influenza are well-known examples. A pandemic is an extension of an epidemic. In other words, when an epidemic goes out of control, spreads from one locality or community to several others, and across countries and continents, it is referred to as a pandemic. The ongoing COVID-19 is a prime example of a pandemic.   Why doesevery country have a flag?  A flagis a national symbol. It sends out a clear message — that we belong to a certain community, organisation or a country with shared beliefs, goals, vision and rules. Every country has a specific flag for this exact reason. Flags are how a country represents itself to other countries worldwide. They are often also seen as unifying forces. Initially, flags were used to tell people that a particular country was staking claim to a piece of land or ruling over another.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article36394177.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article36394128.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article36394156.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A note of nostalgia||Music lovers were in for a pleasant surprise recently when singer Kavita Krishnamurti rendered Mukesh’s popular number ‘Dost dost na raha’ ( Sangam ) for her YouTube Channel, with Nitin Mukesh. Having her husband, maestro L. Subramaniam, on the violin and piano made the experience special. Kavita, winner of four Filmfare Awards, says this was her tribute to Mukesh, with whom she performed in many stage shows in the 1970s. “During the pandemic, I have been remembering my gurus, and the video is part of the series.” Few know that before becoming a household name with hits like ‘Tumse milkar na jaane kyun’ ( Pyar Jhukta Nahin ) and ‘Hawa hawai’ ( Mr. India ), Kavita used to share the stage with eminent composers and singers such as Hemant Kumar and Manna Dey, and went on to become an important cog in the Laxmikant-Pyarelal team. “I have already recorded ‘O nodi re’ ( Neel Akasher Neechey ) and its Hindi version ‘O beqrar dil ’ ( Kohraa ) as a fond memory of Hemant da , who gave me my first break in films as well as on stage,” says Kavita. “I’ve also rendered ‘Zindagi kaisi hai paheli hai’ ( Anand ) as my tribute to Manna Dey, with whom I performed for 18 years. And soon, I’ll record my favourite numbers of Talat Mahmood, Mohammed Rafi and Lata Mangeshkar, all of whom have left an indelible imprint on my life and singing.” A South Indian with a Bengali aunt, Kavita grew up in Delhi and moved to Mumbai for higher education. Trained in Hindustani classical music, she says her comfort with different languages and idioms made her a favourite with seasoned performers when she was just out of her teenage years. As a student at the Convent of Jesus and Mary in Delhi, Kavita recalls how she would write down the lyrics of Hindi film songs while listening to them on All India Radio. “I used to buy those 4-page chopdis for 20 paise that carried the lyrics of film songs. I still have a collection of them.” Introduction to jingles She remembers when she rendered ‘Jaaiye aap kahan jayenge” ( Mere Sanam ) in a college function at St. Xavier’s in Mumbai, it impressed Hemant Kumar’s daughter Ranu Mukherjee, and she introduced Kavita to her father. With Manna Dey, Kavita recalls that it was ‘Aaja sanam madhur chandni main hum’ ( Chori Chori ) that cut the ice. He also introduced Kavita to jingles, and one of her fondest memories is of singing the Tamil version of an Amul ad rendered in Hindi by Geeta Dutt. She describes Kumar and Dey as father figures who introduced her to the nuances of the stage. “In those days it was simple. There was hardly any naach gana in musical shows, just singing into the mic with a diary in hand. Manna Dey was always with his harmonium. A mimicry artiste would usually introduce us. I would open the show for these veterans and later join them for duets,” she remembers. Interestingly, most of the songs she has chosen for the series don’t have a female voice or version in the original. “At this stage of my career, I am a free bird. I simply wanted to sing songs that I love,” says Kavita. In the case of ‘Kuchh na kaho’ ( 1942: A Love Story ), she says she had recorded a female version but it didn’t make it into the film as Vidhu Vinod Chopra wanted to use only the Kumar Sanu version. “I asked Javed (Akhtar) sahib and he sent me the lyrics for the female version.” However, when it comes to choosing songs of Lata Mangeshkar, she is yet to decide. Her association with the veteran singer goes back a long way, beginning with her time as a dubbing artiste with the Laxmikant-Pyarelal team. A learning experience Starting with Chacha Bhatija (1977), Kavita cut demos of many songs composed by the duo that were eventually sung by Lata Mangeshkar or Asha Bhosle. “It was the usual practice those days. I remember the first song that I dubbed was ‘Batli tod do’, picturised on Hema Malini. These demos were cut for shooting song sequences so that the actors could easily lip sync. Eventually, they were recorded in the voice of a senior artiste. As the demos were recorded with orchestra, it provided the senior artiste an idea of what was expected of them. For me, it was a learning curve, as every time I listened to the final version, I realised what Lataji or Ashaji had added to the song.” Eventually, her voice was retained in the child version of ‘Tumse milkar na jaane kyun’, the immensely popular number from Pyar Jhukta Nahin. “ When I was dubbing for Lataji, lyricist S.H. Bihari and Laxmiji told me that if I could sing like a child, they would try to retain my voice,” she recalls. The real fame, however, came with Mr. India , when her dubbed version of ‘Hawa hawai’ matched Sridevi’s personality so well that it was retained as is. She never looked back after that. With directors like Subhash Ghai, Sanjay Leela Bhansali and Vidhu Vinod Chopra who took an active interest in the music of their films, Kavita was given a variety of songs and was never typecast. And despite her long struggle, she says she has never held a grudge against anyone.  “I used to buy those 4-page chopdis for 20 paise that carried the lyrics of film songs. I still have a collection of them.”   The real fame, however, came with Mr. India , when her dubbed version of ‘Hawa hawai’ matched Sridevi’s personality so well that it was retained as is||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-note-of-nostalgia/article36393458.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The accidental soprano||Aditi Iyer wears the crown of a prodigy with elan. One of the few Indian singers trained in opera, she caught the attention of music lovers with her covers of Whitney Houston, Celine Dion, Mariah Carrey and Miley Cyrus. She followed it up with some original compositions and an EP release at the age of 10. Now 17, Aditi makes no bones about her desire to make it to the Billboard charts one day. Her just-released four-track EP, Dollhouse, focusses on abusive relationships. She explores a gamut of emotions through her lyrics and her synth-bass hop vocals. In a Zoom interview, Aditi talks about her passion and dreams. What led you to choose the topic of abusive relationship for ‘Dollhouse’? Everyone has relationship problems. The person who inspired me to write this song is a teenager, a friend of mine. She is currently in an abusive relationship with a boy, who often leaves her for other girls and keeps coming back to her. I know so many girls like her facing this and it is never really talked about. I wanted to highlight the dark side of the teenage years, which are not as carefree as people think they are. Why did you choose to train in opera considering it is a niche genre in India? I didn’t really have opera on my mind. When I was eight, my parents and I were searching for a voice teacher as we felt I needed some guidance on my vocal technique. We then met Situ Singh Buehler in Delhi who trained me in opera, which has since become a means to my end. Opera training has laid a foundation for my singing, like learning breathing techniques, how to resonate, how to keep a healthy vibrato... these are things you can use everywhere. While I may not be an opera singer, I practise whenever I can because it helps me sing pop and refine my voice. Have you given any opera concerts? Yes, I have. At 15, I performed an opera concert at National Centre for Performing Arts, Mumbai. I sang three songs. I am open to performing more. While opera singing may not be my career, I thoroughly enjoy it. Your advice to aspiring opera singers in India. I would say, go for it, but with caution. It matters how you sing it. You need to have a vocal foundation before you take up opera. There are many conservatories abroad you can learn opera from. India might be a little dry on opportunities, but there are many dedicated opera centres. The career opportunities may not be like that for mainstream pop but there are many places where you can make a living out of it. Who are your opera inspirations? I looked up to Charlotte Church a lot when I was younger. Jackie Evancho is also an inspiration. In India, I know a couple of opera singers who are all good. I like Sparsh Bajpai, who has such a powerful voice and can control her notes so well. I did one opera with her. She may not be famous as the Western counterparts but she is just as good. Is there a Bollywood dream? I used to have the dream but it got crushed pretty quickly. Bollywood has a lot of talented singers, but unfortunately, there is a lot of nepotism. It is really hard for a person like me to get in. Another thing is I don’t sing in Hindi that well. I tried singing in English at talent shows and was unceremoniously rejected. I am going to aim for a more plausible option to record my music. How do you deal with the adulation and the expectation that come from being a prodigy? Prodigies are not given the luxury of enjoying their childhood. They are expected to think and act like adults. I don’t necessarily see that as a bad thing. I know my strengths and it has made me a rounded person. What is particularly pressuring when you are a prodigy is that people define you solely with what you are good at. It is good to have an identity that defines you but apart from being a singer, I would like to be recognised as the person that I am. Where do you draw inspiration for your lyrics? I read a lot. I read about people’s experiences or the experiences of my friends. That motivates me. I do believe words have a limitation, but music doesn’t. When there is a desire to empathise with people I get motivated to write. I am not particularly the most socially savvy person and I do not know what to say in certain situations. But there is a desire to express, so I say that through my music. I feel music can be used to change society and for expressing ideas. What’s on the anvil for the future? I am working on a new piece of music that I will be releasing in a few months. What I’m excited about is the change I can bring to my music; being young I have the freedom to experiment. Apart from music, I am writing every day to hone my skills as a writer and discover myself. Being an artiste, it’s important to reflect and try to get better and evolve. It is my dream to be on the Billboard charts and to show that we are not just Bollywood but have a diverse music scene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-accidental-soprano/article36393460.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||In the gayaki style||On the inaugural day of the annual Veenotsav ‘21, senior veena artiste Mudicondan Ramesh was honoured with the ‘Vainika Mudhra’ title in the presence of vainika Prof. R.S. Jayalakshmi. Veteran violinist A. Kanyakumari presided over the award function, which also featured a concert by Ramesh. His song selection, sense of timing, and the imaginative swarakalpana segments proved his flair for the gayaki style. A highlight of the performance was the challenging Chaturdasa Ragamalika by Muthuswami Dikshitar, ‘Sri Viswanatham’, set in 14 ragas — Sri, Arabhi, Gowri, Nattai, Gowlai, Mohanam, Sama, Lalitha, Bhairavai, Saranga, Sankarabharanam, Kamboji, Devakriya and Bhoopalam. This wonderful Dikshitar composition is divided into two parts, denoting the chaturdasa bhuvanas or 14 worlds, excluding the Earth in the middle (seven lokas above and seven below) that are mentioned in the puranas. Swara patterns The other notable presentation was Kiravani. Ramesh managed to convey the vibrancy of the raga through Tyagaraja’s ‘Kaligiyunte gada’. The exhaustive swara streams in ‘Bhagavatagre’ reaching the finale with shadjam as the landing note showcased the vainika’s understanding of the complexity of swara matrices. In ‘Vinayaka ninnu vina’ (Hamsadhwani; E.V. Ramakrishna Bhagavathar) he came up with swaras in varied nadais. The concert, which began with ‘Viribhoni’ (Ata tala; Bhairavi varnam), also included ‘Ananda natana prakasam’ in Kedaram with a fleeting raga essay, ‘Ardhanareeswaram’, in Kumudakriya (both by Muthuswami Dikshitar) and ‘Bogeendra sayeenam’ in Kuntalavarali by Swati Tirunal. Crisp tani Mannargudi Easwaran on the mridangam and Tiruchi Murali on the ghatam were impressive, especially with their repartees in the swara segments. Their crisp and sharply etched tani avartanam was a treat. The tail-enders included ‘Manadirkugandadhu’ in Sindhubhairavi (Thanjavur Sankara Iyer), ‘Emani teliche’ by Annamacharya in Seshadri (a raga created by A. Kanyakumari) carrying great semblance to Madhuvanti, and a thillana in Manirangu by N. Ramani. The six-day programme (September 5 to 10) was organised by Mudhra in association with Radel Electronics, which has introduced the Sunadavinodini, a portable, electronic veena with built-in amplispeaker. Ramesh presented his concert on this veena. The concert was streamed through Paalamtv.     The Chennai-based author writes on music and culture.       Tyagaraja’s ‘Kaligiyunte gada’. The exhaustive swara streams in ‘Bhagavatagre’ reaching the finale with shadjam as the landing note showcased the vainika’s understanding of the complexity of swara matrices||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/in-the-gayaki-style/article36393462.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The magic of Malhar||The two-day Malhar Utsav organised by the Faculty of Music and Fine Arts, University of Delhi, was a virtual event that opened on a sombre note when Dr. Deepti Bhalla, the Dean and Head of Music Department, dedicated it to the memory of Prof. Debu Chaudhury and Prateek Chaudhury, two important faculty members who died of COVID. Inaugurated by Dr. Vikas Gupta, Registrar, DU, the festival based on monsoon ragas was an opportunity for students to understand the importance of seasonal ragas and the way they are dealt with in different musical traditions. The inaugural day offered a Carnatic vocal recital by Abhiram Unni, streamed live from Kerala, and a sitar recital by Pt. Shubhendra Rao from Delhi. Initiated into music by N. Priyadarshini, trained under Mangar Natesan, and further groomed by Pantula Rama, Unni gave an adequate account of his music. Accompanied on the mridangam by Saroj Pungad and on the violin by Gokul Alankode, Unni opened with the popular Tyagaraja kriti ‘Ramabhirama’ in Dhanyasi and went on to present ‘Satileni Guruguha...’, the Purvikalyani composition by Ponnaiya Pillai set to Misra Chapu tala preceded with a detailed alapana. The composition was adorned with imaginatively strung kalpanaswaras and niraval. Abhiram concluded the recital with a padam by Maharaja Swati Tirunal in Nilambari raga, Rupakam . One only wished his repertoire had something to do with the monsoon since he was performing for the Malhar Utsav. Authentic sketch of raag Pt. Shubhendra Rao, the internationally acclaimed sitarist trained under Pt. Ravi Shankar, compensated for this with a detailed alap-jod-jhala in Miyan Malhar, the principal progeny of Malhar, created by Miyan Tansen. The very first statement of Shubhendra’s alap with the defining combination of rishabh and pancham, oscillating komal gandhar and the meend descending from mandra nishad to pancham and then tenderly caressing both the nishads before reaching the destination of shadja created the authentic sketch of the raag. The rest of the painting was complete with his multi-hued strokes through jod and the tuneful jhala. The vilambit and dhrut compositions followed in the soothing Desh, a favourite raag of the rainy season. To top it, Shubhendra concluded with a melodious Malhar-Mala, a garland of a myriad variety of Malhars comprising Megh-Malhar, Gaud-Malhar, Nat-Malhar and even a glimpse of Surdasi Malhar with hoary compositions from his treasure trove, creating a perfect ambience of the romantic monsoon. The musicality of tabla accompaniment by Pt. Ashish Sengupta enhanced the sweetness of the recital. Guest artistes for the second day were Bismillah Khan awardee vocalist Sameehan Kashalkar and ace tabla player Ustad Rafiuddin Sabri. Sameehan, son and disciple of Pt. Ulhas Kashalkar, streaming live from Pune, opened with Miyan Malhar and did full justice to the raag. The significant feature of his performance was the clarity in the conception of the raag, sung with meticulous care, except for the repetition of the raag, since it was played on sitar the previous day, which probably Sameehan was not aware of. His bright matter-of-fact voice with a clear tone and technical flair proved his training and understanding of rhythm and phrasings. The Bada Khayal ‘Ata dhoom…’, set to slow Ektaal and the Chhota Khayal ‘Ab ghan barse…’ in the medium tempo of Teentaal vouched for his grooming in khayal gayaki, whereas the concluding kajri, ‘Ghir aayi hai kari badariya...’ sung in typical Dadra style, had the Purab Ang Gayaki flavour of his other guru, Vidushi Girija Devi. Akshay Kulkarni on the tabla and Ameya Bichu on the harmonium ably accompanied the brilliant vocalist. The concluding concert of the festival was a tabla solo by Ustad Rafiuddin Sabri, who opened with peshkar and played a variety of qayeda, rela, tukda and laggi-ladi in the slow and medium tempo of Teentaal. Despite his admirable virtuosity, there was understandably no scope of showcasing monsoon raags on the tabla, but one wished that Shambhu Sisodia, who accompanied him on the sarangi, had thought of it and chosen an appropriate raag for his lehera. It was heartening to see the students of Sargam Choir opening the festival with a composition of Subrahmania Bharati in the Carnatic raga, Amritavarshini, composed and conducted by Prashanth G. Pai. Likewise, on day two, the choir opened with Mangal-Dhwani, rendering compositions in a variety of Malhars, conducted by Vineet Goswami. Harmonised ‘auchar’ (introductory alap) of the raag, rendered alternately by the male and female voices, triggered the Megh bandish, ‘Garaj ghata ghan’, in Jhaptaal and the Gaud Malhar bandish, ‘Bijuria chamkan lagi’ in Teentaal. Then came the folkish composition, ‘Barse badariya’, followed by the famous ‘Bol re papihara’ in Miyan Malhar and a Dhrut Ada Chautaal tarana concluding with sargam taans creating a jhala-like effect in Dhrut Teentaal, climaxing with an emphatic tihai. The delightful group performances on both days assured audiences of the promise of Gen Next.  The Delhi-based author writes on classical music.   The festival was an opportunity for students to understand the importance of seasonal ragas and the way they are dealt with in different musical traditions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-magic-of-malhar/article36393488.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering a guru||The students of Mayavaram Sarawathi Ammal, popularly known as Mayavaram Papa, organised some special events along with Bilvamusic Academy and a few other organisations to mark their guru’s birth centenary. Born on September 3, 1921 in Mannargudi near Tiruvarur, Saraswathi Ammal’s family was deeply into music. At age seven, she began learning to play the flute from Peruncheri Muthu. She later trained under Cholavaram Subbaiah Pillai and Tirupambaram Swaminatha Pillai. Saraswathi Ammal also took lessons in vocal music from Mayavaram Venugopala Iyer. By 16, she began performing in public. Training under stalwarts A top-grade vocalist of AIR, she shifted to Chennai in 1942 and lived in Mylapore. Here, she enhanced her musical skills by further training under Patamadai Sundaram, Patamadai Krishnan, Thanjavur Sankara Iyer, and Ramnad Krishnan. Besides performing flute recitals at temples and sabhas, she began accompanying stalwarts. She also played the flute for well-known dancers Padma Subrahmanyam and Vyjayantimala Bali With her love for the veena, Saraswathi Ammal learnt to play the instrument from the legendary Pichumani Iyer and later, M.A. Kalyanakrishna Bhagavatar. Keen to share her vidwat with young enthusiasts, she began teaching vocal music, flute and the veena. She realised she enjoyed teaching more than performing. She also took to composing and has many devotional songs to her credit. Her songs were released in two CDs titled, ‘Deiveega Pamalai’ and ‘Baba Nin Karunai Vendum’. Her many awards include a citation from Ramani’s Academy of Flute, Chennai, and ‘Sangeetha Seva Nirata’ title by Sri Thyagaraja Sangeetha Vidwath Samajam, Mylapore, with which she was associated since its inception. She received the Lifetime Achievement award at Vijay TV’s Women’s Day celebrations in 2011, and was chosen for the Sangeet Natak Academy Tagore Puraskar in 2012. Saraswathi Ammal passed away on August 17, 2013, a few days before her 93rd birthday.  The writer is a disciple of Saraswathi Ammal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/remembering-a-guru/article36393464.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Tardy in preservation||The Memory of the World (MoW) programme is a UNESCO initiative based on the fundamental premise that the world’s documented heritage belongs to all, and should be identified and preserved. Apart from worldwide recognition of literary documents, it’s also important to ensure their preservation and facilitate digital access. However, although the programme was launched in 1992, India has responded to it only recently, and has submitted just nine documents to the MoW. The sheer diversity of these submitted documents is astounding, and after glancing at them, it’s clear that many more need to be included. The nine documents are: Archives of the Dutch East India Company; the Gilgit manuscripts (birch bark documents from the 500 AD, relating to Buddhism, currently in the Shri Pratap Singh Museum); Vimalaprabha (texts on astrology, astronomy, Ayurveda etc, in the Asiatic Society, Kolkata); Maitreyavyakarana (10th-century Buddhist document; in Asiatic Society, Kolkata); the Rigveda and Shaiva Agamas (at the Institut Francais de Pondicherry); Shantinatha Charitra (a Jain text); Tarikh-e-Khandan-e-Timuriyah (illustrated text from Akbar’s reign, at the Khuda Baksh Public library); and a Tamil medical manuscript (at the Institute of Asian Studies). Bengaluru-based Sanskrit scholar and musicologist T.S. Satyavathi says that manuscripts relating to ancient Indian musical traditions are unparalleled. The Natyashastra , of course, is the oldest extant document in the world relating to the arts, and should be submitted, but there are other equally relevant manuscripts for scholars of music. So much to include As a musician herself, Satyavathi feels the 12th-century Sanskrit treatise by King Someshvara III of the Western Chalukya dynasty, variously termed the Manasollasa or Abhilashitartha Chintamani , though not exclusively on the arts, gives wonderful information on the practice of music and its place in society. Spread over 100 chapters, this highly informative document also deals with kingship, governance, cuisine, entertainment, and games. A later text that cannot be ignored for its rich content is the 13th-century Sangitaratnakara by Sharngadeva. The Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) is the nodal centre for the programme. According to Ramesh Gaur, Dean (academics) and HOD, Kala Nidhi, IGNCA, “The nominations to the programme are divided into three categories — International, Regional and National. Till now, India has only submitted documents in the International Register.” (Incidentally, Gaur in his personal capacity is a member of the International Register Committee.) No committee yet India has not yet set up its National Register; apparently the committee, which is a prerequisite, is yet to be formed. Going by the guidelines, its 10 members should include experts in library science, archives, conservation, museology, and heritage. Hopefully, the Ministry of Culture will act on this soon, as the last date for nominations to UNESCO is November 2, and the last date for submission to IGNCA, which will forward it, is September 30. IGNCA will be holding training sessions on how to submit manuscripts. Though the guidelines for submission are fairly transparent, many institutions may need help in preparing the elaborate dossier. Documents can be submitted by libraries, archives, even individuals. The guidelines and nomination forms are available for downloads on the en.unesco.org website.  The Delhi-based   author writes on   Hindustani music.   Manuscripts relating to ancient Indian musical traditions are unparalleled. The Natyashastra , of course, is the oldest extant document in the world relating to the arts, but there are other equally relevant manuscripts for scholars of music T.S. Satyavathi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tardy-in-preservation/article36393469.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Can design thinking work for music?||During my conversations with practitioners and pedagogues of ‘design thinking’, I have had many reactions. Some are outright enthusiasts and see its innate collaborative approach as a sinecure for problems of all kinds. But the sceptics look at the term as yet another new-age invention, something that wily consultants use to fleece unsuspecting corporates or institutions. I find in almost all these conversations parallels to the worlds that creatives occupy — the same proportion of those who absorb any new idea or discovery quickly compared to the larger proportion who view anything new as a fad or something to be discouraged. Feedback techniques What I posit through this essay though is the startling parallels that the performing arts and design thinking have. To start with, design thinking is a way to describe a human-centric approach to solving problems — product decisions, policy-making ideas, even world peace. Using a feedback-oriented approach to mine stakeholders’ opinions at every stage of addressing a problem, design thinking uses an interesting set of concepts. Problem identification is followed by ideation of possible solutions (with a cross-disciplinary and collaborative team), prototyping these and testing them before implementing. Each step involves a series of micro-steps, addressing feedback and talking to differing perspectives, and achieving the almost impossible — finding something that will fit all. Design thinking is now used world over to engineer products, ideas, corporate processes and even leadership styles. Historically, from Beethoven to Gershwin, there are examples of composers who tried ‘prototypes’ on their prospective clientele before taking in feedback and refining the final output. Contrary to what we may believe Beethoven, for instance, was adept in maintaining a balance between what he composed to order versus what he composed purely as artistic expression for his own joy. India’s court composers would do several revisions before a composition became a court staple. In many of these examples, cross-disciplinary opinion-makers played a part — scholars, ministers, courtiers and, of course, consorts and companions. Interacting with today’s younger crop of music directors in the cinema industry, I find design thinking in real time. Multiple rounds of feedback are guaranteed, and any harried music composer will tell you of the number of people who expressed their opinion on even the minutest part of their process. The feedback is kept in an almost reverentially circular loop, with constant revisions and corrections. And yet, as a collective, the creative community often finds itself at odds with the idea of ‘composing to order’. In colloquial parlance, it is equated with ‘commercial’ work as opposed to ‘pure art’. Feedback or criticism is often viewed negatively, especially when it comes from a non-creative entity or person. Are we as a community in danger of forgetting what we are setting out to do — especially in the performing arts, which does seek an audience and a response? Would it be wrong to follow, say, a design thinking template to review our work and follow a cross-disciplinary feedback mechanism to refine it? Won’t it allow us to create works that truly reach whoever we intend it to?     The author is a well-known pianist   and music educator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/can-design-thinking-work-for-music/article36393467.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Rapper SVDP launches a new album||Tamil-Canadian hip-hop artiste Shan Vincent de Paul’s (SVDP) much-anticipated album Made in Jaffna released recently. The 14-track album, produced by Toronto-based artist La+ch, along with guest producers Santhosh Narayanan, MCTR, Yanchan & Kiwi, is centred around the themes of identity, perseverance and reconciliation. One of the core artistes of the artist-centric platform and indie music label Maajja, SVDP showcases his songwriting skills and visual aesthetics in the album. Four singles, ‘Savage’ and ‘Neeye Oli’ featuring Navz-47 and Santhosh Narayanan; ‘Hard Times’ featuring TiKA and ‘Uyire’ featuring Kanchan were released on September 3, while the title track was launched on September 5. While  ‘Savage’ is fierce in tone, the English-Tamil ‘Neeye Oli’ talks of perseverance, and ‘Hard Times’ is a collaboration with Toronto’s R&B singer-songwriter TiKA. SVDP’s long-time collaborator and Mrithangam Raps co-creator Yanchan came on board to create the powerful ballad ‘Uyire’. The title track Made in Jaffna reflects on SVDP’s personal journey and is also the story of a community of people who have been displaced and have now found their voice. The album also includes two previously released tracks, ‘Heaven’, a collaboration with Canadian-Tamil artiste Navz-47 and the emotional, ‘One Hundred Thousand Flowers’ that tackles the issue of Tamil genocide in Sri Lanka. Made in Jaffna is available onall streaming platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/rapper-svdp-launches-a-new-album/article36393455.ece
10 September 2021||September 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Dance beyond boundaries||‘Ananya Samarpana’, an online cross-border dance festival produced by Shrutilaya Dance School, Singapore, in collaboration with Ananya GML Cultural Academy, Bengaluru, and Mudrika Foundation for Indian Performing Arts, Bengaluru, is on until September 12. The month-long event, which began on August 13, has been featuring dance performances by some well-known artistes from India and Singapore. All the events are streamed live on Shaale. Click on http://linktr.ee/Samarpana.fest to watch the performances. For details and updates follow Ananya Samarpana’s YouTube channel and the Facebook pages of Shrutilaya, Samarpana and Mudrika Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/dance-beyond-boundaries/article36393472.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||Court discharges 22-yr-old from riots case||A Delhi court has discharged a 22-year-old man from the charge of causing arson during the north-east Delhi riots, noting that there is no CCTV footage, video clip or eyewitnesses of the incident. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said the ingredients of Section 436 of the Indian Penal Code (mischief by fire or explosive substance), which was added in the chargesheet, are not at all made out in this case. The judge remarked that till date, the investigating agency has not been able to apprehend or arrest any other accused person, “meaning thereby that no progress or further investigation in the case has been made so far”. The investigating agency is still standing on the same square, which it did when the accused Javed was enlarged on bail on July 24 last year, the judge said. Javed was arrested from his house on April 19, 2020, pursuant to receipt of a secret information and his categorical identification by a constable in the case. As per the chargesheet, Javed has been accused of being an “active member of the riotous mob” that took part in rioting, vandalising and arson during the riots. Apart from a beat constable, who has categorically identified him, the call details record (CDR) location of his mobile phone number confirmed his presence at the scene of crime (SOC). The Special Public Prosecutor has argued that further investigation is ongoing and efforts are being made to identify the other rioters in the incident in PS Dayalpur area. The FIR was registered on March 3, 2020, on the basis of complaints made by four individuals who complained of their properties such as house, godown, and shops being looted and vandalised by the mob on February 25, 2020. Discrepancies spotted The judge highlighted the complaint made by one of the four individuals, where he had initially stated that on the night of February 25, 2020, a riotous mob, after breaking into his house, committed robbery of various household articles. However, this complainant later changed his statement and added that after looting his house, they set it on fire. The judge said that from his first statement, the ingredients of Section 436 IPC are not at all made out. “It is a matter of record that he did not say a word about setting his house on fire by the riotous mob in his initial written complaint made to the police, based upon which FIR was registered,” the court noted. “It is only when his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C was recorded by the IO (investigating officer) on March 06, 2020 that ingredients of Section 436 IPC for the first time came into fore and same were accordingly invoked in the chargesheet,” the court said. “I am afraid that the investigating agency cannot cover up the said flaw by way of recording the supplementary statements of complainants, if the ingredient(s) of Section 436 IPC was not there in their initial written complaints made to the police,” the judge said. ‘Use common sense’ “This court is conscious of the fact that cases of communal riots have to be considered with utmost sensitivity, but that does not mean that common sense should be given go by; mind has to be applied even at this stage with regard to the material available on record,” the judge remarked. The other sections invoked in the chargesheet are “exclusively triable” by a Magistrate, the court said. It ordered for the case to be transferred before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (North-East).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-discharges-22-yr-old-from-riots-case/article36393663.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||NC leader Trilochan Wazir found dead in west Delhi||The day his granddaughter was born, former member of the Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Council and National Conference (NC) leader Trilochan Singh Wazir (69) was allegedly murdered at a flat in west Delhi’s Basai Darapur on September 2. A week on, police found his highly decomposed body on Thursday morning. A murder case has been registered at Moti Nagar police station. Wazir, also Chairman of J&K’s Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee and president of the State Transport Union for the last three decades, had come to Delhi on September 2 from his residence in Jammu’s Gandhi Nagar. “His granddaughter was born on September 2 in Canada. He had to take the flight at 2 a.m. on September 3,” said Jameel Chaudhary, an NC member who was associated with Wazir for over 15 years. Suspect on the run Mr. Chaudhary said that in Basai, he was staying with a man identified as Harpreet Singh – now absconding and a prime suspect for the police. “This man introduced himself as a journalist to Mr. Wazir over a year ago. He said he runs a newspaper and convinced Mr. Wazir that he’ll publish stories on him,” said Mr. Chaudhary. Wazir’s long-time associate said Harpreet offered to have dinner and drop him at the airport. “I spoke with Mr. Wazir at 10.30 p.m. on September 2. He told me that he has a flight at 2 a.m. and will leave soon. But he was sounding disoriented,” he said. Mr. Chaudhary said a few hours later, Harpreet video-called Wazir’s son from the airport and said he had dropped him off. “But on Wednesday morning, he told a friend of Mr. Wazir that two people had come from Jammu and shot him. He asked the friend to take his body. He then switched off the phone,” Mr. Chaudhary said. Senior J&K police officers were informed of his death as reported by Harpreet after which they contacted the Delhi police, which started looking for him. During investigation, it was also found that Wazir had not boarded the flight to Canada. Crime Branch probe Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Urvija Goel said that they received a call on Thursday morning regarding a foul smell emanating from a house in Basai Darapur. When police reached the spot and broke open the door, his highly decomposed body was found lying on the floor, Ms. Goel said. “There are two suspects — Harpreet and a Jammu resident named Harmeet Singh, as told by the family. Teams are working to apprehend them,” the DCP said. The case has been transferred to Crime Branch for further investigation. At the spot, Wazir’s brother – retired Senior Superintendent of Police (Jammu) Bhupinder Singh – was present. Other family members were due to arrive from Canada later on Thursday. “This looks like an outcome of political rivalry. We hope police will investigate the case with due diligence,” he said.  He told a friend of Mr. Wazir that two people had come from Jammu and shot him. He asked the friend to take his body. He then switched off the phone Jameel Chaudhary NC member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nc-leader-trilochan-wazir-found-dead-in-west-delhi/article36393666.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU colleges shine in national rankings||Five out of the top 10 colleges under the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranking announced by the Union Education Ministry are Delhi University colleges, with Miranda House topping the list yet again. For Miranda House, this is the fifth consecutive year when it has been ranked first, with the college receiving its first rank position in 2017. This year, Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College for Women secured the second position followed by St. Stephen’s College, Hindu College and Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) securing the eight, ninth and tenth position, across the country.  While LSR maintained its second rank for the second consecutive year, both Hindu College and St. Stephen’s College dropped by a few ranks while SRCC rose from the 12th position in 2020 to among the top 10 colleges this year. In 2020, Hindu College had secured the third position while St. Stephen’s College had secured the fourth position. Sri Venkateswara College, Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, Hans Raj College, Gargi College and Kirori Mal College are the other DU institutions which have secured a position in the top 20 colleges across the country. Both ARSD college and Sri Venkateswara College have improved its rankings this year as opposed to last year’s 13th and 14th position respectively. DU Vice-Chancellor P.C. Joshi congratulated the colleges for making it to the top 10 in the country. Mr. Joshi told The Hindu: “First of all DU has done very well in the NIRF rankings across categories including research. The only setback we had was a poor student-teacher ratio. This is because recruitment had not happened for a very long time. But now we have addressed that issue. The colleges have done exceedingly well. We are very happy with the performance of the university as a whole.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-colleges-shine-in-national-rankings/article36393669.ece
10 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan session begins in the shadow of poll results||The Rajasthan Assembly’s session, which was a continuation of the Budget session adjourned sine die on March 19 this year, started here on Thursday in the shadow of results of the panchayat body elections held in six districts. The Opposition BJP snatched the Jaipur Zila Pramukh’s seat from the ruling Congress despite the latter obtaining a majority in the panchayat samitis. With the rift in the Congress playing out once again, the BJP took exception to the State government not sending the file to the Governor for prorogation of the Budget session. In the first instance in the State’s parliamentary history, the Assembly's session was convened after a gap of more than five months without the previous session being prorogued. Political observers attributed the government’s unusual decision to last year’s incidents, when Governor Kalraj Mishra had repeatedly turned down the State Cabinet’s advice to convene a session in the aftermath of a rebellion staged by the then Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot along with 18 MLAs supporting him. The BJP is set to corner the Congress in the Assembly over the issues such as power crisis because of shortage of coal, farmers’ plight after a weak monsoon and the deteriorating law and order situation across the State. The broad daylight shooting incidents in the State Capital are also likely to be raised in the House. While the Opposition may highlight the discontent among the Congress MLAs over the inordinate delay in the Cabinet expansion and political appointments, the ruling party will take potshots at the renewed factional fight within the BJP amid fresh allegations levelled by senior leader Kailash Meghwal against Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria. The Assembly proceedings were adjourned for the day on Thursday after the House paid obituary references to departed leaders, including former Govenor Kalyan Singh and former Chief Minister Jagannath Pahadia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-session-begins-in-the-shadow-of-poll-results/article36393661.ece
10 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for killing mother||A 34-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly shooting his mother dead in outer Delhi’s Mundka, police said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said Sandeep had allegedly killed his mother on September 1 during a heated exchange with her and had since then been on the run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-killing-mother/article36393667.ece
10 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha varsities failed to improve employability: CAG||Odisha’s premier State-run universities have failed in improving employability of students, whose performance in competitive examinations remained poor, said the Comptroller Auditor General of India (CAG). Report in Assembly The CAG report on Higher Education, which was tabled in the State Assembly on Thursday, took a dim view of students’ employability saying, “the performance of students in competitive examinations remained poor.” “In case Tikal University it was observed that the total number of students enrolled in the university, the percentage of students who qualified in different competitive examinations was 40.19% in 2015-16 and in the remaining years, the same ranged between 2.23% to 27.10%,” the CAG report points out. “In case of North Odisha University, the percentage of students who qualified in the competitive examinations, ranged between 3.50% and 7.72% of the total number of enrolled students, during the year 2014-15 to 2018-19,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-varsities-failed-to-improve-employability-cag/article36393659.ece
10 September 2021||New Delhi,||Petition against govt. funding of fest dismissed||The Delhi High Court on Thursday declined to entertain a petition seeking to declare as illegal the AAP government’s decision of organising Ganesh Chaturthi from State treasury and releasing advertisements. A High Court Bench observed that the petition was filed hurriedly and without doing proper homework. The court said advocate Manohal Lal Sharma, also the petitioner, has not placed on record the advertisement based on which the petition has been filed. Asvocate Sharma said he got to know through media that the Delhi government has been inviting people to join Ganesh puja, on September 10, organised by the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/petition-against-govt-funding-of-fest-dismissed/article36393664.ece
