12 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat Chief Minister resigns||In a sudden but not unexpected move, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani resigned on Saturday after completing five years at the helm, paving the way for a change of guard ahead of the Assembly poll next year. Mr. Rupani, accompanied by Union Ministers Mansukh Mandavia, Parshottam Rupala, Bhupender Yadav and his Cabinet colleagues, met Governor Acharya Devvrat, and submitted his resignation. “I have resigned as Chief Minister of Gujarat,” Mr. Rupani told reporters after meeting the Governor. “I was allowed to serve the State for five years. I have contributed to the development of the State. I will further do whatever is asked by my party.” The party is likely to announce his replacement on Sunday as BJP general secretary B.L. Santosh, office- bearer V. Satish and Union Minister Bhupender Yadav held a series of meetings at the State party headquarters. All MLAs left for Gandhinagar after the sudden resignation. C||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujarat-chief-minister-resigns/article36410316.ece
12 September 2021||Ahmedabad,||Gujarat Chief Minister resigns||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani resigned on Saturday, the sudden announcement coming over a year before the State goes to the polls. It is not clear what prompted the development in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home State, where election to the 182-member Assembly is due in December 2022. Mr. Rupani, 65, the fourth Chief Minister to demit office in BJP-ruled States during the pandemic, began his second stint as Chief Minister in December 2017. BJP’s general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh and Gujarat State unit in-charge Bhupender Yadav met party functionaries soon after Mr. Rupani announced his resignation. Party sources said the issue of Mr. Rupani’s successor would be discussed at the legislature party meeting, likely on Sunday. “I have resigned as Chief Minister,” Mr. Rupani told reporters after meeting Governor Acharya Devvrat, and submitting his resignation along with Cabinet members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujarat-chief-minister-resigns/article36410281.ece
12 September 2021||Kozhikode,||Source of Nipah still elusive||Efforts to trace the source of the Nipah infection that claimed the life of 12-year-old Mohammed Hashim of Chathamangalam in Kozhikode district appear to be inconclusive even a week after his death on September 5. Officials in the Department of Animal Husbandry said on Saturday that the body fluid samples collected from 26 goats on the premises of Hashim’s house had tested negative for the virus. Also, some of the fruit bat carcasses collected from adjoining areas were found to have no presence of Nipah. K.K. Baby, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, told The Hindu that some bird droppings collected from a bat habitat had given negative results. This bat habitat is opposite to a rambutan tree on a property. Samples were collected after the boy’s parents told an expert team that he had eaten rambutan fruit days before his death. Meanwhile, more people on the contact list of Hashim are reporting negative for the virus. The results of 20 were made available on Saturday. Eighteen of them were tested at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, and two at the NIV lab in Pune. Fifteen other samples had given similar results on Friday. So far 108 samples have tested negative for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/source-of-nipah-infection-in-kerala-still-inconclusive/article36410241.ece
12 September 2021||Mumbai,||Man held for brutal rape, murder in western Mumbai||The Mumbai Police on Saturday arrested Mohan Chauhan, a resident of Kurla, for the brutal rape and subsequent death of a 32-year-old mother of two in the early hours of Friday. According to the police, around 3.20 a.m. on Friday a watchman of a cardboard company on Khairani Road in Saki Naka called the police control room, reporting that a woman was being assaulted by a man inside a tempo near the factory. “Personnel from the Saki Naka police station reached the spot within 10 minutes and found the victim. She had serious injuries and was lying in the back of the tempo. They obtained the keys of the tempo and went straight to the Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, where the victim was admitted in an unconscious condition. Treatment was started right away,” Hemant Nagrale, Commissioner of Police, Mumbai, told reporters. However, the victim succumbed to her injuries on Saturday morning. The police were not able to obtain a statement from her. Based on CCTV footage from the scene of the crime and nearby areas, the police identified and arrested Chauhan, 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-held-for-brutal-rape-murder-in-western-mumbai/article36410279.ece
12 September 2021||Washington DC,||Unity the central lesson from 9/11 attacks, says U.S. President||On the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks, U.S. President Joe Biden called for unity in America, saying it was the “central lesson” of September 11. Mr. Biden released a pre-recorded video message on Friday from the White House, paying tribute to the 2,977 people from 90 countries who were killed in New York City, Arlington (Virginia), and Shanksville (Pennsylvania) in the 2001 attacks. He spent the day attending commemorative events at the sites of the attacks. “In the days that followed September 11, 2001, we saw heroism everywhere... We also saw something all too rare — a true sense of national unity,” the President said. “Yet we also witness the darker forces of human nature,” the President said, referring to violence against Muslim Americans. “...fear and anger, resentment and violence against Muslim Americans, true and faithful followers of a peaceful religion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unity-the-central-lesson-from-911-attacks-says-us-president/article36410318.ece
12 September 2021||Mumbai,||Identify unsafe areas in city: Uddhav||Chief Minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thakeray on Saturday met senior officials from the administration and the police department and directed the police to identify areas in the city which were unsafe for women. He also called for increased police patrolling. Mr. Thackeray directed the speeding up of the second phase of Close Circuit Television Cameras (CCTVs) installation in the country’s financial capital. “Nirbhaya squad, with women police officers, should be set up in every police station to patrol their respective areas day and night,” he said, at the meeting attended by Chief Secretary, Additional CS (Home), Director General of Police (DGP), Mumbai Police Commissioner and joint police commissioners. Orders have been issued to locate women living alone on roadsides and shift them to safer places. “Mumbai is known to be one of the safest cities in the country for women. People have trust in police and law. Such incidents however put us on alert mode. It is our responsibility to ensure that justice is delivered to the victim ,” said Mr. Thackeray. Mr. Thackeray told the police to file a charge sheet within a month. It has also been decided to appoint a special public prosecutor before the trial starts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/identify-unsafe-areas-in-city-uddhav/article36410617.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Contentious content’ in textbooks to be reviewed||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has set up a committee to examine “contentious content” in Social Science, languages and Environmental Science State syllabus textbooks from classes I to X. The review committee, headed by vocal supporter of Hindutva ideology and a member of the Kannada Development Authority Rohith Chakrathirtha, has 15 members and will submit the report in a month. This follows a controversy in February this year surrounding portions of the lesson “Birth of new religions” in class VI Social Studies textbook that had drawn the ire of a section of the Brahmin community. However, the review committee has been given a mandate that goes beyond the scope of this lesson. B.C. Nagesh, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, told The Hindu that an official order was issued last week in this regard but the committee was formed earlier when Suresh Kumar headed the department. He said that the committee has been asked to review if there are any “mistakes” in the textbooks. The decision to constitute a committee was taken following a controversy in February this year on a lesson in the class VI textbook which talked about causes that led to the birth of Jainism and Buddhism, and made references to some practices in the later Vedic period. Brahmin Development Board had raised objections to it, arguing that content in this lesson “hurts the sentiments” of the community. Teachers were told not to teach this chapter for the 2020-21 academic year. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Chakrathirtha said that the committee would review “all the deviations and the additions” made by the textbook revision committee that was earlier headed by writer Baraguru Ramachandrappa. “We will examine all the additions and deletions made by the committee and if there are anomalies in the text,” he said. Reacting to this, Mr. Ramachandrappa said that while small errors in textbooks can be rectified, he was opposed to reviewing all content that was changed by the textbook revision committee. He said that he headed 27 subject committees with a total of 172 members and if there are errors in the textbooks, it needs to be corrected by these subject experts. He stated that textbooks should not be influenced by party politics and should be revised keeping in mind the national curriculum framework 2005 and the Constitutional values. Niranjanaradhya V.P., development educationist, said that when the education system was going through a serious crisis, thinking of such issues showed that the government’s priorities were misplaced. “It appears to be a clear agenda of saffronisation in Karnataka so that they can mislead serious issues of the learning crisis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/contentious-content-in-textbooks-to-be-reviewed/article36410319.ece
12 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Karnal stand-off ends as Haryana orders probe||The standoff between farmers and the Haryana government over the August 28 baton charge during a protest at Bastara in Karnal, leading to severe injuries to several individuals, ended on Saturday after the government announced a probe into the incident. The State government also agreed to give a job to the kin of a farmer, who died of injuries after the incident. After several rounds of talks between both sides, it was decided that the baton charge would be investigated by a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. During the probe, Ayush Sinha, the then SDM of Karnal, will remain on leave. Mr. Sinha is at the centre of the controversy for his alleged speech, caught on camera, exhorting policemen before the lathi charge to “smash their [farmers] heads”. Additional Chief Secretary Devender Singh said there was a demand from the farmers’ organisations that the police baton charge should be investigated and the family of deceased farmer, Sushil Kajal, be given proper compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnal-standoff-ends-as-haryana-orders-probe/article36410322.ece
12 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Snag delays AI flight by 12 hours||A technical snag delayed a New Delhi-bound Air India flight by nearly 12 hours at the Vijayawada Airport on Saturday. According to airport officials, the aircraft which arrived around 7 a.m. from Delhi as per schedule was supposed to return about an hour later. An official said that a technical issue was identified by the flight crew when the aircraft was on the runway with over 170 passengers on board. Later, passengers were asked to deboard and the concerned teams took up restoration works. The flight has been rescheduled to 8 p.m. initially and 8.50 p.m again on Saturday. Rescheduled flight About 110 passengers will board the rescheduled flight while others chose other options of cancellation and rescheduling. Air India officials were not available for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/snag-delays-ai-flight-by-12-hours/article36410282.ece
12 September 2021||Washington DC,||Unity the central lesson from 9/11 attacks, says U.S. President||On the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks, U.S. President Joe Biden called for unity in America, saying it was the “central lesson” of September 11. Mr. Biden released a pre-recorded video message on Friday from the White House, paying tribute to the 2,977 people from 90 countries who were killed in New York City, Arlington (Virginia), and Shanksville (Pennsylvania) in the 2001 attacks. He spent the day attending commemorative events at the sites of the attacks. “In the days that followed September 11, 2001, we saw heroism everywhere...We also saw something all too rare — a true sense of national unity,” the President said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unity-the-central-lesson-from-911-attacks-says-us-president/article36410284.ece
12 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Karnal stand-off ends||The stand-off between protesting farmers and the Haryana government over the August 28 baton charge during a protest in Bastara in Karnal ended on Saturday after the government announced a probe into the incident. The State government also agreed to give jobs to the kin of a farmer who died of injuries. After several rounds of talks, it was decided that the baton charge will be investigated by a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. During the probe, IAS officer Ayush Sinha, the then SDM, will remain on leave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnal-stand-off-ends/article36410285.ece
12 September 2021||new delhi,||Wettest Sept. in city in 77 yrs||With 19 days still left in September, Delhi received the highest rainfall for the month in 77 years, according to the IMD. The city received 94.7 mm rain in 24 hours from 8.30 a.m. on Friday to the same time on Saturday. From colonies and underpasses to IGI Airport, heavy downpour inundated the Capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wettest-sept-in-city-in-77-yrs/article36410449.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Fourth CM to resign this year||Vijay Rupani is the fourth head of a BJP-ruled State to go this year. In Uttarakhand, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat was replaced by Tirath Singh Rawat, who was later replaced by Pushkar Dhami. In Karnataka, B.S. Yediyurappa was replaced.page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fourth-cm-to-resign-this-year/article36410286.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||D. Raja’s book released||Friends and admirers of CPI general secretary D. Raja came together for the release of his book D. Raja in the Parliament , a collection of his select speeches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/d-rajas-book-released/article36410448.ece
12 September 2021||Chennai,||CM launches incentive scheme for priests||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has announced a monthly incentive of Rs. 1,000 to priests of  temples where pujas are done only once a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/incentive-of-rs-1000-to-be-paid-to-temple-priests/article36410362.ece
12 September 2021||Mangaluru,||HJV activists storm into Christian prayer hall||A group of HJV members allegedly barged into a Christian prayer hall in Udupi district on Friday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hjv-activists-storm-into-christian-prayer-hall/article36410522.ece
12 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||150 Myanmar nationals cross over to Mizoram||Some 150 people from Myanmar’s Chin State have crossed over to Mizoram in the past few days following airstrikes by the military.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/150-myanmar-nationals-cross-over-to-mizoram/article36410618.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records wettest September in 77 years||With 19 days still left in September, Delhi received the highest rainfall for the month in 77 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). This is also the second highest rainfall for the month of September in 121 years. The city has till now received 380.2 mm rainfall in September this year, and the highest was 417.3 mm in 1944, according to the IMD. Rain hit record levels as the city received 117.9 mm of rainfall from 5.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. on Saturday. More rain is expected on Sunday. This is already — with over a week still left to go — the wettest monsoon season in Delhi in 46 years. The monsoon usually withdraws from Delhi by September 25.  Till 2.30 p.m. on Saturday, the city had received a total of 1,136.6 mm of rainfall this monsoon season.  In 1975, 1,150.6 mm of rainfall was received during the whole monsoon, and the highest rainfall of 1,420.3 mm was received in 1933, according to the IMD. Normally, Delhi records 653.6 mm of rainfall during the monsoon season. Rainy week ahead The IMD has issued an orange alert for the capital for Sunday, when cloudy skies and moderate rainfall are predicted. Light rains and cloudy skies are predicted for the following week, too. The maximum temperature on Saturday was 26.8 degree Celsius, which is seven notches lower than the normal for this time of the year, and the minimum temperature was 24 degree Celsius, which is one degree below the expected level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-records-wettest-september-in-77-years/article36410214.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Afghan soil must not be used for terror’||The international community wants to ensure that Afghanistan can never again become a “safe haven” of terrorism, said Marise Payne, Foreign Minister of Australia. Addressing the media after the inaugural “2+2” Minister-level meeting here on Saturday, India and Australia displayed a common approach to the Afghan crisis, with External Affairs Minister Jaishankar saying the policy is summed up by the Security Council Resolution 2593. “We do share very strong interests in ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for breeding or training of terrorists and that is an abiding concern of the international community,” Ms. Payne said, laying out the convergence of Indian and Australian policies towards the “interim government” that the Taliban have set up in Kabul. “Our approach is very similar. In a way, it is summed up by UN Security Council Resolution 2593, which emphasises most of all, Afghanistan must not allow its soil to be used in any manner by any body for terrorism,” said Mr. Jaishankar, who avoided describing the Taliban regime as a government, instead referring to it as a “dispensation”. The statements by the Ministers indicated the lingering concern about the Taliban’s links with global terrorism that was further amplified as the dialogue was held on the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, which Ms. Payne described as an attack not just on the U.S. but also on the “modern, pluralist, democratic world”. Days after the UNSC resolution, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen said his organisation can raise issues concerning “Kashmir, India or any other country”. The remark indicated a trans-border agenda of the Taliban reminiscent of its previous government that was toppled after the 9/11 attacks. Ms. Payne said the immediate concern of Australia was to ensure that those with visas of other countries wishing to leave Afghanistan should be allowed to do so “safely”. She said Afghanistan faced a humanitarian emergency because of a drought-like situation and displacement of domestic population. “We are very conscious of the impact of violence and breaches of human rights of the Afghanistan community, and again call for the fundamentals of human rights to be observed,” she said, urging the UN Food Programme and other relief organisations to ensure help for the war-affected citizens. Accompanied by Defence Minister Peter Dutton along with his counterpart, Rajnath Singh, Ms. Payne focused on the erosion of women’s rights since the fall of Kabul. “I would also strongly reinforce Australia’s views in relation to the position of women and girls,” she said, calling for safeguarding their rights that were promoted in the past two decades. Mr. Singh and Mr. Dutton highlighted the maritime domain and urged for an “open and inclusive” Indo-Pacific region. “The important partnership between India and Australia is based on the shared vision of the Indo-Pacific region as a free, open, inclusive and prosperous domain,” said Mr. Singh, adding that both sides have agreed to collaborate on logistical support. Mr. Dutton formally announced that Australia will invite India to the “Exercise Talisman Sabre” in 2023 and said Canberra will increase its defence diplomatic representation in New Delhi. Mr. Jaishankar raised the difficulties faced by Indian students who secured admission in Australian universities but are unable to attend on-campus lectures because of COVID-19 related travel restrictions. Ms. Payne responded saying the restrictions would be lifted in phases and she would herself be present at the airport to welcome when the Indian students return to Australia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghan-soil-must-not-be-used-for-terror/article36410194.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||CJI raises concern over backlog of criminal cases in Allahabad HC||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday said the pendency of criminal cases in the Allahabad High Court was “very worrying”. “I do not want to point any fingers or lay any blame regarding the pendency in the Allahabad High Court relating to criminal cases, which is very worrying. I request the Allahabad Bar and Bench to work together and co-operate to resolve this issue,” the Chief Justice said. Chief Justice of India Ramana was speaking at the foundation stone laying ceremony for the National Law University in the Uttar Pradesh, the new multi-level parking and advocates’ chamber complex in the Allahabad High Court, and the unveiling of the portrait of the late Anand Bhushan Saran, veteran advocate and the father of Supreme Court judge Justice Vineet Saran. The CJI expressed his concerns over the case pendency in the presence of President Ram Nath Kovind, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju and Supreme Court and High Court judges and lawyers at the ceremony in Prayagraj. The CJI recalled the 150-year-old history of the Allahabad High Court and its legacy of producing some of the greatest legal luminaries in the country. “This Bar has left an indelible mark in India’s freedom struggle and the drafting of our Constitution. I expect you to carry forward the extraordinary legacy, tradition and culture of this historic Bar. I urge you all, to take a lead in protecting the rights, liberties and freedoms of the citizens,” Chief Justice Ramana said. According to an affidavit filed by the U.P. government in the Supreme Court in August, the Allahabad High Court has 1.83 lakh pending criminal appeals. The High Court has 68 judicial vacancies out of a total sanctioned strength of 160 judges, according to the Department of Justice statistics as on September 1. Increase efficiency President Kovind also highlighted the need to expedite the disposal of pending cases and increasing the efficiency of the subordinate judiciary as the “need of the hour”. The President noted that the judicial process would be strengthened with the arrangement of adequate facilities for the subordinate judiciary, increasing the number of working judges and providing enough resources as per the provisions of the budget. In his speech, the CJI said the country “neglected and failed to focus on providing good infrastructure for courts in India after the British left”. Chief Justice Ramana reiterated the need to form a National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC) to help courts come out of the dilapidated structures and the “severely detrimental” and “unpleasant work environment”. “The NJIC shall be along the lines of different infrastructure development statutory bodies that work towards creating national assets across the country. One of the design principles that the NJIC will follow is socially responsible and inclusive architecture,” Chief Justice Ramana said. In his speech, Mr. Rijiju said the government intends to table a new Bill on mediation. The Law Minister said the government believes in judicial independence and wants to strengthen the judiciary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-raises-concern-over-backlog-of-criminal-cases-in-allahabad-hc/article36410178.ece
12 September 2021||Chandigarh,||Sheltered vultures now at home with nature||In October 2020, eight critically endangered Oriental white-backed vultures were released into the wild for the first time in India from the Jatayu Conservation and Breeding Centre (JCBC) situated at the Bir Shikargah Wildlife Sanctuary in Shivalik ranges of the Himalayan foothills in Haryana’s Pinjore. A year later, they have blended well into the untamed habitat outside the aviary, offering hope to conservationists. But the grave threats to the survival of vultures are far from over. “The Oriental white-backed vultures that were released in the wild are resident birds and not migratory, so they largely stay within a radius of 50-100 km of the breeding centre. All eight vultures were deployed with satellite tracking devices on their back, and orange-coloured wing tags on both wings, so we are able to monitor them. They have been bred in captivity so they will gradually adjust in the wild. They are flying well and have managed to locate water,” Dr. Vibhu Prakash, Deputy Director and Principal Scientist at the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), who heads the JCBC, told The Hindu . Encouraging signs “Also, they have managed to join the wild flock with other vultures such as the Himalayan griffon, which is surely an encouraging sign. They are not taking sustained flights as other wild birds do, but they are gradually increasing their time of flying, which is again good. We need to wait for another one year. If they survive, then it will be an indication that the environment is safe, after which we will release other raptors as well,” he added. As many as 378 vultures of three species are housed at the centre, of which 131 are Oriental white-backed vultures, 195 are Long-billed vultures, and 52 are Slender-billed vultures. The “founder stock” of birds at the centre was collected from various States, including Assam, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, to maintain genetic diversity. In 2016, the centre released two Himalayan Griffon vultures, bred in captivity for 10 years, into the wild. “One of the birds could be monitored for 45 days, and within this period, it started flying strongly and could soar very high with other species of vultures. There was no tracking device on these birds, so they could not be followed beyond 45 days. This gave us confidence to carry out future releases,” said Dr. Prakash. Once very common, vultures are on the verge of extinction in India. Uncontrolled veterinary usage of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID), including Aceclofenac, Ketoprofen and Nimesulide, and the illegal use of the banned drug Diclofenac, are toxic to vultures if they feed on carcasses within 72 hours of the drugs' administration to such livestock. 97% decline The vulture population in India was estimated at 40 million once. Populations of three species of vultures — the Oriental white-backed vulture, the Long-billed vulture and the Slender-billed vulture — have declined by over 97% since the 1990s, and that of the Oriental white-backed vultures by a drastic 99.9%. It has been established that the vulture population was decimated by the veterinary usage of Diclofenac in India. “In 2006, the veterinary use of Diclofenac was banned. Later, in 2015, after the Government of India placed restrictions on the size of Diclofenac vials for human consumption to just 3 ml, the prevalence of Diclofenac in cattle carcasses was reduced to less than 2%, which is safe for vultures. But while the use of Diclofenac has gone down, its unlawful usage is still reported. Moreover, the continued use of vulture toxic drugs could pose a major impediment to the reintroduction programme,” said Dr Prakash. Navjit Singh, secretary of the non-profit Avian Habitat and Wetland Society, said the key reason behind the use of Diclofenac is the fact that it’s a very low-cost drug. “Governments need to ensure that alternative drugs are subsidised to be cheaper than Diclofenac,” Navjit Singh said. The VCBC was established in 2001 to investigate the devastating declines in India’s Gyps species of vultures. It’s a collaborative initiative between the BNHS and the Haryana Forest and Wildlife Department, to save the three resident Gyps species of vultures in the State from looming extinction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sheltered-for-a-year-vultures-now-at-home-with-nature/article36410209.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rupani’s exit underlines high command control in BJP||The BJP on Saturday declared the removal of Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, making him the fourth head of a BJP-ruled State to lose his job this year. The year began with Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat being replaced by Tirath Singh Rawat, who was himself replaced by Pushkar Dhami in four months. After the Assembly elections in Assam, the BJP picked Himanta Biswa Sarma for Chief Minister over incumbent Sarbananda Sonowal. In Karnataka, B.S. Yediyurappa was replaced by Basavaraj Bommai. There is no telling whether this will be the last of such replacements for the year. What it does is raise questions on the prolific nature of the change and the message being sent out by the BJP high command by such dismissals of Chief Ministers who had been ushered in with much pomp and style. While each State has its own story of local politics which become immediate reasons for the removal, there are also meta narratives to this trend. The one that springs first to the mind is the fact that none of these Chief Ministers who were replaced departed with any drama (except a bit by B.S. Yediyurappa, but in the end, he too went quietly). This points to the fact that the BJP is now an incontrovertibly high command-run party, where the national leadership can take on and does take on regional satraps. It also points to the fact, however, that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi remains popular and has managed big majorities for himself in the national elections, this has not translated into the same for the party when it comes to Assembly polls, especially since 2018. The party managed to do well in Karnataka in May 2018, but not quite enough to form the government without a massive poaching operation on Opposition MLAs; it then lost the three polls in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Chhattisgarh, followed by Jharkhand in 2019, and only managed to form the government in Haryana in a coalition with the Dushyant Chautala led Jannayak Janata Party (JJP). In Maharashtra, the alliance between the BJP and Shiv Sena got enough seats to form the government but fell through on account of the party’s ally walking out of the partnership. In Bihar, the BJP did well, but is in a coalition. Only Assam is a holdout in a series of losses in State Assembly polls. Face value The changes effected by the BJP at chief ministerial levels in certain States are a reflection of the party leadership’s assessment of the political ground realities, that faces at the State level need to be accountable for polls, and that the party cannot repeatedly deploy its strongest face, that of Mr. Modi, in all elections. Also, the BJP’s image as the party of governance, which it has been assiduously cultivating for years, is under severe threat following the second wave of COVID-19. All campaigns are stories, with a narrative, a hero and a challenge to be overcome, but Assembly polls are about State level leaders and their stories. Within the high-command-heavy structure that the BJP has become, this reality is gaining ground albeit in its own way. The change is still being effected from the top, but with the hope that it changes the recent trend of Assembly election losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rupanis-exit-underlines-high-command-control-in-bjp/article36410180.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A socialist at the centre||With just two weeks to go for the German federal elections, the centre-left Social Democratic Party (SPD) has surged ahead of the two leading contenders — the centre-right Union parties consisting of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and the Christian Socialist Union (CSU), and the centre-left Greens. When the SPD announced last year that Olaf Scholz would be its Chancellor candidate, its ratings were far behind that of the Greens and the CDU-CSU. But in a poll last week, the SPD led at 25%, ahead of the CDU-CSU at 19% and the Greens at 17%. Most analysts credit the SPD’s late upswing to two factors — Mr. Scholz’s popularity, and a clever messaging strategy. Mr. Scholz, a labour lawyer by training and the Vice Chancellor and Finance Minister in the outgoing CDU-CSU-SPD coalition government under Angela Merkel, is a seasoned politician who is perhaps the most experienced of the three candidates in the Chancellorship race. The Green Party’s Annalena Baerbock doesn’t have government experience while the CDU-CSU’s Armin Laschet is a regional politician who is only now making a switch to national politics. Mr. Scholz has been the most popular candidate all along, leading Mr. Laschet and Ms. Baerbock by a substantial margin even as his own party lagged behind in opinion polls. Mr. Scholz is helped by the fact that although the SPD is centre-left, he is perceived to be from the more moderate — that is, the rightwing — faction of the SPD, making him the quintessential centrist. Just as he has made himself acceptable to rival factions of his own party, the SPD is banking on his ability to gather divergent sections of the German electorate behind him. As Finance Minister, Mr. Scholz did keep to the rightwing script of fiscal prudence. But when pandemic struck, he did not hesitate to open the purse strings, taking on additional debt of €400 billion to provide a generous rescue package that kept small and medium enterprises afloat and avoided big lay-offs. With an established track record of being business-friendly, Mr. Scholz has smartly built his campaign around social justice. His campaign slogan is ‘respect’ — especially for those whose job profile affords very little by way of social mobility. A self-proclaimed fan of Michael Sandel’s The Tyranny of Merit , Mr. Scholz has said many times that the reason nations go for choices like Donald Trump and Brexit is because the working classes feel they have no stake in the warped world of privilege propped up by a liberal ‘meritocratic’ society. He believes that rather than so-called merit, it is respect — a currency of value where a delivery executive and a CEO are entitled to the same amount — that should be society’s guiding principle. Incremental steps He has followed up this messaging with promises to raise the minimum wage, provide more social housing, and not give tax cuts to the wealthy. On climate change, unlike the Greens, who would like drastic measures, Mr. Scholz prefers incremental steps toward a carbon-neutral economy. Most significantly, Mr. Scholz has tied up all these messages in a Merkel-shaped bundle, presenting himself as the one most likely to ensure continuity with the Merkel years. He even posed for magazine photographs making the rhombus symbol, a trademark Merkel gesture. It is clear that many CDU-CSU voters are unimpressed with Mr. Laschet. If a good percentage of them switch to Mr. Scholz because they believe he will stay true to their favourite leader’s mantra — incremental change built on a base of stability — that could be enough to ensure an SPD victory. However, with none of the three parties anywhere close to the halfway mark, the SPD, even if it wins the most seats, will have to cobble together a coalition. For Mr. Scholz, this has been the sole vulnerability where the CDU-CSU has been able to score some points. It has warned voters that Mr. Scholz may form a government with the hard-left Die Linke. In most democracies, it is common to hear talk of anti-incumbency around poll time. In Germany, however, the ruling party finds itself in a bizarre situation where it could lose polls because the rival party has produced a convincing clone of the incumbent who, for the first time in the history of post-war Germany, is not standing for election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-socialist-at-the-centre/article36410217.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘Bahubali’ politician||In the long list of criminally-tainted politicians in Uttar Pradesh, Mukhtar Ansari’s name is perhaps the most polarising. His intimidating physical persona — broad shouldered, towering way over six-feet and a thick twirled-up moustache — is an unmistakable part of his public image and notoriety. A gangster and a dreaded mafia don for the Uttar Pradesh government and his detractors, Mr. Ansari is a messiah against feudal and communal forces for his supporters in the backward parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh. Within this binary, lies the timeline of the life and politics of Mr. Ansari. A five-time MLA from Mau, a small district known for its textile and weavers, Mr. Ansari was born in the neighbouring district of Ghazipur in 1963. His brother Afzal, currently an MP from BSP, was previously elected MLA on a CPI ticket. Together, the brothers, though having influence in a limited area of eastern Uttar Pradesh, have often served as the mascots for criminal politics in the State. Mr. Ansari is currently lodged in Banda jail. This election season, politics came a full circle for Mr. Ansari and his family. On Friday, BSP chief Mayawati said her party would keep away from candidates who are dubbed ‘mafia or Bahubali’ in the 2022 poll. She specifically named Mr. Ansari, who won as a BSP candidate in 2017, and said he would not be fielded in the next election. It was little more than four years ago, a month before voting for the 2017 election, that Ms. Mayawati, desperately banking on a Muslim-Dalit combination, welcomed Mr. Ansari, his son Abbas, his brothers Afzal and Sibgatullah into the BSP after an image-conscious Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party snubbed them. Ms. Mayawati had then defended the criminal charges against Mr. Ansari, suggesting that some of the cases were not genuine. Interestingly, Ms. Mayawati had in 2010 expelled Mr. Ansari from the BSP for his alleged criminal activities. Her choice in 2017 was backed by the understanding that she could reap the benefits of the clout of the Ansaris in Ghazipur, Mau, Ballia, Azamgarh and Varanasi districts, especially among the Muslims and some backward caste communities opposed to dominant castes. If Mr. Akhilesh went on a collision course with his uncle Shivpal Yadav in 2017 over the latter’s role in the induction of the Ansaris into the SP, just recently, he welcomed Mr. Ansari’s brother Sibgatullah, a two-time former MLA, into the the party. Under the radar Ever since the Yogi Adityanath government came to power in 2017, the Ansaris have been under the radar, facing police action. Several persons considered close to Mr. Ansari, who was designated a “gangster” and head of a gang coded as IS191, were shot dead. The MLA’s family repeatedly alleged that the government was targeting them to entangle them in criminal cases and to divert public attention from its failures. Mr. Ansari had 52 FIRs lodged against him, of which 16 are sub-judice, say police. These include cases of attempt to murder and murder, as per his last election affidavit. On his official bio in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly site, Mr. Ansari states “protection of Dalits, poor and the weak, and maintaining communal unity and brotherhood” are among his special interests. His political career has been eventful. Mr. Ansari’s first election victory came in 1996 on a BSP ticket. In 2002 and 2007, he secured the Mau seat as an independent before winning in 2012 under the Quami Ekta Dal (QED) party, which he formed with his brothers after his expulsion from the BSP in 2010. In 2017, he won on a BSP ticket, but his son Abbas lost. In 2009, he unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha election in Varanasi against BJP veteran Murli Manohar Joshi. In the 2012 Assembly election, the QED secured two seats. In 2014, he announced that he would contest against Narendra Modi from Varanasi but eventually backed out to prevent a division of “secular votes”. His brother Afzal Ansari, a former MP, defeated Manoj Sinha in 2019, who was a Minister in the Narendra Modi government and till the last hour touted to be the CM of Uttar Pradesh in 2017. It would be clear in the coming months what role the Ansaris will play in the 2022 Assembly election. But Mr. Ansari is certain to be among the talking points in eastern Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-bahubali-politician/article36410221.ece
12 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Indian values offer solution for global terror, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday described the September 11, 2001 terror attacks in the U.S. as an assault on humanity. He asserted that a permanent solution to such tragedies can be found in the human values of India as Swami Vivekananda had introduced to the world during his address at the Parliament of Religions in Chicago on the same day in 1893. “Today is September 11, that is 9/11, a date in the history of the world that is also known for attacks on humanity. But this same date also taught a lot to the whole world,” Mr. Modi said after inaugurating via videoconference the Sardardham Bhavan in Ahmedabad to provide residential and other facilities to students and job aspirants. Mr. Modi said that on September 11, 1893, Swami Vivekananda stood on the global stage and introduced to the world India’s human values and that provides the solution to the threat of terrorism. “Today, the world is realising that the lasting solution to tragedies like the two-decades-old 9/11 will be through these values of humanity. Also, if we need to remember lessons learnt from these terror attacks, then we also need to keep making efforts for human values with full faith.” The Prime Minister also announced a chair for Tamil studies dedicated to Tamil poet Subramania Bharati on his death anniversary. The chair will be set up in the Faculty of Arts at the Banaras Hindu University. “Today is also the 100th death anniversary of great scholar, philosopher and freedom fighter Subramania Bharati. The vision of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ that Sardar Patel Saheb carried, the same philosophy has been shining with full divinity in the Tamil writings of Mahakavi Bharati,” he said. “Subramania Bharati also put a special emphasis on the country’s unity, and his ideals are an integral part of Indian philosophy,” Mr. Modi said, adding that the new generation should learn about the ideals and patriotism that Bharati advocated in his life and through his literary works. Mr. Modi mentioned about the Statue of Unity and said the entire country contributed in the efforts to pay tribute to Sardar Patel, who played a crucial role in uniting the country after Independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-values-offer-solution-for-global-terror-says-pm/article36410196.ece
12 September 2021||Kolkata,||Collection of rare paintings, dyes, fabrics and type specimens to go public||In the 1840s, when British botanist William Griffith came across the rare holoparasitic flowering plant Sapria himalayana in Arunachal Pradesh, there were not enough ways to document it. A botanical portrait of the root parasite plant with bright red flowers and sulphur yellow dots was made as early as in 1842 hundreds of miles away, near Kolkata, by a painter named Lutchman Singh. Botanical painting was crucial to the discovery of numerous other such plants, including the Eulophia nuda , an orchid painted by G.C. Dass in May 1862 at the same historic location, the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden. Thousands of such botanical paintings, unique and almost two centuries old, are rare and valuable not only because of the artistic talent of their Indian painters but also because they highlight the country’s plant diversity. The Central National Herbarium of the Kolkata-based Botanical Survey of India (BSI) has the biggest collection of 3,280 large botanical paintings by about 20 painters, whose names appear on the paintings but not much else is known of them. Made prior to these works by Lutchman Singh, Gopal Dass and others were the 2,532 Roxburgh drawings, which don’t name their painters. The paper for the Roxburgh drawings was imported from London, and painters were paid Rs. 3 for each work. Most of the Roxburgh artists are believed to be painters of miniatures from the Mughal courts. Father of Indian botany Scottish botanist and physician, William Roxburgh (1751-1815), is also known as the father of the Indian botany for his contribution to plant taxonomy in India. Earlier this month, the Botanical Survey of India digitised the entire collection of Roxburgh drawings held by it. They will be available at https://archive.bsi.gov.in . A.A. Mao, Director, Botanical Survey of India, said that the only other place where the Roxburgh paintings can be viewed are the Kew Museum in London. “The BSI, however, has the largest collection of Indian Botanical paintings, about 6,000 in number, which has been brought into the public domain through archiving and digitisation,” he added. Apart from botanical paintings, the digital archive also displays rare natural dyes, fabrics and type specimens (the first collection that’s used for describing a plant). Each one of these rare holdings has its own story. Thomas Wardle, a Scottish businessman, whose business in silk dyes wasn’t doing well, visited the industrial section of the Indian Museum and, in one year, came up with about 3,500 samples of dye patterns extracted from 64 Indian plants. The 15 volumes of Wardle’s Specimen of Fabrics Dyed with Indian Dyes , published in 1886 and preserved with the BSI, has also been digitised. Manas Bhaumik, head of Indian Museum’s Industrial Section, which has been a part of the BSI since 1911, said that the dyes were made with a combination of natural extracts from different plants by mixing them in a variety of combinations. Among them are plants such as the Rubia cordifolia (which has the common name of Indian madder) with roots that give a bright red colour, and the Bixa orellana , called the lipstick plant for the beautiful colour it yields. Seeds, roots, leaves and extracts of several plants that were used for making dyes are still preserved at the Industrial Section of the Indian Museum. Along with the natural dyes, there are 18 volumes of textile designs containing about 1,700 samples, starting with turbans and “garment pieces” for men and women, including the sari, dhoti and lungi , which is available with the BSI. Silk, cotton, muslin and wool fabrics have been captioned as the Textiles Manufactures and Costumes of the People of India , compiled by John Forbes Watson in 1866 and 1874. The different categories of commercially important plants in the collection include gums, resins, natural dyes, fibre, cereals, pulses, and medicinal and timber yielding plants. ‘Biggest exercise’ “In the post COVID-19 pandemic scenario, this online database will be of immense help to the scientific fraternity working in plant taxonomy and other applied fields,” said S.S. Dash, Scientist and in-charge of the BSI’s Technical Section. Scientists of the BSI said that process of making the rare holdings available to the public through digitisation took almost a decade. “This is undoubtedly the biggest ever exercise of bringing out the country’s rare botanical documents and holdings, and putting them in the public domain,” Dr. Mao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/collection-of-rare-paintings-dyes-fabrics-and-type-specimens-to-go-public/article36410207.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||Water wasters not penalised, says RWA of Delhi colony||The Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) of West End Colony has been trying to shed the image of a colony that wastes water by sending photos of residents wasting water to authorities. But the government is not issuing challans to violators, according to the RWA.  The Hindu had reported last week that many people living in affluent areas, where water is available 24x7, are using up to 10 times more water than the average daily water used by a person in the city, according to the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) data. For instance, in West End Colony in Vasant Kunj, which has 24x7 water supply for more than three years as per the DJB, the consumption is as high as 2,219 LPCD (litres per capita per day) to 2,721 LPCD in some cases. It is about 10 times the average water used daily by a person in the rest of the city — about 240 LPCD, a figure that is even lower in some poorer neighbourhoods, say officials. Pointless exercise “We have sent dozens of photos of people, washing their cars or roads outside their houses, to the authorities, but they have not issued any challans. There is no point in sending it to them, they never take any action,” said Brinda Dubey, president of the RWA. “Now we have stopped sending photos to them, instead we tell the residents to control it,” Ms. Dubey said, showing photos sent to a private company that works for the DJB in the area. The DJB not issuing challans is not just limited to this particular colony. An order issued by the DJB headquarters to lower-rank officials across the city on July 15, 2020, said that no challans were issued in the whole city during 12 months in 2019-2020 for “misuse/wastage of potable water due to overflowing of tanks, misuse in car washing or gardening etc.”. The order further directed officials to carry out inspections during the time in which water is supplied to find out misuse of potable water, which is an offence under the Delhi Water Board Act, 1998. Even after this order, challans have not been issued in West End Colony, according to officials. When contacted, DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said that challans must have been issued to West End Colony after the order on July 15, 2020, and promised to give data on that. But he did not respond to further calls and messages. About two weeks ago, Mr. Chadha had met with residents of West End Colony and others in the area over the issue of wastage of water. “Most of us do not waste water, but a few houses do. Also, the DJB is saying that our per person usage is high. This is also because every house has multiple house helps and drivers, who use water, and the DJB is not taking them into account,” Ms. Dubey said. Some residents have responded to the RWA that they are using more water due to construction, but according to DJB officials, residents are not supposed to use potable water for construction. In another area in Vasant Kunj, Shanti Niketan, the consumption is as high as 1,600-2,041 LPCD in some cases — about 8.5 times the average usage. Many parts of Delhi face water shortage during summers and rely on water tankers for their daily needs. Currently, most parts of the city receive water at a particular time every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/water-wasters-not-penalised-says-rwa-of-delhi-colony/article36410454.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||At book release, CPI’s D. Raja recalls humble beginnings||Friends and admirers of the general secretary of the Communist Party of India (CPI), D. Raja, came together for the release of his book D. Raja in the Parliament , a collection of his select speeches from his 12-year tenure in the Rajya Sabha. The book also records Mr. Raja’s journey from being a daily wage labourer’s son to becoming the first Dalit to occupy the general secretary’s post in the CPI. Speaking at the function, Mr. Raja said that his mother couldn’t afford to send lunch for him. Seeing his lanky self and knowing well that he was forced to skip lunch, the physical education teacher at his school wouldn’t let him on the ground to play. Mr. Raja confessed that he had never taken part in sports in his life. Instead, he would spend time at the school’s reading room. “I started reading books from a very early age. Books gave me a certain strength to hold my head high and never feel inferior to anyone,” he said. Communist Party of India-Marxist general secretary Sitaram Yechury, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, senior Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader Tiruchi Siva and Supreme Court advocate Vrinda Grover, among others, were present at the launch. Mr. Ramesh recalled that it was 25 years since he, Mr. Raja and Mr. Yechury had come together to draft the Common Minimum Programme for the two United Front governments in 1996 and 1997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-book-release-cpis-d-raja-recalls-humble-beginnings/article36410185.ece
12 September 2021||Washington DC,||U.S. climate envoy Kerry to visit India next week for talks||As a prelude to the 26th Conference of Parties (COP26) meeting on climate change in Glasgow in November, U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, John Kerry, will visit India next week to meet officials and private sector representatives, the State Department announced. While India is the third largest emitter of greenhouse gases, following China and the U.S., in absolute terms, it is not a major emitter in per capita terms relative to China and the U.S. Countries are expected to go beyond their commitments made in Paris in 2015 and set new goals in time for the Glasgow conference. Post Paris, India committed to installing 450 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030 and the Railways has committed to achieving net zero emissions by 2030. Mr. Kerry will be in India from September 12-14 “to engage with international counterparts on efforts to address the climate crisis” and “to discuss efforts to raise global climate ambition and speed India’s clean energy transition,” the State Department said. He will also launch the “Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD), part of the U.S.-India Agenda 2030 Partnership that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Joe Biden announced in April 2021 at Mr Biden’s Leaders Summit on Climate”. Mr. Kerry’s visit “will bolster the United States’ bilateral and multilateral climate efforts” ahead of COP26, the State Department said. On his last visit to India, in April, Mr. Kerry had said the U.S. was interested in “facilitating” India achieve its 450-GW goal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-climate-envoy-kerry-to-visit-india-next-week-for-talks/article36410199.ece
12 September 2021||Patna,||Amid tussle for party posts, infighting brews in Bihar JD(U)||The infighting in the ruling Janata Dal (United) [JD(U)] in Bihar is likely to intensify in the coming days as the party’s new national president and MP, Rajiv Ranjan Singh, alias Lalan Singh, has been dissolving different party cells and removing leaders and workers known to be close to former party president and now Union Steel Minister R.C.P. Singh. Both leaders are said be to rivals but are close to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. Mr. Lalan Singh has dissolved as many as 32 cells at the district and block levels and removed over three dozen party leaders and workers after taking over as party chief. He also shifted two loyalists of Mr. R.C.P. Singh from the party’s State headquarters in Patna. However, soon after this, Mr. R.C.P. Singh, sources said, appointed four of his supporters in different capacities as his personal aides in the Union Steel Ministry. Party leaders, wishing not to be named, told The Hindu that a “tug of war is virtually on between the two leaders and their loyalists. Second rung leaders are confused and apprehensive as to wh- om they have to show their loyalty to avoid a fallout”. In another development, Mr. Lalan Singh on Saturday said that Mr. Kumar would not be attending the rally at Jind in Haryana, called by the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Om Prakash Chautala, to mark the birth anniversary of his father Chaudhury Devi Lal on September 25. All non-BJP and non-Congress leaders have been invited to the rally to explore possibilities of the formation of a third front for the 2024 Lok Sabha election. “Though, Mr. Kumar has a very good and cordial relation with the family of Chaudhury Devi Lal but due to possibility of a third wave of COVID-19 and the flood situation in the State, he will not be attending the rally,” Mr. Lalan Singh said. Political analysts said Mr. Kumar’s absence points to him succumbing to “the pressure of alliance partner BJP.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-tussle-for-party-posts-infighting-brews-in-bihar-jdu/article36410191.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Standard duty rates on edible oils slashed||The government reduced the standard rate of duty on both crude and refined palm oil, soyabean oil and sunflower oil in order to reduce edible oil prices with effect from Saturday, a statement by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said. The standard rate of duty on crude palm oil, crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil was reduced to 2.5%, it said. Similarly, the standard rate of duty was reduced to 32.5% for refined palm oil, refined soyabean oil and refined sunflower oil. It added that in the same notification that was issued on Friday, agri-cess for crude palm oil had been increased to 20% from 17.5%. The Ministry said: “It may be noted that the international prices and thereby domestic prices of edible oils have been ruling high during 2021-22 which is a cause of serious concern from inflation as well as consumer’s point of view. Import duty on edible oils is one of the important factors that impacted landed cost of edible oils and thereby domestic prices.” Rs. 1,100 crore worth cuts The Ministry said it had taken several steps from February to August to mitigate the situation. “The duty cuts already made amount to an estimated Rs. 3,500 crore in a full year. With the current/latest reduced import duty worth Rs. 1,100 crore in full year, total direct value of benefits expected to be passed on to the consumers, in terms of duties given up by government, is Rs. 4,600 crore,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/standard-duty-rates-on-edible-oils-slashed/article36410200.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP MLA goes rafting, ‘thanks’ Arvind Kejriwal||Taking a dig at Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over the extensive waterlogging in Delhi after heavy rains on Saturday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Tajinder Bagga went “rafting” on an inundated road and thanked him for making it possible in “every nook and corner” of the city. In a video posted on Twitter, the national secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha asked Mr. Kejriwal to have boards put up across Delhi on the achievement. Record rains lashed many parts of Delhi, causing waterlogging that affected operations at the Delhi airport, disrupted traffic, and left passengers trapped in vehicles in flooded underpasses. In the video, Mr. Bagga is seen sitting in a rafting boat on a submerged road in northeast Delhi’s Bhajanpura area. Cars, motorcycles and buses are seen wading through the muddy water on the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mla-goes-rafting-thanks-arvind-kejriwal/article36410203.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Man held for brutal rape, murder in Mumbai||He was produced in court on Saturday afternoon and remanded in police custody till September 21. The Saki Naka area in the western suburbs has several industrial units. According to the police, accused Chouhan, from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, worked as a driver and lived on the pavement in the same area. Mr. Nagrale said that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) had been set up and Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Jyotsna Rasam appointed as the investigating officer. “The investigation will be completed within a month and a chargesheet will be filed against the accused,” he said. According to officials working on the case, Chauhan is alleged to have pulled the victim inside the back of the tempo and brutalised her with an iron rod, inflicting severe injuries to her torso as well as her private parts. She had also been stabbed with a knife. After her death, the police have subsequently added the section for murder under the Indian Penal Code to the FIR. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that the case would be tried in a fast track court. “The heinous crime that took place in Saki Naka is a disgrace to humanity. The case will be tried on fast track and the culprit will be severely punished, ensuring justice to the woman who lost her life due to this dreadful crime. Officials are directed to speed up investigation,” Mr. Thackeray said in a statement. Political blame game The incident has set off a political blame game with the Opposition BJP demanding the death penalty for those guilty. Devendra Fadnavis, Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly, described the crime as a blot on Mumbai, which is considered a safe city for women. “The court will pronounce the judgement, but we feel that the guilty should be hanged,” he said. Mr. Fadnavis also asked the State government to ponder on why instances of crime against women were on rise in the State.  (with PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-held-for-brutal-rape-murder-in-mumbai/article36410173.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Magistrates can’t extend probe under UAPA: SC||The Supreme Court has held that magistrates cannot favour an investigating agency by extending the period of probe in Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) cases at will. Under UAPA, the investigation has to be completed within 90 days. If not, the accused is entitled to default bail. In so far as “extension of time to complete investigation” is concerned, the “Magistrate would not be competent to consider the request and the only competent authority to consider such request would be ‘the Court’ as specified in the proviso in Section 43-D (2)(b) of the UAPA,” a three-judge Bench, led by Justice U.U. Lalit, observed. By ‘the Court’, the Bench meant the Special Court under the UAPA. The top court was dealing with a UAPA case in which the Chief Judicial Magistrate of Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh allowed the investigating agency’s request to extend the period of investigation in March 2014. However, the accused, Sadique and others, sought bail on finding that the investigating agency had not filed a chargesheet in the first 90 days of the probe. Their bail was refused. High Court order Later, the State High Court rejected the accused’s plea to quash the case, saying the Magistrate had passed an appropriate order, the period of the probe was rightly extended to 180 days and the plea for bail was not maintainable. The Supreme court set aside the High Court decision and granted bail to the accused while noting that only the Special Court under UAPA has jurisdiction to extend the period of investigation to 180 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/magistrates-cant-extend-probe-under-uapa-sc/article36410176.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani resigns||The BJP has been contemplating a change of guard in Gujarat given Mr. Rupani’s lacklustre administration. “It was just a matter of time. His ouster was certain,” a top party leader told The Hindu , adding, “The main reason for his ouster is that the top leadership was not happy with his performance in governance, and he did not inspire confidence in the leadership about facing the Assembly poll with him at the helm.” “In the entire period of pandemic, he failed to deliver,” a senior legislator said. “At every step, Delhi had to intervene and guide the local administration.” “Particularly, PM was not happy with him with regard to administrative matters,” a retired bureaucrat said, adding that this was the reason most of the bureaucratic appointments were first cleared by Delhi. Mr. Rupani had taken over as the Chief Minister in August 2016 after the sudden resignation of the then CM Anandiben Patel. He took charge with the blessings of the then party president and now Home Minister Amit Shah, who did not want another Patidar as the Chief Minister after Ms. Patel’s departure. The Patidar issue is likely to have forced the party’s hand now, as the powerful community has sizeable hold over the political economy of the State. While there is no word yet on the next Chief Minister, it appears that a Patidar leader is most likely to be chosen. Despite her absence from State politics after her appointment as Governor — first of Madhya Pradesh and subsequently of Uttar Pradesh — Ms. Patel remains a formidable force in Gujarat politics. According to party insiders, Ms. Patel made no bones about wanting Mr. Rupani replaced with a person of her choice. Rising AAP The emergence of the Aam Aadmi Party, which has worked hard to create a base in Gujarat, is another crucial factor in the change of guard. Last February, the AAP won 27 seats in the Surat Municipal elections, shocking the BJP. Subsequently, the AAP fielded young Patidar face Gopal Italia as its party chief and a popular TV anchor and journalist Isudan Gadhavi as its main face in the State. AAP leaders have been touring the State in the run up to the Assembly poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-chief-minister-vijay-rupani-resigns/article36410181.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Unity the central lesson from 9/11 attacks: Biden||He added that the ‘9/11 generation’ was bringing terrorists to justice. “Yet we also witness the darker forces of human nature,” the President said, referring to violence against Muslim Americans. “Unity is what makes us who we are. America at its best. To me, that’s the central lesson of September 11. It’s that at our most vulnerable, and the push and pull of all that makes us human, and the battle for the soul of America, unity is our greatest strength,” he said. “Unity doesn’t mean we have to believe the same thing. We must have a fundamental respect and faith in each other and in this nation,” Mr Biden said. On Saturday morning, the President and First Lady Jill Biden attended a memorial event at Ground Zero in New York, where the World Trade Center once stood, after which they flew to Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where they paid their respects at the ‘Flight 93 National Memorial’. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, released a message of remembrance for the nearly 3,000 individuals killed in the terror attacks of September 11, 2001. He said the event had shaped the U.S.’ engagement with the world. “For so many Americans — regardless of whether we lost someone we knew or where we were on 9/11 — the attack felt personal. It still does,” Mr. Blinken said. “As we saw in the aftermath of the attacks, our allies’ and partners’ commitment to us, and ours to them, is a sacred bond,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unity-the-central-lesson-from-911-attacks-biden/article36410182.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Karnal standoff ends as Haryana orders probe||Mr Sinha, the then sub-divisional magistrate, is at the centre of the controversy for his alleged speech, caught on camera, exhorting policemen before the lathi charge to “smash their [farmers] heads”. Additional Chief Secretary Devender Singh said there was a demand from the farmers’ organisations that the police baton charge should be investigated and the family of deceased farmer, Sushil Kajal, be given proper compensation. “On these demands, four rounds of talks were held between the administration and the farmer leaders, in which an agreement was reached. It has been agreed to conduct a detailed inquiry into the ‘lathi charge’ case by a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. This investigation will be completed in a month and during this time Ayush Sinha will remain on leave. Along with this, two members of the family of the deceased farmer will be given a job within a week at DC rate on a sanctioned post,” he said. Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said different farmer organisations were involved in the discussions and everyone agreed to end the ongoing ‘dharna’ (sit-in) in front of the mini secretariat at Karnal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnal-standoff-ends-as-haryana-orders-probe/article36410183.ece
12 September 2021||Chennai,||Liberal studies spur curiosity, say experts||Indian higher education should develop students with an ability to be curious, question everything, be articulate, and able to solve problems proactively. At a webinar on liberal education hosted by The Hindu jointly with Sai University on Friday, panelists pointed out that the traditional system of acquiring knowledge did not hold meaning any more. Instead, candidates with skills such as being able to communicate clearly and offer solutions to problems will be much in demand in future. Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy said that liberal education enhances curiosity and improves the ability to think critically and independently. He suggested an education model that spurs curiosity, critical thinking, and proactive problem solving. K.V. Ramani, founder of Sai University, said liberal education should go across disciplines and permit students to pick a group of subjects that interests them instead of the current trend of choosing a course based on marks and the job it can land. At Sai University, the focus was on providing a broad, strong and wide foundation, he said. “First we should promote critical, analytical, tech skills, which we teach in the first semester. In the second semester, students can pick their course,” he explained. Sai University’s founding Vice-Chancellor Jamshed Barucha said that at a time when the country was introducing a National Education Policy, “we have to move very fast to prepare our youth and maximise their innate talent. That will be key for the success of India”. “We see liberal education as a full spectrum of disciplines, of occupations, of life aspirations, including technology,” he said, adding that the institution had modelled its curriculum on “the Harvard model”, allowing a student to study data science, music and philosophy. Mr. Murthy said that when companies hire candidates, they seek professionals who are proactive and solve problems. With top software technology companies getting 90-98% of their revenue from other countries, it had become mandatory that candidates had the ability to learn new skills, and understand aspects of new cultures to be able to deal with clients from different countries, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/liberal-studies-spur-curiosity-say-experts/article36410187.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||3 EPFO officials booked for multi-crore fraud||The CBI has booked three officials of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) for allegedly causing huge losses to its corpus by settling more than 90 claims in the name of persons shown as employees of a Mumbai-based company that wound up in 2009. “When investment loss is also factored in, the wrongful loss to the corpus at the hands of the fraudsters is compounded many times over and above the principal sum of Rs. 2.71 crore,” the FIR said. The fraud was committed between March 2020 and June 2021. The accused officials have been identified as senior social security assistant Chandan Kumar Sinha, who is posted in Mumbai; assistant PF commissioner Uttam Tagaray, who is currently in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore; and assistant PF commissioner Vijay J. Jarpe, who is posted in Chennai. A total of 91 PF accounts of those projected as employees of B. Vijay Kumar Jewellers had been created. Their claims were settled at the Kandivali East (Mumbai) regional office of the EPFO. The fraud came to light after the authorities received a complaint that a resident of Ghaziabad had been withdrawing funds from the PF accounts linked to closed companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-epfo-officials-booked-for-multi-crore-fraud/article36410192.ece
12 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||150 Myanmar nationals cross over to Mizoram||Nearly 150 people from Myanmar’s Chin State have crossed over to Mizoram in the past few days following airstrikes by the military. This has triggered worries about another phase of influx of Myanmar nationals in Mizoram, which began enrolling some 400 refugee children more than a week ago. The Myanmar military offensive is believed to be the response to the call for a nationwide uprising by the country’s National Unity Government in exile. “I received a report yesterday [Friday] about the bombing from a villager, who lives near the Mizoram-Myanmar border. He told me that the border residents saw Myanmar fighter jets bombing a Burmese village called Lungler,” Mizoram’s Home Minister Lalchamliana said on Saturday. He said more refugees would pour into Mizoram if the air strikes and other military action continue. Six districts — Champhai, Siaha, Lawngtlai, Serchhip, Hnahthial and Saitual — share a 510-km long porous border with Myanmar. Officials said an estimated 10,000 refugees have already sought shelter in four of these districts since March. The refugees are lodged in community and public halls and school buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/150-myanmar-nationals-cross-over-to-mizoram/article36410197.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Jumbo journey||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jumbo-journey/article36410211.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Editors Guild flags I-T raids on news sites||The Editors Guild of India on Saturday expressed concern over Income Tax department officials seizing journalists’ data from the offices of news website Newslaundry on Friday. In a statement, the EGI said it was disturbed by what were called ‘surveys’ by the I-T officials. Newslaundry co-founder Abhinandan Sekhri said in a statement the visit was an attack on press freedom, it said. “It is learnt that the I-T team made clones of Sekhri’s mobile and laptop, as well as some other office machines, and no hash value was given to them. This is clearly beyond the mandate of surveys as defined under Section 133A of the Income Tax Act, which only allows data pertaining to the investigation to be copied, and certainly not personal and professional data of journalists,” the EGI said. It said the seized data could include information about sources and ongoing reporting. The EGI also raised the issue of raids by the Enforcement Directorate at the office of NewsClick recently. “Both NewsClick and Newslaundry have been critical of policies of the Union government. The dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating independent media must stop as it undermines our constitutional democracy,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/editors-guild-flags-i-t-raids-on-news-sites/article36410174.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article36410189.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||EPFO extends last date to link Aadhaar, UAN||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Saturday extended the deadline for linking of Aadhaar details with the Universal Account Number (UAN) for employees in the northeast and workers of certain establishments till December 31. The EPFO had made the seeding mandatory for employers to submit electronic-challan-cum receipt (ECRs) from September 1. In a circular to regional offices on Saturday, the EPFO said 94% of members who contribute had already linked their Aadhaar with UANs. However, it found lower percentage of the seeding in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura and certain industries like beedi-making, building and construction and plantation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epfo-extends-last-date-to-link-aadhaar-uan/article36410273.ece
12 September 2021||Dehradun,||U'khand: Char Dham priests temporarily withdraw stir against Devasthanam Board after CM's assurance||The priests of the Char Dham temples on Saturday temporarily withdrew their agitation for the dissolution of the Devasthanam Board after Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami assured them that their concerns will be addressed by October 30. Eight priests have been invited to be part of the committee looking into the issue, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ukhand-char-dham-priests-temporarily-withdraw-stir-against-devasthanam-board-after-cms-assurance/article36410456.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||NEET-PG held across country with 1.6 lakh candidates appearing for it||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) – Postgraduate was held at 679 centres in 270 cities on Saturday with 1.6 lakh candidates appearing for it following the COVID-19 protocols. The exam was rescheduled twice in view of the coronavirus pandemic.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neet-pg-held-across-country-with-16-lakh-candidates-appearing-for-it/article36410205.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Arvind Kejriwal exhorts AAP cadre to work for people, country||AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday told party volunteers not to desire any post and work for the people and the country. “Bhagat Singh and Baba Saheb Ambedkar are our chief ideologists. Like Bhagat Singh, each of our volunteers should be ready to make the supreme sacrifice,” Mr. Kejriwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arvind-kejriwal-exhorts-aap-cadre-to-work-for-people-country/article36410215.ece
12 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Body of missing person from Assam ferry mishap recovered||The body of one of the two persons missing after a ferry mishap on September 8 was recovered downstream in the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve on Saturday. The staff of the tiger reserve found the bodynear the Umatumuni island . Officials said the search for the other missing person was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/body-of-missing-person-from-assam-ferry-mishap-recovered/article36410201.ece
12 September 2021||Allahabad,||Govt will introduce new bill on arbitration in winter session: Law minister||Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on Saturday said the central government will introduce a Bill on arbitration in the winter session of the Parliament. The government wants to make India a global hub for arbitration, Mr. Rijiju said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-will-introduce-new-bill-on-arbitration-in-winter-session-law-minister/article36410202.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Consult us before taking up SWD work, say ECR residents||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Greater Chennai Corporation to revisit the project for construction of an integrated stormwater drain network along the East Coast Road for feasibility of collection and reuse of rainwater. Following the NGT directive, residents’ welfare associations along the ECR want the government agencies to hold consultations with them before proceeding with any fresh proposals. The residents had opposed the Rs. 1,243.45 crore project that was taken up with funding from the KfW, the German Development Bank. As the project covered areas between Kottivakkam and Muttukadu, residents opposed the move on the grounds that the construction of the drain would hinder groundwater recharge in areas that did not have piped water network, and also filed a petition with the NGT. Taking into account the observations of the joint committee, the NGT said the government and the project implementing agency may revisit the project and rope in institutions like IIT-Madras for providing expert view. Moreover, the project must be executed only after the required Coastal Regulation Zone clearance. Drinking water supply Meanwhile, residents’ associations said government agencies should consider expediting the process of providing drinking water supply and underground sewerage network in areas along ECR. R. Balakrishnan, treasurer, VGP Golden Seaview Residents’ Welfare Association, Palavakkam, said the GCC must consult residents before proceeding with any fresh proposals. The SWD work had been stopped in Palkalai Nagar. “Our area has been provided with water lines and the project is under trial. But many localities still depend on groundwater and private water supply. We plan to meet next week to discuss the next course of action,” he said. Sources in the Corporation said the civic body had applied for post facto CRZ clearance, and had roped in experts from IIT-Madras for their opinion. It will comply with the orders of the NGT.  The government must prioritise water and drainage projects R. Balakrishnan Treasurer, VGP Golden Seaview Residents’ Welfare Association, Palavakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consult-us-before-taking-up-swd-work-say-ecr-residents/article36410386.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases top 1,600 again||Tamil Nadu’s daily count crossed 1,600 for the second day in a row — 1,639 people tested positive for COVID-19 and 27 succumbed to the infection. Fresh cases had dropped below 1,600 on August 24 (1,585). Amid fluctuations, the count dropped to 1,509 on September 1. However, in 17 days, fresh infections exceeded 1,600 again on September 10. In Coimbatore, 224 people tested positive. Chennai followed with 170 cases, while there were 151 infections in Erode. Chengalpattu recorded 120 cases, while Thanjavur saw a rise from 87 cases on Friday to 117 on Saturday. Similarly, Tiruppur, a day after its daily cases exceeded 100, recorded 91 cases. There were 58 cases in Tiruvallur, 55 in Salem and 52 in Namakkal. Seven districts, including Perambalur, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar, recorded under 10 cases each. The State’s overall tally touched 26,32,231. Of the 38 districts, 20 did not report any fatality. There were three deaths in Chengalpattu, two each in Coimbatore, Erode, Kancheepuram, Mayiladuthurai, Salem, Tiruchi and Vellore. Chennai recorded one death. The State’s toll due to COVID-19 reached 35,146. Among the deceased were two people in their 30s. A 36-year-old man from Erode with chronic kidney disease and diabetes was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on September 7 and died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Another 36-year-old man from Vellore, who had seizure disorder and intellectual disability, was admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on September 5. He died on September 9 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. As many as 1,517 people were discharged, taking the total figure to 25,80,686. The active caseload marginally rose to 16,399. In the last 24 hours, 1,58,623 samples were tested, taking the total to 4,40,65,393.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-cross-1600-again/article36410390.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Venkaiah Naidu supports Stalin’s view on rewriting history||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday said that he endorsed the view of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin that Indian history must be rewritten. “In fact, it has to be rewritten with an Indian perspective and not through a colonial lens,” he said. Mr. Naidu was speaking at the platinum jubilee of the Hindustan Chamber of Commerce in Chennai on Saturday. The Vice-President said the carbon dating of some excavations had thrown fresh light on the ancientness of the Thamirabarani civilisation, revealing that it was 3,200 years old, and the influence of Tamil Indian culture could be seen at the Angkor Wat temple in Cambodia, which was built in the early 12th century, according to a press release. On Thursday, Mr. Stalin told the State Assembly that carbon dating analysis of rice with soil, found in a burial urn at Sivakalai in Thoothukudi district, by the Miami-based Beta Analytic Testing Laboratory had yielded the date of 1155 BC. “It is the government’s task to scientifically prove that the history of the Indian subcontinent should begin from the Tamil landscape,” Mr. Stalin said. Safety norms The Vice-President spoke about the importance of vaccination against COVID-19 and following of safety protocols to ensure that the economy bounced back. “Thanks to a series of timely measures and policy reforms initiated by the government, the economic situation has been improving gradually,” he said. “Team India” spirit He spoke of the need for the Centre and State governments to work in a “Team India” spirit and the importance of public-private-partnerships in different sectors to propel economic growth. Mr. Naidu urged the chamber to facilitate skill development among the youth, lauded it for its achievements and released a souvenir on the occasion. He presented the ‘Champion of Humanity’ award to Prathap C. Reddy, founder-chairman of the Apollo Hospitals. Governor Banwarilal Purohit was the guest of honour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/venkaiah-supports-stalins-view-on-rewriting-history/article36410413.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation ready to vaccinate 3.25 lakh people in today’s drive||The Greater Chennai Corporation will organise vaccination camps at 1,600 locations from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Sunday, utilising the services of 11,200 volunteers and 4,800 employees of various government departments. At least 3.25 lakh residents are expected to get vaccinated in the city on Sunday. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has asked college principals to provide their campus for camps and mobilise students and family members for the camps. However, many campuses have been identified for NEET in the city on Sunday. As a result, the Corporation is planning to vaccinate a large number of residents at 1,200 other locations through mobile teams. Additional doctors have been requested from the Health Department, and private hospitals will send nurses for the drive. Each static team will target 400 vaccinations, at two locations. Vaccination camps will be also held at private hospitals, and corporation employees have been asked to ensure vaccines are administered without payment of money. In the morning, mobile teams will focus on vaccination of visitors in market areas. In the evening, mobile teams will visit malls and parks for vaccination. A total of 245 sanitary inspectors will supervise the teams, comprising volunteers, staff from ICDS, NULM, malaria control workers, tax collectors and assessors at the camps. Mobilisation has been planned through political party representatives also. Conservancy workers of the Corporation announced the locations of the mega vaccination camps in each residential neighbourhood on Sunday. The Corporation has sent SMS to residents who have to get their second dose. Residents are requested to check the locations online or call the helpline 1913.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-ready-to-vaccinate-325-lakh-people-in-todays-drive/article36410371.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Set new standards for disaster response, management: U.S. envoy||The U.S. Consulate General in Chennai has stressed the need for setting new standards on Indo-Pacific cooperation in the area of disaster preparedness and response. According to a press release from the U.S. Consulate General in Chennai, a ‘white paper’ will be prepared and shared with government agencies, think tanks, academia, community-based organisations and other key stakeholders across Indo-Pacific nations shortly. The U.S. Consulate General in Chennai, in association with the National Bureau of Asian Research (NBR), organised a two-day virtual conference, titled ‘Non-traditional Security Challenges in South Asia: Improving Disaster Management Cooperation’, on September 8 and 9. Experts in policy, public health, energy, technology and disaster management sectors from the U.S., India and several countries within the Indo-Pacific region attended the conference and shared their views on disaster management. In her welcome remarks on September 8, U.S. Consul General in Chennai Judith Ravin said, “The U.S., like India, provides relief and recovery to disasters not just within its borders but beyond, to nations around the world. I am optimistic that the learnings from this conference will set new standards on Indo-Pacific cooperation in the area of disaster preparedness and response.” Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, who has led rescue and relief during major natural and man-made disasters in Tamil Nadu, in his keynote address, said: “Cities always have to be prepared for disaster management as disasters are occurring very frequently across the globe.” “Each and every city local body, State and Union governments should keep themselves prepared to handle disasters,” he said. Ashley Johnson, director of Energy and Environmental Affairs at the National Bureau of Asian Research, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-new-standards-for-disaster-response-management-us-envoy/article36410388.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Union to hold talks with Ford officials tomorrow||The Chennai Ford Employees’ Union will meet senior officials of the company on Monday to discuss the future course of action ahead of the closing down of the Chennai plant. “We will hold discussions with the management on Monday,” said P. Senthil Kumar, general secretary of the Chennai Ford Employees Union. He said all workers would resume work on Monday. The plant was closed for a week due to raw material shortage, the workers claimed. Mr. Senthil Kumar said the union members, on behalf of the 2,600 workers and several indirect workers, had submitted a letter to T.M. Anbarasan, Minister for Rural Industries, explaining their plight and requesting the government to ensure that jobs were not lost. Over the next few weeks, the union members are expected to meet other government officials to explain their situation. On September 9, the U.S. headquartered carmaker said it would would cease manufacturing vehicles for sale in India immediately; manufacturing of vehicles for export would wind down at the Sanand vehicle assembly plant by the fourth quarter of 2021, and the Chennai engine and vehicle assembly plants by the second quarter of 2022. A section of workers said they would approach the State government in the coming days, seeking help for their jobs. “From what we are hearing, we will have jobs for the next 2-3 months and production will be on till then. But we have to see what happens after that and look for alternative jobs,” one of the employees said. About the State government’s response, a senior official said that Ford was exiting India for its own business reasons. “Ford may be approaching some companies for taking over that facility. The State government is not in talks with anyone,” he said. “If some company is willing to take over this facility, the Tamil Nadu government will extend all support and facilitate the process,” he added. Feedback sought MSMEs across Tamil Nadu, which supply raw materials and vehicle parts to Ford, said they had been asked to provide details on how the closure would impact their businesses. “We have got a questionnaire from government officials asking for details like major products being supplied to Ford, number of employees affected (at the MSME units), capacity allocated for Ford products in % (out of total annual capacity), and sales impact due to Ford’s closure, among others,” said a source at an industrial estate in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-to-hold-talks-with-ford-officials-tomorrow/article36410369.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five arrested for gangrape of teenager||The Kancheepuram district police have arrested five persons for the alleged gangrape of a 19-year-old girl at a field in Mel Kathirpur village near here. The police said the girl was working at a textile showroom in Kancheepuram after her Plus Two. The main accused, Gunaseelan, 23, got acquainted with her as he frequently visited a shop located near the showroom where she was working, and he had left his number with her. The girl’s mother desperately needed Rs. 1,000 to meet an emergency expense. Learning of her mother’s predicament, the girl approached Gunaseelan for help. He invited her to visit his office, pretending to be a realtor. He promised to find her another job in a private firm with a better salary. On September 1 evening, Gunaseelan picked her up from the shop in his car and took her to his farmland at Mel Kathirpur, near Kancheepuram. On the way, he forcibly made her drink liquor. After she became inebriated, he raped her in the car. He then allegedly called his friends and let them rape her despite her resistance, said police sources. The girl related her ordeal to a colleague in the textile showroom. On September 9, the victim lodged a complaint with the police. A case was registered under Sections 342 (Punishment for wrongful confinement), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 363 (Punishment for kidnapping), 376D (Gangrape), 506(ii) (Criminal Intimidation) of the IPC at the Baluchetty Chatram police station. Kancheepuram SP M. Sudhakar visited the spot and held a preliminary inquiry. He constituted special teams to nab the accused. The teams arrested Gunaseelan, A. Jebanesan alias Charles, 29, G. Gunasekaran, 24, and N. Ajith Kumar, 23, on Friday. Subsequently, the police arrested Kamu alias Kamaraj, 23, in Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-arrested-for-gangrape-of-teenager/article36410366.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri questions motive behind appointment of R.N. Ravi as Governor||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri has questioned the motive behind appointing R.N. Ravi, a retired IPS officer, as next Governor of Tamil Nadu. “In States ruled by parties in the Opposition (non-NDA parties), the Centre has been appointing Governors who are causing hindrances to the ruling State government. For instance, former IPS officer Kiran Bedi, after being appointed as Lt. Governor of Puducherry, had created many roadblocks to the then Congress government and welfare schemes could not be implemented. She was removed from the post after protest,” he said in a statement. The appointment of R.N. Ravi as Tamil Nadu Governor raises suspicion, Mr. Alagiri said. “The DMK government is functioning in a transparent manner. Whether the Modi government has appointed Mr. Ravi to cause hindrance to the State government is my main suspicion,” he said. The move is to threaten people of the State, who have rejected BJP, Mr. Alagiri alleged. “We won’t allow the Governor to interfere with the functions of Tamil Nadu government like in the case of Puducherry,” he said. “Appointing renowned educationalists, scientists, scholars as Governors has been adopted as a good practice. By appointing Mr. Ravi, the Modi government has gone against the practice. If they attempt to destroy democracy, Congress and other parties would gather people and protest,” Mr. Alagiri warned.  Death anniversary In a seperate statement, he also welcomed Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announcement that the death anniversary of poet Subramania Bharathiar would be commemorated on September 11 as ‘Mahakavi’ Day and other announcements to observe Bharathiar’s 100th death anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagiri-questions-motive-behind-appointment-of-rn-ravi-as-governor/article36410411.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman, friend arrested for poisoning husband to death||A 38-year-old woman and her friend have been arrested for allegedly killing her husband by giving food mixed with poison in the Choolaimedu police station limits. According to the police, K. Selvam, 42, a painter by profession, was living with his wife Vijayalakshmi and their two daughters at Kannagi Street, Choolaimedu. On September 2, Selvam fell unconscious after having food and was admitted in a hospital. He died on September 6, and his relative Veerapandian lodged a complaint alleging foul play in the death. The police registered a case and sent the body for post-mortem examination. The post-mortem report indicated that Selvam had died after consuming food mixed with pesticide. His wife Vijayalakshmi had gone missing after his death. The police arrested her and her friend Mohan alias Mundakannu ‘Mohan’. During investigation, the police learnt that Vijayalakshmi and Mohan met while travelling on Metro Rail and had an affair. After learning about their affair, Selvam had warned his wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-friend-arrested-for-poisoning-husband-to-death/article36410365.ece
12 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||T.N. signs MoU with DP World||The State government on Saturday signed an MoU with DP World for proposed investment of Rs. 2,000 crore. The MoU was signed in presence of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and officials of DP World. The company plans the investment for establishing Container Terminal, minor port, Cold Storage facility, Free Trade Zone, data centres among others across Thoothukudi, Tiruvallur, Sriperumbudur, Salem, Erode and Coimbatore. DP World has already invested Rs. 2,000 crore in the State, and created 4,000 jobs, according to a release. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, Chief Secretary Irai Anbu, Industries secretary N Muruganandam, Pooja Kulkarni, CEO, Guidance Tamil Nadu and senior officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-signs-mou-with-dp-world/article36410424.ece
12 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Marginal increase in test positivity rate in a few places’||There has been a marginal increase in the COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in certain pockets of the State, Principal Secretary of the Health and Family Welfare Department J. Radhakrishnan said on Saturday. Addressing the media after participating in the 68th annual conference of the Tamil Nadu Ophthalmic Association (TNOA), he said the overall TPR had gone up marginally, to over 1%, on Friday. He said the number of cases being reported every day had marginally increased over the past few days to just above 1,600. He said such an increase need not be much of a concern if the TPR remained at 1%. “For instance, if we are testing 1.6 to 1.7 lakh people a day, and if we are getting 1,600 to 1,700 cases, it is okay. However, if we are getting that many cases with 1.55 to 1.6 lakh tests itself, then we need to be more alert,” he said. He added that in a few places, the TPR had shot up to almost 2%. Asked if there were any particular districts that had seen such an increase, he said it was rather observed at the sub-district level. He said the Collectors had been directed to monitor TPR at the locality level, and focus on places where the rate was higher. He said a higher number of infections was getting reported following people attending functions or among families where a person is under home quarantine after testing positive. Stressing that COVID-19 was still not gone, Dr. Radhakrishnan said it was important to adhere to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and avoid attending functions or heading to crowded places. Highlighting that Tamil Nadu was performing well in vaccination, with around 45 lakh doses being administered in just the first 10 days of the month, he appealed to people to make use of the mega vaccination drive planned for Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marginal-increase-in-test-positivity-rate-in-a-few-places/article36410392.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 2,900 pass programme for first-time offenders||A pilot project for the rehabilitation of first-time petty offenders aged 18-24 and lodged in the Saidapet sub-jail, which has been implemented since August 2018 as per the directions of the Madras High Court, is a success, said prison authorities. Over 2,900 remand prisoners have passed the programme, PATTAM (Personality and attitude transformation through therapeutic assistance and management), they said. Director-General of Police (Prisons) Sunil Kumar Singh said reformation, rehabilitation and reintegration programmes for the inmates were being conducted by the Department of Prisons and Correctional Services. One such programme was held with the combined efforts of the police, the judiciary and NGOs. The objective of PATTAM is to provide inmates a focused holistic interventional programme, in a conducive environment, to enable them to reintegrate into society and be its responsible members. Conducive atmosphere Prison authorities, with the help of others, created a conducive atmosphere for psychological intervention, by separating them from habitual offenders and those accused of heinous crimes. This segregation of petty first-time offenders was made possible through the allocation of the sub-jail exclusively for running this programme. Prison Reform Intervention Support Mission (PRISM), with the help of other NGOs, is conducting the programme from Monday to Friday at the Saidapet sub-jail to motivate inmates to lead crime-free lives. “During their stay, the inmates are closely monitored, and are engaged in a variety of activities, like yoga and sports, and taught life skills. Special counselling, including on substance abuse — a major factor behind crime — is also provided. Opportunities for personal interaction with family and friends has enriched the programme,” said Ravi Paul Kumar Paul, founder of PRISM. T. Hemanth Raj, co-ordinator of the PATTAM programme, said, “The inmates are given instructions on yoga, meditation and life skills through sport. Interactive sessions on de-addiction, goal-setting, motivation, problem-solving, handling relationships, coping with emotions, conflict resolution, etc., are conducted by experts and scheduled throughout the day. Individual counselling and specific psychological interventions are provided.” Even after their release, prison and police authorities follow up with them, facilitating skill training, employment and support to the released inmates. According to the standard operating procedure followed by the police, on receipt of intimation from the prison of the release on bail of an inmate who has undergone the programme, information is given to the local police station, and they will take necessary steps, including counselling and other support, to enable their reintegration into society. The success of the programme is evident from the fact that soon after its commencement, there were 149 inmates in the sub-jail. The number has come down to an all-time low of 27, as on March 3, 2019. Similarly, of around 1,540 inmates who underwent the programme from August, 1, 2018 to July 31, 2019, under 6% were rearrested. The programme was launched in the central prisons in Puzhal and Madurai. The programme, which was suspended because of the pandemic, has now resumed. The prison authorities are planning to extend the programme to all age groups in the central prisons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-2900-pass-programme-for-first-time-offenders/article36410394.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister launches incentive scheme for priests||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday launched a scheme to provide a monthly incentive of Rs. 1,000 each to 12,959 archakas and bhattachariars of oru kaala puja temples (those where pujas are conducted only once a day). Addressing a gathering of priests, Mr. Stalin said his government would implement all schemes announced by it. No scheme would remain an announcement, he said. “I will conduct regular review meetings and ensure that Ministers and officials do their work properly,” he said. Mr. Stalin, who heaped praise on Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekarbabu for having implemented the scheme, which was announced just a few days ago. He said Mr. Sekarbabu should be called Seyal Babu [Action Babu] for working 24X7 and bringing about changes as Minister. So many changes have been made in the HR&CE Department. Temples are being renovated, new temple cars are being made, priests are getting incentives and the government has increased the fixed deposits of oru kaala puja temples to Rs. 2 lakh each, he said. “The golden era of the Department is to come soon, and we will be here to see that,” Mr. Stalin said. “The government will incur an additional expenditure of Rs. 13 crore, annually, to provide incentives to the priests, but I see it as a way to uplift the families of the priests. Anna has said that we should see God in the laughter of the poor, and nationalist poet Subramania Bharathi has said God will bless us if the downtrodden are uplifted,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-launches-incentive-scheme-for-priests/article36410396.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||His penchant for equality stand out in his songs||For him, the birds, the mountains, the seas and everything that he saw around were one and no different from human beings. Yes, nationalist poet Subramania Bharathi, whose 100th death anniversary is being observed in a fitting manner by the State government and others, had a penchant for treating every object and person equally, with an aim to bring about unity among the masses of the country. “When he saw that Indians did not have the will to fight the enemy, he took every opportunity to unify them. In the poem Jayaberigai , kaakai Kuruvi engal jaathi, neel kadalum, malayum engal koottam , he goes beyond grammar, and says he sees life even in inanimate objects,” said Ma. Ki. Ramanan, a Tamil scholar. In the poem Vellai nirathu oru poonai engal veetil valarudhu kandeer, under the title Murasu paattu , Bharathiar equates different coloured cats to human beings, and says colours may vary, but all of us are human beings at the end of the day. Mr. Ramanan goes on to explain that in his Pudhiya aathichudi — Ellaarum orkulam, ellaarum orinam, ellaarum or Indhiya Makkal — fashioned after Avvaiyar’s Aathichudi , Bharathiar says the 30 crore population of India is one in all aspects. On equality “He saw no difference among the people. He detested divisions based on caste and creed,” the scholar said. Not just through his words, but even in his deeds, Bharathiar ensured that equality, unity and upliftment of the downtrodden was promoted. Puducherry-based Bharathiar-scholar N. Senkamalathayar and daughter of journalist R. Nagarathnam, who had taken part in Bharathiar’s last rites, said in November 1916, there was a massive cyclone (Tamil year of Nala , Kaarthikai month), and Bharathiar and his friends, including Va.Ve.Su. Iyer, collected 315 padi of rice and Rs. 89 in cash, and fed 4,000 people for 10 days. “Of this, he spent Rs. 2 and 2 annas to collect and give a decent burial to 790 birds and small animals like crows and sparrows. They prepared a white paper to show how much was spent since it was public money,” the scholar said. Another instance was that of adorning Kanakalingam, a Dalit, and Nagalingam, the then priest of the Desa Muthu Mariamman temple that he used to frequent, with the poonal (the sacred thread), Ms. Senkamalathayar said, adding that he used to take people from the Uppalam area to his house and provide them food. “As far as women rights are concerned, he saw equality among men and women after the Surat Congress, and the guidance of Sister Nivedita, whom he considered guru ,” Ms. Senkamalathayar said. Works aplenty The list of songs talking of equality by the poet goes on. They include Vandhe Matharam enbom and Sindhu nadhiyin , which were adopted for films too. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has now announced that the songs of Bharathiyar will be translated into English, and books of his songs will be published and distributed to students.  In November 1916, there was a massive cyclone, and Bharathiar and his friends, including Va. Ve. Su. Iyer, collected 315 padi of rice and Rs. 89 in cash, and fed 4,000 people for 10 days N. Senkamalathayar Bharathiar scholar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/penchant-for-equality-in-songs/article36410397.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin pays floral tribute on the 100th death anniversary of Subramania Bharathi||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday paid floral tributes to the portrait of poet and freedom fighter Mahakavi Subramania Bharathi on Kamarajar Salai, marking the poet’s 100th death anniversary. On Friday, the Chief Minister had made 14 announcements about observing the 100th death anniversary of Bharathiar. The poet’s death anniversary will be commemorated as ‘ Mahakavi Day’. Poetry competitions will be held at the State level for school and college students, and the ‘Bharathi young poet’ Award will be given to a boy and a girl student, along with a prize money of Rs. 1 lakh each. Select songs and articles of Bharathi will be compiled into a book titled Manathil uruthi vendum . A research chair in the name of Bharathiar will be established at the Bharathidasan University in Tiruchi, the Chief Minister said. Tamil associations across the world will be roped in for various activities, and for the next year, weekly programs will be organised by the Information Department at Bharathiar’s memorial in Chennai, Mr. Stalin had added. The State will provide financial aid to maintain the house in which Bharathi stayed in Kasi, Uttar Pradesh. The proposed park, to be set up by the Rural Development Department, for the welfare of women from SHGs, will be named after Bharathi, the Chief Minister had said. He also announced a cash award of Rs. 3 lakh each, along with appreciation certificates, to scholars who have done research on the poet and his works. Financial aid will be provided to those interested in making short films and dramas about Bharathi’s work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-pays-floral-tribute-on-the-100th-death-anniversary-of-subramania-bharathi/article36410399.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||On the Dravidian movement and celebrating the poet||The 14 announcements by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to honour national poet Subramania Bharathi on his 100th death anniversary are expected to kindle interest in the life and works of the poet, whose powerful words enriched the Tamil language like no one else in the 20th century. Given the opinion that the Dravidian movement is more comfortable with Bharathidasan and not Bharathi, the announcements seem to mark a clear departure from the Dravidian party’s stand on the poet. Thangam Thennarasu, Minister for Industries, who also holds the portfolio of Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture, disagrees. “Our objective is to honour scholars and poets who have served Tamil language and culture. The DMK has great respect for Bharathi. We have come out with announcements to honour Ayotheedoss Pandithar and freedom fighter V.O. Chidambaram Pillai, and in a similar manner we have done it for Bharathi,” he said. Mr. Thennarasu said though the Bhakti movement was associated with the idea of God, it had not prevented one from appreciating the beauty of the verses of the Azhwars and Nayanars . “It was our leader Kalaignar [former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi], who converted the house of Bharathi in Ettayapuram into a memorial, when he was the Chief Minister,” he said. Even though he was celebrated as a national poet, Bharathi’s caste came in the way of the Dravidar Kazhagam appreciating his works. Periyar had criticised his poems and opposed the government’s decision to nationalise the works of Bharathi. “He also came down on the efforts to construct a manimandapam in Ettayapuram,” said writer Kadarkarai Mathavilasa Angatham, who has also written and published extensively on Bharathi. He said while Dravidar Kazhagam and its founder Periyar refused to acknowledge the poet, the DMK founder, Anna, and the party’s leaders, including Karunanidhi and Nedunchezhian, spoke and wrote about Bharathi and his poetry. “When there is a debate on whether Bharathiar was a mahakavi [great poet], Anna declared that he was a poet of the people [ makkal kavi ],” Mr. Kadarkari said, pointing out that Karunanidhi had borrowed a lot of ideas from Bharathi. “ Nenjukku needhi , the title of Kalaignar ’s autobiography, is actually from Bharathi. The poet’s Parasakthi became the title of his first film. When he made a call for funds for the party, he used Bharathi’s line, ‘ Nidhi mikunthavar porkuvai thareer; nidhi kurainthavar kasukal thareer ’, as a slogan,” said Kadarkarai, who has already requested the State government to include A.V. Subramania Iyer, the translator of Bharathi, in the list of Bharathiar scholars. Mr. Kadarkarai’s argument is that the Dravidian movement has done more for Bharathi than Bharathidasan. “Bharathidasan died in Chennai and the house where he lived last has not been made a memorial. The house on Raman Street in T. Nagar is gone,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-the-dravidian-movement-and-celebrating-the-poet/article36410404.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1.1 lakh expected to take NEET today in State||Approximately 1.10 lakh candidates have registered in the State for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (UG) - 2021 being held Sunday. The pen-and-paper mode test will be held from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. NEET is the qualifying test for undergraduate medical admission in the country. In the State, the test will be conducted in 18 cities. Candidates will take the test from 224 educational institutions, which in the suburbs include engineering colleges. 33 centres in Chennai In the city, the test will be conducted at 33 centres. In Chennai, sources said, as many as 17,226 candidates were expected to take the exam. Over 40,000 women and 70,500 men have registered for the test in the State, School Education Department sources said. The exam centres will be under the control of the National Testing Agency, that is conducting the test from Saturday till Monday, according to letter issued by the Director General of the NTA Vineet Joshi to the district magistrates of all districts in the country where the test is being conducted. The centres have been advised to follow the COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-11-lakh-expected-to-take-neet-today-in-state/article36410505.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Murder accused hacked to death in Chengalpattu||A 45-year-old history sheeter from Kasimedu was hacked to death near Chengalpattu on Saturday. The victim was identified as Ramesh, 45, who has murder and attempt to murder cases against him. After being released on conditional bail recently, Ramesh had to sign regularly at a Chennai police station. Fearing attack from rivals, Ramesh vacated his residence in Kasimedu and moved to a fishermen hamlet near Chengalpattu. He used to board a bus from Kadapaakkam on East Coast Road to Chennai. On Saturday morning, while he was waiting for the bus, a group got down from a car and hacked him to death. Personnel from the Soonambedu police station rushed to the spot, and dispersed the crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murder-accused-hacked-to-death-in-chengalpattu/article36410375.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Resolution against NEET to be passed tomorrow||A resolution against the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) will be passed in the Assembly on Monday (September 13), the last day of the ongoing session, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. The DMK, in its election manifesto, had assured to take steps to get exemption from NEET for Tamil Nadu. “Accordingly, the resolution will be passed in the Assembly. It will be sent to the President. The previous government had passed resolutions for namesake and failed to press on it with the President. However, the Chief Minister will definitely insist on it, and get the nod to exempt Tamil Nadu from NEET,” he said shortly after conducting inspection at the Primary Health Centre in Perumbakkam on Saturday. With NEET-UG all set to be held on Sunday, he said that unlike previous years, no harsh treatment will be meted out to students appearing for the examination. 20 lakh target As part of the Mega Vaccination Camp, 40,000 booths would be set up across the State on Sunday. The Health Department has a target of vaccinating 20 lakh people at the camps. “We have so far distributed 27 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines to all districts for the camps,” he said. At present, ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ was being implemented in 50 of the total 385 blocks. The initiative would be expanded to all places soon, thereby reaching out to one crore people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resolution-against-neet-to-be-passed-tomorrow/article36410405.ece
12 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||The date of death||While poet Subramania Bharathi’s death anniversary is observed on September 11, going by the English calender, it should be on the next day — on September 12. The death certificate issued by the then Corporation of Madras gives the date as 12 September, and the place of death as 67, T.P. Koil Street, Triplicane, Chennai, which has been converted into a memorial. The death was registered on September 21. “The poet died at 1.30 a.m. on September 12 in 1921,” said Ravi Kalyanaraman of Vanavil Pannpattu Maiyam. “But September 11 was chosen as the official date, since according to Tamil tradition, the day starts only at sunrise. We observe both the days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-date-of-death/article36410402.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mandapam’s unknown history||It might sound strange to know but it is a fact that the Mandapam camp, spanning over 95 hectares, was originally set up by the Sri Lankan government in 1917. At that time, it was treated as a quarantine camp for labourers, hailing from different parts of Tamil Nadu, to be employed in tea estates of Sri Lanka’s central region. The workers were first taken through ships from Rameswaram to Talaimannar in the Northern Province. With the permission of the Central government, the camp’s ownership, including that of the land and buildings, was formally transferred to the Tamil Nadu government in September 1965 for Rs. 19 lakh. Between 1966 and 1984, the camp again became a transit point, this time for the reverse migration, thanks to two bilateral agreements. Totally, 4,60,724 persons were repatriated and given Indian citizenship. Since the 1983 pogrom, Tamil Nadu saw an influx of 3,04, 269 refugees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mandapams-unknown-history/article36410383.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat||A dak adalat will be held at office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Chennai city central division, Sivagnanam Road, on September 22 at 4 p.m. Residents may send their complaints related to postal services offered by the division by post or email dochennaicitycentral.tn@indiapost.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat/article36410374.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile clinic donated||Various Rotary Clubs donated a mobile clinic to Hindu Mission Hospital in Tambaram recently. This will help the hospital hold health camps in areas around Tambaram. Rotary Club of Madras Coromandel, Rotary Club of Chennai Evergreen (district 3232), and Rotary Club of the Hills Kelly Ville (district 9685), along with Customer Analytic, a city-based firm, donated the unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-clinic-donated/article36410406.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jiwal advises policemen against online gambling||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal advised personnel not to fall prey to online rummy and other gambling and lose their money. This advisory was issued after a constable, who lost his money while playing online rummy, attempting to end his life. In an internal communication on Friday, the Commissioner said a constable spent his time playing ‘online rummy gambling.’ As he lost money, he attempted to end his life. The Commissioner expressed anguish over the incident. The family members have been affected due to these wrongful deeds of personnel who should be an example for others. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jiwal-advises-policemen-against-online-gambling/article36410407.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Healthy heart month to be observed||With World Heart Day falling on September 29, Venkateswara Hospitals here will be observing this month as “Healthy heart month”, a release said. Su. Thillai Vallal, medical director of the hospital, said the idea was to create awareness about early detection and preventive steps that can be taken against cardiovascular diseases. He said the hospital would be offering free heart check-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthy-heart-month-to-be-observed/article36410408.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two boys drown in Tiruvallur||Two boys, aged 12 and 13, drowned in a link canal at Thirukadal village, near Sevvapet in Tiruvallur district, when they went to immerse Vinayaka idols on Friday, the police said. The victims were identified as K. Shyam Vignesh, 13, who was studying in Class VIII, and his friend P. Monish, 12, a Class VII student. The two slipped and fell into the link canal around 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-boys-drown-in-tiruvallur/article36410367.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Black fungus: official lauds T.N. doctors||Despite several challenges, the ophthalmologists in Tamil Nadu handled the recent outbreak of mucormycosis very well, said Principal Secretary of Health and Family Welfare department J. Radhakrishnan here on Saturday. Talking at “Madras ICON 2021,” the 68th annual conference of Tamil Nadu Ophthalmic Association (TNOA), he said that although there were challenges initially in sourcing adequate quantities of liposomal amphotericin, the primary drug used in the treatment of mucormycosis, the doctors treated the patients with available resources. Mohan Rajan, chairman and managing director of Rajan Eye Care Hospital, took charge as the president of the association on Saturday. V. Thangavelu, outgoing president, spoke. V. Madhavan, honorary secretary of TNOA, presented the annual report. TNOA awards presented V. Panneerselvam was presented the TNOA Dr. Joseph Gnanadickam Gold Medal Memorial Oration Award, Madhavan Natarajan was presented the TNOA Dr. G. Venkataswamy Community Ophthalmology Oration Award, and A. Parasuraman was presented the TNOA Lifetime Achievement Award for 2020 at the function. V. Arulmozhi Varman was the organising secretary of the “Madras ICON 2021.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-ophthalmologists-handled-mucormycosis-well/article36410384.ece
12 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Foundation laid for data centre park||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday laid the foundation for a Rs. 2,500-crore data centre park to be set up by Japan’s NTT Global Data Centres and Cloud Infrastructure in Ambattur. The Data Centre would be established in 5.89 acres, according to a statement. The project would create 700 jobs and includes plan to develop a 50 MW solar park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foundation-laid-for-data-centre-park/article36410521.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 kg gold seized at airport||About 3.125 kg gold, worth Rs. 1.33 crore, was seized by the Chennai Air Customs at the airport and two passengers were arrested, according to a release. Based on inputs from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Customs officials were looking for two passengers who came from Dubai in two flights, one at 2.30 a.m. and another at 4 a.m. When their check-in baggage was searched, 11 gold wires, weighing 3.125 kg, were found concealed in the metal fabricated lining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-kg-gold-seized-at-airport/article36410373.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Supplementary exam results tomorrow||The Directorate of Government Examinations has announced that the results and statement of marks for the Class XII supplementary exams, which were held in August, will be announced on September 13. To access the statement of marks, private candidates have been asked to log ontowww.dge.tn.gov.infrom 11 a.m. onwards by submitting their roll number and date of birth. The supplementary exams were conducted from August 6 to 19 in Tamil Nadu. The State government had exempted private candidates with disabilities, and had declared them “all pass” ahead of the supplementary exams. Mark statements for these candidates will be made available for download as well. Re-totalling of marks Candidates who want to apply for re-totalling of marks can do so on September 15 and 16 by visiting the Chief Educational Officer in their district, and pay the fee for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supplementary-exam-results-to-be-announced-tomorrow/article36410376.ece
12 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mega drive aims to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people in Coimbatore||The mega vaccination drive aims to administer COVID-19 vaccines to 1.5 lakh people in the district which will be held from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Sunday. The drive will be held in 1,475 centres in the district of which 1,167 are in rural parts and 308 are within the limits of the Coimbatore Corporation. A total of 5,900 persons including government doctors, nurses, staff from private hospitals, anganwadi workers and volunteers will take care of the mega drive in the district. P. Shankar, Chief Executive Officer, Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board, assessed the arrangements and held a meeting which was attended by District Collector G.S. Sameeran, City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor, Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, District Revenue Officer P.S. Leela Alex, Pollachi Sub-Collector Thakare Shubham Dnyandeorao, Assistant Collector(Trainee) R. Saranya, Deputy Director of Health Services P. Aruna, Joint Director of Health Services Chandra and other senior officials. According to Mr. Shankar, the mega vaccination drive has given more focus to Coimbatore and the Nilgiris districts as they share boundaries with Kerala. Out of the total population in Coimbatore district, which is 38,67,926 as per the estimation of the district administration, 27,07,550 persons are aged above 18. While 5,75,837 (21%) persons took both doses of the COVID-19 vaccines, 22,03,034 (81%) persons had their first dose. As many as 5,05,516 persons are yet to take their first dose. As of Saturday, 1,91,981 persons were waiting to have their second dose of vaccine - 1,45,785 (Covishield) and 46,196 (Covaxin). Mr. Shankar urged those aged above 18 who are yet to have their first dose or persons who are due to take their second dose of vaccine to make use of the opportunity. The 1,475 vaccination centres for the mega vaccination drive will be operated at primary health centres, anganwadis, government hospitals, infection-prone areas, hilly areas, remote locations and places close to Kerala border. Each centre will have a health worker who administers the vaccine, a computer operator and two assistants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-drive-aims-to-vaccinate-15-lakh-people-in-coimbatore/article36410430.ece
12 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Smooth-coated otter new addition to Coimbatore’s urban biodiversity||The elusive smooth-coated otter (Lutrogale perspicillata) has become the new addition to the urban biodiversity of Coimbatore as a city-based doctor recently spotted a single individual of the fish hunter mammal at Krishnampathy tank during a birding trip. A.M. Arun Vineeth from Saibaba Colony sighted a lone smooth-coated otter in the urban tank. “I am a beginner in birding. I went to the tank in the morning with camera, hoping to photograph water birds. To my surprise, an otter plunged into the tank from a dry area after sensing my presence. I could click a few photos as it lifted its head from the water and looked at me for sometime,” said Mr. Vineeth, who is currently preparing for post-graduation in medicine. Rare sighting Mr. Vineeth was not very sure that an otter could be a rare sighting in an urban tank. He shared the photos with some of the nature enthusiasts and came to know that otters were not seen in the tank in recent times. They opined that the otter could have come to the tank through river Noyyal. The Red List of Threatened Species of the International Union for Conservation of Nature has listed smooth-coated otter as ‘vulnerable’ species which has a decreasing population trend. Degradation of their habitats is said to be the main contributor to the decline in their population. According to J. Peter Prem Chakravarthy, biologist with the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), smooth-coated otter, Eurasian otter and small-clawed otter are the species of otters seen in the Western Ghats and central parts of India. He attributed that the sighting of the otter in the urban waterbody could an indicator of abundance of food resource, mainly fish and crab. “Smooth-coated otters are described as crepuscular which means they are more active in the evening and early morning. They could also be active at night due to which people do not seem them,” he said. ATR is home to smooth-coated otter, Eurasian otter and small-clawed otter, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smooth-coated-otter-new-addition-to-coimbatores-urban-biodiversity/article36410437.ece
12 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for murder||The Vadavalli police on Saturday arrested three persons in connection with the murder of a construction worker. The arrested include the younger brother of the deceased. The arrested have been identified as V. Krishakumar (50), a resident of Thiru Vi Ka Street at P.N. Pudur, his wife K. Neelaveni and her elder sister’s son Javahar Prakash (27) from Vellalore. The police said that Krishnakumar’s brother V. Balasubramani (59) was found dead with multiple injuries in his house at Selva Nagar near Vadavalli on Thursday. The post-mortem findings revealed that Balasubramani died of multiple injuries. During investigation, the police found that Balasubramani had been living alone at the house. after his wife and three children left him due to his alcoholism. Krishnakumar had been living close to Balasubramani’s house and he moved to P.N. Pudur due to alleged disturbances caused by the latter under the influence of alcohol. Though he had moved to P.N. Pudur, Krishnakumar had left some materials at this house. Balasubramani sold some of the materials to buy alcohol. The police questioned Krishnakumar who confessed to have murdered his brother along with his wife and her sister's son. The three beat Balasubramani to death using an iron pipe, said the police. A police team headed by Vadavalli inspector S. Anandhakumar and sub-inspector N. Jeganath arrested the accused for offence under Section 302 (punishment for murder).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-murder/article36410435.ece
12 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Laghu Udyog Bharati to focus on micro units||Laghu Udyog Bharati will form a wing with focus on micro units across the State. The aim is to identify the challenges for micro units and to support these units. This will be the focus across Tamil Nadu for the association. Discussions are on at the State level and the main issues will be identified soon, said S. Ravichandran, the newly-elected president of the association's Coimbatore chapter. In Coimbatore, the association wants to strengthen its presence by expanding its member network to 1,000 from the current level of 200, he added. The other office-bearers are M. Satyanarayanan (secretary) and Su. Sudasivam (treasurer).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/laghu-udyog-bharati-to-focus-on-micro-units/article36410425.ece
12 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Project for students launched||Coimbatore Corporation in collaboration with Aram Foundation Charitable Trust and Robert Bosch Engineering and Business Solutions Pvt Ltd (CSR) has launched a project for the mental well-being of the students of the 83 corporation schools. The “Tele Survey and Counselling” project which is the first of its kind in corporation schools would benefit more than 19,000-plus students of the corporation schools and 10,000 students of the government schools. The project was formally launched by Raja Gopal Sunkara, Corporation Commissioner in the presence of Bezeleel Johnson, CSR project lead (REBI), Micheal Raj, CEO, Coimbatore Corporation, and Latha Sundaram, Managing Trustee, and J. Gokul Raj, founder trustee, Aram Foundation Charitable Trust. Challenges In this phase of the global Covid-19 pandemic, schools have confronted unprecedented challenges as they had to move quickly and adapt to online formats of education, struggling to provide equitable access to all students and supporting teachers and students on educational needs and making plans amid uncertainty. This has caused a lot of worry, stress, grief, economic pressure, given rise to malnutrition issues, abuse issues, increase in dropouts and other child protection issues thereby challenging the mental health issues of children in schools. The project will enable a basic survey to identify such issues with individual case studies and liaising them to the appropriate resource persons. The main objective of the project is to pep up the confidence level of the children, boost their possibility and prevent break in studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/project-for-students-launched/article36410427.ece
12 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BPCL introduces AI-based chatbot||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited recently introduced ‘Urja’, a chatbot based on artificial intelligence, to enable quicker resolution of consumer queries. A release said the virtual assistant has Natural Language Processing capabilities and can interact with consumers in English and 12 Indian languages. It can be used for several functions including LPG cylinder bookings. ‘Urja’ can also be accessed via WhatsApp using the linkhttp://bit.ly/3to7i3jand on BPCL’s websitewww.bharatpetroleum.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bpcl-introduces-ai-based-chatbot/article36410426.ece
12 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Duchenne Awareness Day celebrated||World Duchenne Awareness Day (WDAD 2021) was celebrated online as a three-day programme from September 7 to 9 under the theme ‘Adult life & Duchenne’. A special motivational speech by Neeya Nanaa fame Gopinath on the theme “Live at the Moment” was followed by a question answer session handled by the panel of professionals - Dr. B.R. Lakshmi, Managing Director, Molecular Diagnostics Counselling Care and Research Centre (MDCRC), Noorul Amin Shahid, consultant physiatrist and Sridevi, pyschologist, and more than 400 persons participated in the session. On September 8, a short film “Kaalam Kathiru, Kaayam Poruthiru” directed by MDCRC team was screened. On the final day teen groups were assigned the topic "Dream come true," in which they described their dreams and the assistance they need to attain their goals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/duchenne-awareness-day-celebrated/article36410422.ece
12 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down on Sept 14||In view of the proposed monthly maintenance works to be undertaken at the Seeranaickenpalayam sub-station on September 14, there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the following areas: Seeranaickenpalayam, Pappanaicken Pudur, Vadavalli, Vedapatty, Veerakeralam, Telungupalayam, Velandipalayam, Sai Baba Colony, part of Sundapalayam and Selvapuram.  Madhamatty sub-station: Madampatty, Alandurai, Kuppanur, Karadimadai, Poondi, Semmedu, Theethipalayam, Perur, Goundanur, Kalampalayam and Perur Chettipalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down-on-sept-14/article36410428.ece
12 September 2021||COIMBATORE/TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Lok adalats held in Coimbatore, Tiruppur||A total of 1,339 cases and a sum of Rs. 7.78 crore were settled in the Lok Adalat held at the Combined Court Complex in Coimbatore on Saturday. The adalat was held under the supervision of Principal District Judge and the Chairman of District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) R. Sakthivel and DLSA secretary (in-charge) first additional subordinate judge K. Krishnapriya.  Judicial officers A total of 14 judicial officers took part in the adalat. The adalat in Tiruppur district was held under the supervision of Principal District Judge and the chairman of DLSA Swarnam J. Natarajan, Family Court Judge V.P. Sugandhi, presiding officer of Exclusive Motor Accident Claims Tribunal G. Nagarajan, Chief Judicial Magistrate V. Pugazhenthi and secretary of DLSA/Additional Sub-Judge V. Breznev. As many as 15 judicial officers took part in the adalat in which 1,403 cases were heard. A total of 815 cases and a sum of Rs 36.7 were settled, said statement issued by DLSA, Tiruppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lok-adalats-held-in-coimbatore-tiruppur/article36410423.ece
12 September 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Wooing public with a lucky draw||The officials in Natham Town Panchayat in Dindigul district have announced a lucky draw for the public taking vaccine shots for COVID-19 virus on Sunday. The State government has planned a mega-campaign across Tamil Nadu on September 12 and targeted to inoculate 25 lakh people. All the district administrations Corporations, Municipalties and Town Panchayats and others have identified centres in their respective jurisdiction. In a bid to woo the maximum number of people to get benefited through the special camps, the officials here in Natham have announced “attractive” gifts for 53 people. Disclosing the first prize, Executive Officer Saravanakumar told reporters on Saturday that they would give an Android mobile phone as first prize, an electric oven (second prize) and a mobile gadget with which a person can test his sugar level as third prize. Fifty others will get consolation gifts The public can walk in with their Aadhar card to any of the anganwadi centres in the town panchayat including Kovilpatti East Anganwadi, Pappapatti Anganwadi and Mariamman Kovil Street Anganwadi among others from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. The officials had recently said that they have sufficient stock of the vaccine. Depending on the turnout, the vaccines would be moved to the centres at the shortest time possible. “We have taken all precautions to ensure that there would be no overcrowding at any of the centres. On an average, a minimum of 200 people can get inoculated at each centre,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wooing-public-with-a-lucky-draw/article36410501.ece
12 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Demolition of old commercial complex at Erode central bus stand begins||Demolition of the old commercial complex at the Corporation’s central bus stand began here on Saturday to pave way for the construction of a new one at Rs. 14.14 crore. The bus stand and the commercial complex were constructed in 1973. Under the Smart Cities Mission, the civic body has proposed to modernise the terminus, including demolishing the structurally unstable complex and constructing a new one, at a total cost of Rs. 39.50 crore. The Corporation served notices on the merchants occupying the complex to vacate the shops. Members of the Erode Bus Stand Merchants Association filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court against the notice. However, the court said implementing the project was the government’s policy decision and gave time till August 31, 2021 for merchants to vacate. On the last day of the deadline, the merchants removed their belongings and vacated the shops. On Saturday, the contractor began demolishing the old complex and the work is expected to be completed in three days. Officials said that after removing the debris from the construction site, work will commence to lay foundation for the new complex. Meanwhile, modernisation works at Rs. 15.94 crore, establishing an additional parking lot and bus stand for mini buses at Rs. 5.76 crore, development works, including construction of a compound wall at Rs. 9.48 crore have commenced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demolition-of-old-commercial-complex-at-erode-central-bus-stand-begins/article36410518.ece
12 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two drown in River Cauvery||Two youth from Kerala drowned in River Cauvery at Karanampalayam check dam here on Saturday evening. Police said the victims, B. Kiran Babu (23) of Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta district and P. Edu (22) of Ponnani in Malappuram district, along with their friends had come to Chennimalai to meet a friend. Later, the two along with seven others went to the check dam for bathing. At 3.30 p.m., the two ventured into deep waters and drowned. Fire and Rescue Services personnel and Malayampalayam police retrieved the bodies and sent them to Government Erode Medical College and Hospital in Perundurai for postmortem. Police said that all the youth, including the victims, were in an inebriated condition when the incident happened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-drown-in-river-cauvery/article36410506.ece
12 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Banned gutka items seized||The police, on Saturday, seized 900 kg banned gutka items worth Rs. 3.27 lakh from a pickup van transporting vegetables at Bargur check-post. The police intercepted the van with Karnataka registration number plying from Mysuru to Coimbatore at 4 a.m. and found the contraband. Van driver V. Yaswanth (22) and his assistant N. Somsekar (25), both from Mysuru, were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-gutka-items-seized/article36410519.ece
12 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Two held for murder||Two persons were arrested in connection with a murder at Rangampalayam here. Police said S. Madhan (26) of Valayakara Street was in a relationship with Manju (26), a married woman. The two were staying at Iraniyan Street at Rangampalayam. Following an altercation between the two, Manju with the help of her alleged new paramour Rajan (35) strangled Madhan to death. She had told Madhan’s relatives that he fell unconscious in the house and was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead. Based on inquiries, Erode Taluk Police registered a case of murder and arrested Manju and Rajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-murder/article36410520.ece
12 September 2021||ERODE/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||100th death anniversary of Bharathiar observed||Rich tributes were paid to poet Subramania Bharati on his 100th death anniversary here on Saturday. At the Mahakavi Bharathi Memorial Library at Karungalpalayam in the city, District Collector H. Krishnanunni garlanded the bust of the poet and paid floral tributes. The library was started as a reading room in 1901 and Bharathiyar visited it on July 31, 1921 and delivered a speech on the topic “Man is Immortal”, he last before his death. The reading room was then renamed after him and the building was renovated by the district administration at Rs. 23 lakh and upgraded into a library on March 3, 1978. The library then got a gallery of exclusive photographs of Bharathi, and a statue of the poet was unveiled in 2009. In Salem, members of political parties and various organisations paid respects to freedom fighter and poet Subramania Bharathi on his death anniversary on Saturday. They garlanded his statue near Town Railway Station here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/100th-death-anniversary-of-bharathiar-observed/article36410510.ece
12 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Parks with a ‘Sangam literature’ theme to come up along the Vaigai||While inspecting the works undertaken by the Madurai Corporation as part of the Vaigai River Front Development Programme that comes under the Smart City Mission near the Palam Station Road, Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan said that two parks with a ‘Sangam literature’ theme will come up along the banks of the Vaigai. The two parks that are planned on the roads parallel to the river, will have paintings and other features based on the Sangam literature Paripaadal which has about nine songs that mentions Madurai. Other beautification works around the Kalpalam bridge and few identified spots closer to it will also have a ‘Sangam literature’ theme. While addressing the media, he said “The idea is to incorporate drawings based on the Sangam literature along the sides of the river, wherever possible. Apart from that, we are also looking at the option of providing an enhanced space for walking and cycling, on the roads on the banks of the river.” A quality open gymnasium will also come up at a space near the Palam Station Road to facilitate youngsters in the area to involve themselves in sports-related activities. He added that efforts were being taken to review the works undertaken in the Smart City Mission in Madurai, as he would be attending the Smart City Advisory Forum meeting that is to be held on September 17. Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan who was also present said that they were also analysing the option of making the Kal Paalam more pedestrian-friendly. “Apart from adding colourful elements based on the Sangam literature into the Kal Paalam’s structure, we are going to streamline vehicle parking here. It might be pedestrianised in the future. We are also planning to make the place look aesthetically pleasing, with the installation of few vertical gardens. Most of these landscaping plans will be finalised in a month’s time after which implementation will begin,” he added. Though the locations for the parks are yet to be finalised, one of them is expected to come up at a space closer to Obula Padithurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parks-with-a-sangam-literature-theme-to-come-up-along-the-vaigai/article36410493.ece
12 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Youth found dead in well||G. Eswaran, 19, of Mallapuram under M. Kallupatti police station limits, who was missing from September 4, was found dead inside a well at Soolapuram near Usilampatti on Friday. The police said that Nallammal (45), mother of the deceased, in her complaint has raised suspicion of foul play over his death and has blamed another youth of Soolapuram in this connection. The police said that 10 youths of Mallapuram, belonging to one group, had quarrelled with the youth from Soolapuram on charge of rash riding of motorbike in their village recently. Later, they had gone to his house and picked a quarrel following which the youth had lodged a police complaint. While seven of the youths appeared before the police and they went for a compromise with the complainant, Eswaran went missing. However, police said that neither Eswaran was summoned for enquiry nor did he appear before the police. The family members had not lodged any man missing complaint till the body was recovered from the well. The police said that based on the post-mortem report, further enquiry would be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-found-dead-in-well/article36410492.ece
12 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police constable killed in accident||P. Alagupandi, 28, a constable attached to Madurai City Armed Reserve, was killed when a speeding SUV hit his motorcycle on Tirumangalam Road near Thanakkankulam junction in the small hours of Friday. Police said that the 2013-batch police constable was deployed at Tirupparankundram hills. When he was going for duty from his native place in Karadikkal, the SUV driven by C.Pon Irul of Sivakasi had knocked him down. He was killed on the spot. Austinpatti police have arrested the SUV driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-constable-killed-in-accident/article36410478.ece
12 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Constable killed||P. Alagupandi, 28, a constable attached to Madurai City Armed Reserve, was killed when a speeding SUV hit the motorbike on which he was riding on Tirumangalam Road near Thanakkankulam junction in the small hours of Friday. The police said that the 2013-batch of police constable, Alagupandi was deployed for duty at Tirupparankundram hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-killed/article36410502.ece
12 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MDU-Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 131.40 feet (permissible level 142 ft) with an inflow of 768 cusecs and discharge of 1300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 59.56 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 689 cusecs and a discharge of 1,819 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,353 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Thekkady 0.4, PWD officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdu-water-level/article36410495.ece
12 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Youth stabbed to death||C. Vigneshwaran, 22, of Pandian Nagar was stabbed to death at HMS Colony here on Friday when he went to question the accused, Arun Prakash, for having assaulted a watchman. The deceased, a driver, had gone with his friend Gautham after his father, a watchman in a construction site, was assaulted by the accused. When the friends went there to question Arun Prakash, he stabbed Vigneshwaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-stabbed-to-death/article36410479.ece
12 September 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||NGO thanks Union govt||The International Fishermen Development Trust (INFIDET) here has thanked the Union government for its efforts in getting nine fishermen, from Kanniyakumari district, released from the Iran prisons. According to a press release issued here on Saturday, Trust president Justin Antony said that under charges of illegally entering into their waters, the Iran government had arrested Albert Ravi (38), Godwin John (40), Daynas (40), Arockia Ligin (24), Sahaya Vijay (22), Michael Adimai (45), Joseph Besky (50), Jesudas (27) and Velington (36) on January 17, 2020. Several representations to the Centre and the Indian Embassy officials in Iran had finally paved way for the release of the fishermen on August 27. After due process, the Iranian authorities handed over the nine fishermen at the Embassy office. Arrangements were being made for their journey back home and the family members were eagerly waiting for the reunion, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngo-thanks-union-govt/article36410500.ece
12 September 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||This palm grove is cynosure of all eyes||A remote village in Pudukottai district and a 72-year-old farmer have garnered public attention for having raised a lush palm grove with nearly 10,000 trees in the village tank at a time when the government is seeking to give a push to raising palm trees across the State. Nearly half of the sprawling tank, Pandikulam at Pandikudi in Aranthangi panchayat union, is densely populated with palm trees now, thanks to an initiative of a visionary farmer, M. Thirupathi, and his then young friends, who took up a plantation drive in the rain-fed area over three decades ago. The palm seedlings were planted in 1985-86 by Mr. Thirupathi, with the help of young village children, under the auspices of a village welfare club that he had started in his youth, naming it after the famous Tamil poet, Bharathiar. “We used to organise sports and other events for school children under the auspices of the Bharathiar Narpani Mandram. At one stage, we felt that we should do something that would bring longterm good for the village and hence decided to take up tree planting,” Mr.Thirupathi, a Class V dropout, said. “We chose to plant palm seeds as other tree species would require maintenance and protection. I and the children collected the seeds from some old palm trees in the village and planted them in the village tank for two consecutive years. Today, nearly half of the 300-acre tank is populated with the fruit-bearing trees while the other half has some water. There are about 8,000 full-grown trees on the higher grounds of the tank and another 2,000 young ones, planted about 15 years ago, on its banks,” Mr. Thirupathi said. Apart from local residents, those from neighbouring villages also visit the ‘panankadu’ to harvest the fruits and the palymra leaves for free. “We don’t stop them. A group of youths from some neighbouring villages recently visited our village to collect palm seeds and on finding the lush grove started spreading news of its existence,” Mr. Thirupathi said. Minister visits Minister for Environment Siva V. Meyyanathan, who represents the Alangudi constituency in the district, also came to hear about it and made it a point to visit the village on Saturday. He interacted with Mr. Thirupathi and other villagers and appreciated their far-sightedness. “We placed a few demands before him and sought his help in producing value-added palm products and marketing. He has assured to help us,” Mr.Thirupathi said. Mr. Meyyanathan pointed out that the Agriculture Minister had announced that 70 lakh palm seeds would be planted in the State this year and added that the 10,000 palm trees in the village could yield about one lakh seeds which can be distributed to the entire Alangudi constituency. He promised an approach road to the tank and steps to remove the ‘seema karuvelam’ trees from the tank and clear silt accumulation on its inlet channels. He also inaugurated work on laying an approach road to the village burial ground at a cost of Rs. 7.18 lakh. “We are a small and peaceful village where about 120 families live harmoniously. I am happy that the village has caught the attention of outside world due to our panankadu and the government is giving a push to protect and raise palm trees,” Mr. Thirupathi said.  For the long run Palm was chosen as it requires less maintenance and protection Seeds from old palm trees were planted in the village tank for two years There are 8,000 mature trees and 2,000 young ones raised 15 years back on the bank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-palm-grove-is-cynosure-of-all-eyes/article36410487.ece
12 September 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Three students test positive in Pudukottai||Three students here reported COVID-19 positive, increasing the total number of students who have contracted the viral infection in Pudukottai over the last week to nine. One of the three students was a secondary contact of a girl who reported COVID-19 positive from Mullankurichi earlier this week. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior official of the Department of Health said that on Friday evening, a boy from a private school in Aranthangi reported COVID-19 positive. The child experienced slight symptoms. Meanwhile, on Saturday morning, a 14-year-old classmate of the Class 10 girl who reported positive at the Adi Dravidar School in Mullankurichi also reported positive. One boy from Government Polytechnic College also contracted the infection. “While we have not fully closed any of these institutions, we are urging the students to not come to school if they experience any of the symptoms. They have also been advised to maintain personal distance throughout the time they are in school or college. The department is conducting random sampling at all educational institutions to contain the spread of the infection,” the official said.  We are conducting random sampling at all educational institutions to contain the spread of the infection Health official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-students-test-positive-in-pudukottai/article36410488.ece
12 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Immanuel Sekaran’s death anniversary passes off peacefully||Political party representatives, MPs and MLAs, central and State Ministers offered tributes at the memorial of Tyagi Immanuel Sekaran marking his 64th death anniversary at Paramakudi near here on Saturday. With a two-month long curfew imposed by the district administration since September 9, there were a number of regulations laid out by the police for visitors from other districts. There was a large presence of about 3,000 police personnel. Senior officers drawn from other districts led by ADGP (law and order) Thamaraikannan, IGP (south zone) T. S. Anbu, DIG of Police (Ramanathapuram Range) Mylvaganan, Ramanathapuram SP E. Karthik among others supervised the bandobust arrangements. Police had erected checkposts at 35-odd locations and vehicles with passes issued by the district administration were permitted, police said and added that TASMAC outlets were shut in Madurai, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram districts today. Representing the TN government, Transport Minister Raja Kannappan laid a wreath and offered homage at the manimandapam accompanied by MLAs Kadarbatcha Muthuramalingam, A. Tamilarasi (Manamadurai), S. Murugesan (Paramakudi), Venkatesan (Sholavandan), Raja (Sankarankoil) and Stalin Kumar (Thurayur). From the AIADMK, former MP Anwar Raja and former minister Rajalakshmi offered tributes. Congress MLA Selvaperunthagai, BJP State president Annamalai and Union Minister L. Murugan and others paid tributes. The MDMK was represented by MLA Pudur M. Boominathan and Sathan Thirumalaikumar. Functionaries from the VCK, PMK, TMC and PT also laid wreaths and offered homage. Speaking to reporters, BJP leader Mr Annamalai said that the Union government had kept its promise regarding representation from Devendrakula Vellalars. Many party functionaries hailed the sacrifices made by Tyagi Immanuel Sekaran for the upliftment of Scheduled Caste and other downtrodden people in the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/immanuel-sekarans-death-anniversary-passes-off-peacefully/article36410499.ece
12 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam increased||The discharge from Mettur Dam into River Cauvery was increased to 12,000 cusecs on Saturday. According to the Public Works Department officials, the water level at the dam was 76.18ft against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity was 38,255 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 10,510 cusecs. The discharge from the dam into Cauvery was 5,000 cusecs at 8 a.m on Saturday and it was increased to 12,000 cusecs from 1 p.m. The discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 750 cusecs. The outflow was increased owing to demand from the delta region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-increased/article36410511.ece
12 September 2021||SALEM/ ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Mega COVID-19 vaccination drive in districts today||Mega COVID-19 vaccination drive will be conducted in polling booths, government hospitals and primary health centres in the districts on Sunday. Tokens distributed In Salem, the drive will be held at 1,356 centres and District Collector S.Karmegham launched the distribution of tokens on Saturday. Mr.Karmegham said the drive would be conducted in 1,235 polling booths, 107 primary health centres, 12 Government hospitals, ESI Hospital and Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital (GMKMCH). A field worker has been deployed for every 50 houses to collect vaccination details. Both Covishield and Covaxin doses will be available at the camps. The Collector, on Saturday, launched an awareness campaign at GMKMCH. He had also flagged off awareness vehicles on Friday. Salem Corporation Commissioner T.Christuraj said in a release that the vaccination drive would be conducted at 200 places in the Corporation limits. About 200 vaccinators, 200 data entry operators, 400 co-ordinators, 200 supervisors, 174 school teachers, 30 nodal officers, 10 zonal officers, 16 medical officers and 600 field workers have been deployed for the programme. Mr.Chirsturaj addressed the field workers at Moongampadi Government Girls Higher Secondary School here. 700 centres in Namakkal District Collector Shreya P.Singh said the mega vaccination drive would be conducted at 700 centres in Namakkal district. Ms.Singh reviewed the arrangements for the drive with senior officials and Union Chairmen on Friday. She told presspersons they were targeting to vaccinate 1 lakh persons through the drive. Special awareness camps were organised through poultry and truck associations here as they frequently travel for business purposes. She advised the lorry drivers who are yet to vaccinate to make use of the camp. Ms.Singh said that approximately 60% of target population in the district had received vaccination. About 7.16 lakh persons have taken their first dose and 1.81 lakh persons have received second dose in the district. 847 centres in Erode All arrangements are in place to conduct the mega vaccination camp at 847 centres across the district from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Sunday. A total of 1,05,400 doses are available to vaccinate persons aged above 18, for their first or second dose. A total of 3,000 workers will administering the vaccines, and 70 mobile centres would also be operated to reach out to people and workers across the district. The camps will be held at urban and rural primary health centres and sub-centres and schools. Collector H. Krishnanunni requested people to make use of the camp and get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-districts-today/article36410513.ece
12 September 2021||SALEM/ ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths, 55 new cases in Salem||Salem district on Saturday reported 55 fresh COVID-19 cases and two deaths According to the health officials, 48 cases were indigenous and 15 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Seven patients had returned from Namakkal, Dharmapuri, and Kalakuruchi. Namakkal district reported 52 new cases and one death. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Dharmapuri reported 16 indigenous cases and Krishnagiri 21 cases. Erode district reported 151 new cases, taking the overall tally to 99,697. While 128 persons were discharged, 1,258 persons continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 664. While Coimbatore district registered 224 new cases on Saturday, Tiruppur saw 91 fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-55-new-cases-in-salem/article36410508.ece
12 September 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||National Lok Adalat held||The National Lok Adalat was held at the Salem District Court and sub-courts here on Saturday. Principal District Judge S. Kumaraguru, who launched the conduct of the Adalat, said that about 2,591 cases have been taken up for hearing. He said the Adalat was aimed at reducing pendency of cases and litigants would not be able to approach higher courts for appeal on cases once settled at the Adalat. Accident cases, labour and employment dispute cases, matrimonial dispute cases, land acquisition and other civil cases are taken up for hearing at the Adalat. As many as 5,211 cases were heard and 3,011 cases were settled. A settlement amount of Rs. 38.26 crore was issued. In Namakkal, Principal District Judge N. Gunasekaran launched the conduct of Lok Adalat in the district. About 21 cases that were pending for over five years were settled. As many as 1,030 cases were taken up for hearing and the settlement amount of Rs. 13.68 crore was issued in 356 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-lok-adalat-held/article36410515.ece
12 September 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Fire in illegal cracker unit: One killed, 8 injured||C. Shanmugaraj, 60, of Thayilpatti, was charred to death and eight others including, women, suffered burn injuries in a fire reported at an illegal cracker making unit at Thayilapatti on Friday. Among the injured the condition of M. Balamurugan, who ran the cracker unit at his house in SBM Street, M. Muthulakshmi, S. Selvamary, S. Muthu Muneeswari, M. Suganthi, M. Seethalakshmi and M. Muthuraj, all from Thayilatti, were said to be critical. The injured have been admitted to different hospitals in Madurai and Virudhunagar districts. The police said that Shanmugaraj was involved in sieving chemicals for making crackers in the tiled-roof shed belonging to Balamurugan, when friction sparked a fire that led to an explosion. The incident occurred at around 9.50 a.m. Shanmugaraj was rushed to the Government Hospital in Sivakasi, where he succumbed to burns around noon. Vembakottai police said that the police had already booked Balamurugan twice in 2020 and 2021 for illegal manufacturing of crackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-in-illegal-cracker-unit-one-killed-8-injured/article36410504.ece
12 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||A polling booth in city for Russian election||Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday will play a small but meaningful role in the elections to the State Duma, the lower house of the Russian parliament. Around 25 Russian nationals residing in Kerala are expected to cast their vote at a polling station set up in the Honorary Consulate of the Russian Federation at the Russian House here. Polling will kick off at 11 a.m., Ratheesh C. Nair, Honorary Consul of the Russian Federation, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-polling-booth-in-city-for-russian-election/article36410248.ece
12 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan MP calls for Indian citizenship to Tamil refugees||Sri Lankan Tamil MP V. S. Radhakrishnan has urged the State and Central governments to accord Indian citizenship to Sri Lankan Tamil refugees who live in different parts of Tamil Nadu. Addressing reporters in Tiruchi after meeting K. M. Kader Mohideen, president, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) here on Saturday, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that a large number of Sri Lankan Tamils, including those who had worked in plantations and took asylum in India due to the civil war in Sri Lanka, had been living in various refugee camps in Tamil Nadu for several years. Since the civil war had ended over 10 years ago the Sri Lankan Tamils could return to their native places. But the livelihood opportunities for them, particularly plantation workers, were bleak. Hence, many Tamils continued to live in India. Considering their plight, the Indian government should accord citizenship to them. It was commendable to note that Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had taken steps to improve the living conditions of Sri Lankan Tamil refugees. He should take steps to get citizenship for them. Stating that a few countries had offered dual citizenship to Sri Lankan Tamils, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that the Indian government could take a cue from them to offer dual citizenship. If there were any security-related issues on it, the Indian government should find a solution to the long-pending demand. Chinese influence To a question on Chinese influence in Sri Lanka, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that he could not subscribe to the observation that China had been interfering in Sri Lankan affairs. But it had been showing an aggressive interest in strengthening its economic activities in Sri Lanka. While developing Colombo Port City, China had taken steps to set up hybrid wind and solar energy projects on three islands, which were close to the Indian coast. The security concern in India on growing Chinese influence was understandable, Mr. Radhakrishnan said and added that the Sri Lankan Tamil parties had vehemently opposed the port development project. But the ruling party, which had a majority in the Parliament, passed the Bill on the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-mp-calls-for-indian-citizenship-to-tamil-refugees/article36410482.ece
12 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi ready for mega vaccination camp||The district administration has made extensive arrangements for the mega COVID-19 vaccination drive to be held across the State on Sunday. The vaccines would be administered through 631 camps, of which 505 would be in the rural and semi-urban parts of the district, while 126 camps would in Tiruchi city. Through this effort, the district administration aims to reach 1,37,500 people and ensure that over 70% of the population is vaccinated. The centres will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. “We are taking the vaccine as close to the the doorstep of the people as we can. We hope the people make the best use of it,” a senior health official told The Hindu . In Tiruchi city alone, camps will be held at seven locations under each of the 18 Primary Healthcare Centres. Government and private schools, anganwadi centres, community halls, and corporation parks have been identified as locations for the drive. Public places such as Central Bus Stand and a few hospitals have also been earmarked. Around 191 doses of the vaccine have been made available at each of the 126 locations, making up a total of 24,066 doses. Of the over 24,000 doses, around 16,000 are Covishield and 4,000 are Covaxin. All eligible beneficiaries over the age of 18 can visit any centre near their residence and take the first or second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Civic body officials conducted meetings with residents’ welfare associations, civil society organisations, and merchant organisations seeking their cooperation. A mass awareness drive, including a video on social media, and two lakh pamphlets were distributed. Twenty autorickshaws and 70 of the corporation’s Light Commercial Vehicles were deployed to make announcements on the locations of the vaccination camps. The messages were customised to fit the ward and locality, so only nearby vaccination sites were announced in each locality. Each site will have one nodal officer, two vaccinators, a data entry operator and a supervising official. Some nursing colleges in the city have supported the civic body by allowing their students to volunteer as vaccinators or assistants at some camps. The public may visit www.trichycorporation.gov.in for further details and locating the nearest vaccination camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-ready-for-mega-vaccination-camp/article36410489.ece
12 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Uyyakondan canal to get a new life||The State government plans a complete renovation and rehabilitation of the Uyyakondan canal so as to arrest the sewage flow into it. In an informal chat with reporters here after inaugurating the plantation of 1.25 lakh saplings at Mela Vadugapatti, Minister for Municipal Administration K. N. Nehru said that sewage was being let into the Uyyakondan canal at various places. To find a permanent solution, the Public Works Department (PWD) had decided to execute a rehabilitation project. According to preliminary estimates, it was expected that the project would cost Rs. 426 crore. The entire stretch of the canal from Pettavaithalai in Karur district to Vazhavanthankottai in Thanjavur district would be renovated and rehabilitated so as to protect the canal from the impact of urbanisation. Collector S. Sivarasu would hold a meeting with the senior PWD and Corporation officials on Monday. All issues related to the canal would be discussed in detail so as to list out the works to be taken up, Mr. Nehru said. Mr. Sivarasu said that it was found that sewage was being let out into the canal at 32 points along the 15-km long city stretch. The proposed meeting would discuss the ways and means to protect the water for irrigation from urban pollution. Based on it, a Detailed Project Report would be prepared. The canal, which was believed to have been developed about 1,000-year ago in Chola period, is facing the onslaught of urban pollution for several years. The canal, which originates from the Cauvery river near Pettavaithalai, traverses for about 70 km via Puthur weir, Anna Nagar, Palakkarai and Vazhavanthankottai in Thanjavur district. It irrigates over 32,000 acres. It also feeds over 36 small and big irrigation tanks in Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts. But rapid urbanisation has caused heavy pollution of the canal. Solid waste is also dumped at several points. Attempts had been made in the recent past to rehabilitate the city stretch of the canal. The PWD implemented a rehabilitation project at an estimate of Rs. 11.50 crore and constructed retaining walls on a 1,250-metre stretch near Palakkarai a few years ago. Pat for Young Indians Earlier, Mr. Nehru applauded the participation of Young Indians (Yi) Tiruchi, a part of Confederation of Indian Industry, in raising the plantation under the Miyawaki method of urban forestry, in Bikshandarkoil. He presented mementos to Kaveri Annamalai, chair, Yi, Tiruchi chapter; Pradeep, co-chair; Gopinath Kumaran, chair- rural initiatives; and members of CII and Yi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uyyakondan-canal-to-get-a-new-life/article36410474.ece
12 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Air pistol found abandoned at temple||An air pistol was found abandoned at a temple in Alipatti near Manapparai on Saturday. Villagers alerted the police who have taken the weapon into their custody. According to police sources, the pistol was found at the entrance of the temple. A villager noticed it and alerted the police around noon. The time at which the air pistol was placed at the village temple could not be determined by the police. The police rushed to the place and took possession of the pistol, which has been sent to a laboratory to check for fingerprints. Further investigations are on. A case has been registered under Section 102 of the Code of Criminal Procedure - property suspected to have been stolen, or which may be found under circumstances which create suspicion of the commission of any offence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-pistol-found-abandoned-at-temple/article36410483.ece
12 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Soft drink bottles seized||Officials of the Department of Food Safety have seized about 3,000 litres of soft drinks from a manufacturing unit at Bheema Nagar in the city on Thursday as the bottles did not carry the manufacture and expiry dates. The seizure was made during an inspection conducted by a team of officials led by R. Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration, Tiruchi. Dr .Babu said samples of the product had also been lifted and sent for testing. He warned of stern action under the Food Safety and Standards Act 2006 against manufacturers, if soft drinks without manufacturing and expiry dates were sold in the market. Fourth camp Meanwhile, 311 food business operators and their family members were administered COVID 19 vaccine at a special camp organised in Thuraiyur on Saturday. This was the fourth such camp being organised in the district, Dr. Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soft-drink-bottles-seized/article36410477.ece
12 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Slight rise in cases||The central region of the State has reported 324 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, registering a slight increase when compared to the past few days. Fatalities also witnessed a slight increase as eight more patients died - two each in Mayiladuthurai and Tiruchi and one each in Ariyalur, Karur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur districts. Thanjavur reported a slight increase with 117 patients testing positive. Tiruchi recorded 47 cases. Tiruvarur reported 39 cases. Ariyalur reported a sudden spike with 31 patients testing positive. Nagapattinam registered 26 fresh cases and neighbouring Mayiladuthurai 24. Pudukottai witnessed a slight dip with 18 fresh cases. Meanwhile, 17 fresh cases were reported in Karur. In Perambalur district, five patients tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slight-rise-in-cases/article36410490.ece
12 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Saturday stood at 76.30 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 11,873 cusecs and the discharge was 12,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article36410476.ece
12 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Vacancies in Tangedco will be filled up in a phased manner’||Vacancies in Tangedco will be filled up in a phased manner, said Electricity Minister Senthil Balaji here on Saturday. The Minister was in the city to review the functioning of Tangedco offices in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts. Speaking to reporters, he said that out of 1.16 lakh employees, 56,000 vacancies were to be filled up in the electricity board across the State. “We cannot take them in one go...We will examine the modalities as to the areas which require manpower immediately and accordingly start the recruitment exercise,” he added. When asked that against the sanctioned strength of 270, Tirunelveli Tangedco had only 80 gangmen, he said that the issue would be taken up shortly. The Minister said that he had mentioned in the policy note in the Assembly the plans for Tangedco for the next 5-10 years. As and when the session gets over in the Legislative Assembly by Monday, Mr Senthil Balaji said that they would go ahead with development works in full swing. He said that it had been planned to study the power requirement district-wise and find ways to generate them in the same locality. Establishing solar parks locally will help in checking transmission loss, he said. Similarly, to another query on converting the consumer billing pattern into a monthly cycle, he said that the government was ready, but due to manpower shortage, it could not be implemented. In fact, smart meters would be in place so that every consumer may keep a tab on the bill to be paid and make payment online. Taking a dig at the previous AIADMK government for misleading the people by claiming that Tamil Nadu was surplus power State, he said that there was no interaction with the officials below Chief Engineer rank. Within just four months after coming to power, the new government held discussions with Assistant Engineers and above during review meetings being held now in the districts, he pointed out. Starting from Tirunelveli, Mr Senthil Balaji said that needs of all the districts would be studied by the Tangedco and would be addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vacancies-in-tangedco-will-be-filled-up-in-a-phased-manner/article36410497.ece
12 September 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Crackdown on eateries in Tiruvannamalai district||A five-day crackdown on hotels, restaurants and road-side eateries, flouting food safety norms, has been initiated by the district administration in Tiruvannamalai on Saturday, following the death of a 10-year-old girl after consuming food from a hotel in Arni on Friday. Her father, S. Anandan, who had food along with her at the hotel, is still in the ICU at the government hospital in the district. More than 30 people, including two children, who ate food in the same hotel, have been admitted to various hospitals, including the Government District Headquarters Hospital in Tiruvannamalai and the Government Medical College and Hospital in Vellore on Saturday. Many of them were admitted for common symptoms of food poisoning such as vomiting, diarrhoea, stomach pain and dizziness. On Saturday, Collector B. Murugesh held a meeting with Food Safety Department officials at the Collectorate. He instructed them to intensify checks on food quality and other basic infrastructure, mainly in hotels and high-end restaurants in the district. Accordingly, special teams have been formed to conduct surprise checks in hotels, restaurants and roadside eateries for the next five days between 7 a.m. and 11 p.m. “We are taking random samples of raw materials like rice, meat, cooking oil and water from hotels and restaurants in the district to test quality for use. The emergency prohibition orders will also be executed wherein licenses of violators will be cancelled,” A.R. Ramakrishnan, District Food Safety Officer (DFSO), Tiruvannamalai, told The Hindu . Divided into six teams, with each team led by Food Safety Officer (FSO), the teams would be inspecting major areas, such as Arani, Tiruvannamalai, Chengam, Vandavasi, Polur, Chetpet and Thiruvathipuram in the district. Apart from checking quality of ingredients, like rice, dal, cooking oil, meat, fish, and water in hotels and restaurants, the team would also check on availability of cold storage facility, source of procurement of raw materials mainly meat, chicken and fish, facility for safe disposal of unused raw materials by these establishments. Further, availability of complaint numbers, medical facilities and COVID-19 vaccination of staff in these hotels and restaurants will also be verified.  We are taking samples of raw materials like rice, meat, cooking oil and water from hotels and restaurants to test quality||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crackdown-on-eateries-in-tiruvannamalai-district/article36410410.ece
12 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Elephant safari at MTR stopped||The Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) has temporarily stopped elephant safari, one of its major attractions for the tourists. The MTR administration is also planning to rearrange elephant rides based on opinions from experts. According to officials with the MTR, four kumkis which were being used for the safari are currently in Gudalur and Vazhathottam. They said that two kumkis were sent to Vazhathottam for the monitoring of wild elephant ‘Rivaldo’ which was released into the wild on August 2, after lodging it in a kraal (wooden enclosure) for around three months for treatment. Four other kumkis were sent to Gudalur for driving out a makhna (tuskless male elephant) which has been straying into human habitations. D. Venkatesh, Field Director of MTR, told The Hindu that the safari was temporarily stopped as the six kumkis were sent to Gudalur and Vazhathottam. “As the six elephants were taken to the two locations, the remaining elephants will be under stress if they are used to handle more number of visitors. The department also has plans to remodel the safari programme after conducting some studies. The Chief Wildlife Warden, who visited MTR has also advised the same,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-safari-at-mtr-stopped-temporarily/article36410432.ece
12 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||All set for mega vaccination drive in districts||After having administered 10.22 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines till date, the district administration has geared up to vaccinate around 1 lakh people during the mega vaccination programme on Sunday. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, said that 52% of the eligible persons above 18 years have been vaccinated in the district till Friday. While 7,99.346 have got their first dose, 2,23650 have taken their second dose also. As part of the ambitious task of 100% vaccination, the district administration has planned for mass vaccination through 1,067 camps to be held across the district in all local bodies. The vaccination would be held between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. People can get to know about the nearest vaccination camp through the district administration websitehttps://virudhunagar.nic.in Theni District Monitoring Officer S. Suresh Kumar said on Saturday that the officials were fully geared to organise the one-day mega campaign for administering COVID-19 vaccine to the general public through 410 centres in Theni on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, he said that 5,67,393 people had taken the vaccine shots in Theni district (433217 first dose and 134176 second dose) so far. Collector K. V. Muralidharan, who had taken special efforts to vaccinate the differently-abled persons in the district said that 9,039 people had benefited so far. The senior officer inspected a few vaccine centres at P C Patti, Allinagaram and Periakulam in the district. Later, he held a review meeting on the arrangements made across the district with Superintendent of Police Praveen Umesh Dongre, DRO K. Ramesh, Medical College Dean Balajinathan, Joint Director (Health Services) Lakshmanan and other officers. He appealed to the people, who have not taken the vaccine shots so far, to freely walk-in at any of the designated centres and get benefited. Apart from the medical teams and data entry operators at each centre, senior doctors would be supervising three to four centres from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. The police would be deployed in the centres to ensure that there was no overcrowding. The officials said that basic needs including drinking water would be available at all the centres. The Health Department would be responsible for overall cleanliness and providing sanitizers during the camp. The officials informed that adequate vaccine vials were available and could be transported to any centre which required additional numbers. Madurai With a target to vaccinate about 2 lakh people on a single day, camps will be conducted across 1500 centres in the district, said Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Shekar. The drive will take place at 900 centres in rural areas and 600 centres within the Madurai Corporation limits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-set-for-mega-vaccination-drive-in-districts/article36410491.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rehabilitation welcome but citizenship elusive||Subashini, a young woman Sri Lankan Tamil refugee of the Mandapam camp near Rameswaram, comes out of the premises in a hurry, only to tell this writer that “please convey our appreciation to the Chief Minister [M.K. Stalin] for a well-conceived package”. Another inmate of the camp, Nagalakshmi, who is in her 60s, also commends Mr. Stalin for changing the nomenclature of the camps — from refugees’ camps to rehabilitation camps. “Of course, it is symbolic but it carries a lot of meaning for us,” she says. These sentiments are not unique to Mandapam. A similar opinion prevails among the inmates of the Gummidipoondi and Puzhal camps in the northern districts of Tamil Nadu or those of the camps at Kottapattu in Tiruchi district and Palavathanur in Salem. The latest development has rekindled a debate among them and activists alike on the prospects of legalising their stay, if not acquiring Indian citizenship. K. Dharmalingam, an inmate of the Puzhal camp for nearly 25 years, is not sure whether seven of his grandchildren, all born here, will get Indian citizenship. He and many of his fellow residents are wondering why Indian citizenship is not granted to the children despite their having been born in the country and given a host of concessions, though many Western countries give citizenship to scores of refugees. On paper, Dharmalingams or Nagalakshmis, even if they are Sri Lankan citizens, can acquire Indian citizenship through two options — registration or naturalisation after fulfilling the eligibility criteria laid down in the Citizenship Act, 1955. But most of the refugees do not qualify for Indian citizenship as they are called “illegal migrants” for having entered the country without valid documents. The extraordinary conditions in which they had reached Danushkodi, the entry point for the refugees till the end of the civil war in 2009, and their entry having been recorded by a team of officials do not seem to stand administrative scrutiny. Also, a 1983 communication from the Centre to the State government on the “ineligibility” of the refugees for citizenship has been too important a document to be ignored. In June 2019, a forceful order by Justice G.R. Swaminathan of the Madras High Court in support of the demand for citizenship by 65 persons, all inmates of the Kottapattu camp, did not impress the Centre, which has filed an appeal before the Madurai Bench. The Centre’s stand was that even if the petitioners fulfilled all the eligibility criteria, “they cannot demand citizenship as a matter of right”. Even the single judge had conceded that “citizenship falls within the exclusive executive domain” of the Central government. Senior officials of the Rehabilitation Department feel that once the advisory committee, the formation of which was announced by Mr. Stalin recently, comes into being, it can deliberate on the question of regularising the stay of the willing refugees. As of now, there is only one option — long-term visa (LTV) — which is available to such persons. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs hinted to the joint parliamentary committee, which went through the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill before it was adopted by Parliament in 2019. that the refugees were eligible for LTV if they proved they had been “victims of oppression in their countries of origin on account of race, religion, sex, nationality, ethnic identity, membership of a particular social group or political opinion”. Even as the battle by certain sections of the refugees goes on for Indian citizenship, there are some others who do not seem to be finding it easy to get Sri Lankan citizenship, too, or even regular Sri Lankan passports. Referring to the problem of many well-qualified refugees not being able to get proper employment in India, a few elderly women in Gummidipoondi suggest that the Sri Lankan authorities in Chennai or New Delhi issue regular passports to them after due verification of their antecedents. This will help at least some refugees seek greener pastures in any third country. And the women claim that such a practice was in vogue till about 10 years ago. The Sri Lankan Deputy High Commission (SLDHC) in Chennai explains that it has been issuing international passports to “all Sri Lankans who possess a valid visa and necessary documents”. The Department of Immigration and Emigration “faces difficulties” in issuing international passports to the Sri Lankans who are living in and outside the camps in Tamil Nadu “due to lack of documents and the non-availability of visa”. Alternatively, the SLDHC issues temporary travel documents to applicants to return to Sri Lanka where they can get the 10-year passport on submission of relevant documents, either under “one day service or by normal procedure”. As for the provision of birth certificates to children of the refugees born in Tamil Nadu, the SLDHC says it issues consular birth certificates “on the same day of the submission of the application without any delay if all the documents are in order”. As for citizenship, it replies that once applications are submitted, they are despatched to Sri Lanka for verification. Ordinarily, this is a “one-year procedure”. Even if the intensity of COVID-19 subsides and international trips are freely allowed, there will be impediments to the voluntary repatriation. Even though the UN High Commissioner for Refugees provides air tickets, with an additional 20 kg free baggage allowed by Sri Lankan Airlines, to each returning refugee, apart from monetary grants, some refugees feel this would not be sufficient as they have acquired very many belongings in the last 20-30 years. This explains the demand for the resumption of ferry services. Six months ago, a Coimbatore-based firm, Indsri Ferry Services, signed a memorandum of understanding with Sagarmala Development Company Limited for running the services between Karaikal in Puducherry and Kankesanthurai in the Northern Province. S. Niranjan Nanthagopan, managing director of Indsri Ferry Services, says his company recently submitted an expression of interest, too, to the Karaikal Port. Each trip can go up to four hours. “We are willing to offer 100 kg free baggage,” he says, adding that given the close ties between people of the two countries, the venture has an enormous potential for sustained business. There are several challenges which await those who go back voluntarily, says Pathinathan, a Tamil writer, who returned to his home town in Mannar district in 2019 after living nearly 30 years in Tamil Nadu. “Initially, the psychological impact due to migration was huge. Gradually, with the support of my relatives and friends, I managed to get over it,” he says, adding that he has been into farming, by cultivating pulses. These days, he is also busy building a house with the support of the Sri Lankan government. The only reason Mr. Pathinathan returned home was that he could no longer bear the tag of refugee. Such a feeling is there even among many living in the camps and outside, while some others are longing for Indian citizenship. But what is clear is that the formula of ‘one size fits all’ cannot be adopted in respect of the refugees living in the State.  We issue consular birth certificates on the same day of the submission of the application without any delay if all the documents are in order Sri Lankan Deputy High Commission in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rehabilitation-welcome-but-citizenship-elusive/article36410382.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Poor living conditions||Their list of woes is quite long. Housed in 108 camps in 29 districts of Tamil Nadu, Sri Lankan Tamil refugees suffer from the size of dwelling units — at many places, 10 ft x10 ft — and lack of water supply, cleanliness and sanitation. There are some camps with no exclusive fair price shops, compelling women to spend a few hours at times for their turn to get the essentials. The Mandapam camp near Rameswaram, which served as the key transit point since 1983 for refugees before they were transferred to other places, has a bumpy main road with several decrepit buildings. It houses 1,441 refugees of 446 families. At the Kottapattu camp in Tiruchi district, the 40-year-old houses look dilapidated. A total of 152 toilets, including 36 new ones, are available for 472 families. The new toilet block with 36 toilets — 18 each for male and female — remains unopened after its construction three years ago. However, the residents have built makeshift bathrooms outside their houses. K. Mayuri, who came to the camp as a young girl in 1990, is now married to a fellow inmate, helping other residents access welfare assistance. “We have written several petitions to the Collector for better sanitation facilities,” she says, adding that drainage pipelines outside the houses overflow throughout the year, and the situation goes from bad to worse during monsoons. Tamilselvi and Koikila, young women at the Mandapam camp, and Deivanayagai, an elderly woman and resident of the Puzhal camp near Chennai, have more or less the same story to narrate. The residents of the Mandapam camp want separate toilets for women and better electricity supply, while those of Puzhal, who came to the State from Trincomalee in the Eastern Province in 2006, emphasises the need for improving sanitation, especially when the whole world talks about hygiene in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic. Reeta Stanlos, 73, a resident of the Palavathanur camp in the Salem district since 1990, along with other senior citizens, is running a self-help group to manufacture phenyl. “Include me and many others under an old age pension scheme as the money would be of great help to us to meet the medical and other personal expenses,” she pleads. She also wants the government to provide individual homes to multiple families which are living together in the same houses. “Only one dispensary is here [Bhavanisagar] and the nearest hospital is 15 km away, which is in Sathyamangalam,” says Vijayarani, a resident of the Bhavanisagar camp in Erode district. The camp is home to 3,152 members belonging to 1,055 families. The district has two more camps — Arachalur and Enjampalli village of Modakurichi taluk. Demanding a primary health centre at the camp, Ms. Vijayarani points to pigs roaming in the area. Officials of the Rehabilitation Department emphasise that the government’s proposed makeover has got answers to the problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-living-conditions/article36410378.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 224 new cases||Coimbatore district on Saturday registered a slight decrease in the number of new COVID-19 cases. The district reported 224 new cases of the disease against the 235 cases it had on Friday. According to the Health Department, two persons from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the district’s death toll to 2,295. The district on Saturday had 2,177 active cases of the disease and 218 persons recovered. The test positivity rate (TPR) of the district stood at 2.2 % on Friday. A total of 91 persons tested positive in Tiruppur district. The district had 939 active cases of the disease on Saturday and 72 persons recovered. A 68-year-old man from Tiruppur died of COVID-19 on Friday and the district’s death toll increased to 937. The district’s TPR stood at 2.2 % on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-224-new-cases/article36410434.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur IIFPT gets two advanced facilities||A Centre of Excellence for Grain Sciences and a School of Sensory Sciences were inaugurated at Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT) in Thanjavur on Friday. The institute, which was recently accorded the status of Institute of National Importance by an Act of the Parliament, has set the facilities to strengthen its research and development (R & D) capabilities in the areas of grain processing and food sensory studies. The facilities were inaugurated at a virtual event by Pashupati Kumar Paras, Union Minister of Food Processing Industries, in the presence of Prahlad Singh Patel, Minister of State for Food Processing Industries, and Pushpa Subrahmanyam, Secretary of the Ministry. C. Anandharamakrishnan, Director, IIFPT, said that the Centre of Excellence for Grain Sciences had been set up in a built-up area of 300 sq.mt., with processing and testing facilities for major, minor and exotic cereals, pulses and oilseeds under one roof. The centre will cater to the needs of grain processing industries, farmers, researchers, start-ups and entrepreneurs. It will act as a hub for industry-academia collaborative research, teaching, skill promotion and entrepreneurship development, quality testing, new product development, incubation, and consultancy services. Stakeholders such as private players, civil supplies corporations, breeders, nutritional analysts, regulatory bodies, food quality testing agencies, organic farmers, certifying agencies, domestic traders and export-import agencies can utilise its services. The School of Sensory Sciences, established for conducting food sensory analyses, includes a Climate Control Sensory Booth with software-controlled fuzzy logic system, electronic nose for identifying chemical compounds which give the flavour and taste to food. The school will also conduct consumer behaviour research on perception of food product taste, aroma, preferences and other attributes required for new product development, standardisation and market promotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur-iifpt-gets-two-advanced-facilities/article36410485.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic effect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-effect/article36410441.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Clusters causing rise in infections’||“In Chennai, zones 5, 7, 10, 12 and 13 are areas where we have a positive growth of new cases. These include Kodambakkam, the Alandur-Mugalivakkam belt, Royapuram, Ambattur and Adyar,” he said. In a message to the Collectors and the Greater Chennai Corporation on Friday, the Health Secretary underscored the need to be on alert as the State was showing a rising trend in cases. What was worrying was that instead of the earlier week changes linked to the increase in the number of tests on weekdays, this rise was due to the gradual increase in positivity, he noted. “We need to focus on vaccinating the left-over eligible population and those eligible for the second dose. Effective contact-tracing and localised disease containment are important,” the Health Secretary added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clusters-causing-rise-in-infections/article36410401.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Basavaraj Bommai set to face his first House session as Chief Minister||Armed with victories in a good number of seats in the recent elections to urban local bodies, the Basavaraj Bommai-led government is bracing for its first 10-day legislature session starting Monday. Discontent in BJP This also comes amidst discontent in a section of the BJP over the formation of the Cabinet and allocation of portfolios. In an embarrassing twist on Saturday, disgruntled MLA Srimanth Patil said he was offered money to join the BJP from the Congress, which he did not accept since he was keen on a “suitable position”. This and a number of other issues the State is grappling with — including price rise, management of floods, and effects of COVID-19 and alleged hushing up of deaths during the second wave — are expected to prepare the stage for a confrontation with the Opposition, especially the Congress, in the session. The Chief Minister is expected to face some complex issues related to demand for reservation, from backward castes and Lingayat–Veerashaivas, and the dispute with Tamil Nadu over the proposed Mekedatu project. NEP, GST The Congress, which has been alleging that the nation’s federal structure is being ruined and that Central institutions have been functioning in a motivated manner, is likely to raise the issue of implementation of the New Education Policy (NEP). The Congress is also set to target the government on its failure to get its share in the Goods and Service Tax and allocations in the Centrally sponsored schemes. Though Mr. Bommai met Union Ministers more than once in the last one month, the Opposition is unlikely to be satisfied by the State’s efforts in this regard. The Opposition has been protesting against the Centre for limited financial support to the State during the pandemic, large-scale job losses, and lapses in giving compensation to unorganised sector workers. Handling of the recent floods and alleged non-payment of compensation to families affected by the 2019 floods are expected to come up for discussion too. The government is likely to be put on the mat over its alleged “unilateral” decisions with regard to weekend and night curfew, opening of schools and colleges, and imposition of restrictions for Gauri–Ganesha festival without prior consultations. With Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah terming the BJP government “20% commission government”, the Congress would raise the issue of alleged siphoning of funds by Minister Shahikala Jolle in her previous portfolio of Women and Child Development. Law and order issue, especially handling of the gang rape of a college girl in Mysuru, is also expectedly figure prominently. The government will table about 18 Bills, including one aimed at banning online gaming. Some Bills would be related to Ordinances which will have to be converted into laws before they lapse. With complaints from the Opposition benches, ahead of the session, presiding officers of both the Houses have said that all Ministers should mandatorily attend the session. It would be interesting to see whether the Opposition would give its consent to Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri’s proposal for a joint session on the last day, September 24, with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla speaking on conduct and discipline of members during the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/basavaraj-bommai-set-to-face-his-first-house-session-as-chief-minister/article36410350.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Myristica swamps exist as small, isolated pockets||Myristica swamps — tree-covered wetlands within the evergreen forests of the Western Ghats that once formed a large hydrological network all along the Western Ghats — now exist as small, isolated pockets, said a new study. Authors Priya Ranganathan, G. Ravikanth and N.A. Aravind from the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), stated that the Myristica swamps are one of the most threatened ecosystems in India due to increased human pressure. According to the researchers, even with their little-known biota, the swamps harbour several rare-relic floristic and faunal taxa comprising many endemic and threatened species, with most plant species highly restricted in their distribution. These swamps are one of the most unique and primeval ecosystems of the Western Ghats, they said. The paper, ‘A review of research and conservation of Myristica swamps, a threatened freshwater swamp of the Western Ghats, India’, was published in Wetland Ecology and Management in August. It said critical inland swamp habitats of India are the Myristica swamps, the Elaeocarpus swamps and the Hadlus, all of which are forested wetland ecosystems that are invariably freshwater in character. Myristica swamps have the characteristic traits of a dense evergreen closed forest, presence of abundant knee roots protruding from waterlogged soil, soils with high humus content, and are moist or inundated throughout the year.  The ancient swamp forests are endemic to the Western Ghats and a smaller distribution exists in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. There are 60-odd swamps reported from Kerala and there may be many smaller ones, which are either not mapped or reported. An attempt has been made to map the swamps in Karnataka and a few studies have focused on swamps in Goa and Sindhudurga, the northernmost limit of swamps in Maharashtra, the paper said. “In recent years, many Myristica swamps in the central and southern Western Ghats are threatened by the growing agricultural demand and are often converted to paddy fields, or arecanut and teak plantations. This is especially true of those swamps existing outside protected forest tracts in the Western Ghats landscape. While wetlands have been given prioritisation in the past, swamps in India have been relatively ignored by scientists and policymakers,” the researchers said. Myristica swamps, like the floral plateaus of the northern Western Ghats and the Shola grassland mosaics, face a higher threat of destruction than other evergreen forest types. The Biodiversity Act of 2002 declares important biodiversity areas, including Myristica swamps, as Biodiversity Heritage Sites. “However, site-based initiatives are yet to be taken by the state forest department and State Biodiversity Board of Karnataka, where most of these swamps exist today,” said the authors, adding that many swamps are in reserve forests or sacred groves/community conservation landscapes, which do not grant them protection from land use conversion, and are also highly fragmented and isolated. As of February 2021, 58 scientific studies have been conducted on the floristic components and vegetation of Myristica swamp forests and according to them, there are at least 79 tree species, 26 shrubs, 27 climbers, and 44 herb species recorded. Mr. Aravind, Convenor and Senior Fellow (Associate Professor), Suri Sehgal Center for Biodiversity and Conservation, ATREE, and one of the authors of the study, said, “Any loss of the swamps will also lead to the extinction of associated species.” The researchers have called for the creation of a clear policy for swamp conservation, a large-scale project to map and carry out research on Myristica swamps across the Western Ghats and comprehensive documentation of the remaining swamps, their genetic diversity and local threats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/myristica-swamps-exist-as-small-isolated-pockets/article36410237.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nine districts record rise in oxygen consumption||Although Karnataka’s liquid medical oxygen consumption — which had reached a peak during the second wave of the pandemic — has reduced from 158.66 tonnes in July-end to 133.93 tonnes by the end of August, there has been a considerable increase in consumption in nine districts. According to the data from the State’s oxygen management team, the consumption has gone up in Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru, Koppal, Belagavi, Tumakuru, Udupi, Raichur, Kalaburagi and Mandya. Over 40% of the total oxygen usage in August was in these districts. In July, these districts cumulatively contributed 30.5% of the total oxygen consumption. Although some of these nine districts are bordering Kerala, officials said the increased consumption could be due to non-COVID services. “We have opened up all non-COVID services now and several surgeries that were deferred due to COVID are being conducted. The rise in oxygen usage is mainly due to this,” said State Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said many North Karnataka districts are consistently showing a low rate of COVID-19 infection. “These districts are reporting cases in single digit for the past few days, and the occupancy of oxygen beds, set aside for COVID-19, has also reduced drastically,” he said. As of August 30, of the total 47,647 oxygenated beds in all hospitals across the State, only 4,286 had been occupied. The State’s daily oxygen requirement had crossed 1,000 tonnes during the peak of the second wave. New oxygen plants Based on the oxygen requirement during the second wave, the State has started preparations for the third wave and is working on achieving self-sustainability in oxygen supply for medical purposes. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar told The Hindu on Saturday that the State was determined to build a robust oxygen-supply chain. “Hitherto, oxygen supply to hospitals was mostly centralised, and that resulted in severe strain on the supply chain. So, we are trying to localise oxygen supply at the hospital level,” he said. Of the 246 oxygen-generation plants allotted to Karnataka through various sources, including PM Cares and CSR funds, 120 pressure swing adsorption plants have been installed as of August 27. As many as 95 of these have been commissioned so far and another 25 plants are awaiting commissioning, he said. The Minister said these plants would work as captive oxygen plants in government hospitals. “Work on the remaining 50% of the 246 plants is under progress, and at various stages of construction. We are on a mission mode to complete the remaining plants by this month-end.”  As of August 30, of the total 47,647 oxygenated beds in all hospitals across the State, only 4,286 had been occupied||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-districts-record-increase-in-medical-oxygen-consumption/article36410338.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ORR metro work: Action plan to ease traffic disruption ready||When it’s finally operational, the metro line to Kempegowda International Airport is expected to ease congestion and reduce travel time. But until then, motorists who regularly use Outer Ring Road, home to several tech parks, are worried about traffic disruptions that years of metro work will herald. Ahead of metro work on this busy stretch, the State government has put in place a coordination mechanism with multiple utilities and the Outer Ring Road Companies’ Association (ORRCA), which will hold monthly meetings to take stock. Companies have agreed to look into staggered timings for easy employee commute. “ORRCA’s focus remains on ensuring seamless traffic on ORR and companies bringing employees back in office,” said Krishna Kumar Gowda, operations manager, ORRCA. Raman Reddy, Additional Chief Secretary (IT&BT) chaired a meeting with ORRCA and representatives of all utilities on Thursday. It was decided to revamp road infrastructure and fix all existing gaps to alleviate commute experience. Once construction begins, all arterial roads connecting ORR will be made motorable. One of the key concerns raised at the meeting was seamless traffic in open lanes and Bus Priority Lanes (BPL). ORRCA also requested the authorities to allow 12/20 seater buses used to ferry employees to run on the bus lane. The association also made a case for allowing all traffic to be allowed on bus lanes when open lanes are closed for metro work. The Bus Rapid Transit System lanes in Devarabeesanahalli have already been closed for the work. The BMTC said it is ready to provide charter buses depending on demand, and will assign nodal officers. The BMRCL has been directed to ensure barricading in a “straight and neat manner”. The deadline for the 58 km ORR-airport line from Central Silk Board is 2025.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/orr-metro-work-action-plan-to-ease-traffic-disruption-ready/article36410326.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Education Plus career counselling from Sept. 17||The 19th edition of The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling 2021 to help students make informed career choices and chalk out their future will be in a digital conclave avatar again this year. Three-day event The event, which will be held from September 17 to 19, sets a benchmark in educational and professional guidance. It acts as a platform to connect students and parents with speakers and educational institutions. This will help students make right decisions after getting necessary counselling and guidance.  The Hindu invites students who have cleared II PU this year besides thoseenrolled for II PU as well as their parents to apprise themselves about the career opportunities, trends in the industrial sector, and the prospects in various streams. Students of classes IX to XII, including those who want to pursue higher studies after class XII, besides students looking to do post-graduation in different fields can attend. Registration Register for free once to attend all sessions on all three days: Login to register:https://bit.ly/THEPCET21or scan the QR Code. For queries, call 9964648444 or 9449343420. All participants will get a free copy of The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling handbook (hard copy or soft copy). Hard copy will be available in The Hindu offices across Karnataka after September 20, 2021. Gold Sponsorship: AMC Institutions, Atria Institute of Technology, INSIGHTS IAS. Silver Sponsorship: Sir M. Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Hindustan Business School, K.S. Group of Institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/education-plus-career-counselling-from-sept-17/article36410347.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||801 new cases, 15 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 801 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,60,932. Bengaluru Urban reported 207 cases and two deaths. With 15 deaths, the toll rose to 37,487. This is apart from 23 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,142 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,06,746. The State now has 16,672 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.67%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.87%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/801-new-cases-15-deaths/article36410336.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||93K Ganesha, Gowri idols immersed in a single day||In a single day, more than 93,000 Ganesha and Gowri idols were immersed in special immersion tanks in lakes and mobile tanks that went around different parts of the city on Friday. For the second year in a row, the Ganesha and Gowri festival, like many other festivals, was celebrated in a low-key manner in the city as a precaution against the spread of COVID-19. According to information provided by the BBMP on Saturday, special immersion ponds were created in 10 lakes and 368 mobile tanks went round the eight different zones. As many as 29,730 idols were immersed in the mobile tanks, and 63,794 idols in the special immersion ponds in the 10 lakes. The maximum number of idols – 33,006 – were immersed in the south zone, followed by west (27,510), and east (20,936) zones. The least number of idols appears to have been immersed in Dasarahalli zone. BBMP officials claimed that while all idols were less than four-feet tall, as specified by the government regulations, not all were eco-friendly. The civic body has temporarily hired around 300 expert swimmers to immerse the idols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/93k-ganesha-gowri-idols-immersed-in-a-single-day/article36410324.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3, including mother, held for child’s murder||The Mico Layout police who were probing the disappearance of a 10-year-old boy, reported missing last month, have arrested three people – the boy’s mother, her male friend, his associate – for allegedly murdering the child. The boy was beaten to death and the body discarded, said the police. On August 25, a woman approached the police claiming that her son, whom she had left with her friend, had been missing for six months. The police were suspicious of her story. When questioned, she allegedly confessed that her friend had beaten her child so badly that he died. The incident took place in February. “Instead of reporting the murder, she helped cover up the crime. She claimed that she now wanted him punished,” said the police. Her friend allegedly while trying to discipline the boy, beat him with a pipe on his head, killing him. He confided in the boy’s mother and his associate. The mother alleged that he threatened her with dire consequences if she went to the police and this prevented her from seeking justice earlier. The police have arrested the man for the murder, his partner and the boy’s mother for destruction of evidence in the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-including-mother-held-for-childs-murder/article36410335.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sandalwood smugglers caught||The Gangammana Gudi police arrested five people from a gang of sandalwood smugglers and recovered 125 kg of sandalwood. The case was cracked during a probe in sandalwood thefts reported in the first week of August from within the Indian Air Force base in Jalahalli. Of the five arrested, three have been to jail in multiple cases. They formed a cohesive gang when they befriended each other in jails. The police are now on the lookout for three other suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sandalwood-smugglers-caught/article36410339.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NEET today||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for candidates seeking medical, dental, AYUSH seats will be held on Sunday. It will be held in 13 different languages including Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/neet-today/article36410330.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four held in Ponzi scam||Four directors of a wealth management firm who were wanted for allegedly cheating nearly a hundred investors by promising them high returns have been arrested by the Tilak Nagar Police. According to the police, the accused shut down their firm, IQRA Wealth Management, in 2020 after starting a Ponzi scam. The firm opened an office in Jayanagar in 2017, and promised high returns on investments. They got investments of Rs. 4.21 crore from 91 investors, of which they repaid Rs. 2.31 crore as returns till September 2020, after which they shut down operations. The police registered a case and served a notice to all investors as per the firm’s books to lodge a complaint, if they were cheated. To date, 21 persons have lodged complaints for claims amounting to Rs. 2.49 crore, sources said. The firm's directors had given Rs. 1 crore to a stock broker, who has been summoned, to recover the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-held-in-ponzi-scam/article36410329.ece
12 September 2021||Bengaluru/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) to take a call on Kalaburagi local body issue after legislature party meet||The Janata Dal (Secular) continued to keep the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress guessing on which side it would lean in the Kalaburagi City Corporation (KCC), with a final decision likely to emerge on Monday evening after the JD(S) legislature party meeting. Both the Congress and the BJP need the support of the JD(S), which has won only four seats in the 55-member corporation council, to capture power. While Revenue Minister R. Ashok held talks with JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, Congress leader and Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said he was holding talks with party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda. BJP hopeful “Mr. Kumaraswamy said he was open to an alliance, but a final decision will be conveyed to the Chief Minister on Monday or Tuesday following JD(S)LP meeting on Monday evening,” Mr. Ashok said, after the meeting at Mr. Kumaraswamy’s farm house. He added that he was very hopeful of an alliance. In a series of tweets, Mr. Kumaraswamy confirmed the meetings he had held with Mr. Ashok, along with MLA Sa.Ra. Mahesh. Sources claimed that alliance of the JD(S) with the saffron party was “almost final”. Kharge confident However, speaking in Mangaluru, Mr. Kharge exuded confidence in getting the support of four JD(S) councillors and one Independent councillor. “I have met Mr. Deve Gowda in this regard and I am confident of the rule by secular parties,” he added. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar in Bengaluru also said the Congress had intentions to go with the JD(S) in the corporation, which has thrown up a fractured mandate in the recently held elections. After a meeting with Congress MLA Priyank Kharge, Mr. Shivakumar said the Congress was keen to get the support of the JD(S) to keep the BJP out of power in the corporation. Mr. Priyank Kharge alleged that the government had been delaying the notification to hold elections to the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor in Kalaburagi, with an intention to secure power from the backdoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-to-take-a-call-on-kalaburagi-local-body-issue-after-legislature-party-meet/article36410348.ece
12 September 2021||CHITTOOR,KARNATAKA||Jumbos kill two at A.P.-T.N. border||An uneasy calm gripped the villages along the Tamil Nadu-Kuppam division border after two farmers were killed by wild elephants at Chintamakulapalle village in Krishnagiri district, Andhra Pradesh, around 35 km from Kuppam, on Friday. After the incident, the elephants, said to number over 50, split into two or three herds, and are believed to be moving towards Kuppam and Gudupalle mandals in Chittoor district. The herds had moved into Krishnagiri from Hosur a few days ago. On their way towards the border with Kuppam, the herds came across two farmers in a groundnut field and allegedly trampled them to death. Temporary strategies to drive away the elephants by irate mobs led to the herd splitting into two or three, and this had made their movements uncertain. Going by the past experience, whenever the elephants from Hosur created tension in agricultural fields in Tamil Nadu, its impact has always been felt in Kuppam division. “During the last decade, several wild elephants had moved into Kuppam after destroying crops in Tamil Nadu villages. However, their number used to be small, about three or five. Our Forest officials also could handle them without much effort. This time, our counterparts in Tamil Nadu cautioned us that the wild elephants are marching towards Kuppam through the Maharaja Kadai forests,” a vegetable farmer from Kuppam said. Meanwhile, Forest officials of both Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu and Kuppam range in Chittoor district have put forest watchers and elephant trackers on alert as the herds were seen criss-crossing the rural roads. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar said elephant trackers had been deployed to monitor the situation along the border villages. Farmers in Kuppam and Gudupalle mandals close to the Maharaja Kadai forests had been cautioned to abandon night vigil, and residents in forest fringe areas warned not to move alone, but in groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jumbos-kill-two-at-ap-tn-border/article36410240.ece
12 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||MLA’s complaint against Arkalgud Town police||Arkalgud MLA A.T. Ramaswamy has alleged that local police demanded a bribe from a person to remove him from the rowdy sheet. The MLA has written to the Superintendent of Police of Hassan complaining against the police in this regard. At a press conference in Arkalgud on Saturday, Mr. Ramaswamy said Haneef had been on the rowdy sheet of Arkalgud Town Police Station. Request He had settled in Kerala for the last 10 years engaged in a business. Recently he approached the MLA with a request to remove him from the list, as he had not been involved in any illegal activity for 10 years and responded whenever the police called him. “I had spoken to the Superintendent of Police of Hassan district to consider his request and take proper action as per the law. The Superintendent of Police also had instructed the local police on the issue”, he said. However, the MLA said, when Haneef approached the police with relevant documents, the officers at the office of Circle Inspector demanded Rs. 50,000 and those in the station wanted another Rs. 25,000 to recommend the removal of his name from the rowdy sheet. Seeks probe “This is a serious issue. The police are ready to remove the name if the bribe is paid to them. If not paid, they would keep the name on the list. A person’s fate depends on the money he pays. If the police, who have maintained law and order, behaves like this, who will safeguard the law”, he asked. The MLA has urged the SP to probe the issue and take proper action. ‘Procedures’ When The Hindu contacted Hassan SP R. Srinivasa Gowda, he said the MLA had spoken to him about Haneef’s case. “We are not removing any names from the rowdy sheet individually. We will call all of them and review their recent activities, before taking any decision. Nobody needs to pay a bribe for this. However, this person approached the police station repeatedly and appealed to them to forward their recommendation. As the police refused to budge, citing the procedures, he must have conveyed the developments to the MLA in some other way. As the MLA has spoken about it, I will hold an inquiry into the issue,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlas-complaint-against-arkalgud-town-police/article36410540.ece
12 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Allotment of land, meant for industrial township, for other purposes opposed||The Dharwad Growth Centre and Industries Association has vehemently opposed the move to allot land meant for industrial township at Mummigatti-Narendra Industrial Estate for other purposes. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, president of the association S.S. Thite and other office-bearers, including Sanjeev Das, M.D. Patil, Arun Heblikar and K.Y. Gali, said that despite registering opposition to a similar mover earlier and the same being questioned in court of law, the government had again resorted to similar move, which was condemnable. They said they would be forced to launch a agitation if the move was not immediately dropped. Mr. Thite said that as per the Union government’s guidelines, 241.5 acres along the Dharwad-Belagavi national highway in Mummigatti and Narendra villages was acquired for developing industrial township for the Dharwad Growth Centre in 1994. During 2019-20, the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) passed a resolution on development residential extension in 11 acres and the work was underway now, he said. He pointed out a decision to allot various plots in the remaining 130.5 acres for other purposes was opposed by the association and seeking cancellation of the same, a writ petition had been filed in the High Court of Karnataka. “However KIADB has now allotted three plots to three parties namely the Rashtrotthana Parishat, Prakalpa Hotel, and Prakalpa Hospital, in clear violation of the guidelines. The association strongly opposes the allotment and will approach the court against it,” he said. Injustice to workers He said that the KIADB officials and senior officials of the department had meted out injustice to the industrialists and workers by allotting the land meant for them to others. “Residential facilities are required for nearly 10,000 industrialists and workers and 241.5 acres will not be sufficient to meet the requirement,” he said. The other-office bearers said they would demand KIADB and the State government utilise the land only for the purpose for which the land was acquired from the farmers. To a query they said after development of the residential layout, the land earmarked for civic amenities could be allotted for schools, hospitals and hotels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/allotment-of-land-meant-for-industrial-township-for-other-purposes-opposed/article36410528.ece
12 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||24x7 water supply to all Belagavi wards soon: Karjol||Minister for Water Resources and Belagavi in charge Govind Karjol has said that soon all the wards in Belagavi will get round-the-clock water supply and Smart City projects will be completed within a year. Addressing presspersons in Belagavi on Saturday, Mr. Karjol said that already water was being supplied round-the-clock in 10 wards in Belagavi city and the remaining 48 wards will soon get it. The Minister said that the border district of Belagavi was best suited for fruit cultivation and already 16 varieties of mangoes were being grown around Belagavi. “In an attempt to promote fruit cultivation and provide a regular market for the same, there is need for setting up a fruit park in the district. The local MLAs should take steps to send a proposal in this regard,” he said. To a query, the Minister said that already the issue of shifting certain government offices to the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha had been discussed with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who was keen on the idea. The shifting of offices would take place soon, he said. Mr. Karjol said that Mr. Bommai had, during his recent visit to New Delhi, discussed the pending issues concerning the inter-State river disputes with Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh and soon requisite steps would be taken to resolve the same. On the demand for permitting 11-day celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi in Belagavi, he said the a revised order permitting the same would be issued on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/24x7-water-supply-to-all-belagavi-wards-soon-karjol/article36410535.ece
12 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Amrit Yojana to improve facilities in villages: Munenakoppa||The ‘Amrit Gram Panchayat’ Yojana launched to mark the 75th Independence Day celebrations aims at improving basic infrastructure and amenities in villages and to check migration to urban areas, Minister for Handloom and Textiles Shankar Patil Munenakoppa said. Chairing the review meeting on Amrit Gram Panchayat Yojana at Dharwad Zilla Panchayat on Saturday, the Minister said officials should strive for effective implementation of the programme so that a comprehensive change could be brought about in villages. Mr. Munenakoppa said that the government had laid down the guidelines to be followed while implementing the projects under the scheme and they should be strictly adhered to. Elaborating on the scheme, he said in each taluk, several villages would be chosen for the project and the works should be executed in a time-bound manner and completed. “Community halls to be constructed under the programme should not be misused. If possible, portions of community halls should be used as libraries. Overhead water tanks should not be constructed on school premises and in areas with high population density. If overhead tanks have already been constructed near schools, they should be demolished and new tanks should be constructed in areas with less population. Power transformers near schools should also be shifted,” he said. C.M. Nimbanavvar, Kalghatgi MLA, emphasised upon the need to develop reading skills among rural students and asked the officials to procure more books for rural libraries. Focus on coordination Pointing out that previous governments had sanctioned various rural development works under ‘Suvarna Karnataka scheme’ and others, Dharwad rural MLA Amrut Desai asked officials to ensure that similar projects were not taken up under different schemes. He also emphasised on the need for proper coordination and planning while implementing works. 17 gram panchayats B. Susheela, CEO of Dharwad ZP, said that in all 17 gram panchayats would be selected under the scheme in the district. The list of the gram panchayats would be finalised in consultation with stakeholders and the Minister. During the review meeting, a project of non-governmental organisation Pratham to provide 100 books to each library was formally inaugurated. Earlier, 22 special motorcycles for the differently-abled were handed over by the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amrit-yojana-to-improve-facilities-in-villages-munenakoppa/article36410530.ece
12 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||69,947 saplings planted in three Rly. divisions||With a target of planting five lakh saplings to increase green cover in its area of operation, South Western Railway has so far planted 69,947 saplings so far in the current financial year. According to a press release, the railway zone initiated the ambitious project on World Environment Day on June 5 as part of its efforts to increase green cover and protect environment. Under the initiative, fruit-bearing plants such as jackfruit, java plum, guava, custard apple, lemon, mango, jamun and medicinal plants such as aloevera, neem, tulsi and turmeric have been planted around railway stations, railway offices and colonies, running rooms, rest houses and on other railway property. So far, 28,625 saplings have been planted in the Hubballi Division, 24,705 saplings in the Bengaluru Division and 14,617 saplings have been planted in the Mysuru Division. Plantations have been taken up in Ballari, Kulem, Hubballi, Alnavar, Dharwad, Gadag, Koppal, Hosapete, Mudhalpur village, Vijayapura, Castlerock, Londa, Belagavi, Gokak, Ghataprabha, Raibag, Chincholi, among other places, in Hubballi Division. Similarly, saplings have been planed in Kunigal, Yediyur, Solur, Channarayapatna, Maddur, Yeliyur, Nayandahalli, Hanakere, Bengaluru, Sivadi, Dharmapuri, Hindupur, Sri Satya Sai Prashanti Nilayam and other places in Bengaluru Division and Mysuru, Arsikere, Amaravathi Colony, Mayakonda, Sakleshpur, Birur, Chitradurga, Hassan, Molkalmuru and other places in the Mysuru Division. The immediate plan is plant another 23,925 saplings in the next two months. For the current financial year, the railway zone has planned to plant a total of five lakh trees. As per the plan, 1.5 lakh saplings each will be planted by Hubballi, Bengaluru and Mysuru divisions and another 50,000 saplings by the construction organisation under the supervision of Principal Chief Engineer S.P.S. Gupta. General Manager Sanjeev Kishore has in the press release said that these saplings will help in expanding the green cover and reducing air pollution. The plantation drive will also contribute in Indian Railways mission of becoming Net Zero Carbon emitter by 2030.  Zone initiated project on World Environment Day as part of efforts to increase green cover||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/69947-saplings-planted-in-three-rly-divisions/article36410539.ece
12 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Lecturer dies of cardiac arrest while riding bicycle||An engineering college lecturer and amateur cyclist from Hubballi, Basanagouda Shivalli, 35, died of a cardiac arrest during a bicycle ride near Shiggaon in Haveri district. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. The team had left Hubballi early in the morning and after a stopover at Shiggaon, was returning to Hubballi when Mr. Shivalli collapsed while riding the bicycle. A doctor among the team members immediately attended to him and tried to resuscitate him. He was immediately rushed to a hospital in Shiggaon where the doctors confirmed that he had suffered a heart attack and declared him dead, Kaustubh Saunshikar, who was riding with him, told The Hindu . Mr. Saunshikar said that Mr. Shivalli had not registered for the ride but had come along as a member of the support team. “He had told us that he would only ride for a few kilometres. However he came till Shiggaon where we took a break and had fruits. After we rode around four-five kilometres from Shiggaon, he collapsed,” Mr. Saunshikar recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lecturer-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-while-riding-bicycle/article36410525.ece
12 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dialysis centre set up in Uttara Kannada||A new dialysis centre, set up with joint donation from Karanataka Vikas Grameena Bank and BVT Manipal, at Government Hospital at Mundagod in Uttara Kannada district was inaugurated on Saturday. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar along with chairman of KVB Bank P. Gopi Krishna dedicated the dialysis units to the public and said that the facility will help patients forced to travel long distance for getting treatment. Lauding the KVG Bank for its initiative, Mr. Hebbar said that the government was also taking several measures for upgrading the healthcare facilities in government hospitals. He called on the hospital staff to treat the patients with compassion and said that required additional health facilities would be provided. Mr. Krishna said the bank with its customer base of 90 lakh was doing its best for the betterment of the common man. CEO of Seco Solar Mohan Hegde, journalist Hariprakash Konemane, KVG Bank's Chief Manager (Marketing ) Ullas Gunaga were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dialysis-centre-set-up-in-uttara-kannada/article36410534.ece
12 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Muslim inspector sets an example||In a city that has witnessed cases of communal violence, a Muslim inspector has set another example of communal harmony. Jakeer Pasha Mohammed Sab Kalimirchi, inspector of Gokul Road Police Station, personally carried the Ganesha idol to the police station for installation. On Friday, Mr. Kalimirchi donned traditional clothes and ‘tilak’ on his forehead carried out all the rituals. Being an ardent follower of Basaveshwara, he believed in poet Kuvempu’s message ‘Vishwa Manava’. “As a Muslim, I follow my religion and I respect all other religions,” he said. Mr. Kalimirchi has always celebrated Ganesh Chaturthi wherever he has been posted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muslim-inspector-sets-an-example/article36410527.ece
12 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man marching 7,000 km to join farmers’ agitation in Delhi||Nagaraj Kalkutgar, a software engineer from Chittargi village of Hungund taluk in Bagalkot marching 7,000 km on foot to join the agitating farmers at Delhi, reached Kalaburagi on Saturday. Mr. Kalkutgar was addressing presspersons after completing a journey of nearly 3,200 km on foot to participate in the ongoing farmer’s protest against three farm laws. He has worked in Germany and different cities in India and resigned to support the farmers’ protest. After observing the increasing incidence of farmer suicides and migrations for years, the 40-year-old decided to do his bit for the farming community. “I would be traversing a distance of 6,500 to 7,000 km to join the farmers’ agitation at Delhi. The purpose for my march all the way from Bagalkot to Delhi is to oppose three farm laws. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, is against minimum support price procurement system. In the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, the farmers in contract farming arrangement may find it difficult to negotiate and this could lead to monopoly of big players and exporters in the market. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill will attract foreign direct investment and big players will have an edge and are likely to dictate prices,” he added. “After studying the pros and cons of the bills, I feel the demands of the agitating farmers are genuine. All the three bills would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) and leave the farming community at the‘mercy of big corporates,” Mr. Kalkutgar said. He started walking from Bagalkot from February 11 this year. He will pass through Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and parts of Haryana, and reach Delhi. Mr. Kalkutgar walks around 35 to 40 km every day to reach out to people. On the way, he meets farmers and discusses the farm laws with them. The lone campaigner believes he will make it to Delhi on November 25 to join the protest against the Modi-government. B.R. Patil, former MLA, received him in Kalaburagi, and participated in the march for 5 km. Mr. Kalkutgar also garlanded the statues of B.R. Ambedkar and Basaveshwara at Jagat Circle before leaving for Afzalpur.  All the three bills would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price and leave the farming community at the‘mercy of big corporates. Nagaraj Kalkutgar software engineer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-marching-7000-km-to-join-farmers-agitation-in-delhi/article36410532.ece
12 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||V-C stresses need to move away from learning for survival||Vice-Chancellor of Davangere University Sharanappa V. Halse has stressed the need for a shift from learning for survival to generative learning in centres of higher learning to produce scientists, thinkers, and scholars of the highest order, who can generate new ideas and help in nation building. Delivering the first convocation address of Sharnbasva University in Kalaburagi, Prof. Halse said that although learning for survival was acceptable, major stress should be on generative learning in their respective courses. Prof. Halse said that for shifting to generative learning the pedagogy, including curriculum, conducting examinations should go beyond the mere transfer of information. “We need to change our perception of teaching. Our teaching should set the goal beyond preparing students for examinations and the teaching should make the students think innovatively in their respective disciplines,” he said. Expressing his dismay over the quality of research in universities, Prof. Halse said there were excellent researchers but the majority of young scholars lacked the passion for doing research. “Research largely practised has become an alienated activity, leading just towards gaining a degree for the sake of either employment or promotion and the research is not pursued passionately,” he said. There is a wide gap between the researcher and the research work and there was need for bringing back the harmony between the two, he added. Chancellor of the university and Peetadhipathi of Sharnabasaveshwar Samasthan Sharanbaswappa Appa said that September 10 was a historic day as the university was conducting its first and second convocation simultaneously. He congratulated the students for the successful completion of their respective degrees and praised them for their discipline, hard work, and commitment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/v-c-stresses-need-to-move-away-from-learning-for-survival/article36410524.ece
12 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi MP Jadhav irked over slow pace of work||Irked over the slow pace of work, Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav in a review meeting of District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) on Wednesday took up the issue of a railway overbridge on Kalaburagi-Afzalpur Road and a railway underbridge near Kulali Railway Station in Afzalpur taluk of the district. Commissioner for the Directorate of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Kalaburagi in-charge Secretary Gunjan Krishna, Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna, City Corporation Commissioner Snehal S. Lokhande participated in the meeting. Officials of the Public Works Department explained that the department has submitted cost estimation to the Railway Department for constructing an approach road of 427.92 m towards the High Court and a 267.92 m stretch towards Hirapur in the city. The construction work on the Hirapur stretch is not yet ready. Both the Railway Department and State government will bear 50% of the total cost estimated at Rs. 35.05 crore. In Phase I of Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY), 18 works were taken up to construct 113.24 km of road at a cost of Rs. 88.50 crore. “Of the 18 works, 16 have been completed and Rs. 32.11 crore spent for constructing 37 km road,” an official of the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department said. Under PMGSY Phase II, 11 works will be taken up for constructing a 75-km stretch at an estimated cost of Rs. 61.36 crore. An official from Rural Drinking Water wing said that 50 of the 390 spill-over works taken up under Jal Jeevan Mission have been completed. Besides 340 pending works, the department has taken up 128 fresh works for providing drinking water to rural households. At present, 19,000 functional house tap connections have been provided under the mission, he added. Social Welfare Department officials said that 395 works were taken up under the Pradhan Mantri Adarsh Gram Yojana during 2016-17, of which 295 works have been completed and 100 works are in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-mp-jadhav-irked-over-slow-pace-of-work/article36410538.ece
12 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ support for ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on September 27||The State Sugarcane Cultivators Association will extend its support to the Bharat Bandh called on September 27 to protest against the Centre’s “anti-farmer’’ policies. The bandh has been called by Samyuktha Kisan Morcha in support of which the association has called for State bandh on that day. The bandh has been called against the three contentious farm laws which, the farmers argue, is inimical to the agricultural sector. The three laws are Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of the Association, said that the bandh will be supported by farmers across the State. Mr. Shanthakumar said the farmers are also seeking a law to ensure minimum support price for agricultural produce, enforcement of which should be legally binding. He said political parties are showing lip sympathy to the cause of the farmers; none of them have evinced interest in resolving the issues plaguing the agricultural sector. Lashing out at the Centre, Mr. Shanthakumar, who also heads the Karnataka Samyuktha Kisan Morcha, said the Centre ignored the farmers’ demand to increase the Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) for sugarcane all these years. But now it has announced a hike of Rs. 5 only per tonne of sugarcane which amounts to adding insult to injury. He said in case the government fails to revise the FRP for sugarcane by the end of this month, nearly 2 million sugarcane cultivators in Karnataka will lay siege to the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru. Drawing attention to the immediate issues plaguing the cultivators, Mr. Shanthakumar said that cooperative and nationalised banks were tormenting the farmers by not sanctioning loans on time and accused them of seeking surety even for loans below Rs. 2 lakh. Though the existing norms make it clear that loans below Rs. 2 lakh do not require any surety the financial institutions were ignoring it. A meeting of the bank representatives and the Deputy Commissioner has been convened on September 24 to thrash out the issue and the farmers said they will await its outcome. Association secretary Atahalli Devaraj, district working president Hallikerehundi Bhagyaraj, general secretary Kiragasur Shankar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-support-for-bharat-bandh-call-on-september-27/article36410541.ece
12 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Education start-up wins TiE Women Pitchfest 2021||Education start-up Sapientury, which fosters experiential learning in engineering education by hosting project-based courses online coupled with home-delivered Do it Yourself (DIY) kits, has won the first edition of TiE Women Pitchfest 2021 for women entrepreneurs organised by The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) in Mysuru. Earlier this month, a total of 28 teams from three States had sent their entries. They pitched for interesting services, offerings and products addressing the market pains in their respective markets. One of the conditions for participation was the presence of at least one woman among the co-founders of the start-up ventures. Five teams made it to the final round held on September 3, where their ideas were pitched to a panel of successful women entrepreneurs and angel investors. Apart from Sapeintury, the final round participants included Practice Management, founded by Sangeetha Sharaff, which provides clinic management solutions for struggling healthcare practitioners; Les Aider Wellness, a Fintech start-up founded by Vinita More, which has developed a reminder app FinPrompt for all renewals and maturity dates for non-tech savy people; Anargya Ecotech, co-founded by Neha Dhanaram, which has developed a technology that would capture the CO2 from industrial emissions and convert it into dry ice; and Pro Rurals India, founded by Ramya Bopanna, which is a farm-to-pack venture, specialising in Indian spices and native crops from the place of origin. Eventually, the presentation by Sapientury was approved by the panel of judges and become eligible to receive Rs. 50,000 cash prize. Earlier this year, Sapientury had also won the TiE University Pitchfest 2021 for university students. The panel of judges for the TiE Women’s Pitchfest 2021 comprised Revathy Ashok, angel investor and co-founder of Strategy Garage, Bengaluru; Geetha Ramamurthy, co-founder and CEO of GiGa Innovation Center and Board member of TiE Bengaluru chapter; and Priya Nagaraj, Director, Strategic Partnerships, Deshpande Start-ups, Hubbali, who evaluated the pitches on parameters including innovation, scalability, market opportunity, commercialisation and business model. While the winner receives cash award, all the five teams will receive one-year TiE Mysuru Associate Membership and continue to receive mentoring support. President of TiE Mysuru Ajith Pai said TiE Mysuru strives to provide an enabling ecosystem to women entrepreneurs and start-ups. Shrilakshmi Desiraju chaired the fest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/education-start-up-wins-tie-women-pitchfest-2021/article36410542.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Contentious content’ in textbooks to be reviewed||B.C. Nagesh, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, told The Hindu that an official order was issued last week in this regard but the committee was formed earlier when Suresh Kumar headed the department. He said that the committee has been asked to review if there are any “mistakes” in the textbooks. The decision to constitute a committee was taken following a controversy in February this year on a lesson in the class VI textbook which talked about causes that led to the birth of Jainism and Buddhism, and made references to some practices in the later Vedic period. Brahmin Development Board had raised objections to it, arguing that content in this lesson “hurts the sentiments” of the community. Teachers were told not to teach this chapter for the 2020-21 academic year. Textbook committee Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Chakrathirtha said that the committee would review “all the deviations and the additions” made by the textbook revision committee that was earlier headed by writer Baraguru Ramachandrappa. “We will examine all the additions and deletions made by the committee and if there are anomalies in the text,” he said. Reacting to this, Mr. Ramachandrappa said that while small errors in textbooks can be rectified, he was opposed to reviewing all content that was changed by the textbook revision committee. He said that he headed 27 subject committees with a total of 172 members and if there are errors in the textbooks, it needs to be corrected by these subject experts. He stated that textbooks should not be influenced by party politics and should be revised keeping in mind the national curriculum framework 2005 and the Constitutional values. Niranjanaradhya V.P., development educationist, said that when the education system was going through a serious crisis, thinking of such issues showed that the government’s priorities were misplaced. “It appears to be a clear agenda of saffronisation in Karnataka so that they can mislead serious issues of the learning crisis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contentious-content-in-textbooks-to-be-reviewed/article36410334.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-fervour/article36410333.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,KERALA||‘Clusters from family, social events causing rise in COVID-19 cases’||Clusters arising from family and social functions and lack of adherence to the mask mandate and physical distancing norms at crowded places are among the reasons for the increase in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu. In the last few days, the State has been registering a marginal increase in the number of cases. As the fluctuations in the daily count continued in some districts, the figure crossed 1,600 on Friday and Saturday. “This was mainly due to functions-based clusters and non-follow-up of social vaccine, namely wearing of masks and physical distancing at crowded places. Contact-tracing of persons who have tested positive also contributes to numbers, but it is useful in preventing an exponential rise and controlling it as a localised cluster,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. This was the case in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Thanjavur and delta districts, the outskirts of Chennai, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur districts. “In Chennai, zones 5, 7, 10, 12 and 13 are areas where we have a positive growth of new cases. These include Kodambakkam, the Alandur-Mugalivakkam belt, Royapuram, Ambattur and Adyar,” he said. In a message to the Collectors and the Greater Chennai Corporation on Friday, the Health Secretary underscored the need to be on alert as Tamil Nadu was showing a rising trend in cases. What was worrying was that instead of the earlier week changes linked to the increase in the number of tests on weekdays, this rise was due to the gradual increase in positivity, he noted. Till vaccination covered a substantial population, monitoring of persons at crowded places, enforcing COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and contact-tracing in case of emergence of clusters assumed importance. Similarly, vaccinating the maximum number of persons to create immunity among those not exposed was important, he said. “We need to focus on vaccinating the left-over eligible population and those eligible for the second dose. Effective contact-tracing and localised disease containment is important,” he added. T. S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, said, “We are able to pick up cases only because we are monitoring and reporting.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clusters-from-social-events-causing-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-tamil-nadu/article36410341.ece
12 September 2021||Hyderabad,KERALA||Telangana becomes first State to deliver medicinal BVLOS payload||Telangana on Saturday became first State in the country to embark on Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLoS) flights to deliver a payload comprising vaccines, with the launch of Medicine from the Sky project in Vikarabad. The project, which seeks to deliver medicine, vaccines, and blood to rural areas by means of drones, is a collaboration of the Telangana government, World Economic Forum, HealthNet Global and NITI Aayog. Eight consortia are part of the project, out of which three – Hepicopter, comprising Marut Drones and Public Health Foundation of India, Blue Dart Med Express, comprising Blue Dart and Skye Air, and Curis Fly, comprising TechEagle, launched their drones on Saturday. The payload was delivered from the Vikarabad police Parade Ground to a government healthcare facility around 3 km away. After launching the project, Union Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia described drone technology as a revolution, and India its leader. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had liberalised drone policy and centrality was now on self-certification and empowering those involved in this ecosystem. “This will unleash the potential of the youth. You have startups like Marut, like TechEagle, like Skye Air,” he said. He said that liberalised new Drone Rules had made it easier for entrepreneurs. Information Technology Minister K T Ramarao said the project was an exciting intersection of technology and healthcare and the State had been in the forefront of using emerging technologies. Describing the State as progressive, Mr Rao, echoing Chevella Member of Parliament G Ranjith Reddy, requested Mr Scindia to develop the Begumpet Airport into an aviation university or centre of excellence, which would provide skills to youth of the country. Vignesh Santhanam, India Lead, Dones and Tomorrow’s Airspace World Economic Forum, said the model being embarked upon was that of leveraging ‘make in India drones, to carry made in India vaccines to serve rural and isolated communities. The Medicine from the Sky project would be ramped up in six other states in the country, in the next six to 12 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/telangana-becomes-first-state-to-deliver-medicinal-bvlos-payload/article36410250.ece
12 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad farmer sets a model in rice seed conservation||At a time when most farmers in the State have chosen to keep paddy fields fallow or cultivate cash crops like ginger, plantain, arecanut, and coconut owing to poor income from rice cultivation, Sunil Kallinkara, 45, a progressive farmer at Cheeral on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, has set a model for them by conserving 71 traditional rice varieties from across the country on 38 acres of rented land. Mr. Kallinkara has been conserving rice seeds and propagating them in a participatory mode with the support of farmer groups from across the country for the past many years. The farmer follows organic cultivation for which he uses self-made inputs such as Jeevamrutha, Beejamrutha, and curd-Jaggery mixture to keep crops healthy and disease-free. He began cultivation nearly 30 years ago on an acre of inherited land with five traditional rice varieties, including scented varieties such as Gandhakassala and Jeerakassala. The farmer has conserved 71 varieties and expanded his cultivation from one acre to 48 acres, including 10 acres of his own land. “Of the 71 varieties, the most important for me is the double-seeded Jugal of West Bengal,” said Mr. Kallinkara. A single grain bears two to three seeds, and the variety makes a yield of 15 to 16 quintals per acre, he added. Organic cultivation has always been profitable for him, as he gets an average income of Rs. 25,000 from an acre. “I am selling rice at a premium price after value-addition and getting Rs. 50 to Rs. 150 a kg depending on the variety,” he said. Besides, he sells rare seeds like Jugal at Rs. 1,000 a kg. A vast network of farmers and farmers’ consortiums across the country as well as timely assistance from scientists of the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) has helped Mr. Kallinkara to conserve the seeds. “Many rare species of rice such as Kalabhat, Black Jasmin, Malli Kuruva, and Saraswathy are shared by farmers,” said Joseph John, scientist, MSSRF. The network has set a model for the entire farming community in the country, as farmers freely exchange and share seeds to make conservation efforts easier, Mr. Joseph said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-farmer-sets-a-model-in-rice-seed-conservation/article36410575.ece
12 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Case against three for holding fake gun licences||The Kannur police on Saturday registered cases against three persons from Kashmir for possessing gun licences using fake certificates. Cases were registered against Kashmir Singh, 31, Pradeep Singh, 33, and Kalyan Singh, 28, all from Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir. District Police Chief (Kannur) R. Ilango said all three had been working with an agency that provides security for filling cash in ATMs in Kannur for around six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-three-for-holding-fake-gun-licences/article36410579.ece
12 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Voting on no-trust motion in Thrikkakara slated for Sept. 23||The administration of the Thrikkakara municipality has gone into a tailspin with the Opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) trying to seize power through a no-confidence motion against chairperson Ajitha Thankappan of the Congress party despite the ruling United Democratic Front (UDF) looking assured of winning the motion comfortably. The voting on the no-confidence motion is slated for September 23 and the Opposition leader M.K. Chandrababu said the LDF was confident of carrying the motion through. Councillors’ support But the task looks a little difficult. The UDF has 21 councillors — 16 from the Congress and five from the Indian Union Muslim League. There are also five Congress rebels, of whom four have extended support to the ruling UDF council. One of the rebels has extended support to the Opposition LDF. In effect, the UDF has the support of 25 councillors, while the LDF has the support of 18. The LDF has 17 members in the council — 15 from the CPI(M) and two from the CPI. Though the situation looked delicately poised for the 43-member council, the UDF was confident of maintaining power, said Congress party sources. So far, 18 councillors with the LDF have backed the notice of a no-confidence motion, which was submitted to the regional joint director for municipal administration on Friday. The LDF councillors also called off a week-long protest before the municipal office calling for the resignation of the chairperson. The Opposition had accused the chairperson of distributing Rs. 10,000 each to the 43 councillors along with other Onam gifts on the eve of the festival. The charges have been denied by the chairperson. She was also given a clean chit by the Congress district leadership, which probed the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/voting-on-no-trust-motion-in-thrikkakara-slated-for-sept-23/article36410592.ece
12 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Water Metro launch on Dec. 25: Behera||The first batch of four Water Metro ferries, being built at the Cochin Shipyard, is getting ready for commercial operations from the year-end, and December 25 has been set as the tentative target for the launch, Loknath Behera, Managing Director of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), has said. The ferries will kick off operations on the Vypeen-Bolgatty-High Court-Eloor-Cheranalloor corridor among other routes. The contracting firm has been directed to complete work on jetties at different locales. Among them, the High Court Jetty would be the biggest and the most important of the lot, Mr. Behera told The Hindu . The assurance of a tangible deadline comes in the midst of the metro agency and the shipyard facing considerable flak for the frequent shifting of deadlines. A total of twenty-three 50-seater ferries have been conceived in the first phase of the project. The first ferry, which was reportedly encountering a technical glitch, has not begun sea trials. It is still undergoing basin trials, it is learnt. “Being an entirely new project and one-of-its-kind in the country, technical glitches are possible. This must not deter stakeholders in any way, although the Centre and many others are critical of the delay. The shipyard is doing a good job and consulting experts, following which the glitch could be sorted out in another 10 to 15 days,” said Mr. Behera. The first ferry will be handed over to KMRL by month-end for conducting trial runs on different routes. The ferries operate with LTO batteries, considered the safest among batteries, and they can be recharged within 15 minutes. It would be the first time in the world that electric boats were being operating under a centralised control centre as an urban transport system, said metro sources. On public transport enthusiasts and NGOs terming the Water Metro’s fare structure as unaffordable to most commuters, Mr. Behera said fares would be rationalised, so that the poor and marginalised sections of society benefit from the project. “It is also crucial to ensure that they operate with full capacity of passengers,” he added. Aimed at expediting the process to commence the operation of ferries, it has been decided that officials will avail the waterway route to inspect all the jetties envisaged in the Greater Kochi area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-metro-launch-on-dec-25-behera/article36410594.ece
12 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cautious optimism among traders about lifting of Sunday lockdown||Traders in the city are keeping their fingers crossed as they are set to open shops on a Sunday after the State government lifted the lockdown on Sundays. While they expect some improvement in business as consumers will get to do shopping freely without adjusting their working hours, not all are optimistic of a drastic change in fortunes. “Shops like the ones dealing in textiles and footwear may benefit as such purchases are usually done on weekends. But a huge change in business prospects remains unlikely as none other than government employees have disposable income at the moment and, without money in the hands of a majority of consumers, businesses will only benefit incrementally at best,” said G. Karthikeyan, president, Kerala Merchant Chamber of Commerce. He also complained how the government’s promised loans of Rs. 2 lakh to small traders had not yet materialised. The banks had not yet received any notification from the government and were hence declining to lend, he added. At Broadway Shop owners in the business nerve centre of Broadway, however, remain upbeat about Sundays getting opened up, coming as it does after a much better Onam season compared to last year. “Sundays are when families go for outing, and that will definitely reflect in sales,” said P.A. Sageer, president, Broadway Shop Owners’ Association. Abdul Latheef, who runs a popular used-books shop in the city, said that during the pre-COVID times his shop did 70% of the business during the weekend compared to weekdays. “Ease in traffic and the fact that a majority of families in a city like Kochi have working couples make Sunday an ideal day for shopping. “Also, we do not have a night life unlike some other cities thanks to the lack of public transport leaving little room for compensating the loss of business on Sundays,” he said. Operators of hotels and restaurants, however, have little to rejoice as in-house dining remains banned and business restricted to takeaways alone. “No hotel can survive for long with takeaways only as the revenue generated is just about enough to meet the wages of an already scaled-down workforce. Despite our repeated pleas to the government, the ban continues which is not based on any scientific finding. Canteens in the Assembly, collectorates, and hospitals are operating as usual, people are travelling next to each other in public transport, and functions are being held in violation of protocol, and yet people are not allowed to dine at hotels. “This is not to mention the environmental crisis faced even by green tourist spots on account of visitors resorting to parcels in plastic carry bags,” said G. Jayapal, general secretary, Kerala Hotel and Restaurants Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cautious-optimism-among-traders-about-lifting-of-sunday-lockdown/article36410598.ece
12 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held for assaulting cop||The Unnukal police on Saturday arrested a person on the charge of hitting a policeman posted on duty at the station. The arrested was identified as Binu aka Kuttayi, 44, of Neriamangalam. He is a history-sheeter and accused in several cases, the police said. He is charged with hitting the cop on his face after arriving at the station by an autorickshaw. The writer at the station, who tried to stop him, was also assaulted. He was produced in court and remanded. A team led by Inspector K.G. Rishikeshan Nair, assistant sub inspector Ashraf, civil police officers Jijo Mathew and Shanil made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-assaulting-cop/article36410597.ece
12 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held with 8.2 kg of ganja||A special squad of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) arrested two youngsters while they were allegedly transporting 8.23 kg of dry ganja worth Rs. 70,000 in a bag at the Aluva railway station. The arrested are Sreehari, 19, of Kottapady, and Ajay Govind, 20, of Panipra. The narcotic was allegedly smuggled in from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh aboard Dhanbad-Alleppey Express. The arrested were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-with-82-kg-of-ganja/article36410591.ece
12 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL slashes parking rates||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has considerably scaled down parking charges at metro stations with effect from Monday, as part of its efforts to attract more commuters to the system of mass rapid transport. Thus, two-wheelers will have to pay only Rs. 5 for an entire day while the rate will be Rs. 10 for four-wheelers. The current rate was Rs. 10 and Rs. 30 respectively for the first two hours, following which the tariff went up by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 per hour. The metro agency has restructured train timings and frequency on all Sundays,. Metro trains will now operate every 15 minutes from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-slashes-parking-rates/article36410595.ece
12 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Guest lecturer vacancies||Bharat Mata College, Thrikkakara, has invited applications for the post of guest lecturers in chemistry, physics, Hindi, English, history, and physical education. Interested candidates should apply before September 14 at the email: principal@bharatamata college.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guest-lecturer-vacancies/article36410596.ece
12 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three die after car rushing patient to hospital runs into walkers||Three women died and two others were injured after a car reportedly rushing a patient with chest pain to a hospital ran into a group of four women out for morning walk at Pazhanganad in Kizhakkambalam on Saturday around 6.15 a.m. The deceased were identified as Subaida Kunjumuhammad, 49, and Neseema Yousuf, 48, of Kizhakkambalam, and Swapna, 50, of Pookkattupady. Sajida Samad and Beevi Kunjumuhammad, among the morning walkers, were injured in the accident. The car in which Swapna, a homeopathy doctor, was being rushed to a private hospital at Pazhanganad caused the accident. The car driven by the patient’s husband reportedly did not stop after running into the walkers. The man informed the hospital about the accident after he reached there and an ambulance was rushed to the spot to tend to the injured. Ms. Swapna died shortly after reaching the hospital due to cardiac arrest. While Ms. Kunjumuhammad died on the spot, Ms. Yousuf succumbed to injuries at the hospital. The condition of the other two injured women was not serious. They were referred to a city hospital, said sources at the Pazhanganad hospital. The police have registered a case invoking Section 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-die-after-car-rushing-patient-to-hospital-runs-into-walkers/article36410599.ece
12 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pala witnesses a wave of protests||The remarks on ‘narcotic jihad’ made by Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt appear to have stirred up the otherwise sleepy town of Pala with rallies over the last two days. On Friday, over 200 workers of Muslim organisations, under the aegis of the Muslim Aikya Vedi, staged a march to the Bishop’s House in Pala seeking action against the prelate. This was followed by another round of protest by 35 People’s Democratic Party activists. The protesters were prevented from entering the Bishop’s House by the police, who also booked cases for violation of the COVID-19 protocol. These protests appear to have triggered an unprecedented mobilisation of Christian groups with various organisations, supported by a section of politicians, taking out a march in support of the bishop on Saturday. Kerala Janapaksham chairman P.C. George inaugurated the rally. The Syro-Malabar diocese of Pala has now come up with a clarification that the bishop was only pointing out some alarming trends in society. In a statement, Mar Jacob Murickan, auxiliary bishop of Pala, called for an end to the misleading campaigns over the issue. “His remarks were not against any particular community. The bishop was indeed espousing that all religions and communities have to take a serious note of attempts by a minority section to use religious symbols and banners for religious extremism and antisocial activities by outsmarting true believers and spiritual leaders,” he said. KCBC backs bishop Meanwhile, the Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council (KCBC), the apex body of the Catholic hierarchy in Kerala, has rallied behind the Pala bishop. "It will be more appropriate to discuss the bishop's statement seriously than to turn it into a social controversy," said a communication from the council in Kochi on Saturday. Kerala society is going through serious social problems that included the presence of terror networks and a shocking increase in the use of addictive substances, said a statement from council official spokesman Mar Jacob Palakkappilly. Despite reports of drug seizures worth large sums of money, little investigation had gone into these reports. ( With inputs from Kochi bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pala-witnesses-a-wave-of-protests/article36410603.ece
12 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Architecture dept. at NIT-C holds its head high again||For the last three consecutive years, the department of architecture and planning at the National Institute of Technology- Calicut (NIT-C) has been bringing laurels to the institute when the Ministry of Education (formerly Ministry of Human Resource Development) released the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), a methodology adopted to rank institutions of higher education in India. This time, the achievement of the department was stupendous when it notched up the second position in the architecture category. And that too when the ranking of NIT-C, which is celebrating its diamond jubilee year, slipped from 23rd to 25th position in the engineering category at the all-India level. The overall score of the department was 76.50, while that of the department of architecture and planning, IIT Roorkee, which finished first, was 82.65. It was 69.24 in 2020; 65.52 in 2019, and much out of the picture in the race for the top 10 in 2018. Even then, it has outshone the departments of several IITs and well as the prestigious schools of planning and architecture in Delhi and Bhopal in the recent past. Dr. P.P. Anil Kumar, professor and former head of the department of architecture and planning, NIT-C, who was instrumental in the significant headway, attributes the success to team work by faculty members, staff, and students as well as engaging students to meet global challenges and connecting them to the social sphere. “We have been able to integrate and evolve contextual aesthetic into design pedagogy. “Exposure of students with professionals and research activities has helped us achieve a good rank,” Dr. Anil Kumar said. A.K. Kasturba, head of the department of architecture and planning, NIT-C, said the milestone recognition was an outcome of commitment and contributions by the academic community consisting of faculty members, research scholars, and students and well-equipped labs. “Every tiny effort of individuals will get invested in the growth of the department through their academic and research contributions, outreach activities, and social projects. We will strive to keep up this national recognition and ranking through steady and continuous efforts,” Dr. Kasturba added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/architecture-dept-at-nit-c-holds-its-head-high-again/article36410572.ece
12 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Fresh COVID cases, TPR plateauing in Kozhikode||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases and the daily test positivity rate (TPR) seems to be plateauing in Kozhikode district after the post-Onam surge. Only 2,057 new cases of infection were recorded on Saturday, and the daily TPR was 16.33%. On Friday, fresh cases were 2,514, and TPR 18.83%. On Thursday, they were 2,332 and 15.98% respectively. The week after the culmination of Onam holidays, the number of fresh cases had surged to over 3,500 every day, and daily TPR hovered above 20%. Though the Health Department had expected that there could be a spike in cases by September 10, it did not happen. Vaccination too seems to have picked up pace in between. Of the fresh cases reported on Saturday, 2,030 were due to local transmission, and the source of 23 others was not known. As many as 12,818 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation had 359 cases of locally acquired infections, Kunnamangalam 60, Meppayyur and Vadakara 55 each, Nanminda and Kadalundi 54 each, and Koyilandy 51. Active caseload of the district dropped to 31,171. ‘Misleading report’ Meanwhile, District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said a news report claiming that COVID-19 deaths in the district had gone up after the reporting of a Nipah death recently was misleading. In a release on Saturday, she said COVID-19 deaths being reported every day might not have occurred on the same day. The reports are released only after the deaths are confirmed to have been caused by COVID-19. None has been transferred from the COVID control room, and no official in charge of pandemic containment measures has been given charge of Nipah control as mentioned in the report. However, some have been given additional charges. Dr. Jayasree claimed that the containment of both COVID-19 and Nipah was going on simultaneously. Some people on non-COVID duty have been assigned work at the COVID control room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-covid-cases-tpr-plateauing-in-kozhikode/article36410578.ece
12 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Many shop owners yet to comply with safety norms||Despite the Fire and Rescue Services Department’s call to streamline fire safety measures, many shops on the renovated S.M. Street and surrounding areas still have no fire exits, and spaces meant for keeping fire extinguishers are being used as additional storage area. Though surprise inspections exposed several such violations, many traders are yet to get convinced of the safety requirements that can save lives and property during an emergency. Since many shops in the highly vulnerable area deal in plastic and rubber products, the impact of a fire outbreak will be huge. Smoke detectors and portable fire extinguishers remain scarecrows in many old buildings where the stock is crammed up, restricting easy entry. A few building owners are yet to replace old wiring. Also, use of poor quality inverters and electrical equipment is rampant. “It was a providential escape for people in many shops near Oasis complex and Baby Mall in Friday’s fire outbreak. There is even a building that stored liquefied petroleum gas cylinders,” said a fire official. He added that firefighters could make sudden intervention owing to the renovation of the street. According to fire officials, reopening of shops without proper inspection after long months of inactivity is also a safety challenge. They said several traders had not even cared to inspect electrical circuits which can be easily damaged by rodents. During an earlier inspection, fire squads had detected a series of safety violations by owners of eight multi-storey buildings. The authorities had ordered closure of some buildings following failure by owners to comply with instructions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-shop-owners-yet-to-comply-with-safety-norms/article36410585.ece
12 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Ensure basic facilities at central market: SHRC||The State Human Rights Corporation (SHRC) has directed the Kozhikode Corporation to take steps to address issues at the central market. Visiting the market on Saturday, commission member K. Baijunath said the market lacked basic facilities, and that traders and customers were facing difficulties. The commission had suo motu registered a case on the basis of media reports on the condition of the market and had asked the corporation Secretary on September 4 to submit a report. The panel had noted that not providing basic facilities was equivalent to human rights violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-basic-facilities-at-central-market-shrc/article36410577.ece
12 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Two more arrested in gang rape case||The City police on Saturday arrested two more persons allegedly involved in a gang rape case at Chevayur in Kozhikode. Atholi natives S.V. Lijas, 34 and K.V. Shuhaib, 39, were nabbed by a special squad led by Medical College Assistant Commissioner K. Sudarshan. Two other suspects, Ajnas and Fahad, were arrested on Friday based on the petition of the 32-year-old victim from Kollam. The woman was allegedly drugged by the four-member gang at a lodge near Chevayur in Kozhikode. According to the police, the woman was lured by Ajnas, 36 and Fahad, 35, through a social media networking site. She was reportedly invited to the city for a personal meet-up on Wednesday. The youths had allegedly invited Ajnas and Fahad as well after raping her in the rented room, the police said. All the four were booked under Section 376 (Punishment for rape) of the IPC. They would be taken to the crime scene for collecting evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-arrested-in-gang-rape-case/article36410580.ece
12 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||MSF leader arrested, granted bail||The Chemmangadu police on Friday arrested P.K. Navas, president of the Muslim Students Federation (MSF), on the charge of outraging the modesty of woman on a petition by the Haritha, the women’s student wing of the Indian Union Muslim League. Navas, who was summoned to the police station for questioning, was later granted bail. According to the police, Navas was accused of using derogatory language against his women co-workers in the organisation. A case was registered after recording the statement of ten women representing the Haritha. The complaint was first taken up by the Kerala Women’s Commission, which later handed over it to the City police for action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/msf-leader-arrested-granted-bail/article36410583.ece
12 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Make forest offices people-friendly’||Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran has urged Forest officials to make their offices people-friendly so as to cater for those depending on forests for livelihood. Speaking at the Forest Martyr’s Day observance here on Saturday, the Minister said the safety of Forest officials was the government’s prime concern. He said talks would be held with insurance companies to ensure that officials got more benefits from insurance schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/make-forest-offices-people-friendly/article36410573.ece
12 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Accused in abuse case found dead||A Perambra native, who was recently booked on the charge of sexually assaulting a minor girl, was found dead near his house on Saturday. The police him as Velayudhan. He was reportedly absconding after the case was registered against him by the Kozhikode rural police. The victim was a 10-year-old girl. Helpline: 049527600; WhatsApp: 7902281306.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-in-abuse-case-found-dead/article36410576.ece
12 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||New Malappuram Collector assumes office||The new District Collector of Malappuram, V.R. Premkumar, assumed office here on Friday. He replaced K. Gopalakrishnan, who has been posted as Director, Employment and Training Department. Requesting the support of the people and their representatives, Mr. Premkumar said special thrust would be given to the district’s development and welfare activities even while giving importance to the fight against COVID-19. District Development Commissioner S. Premkrishnan, Sub-Collectors Sreedhanya Suresh and Suraj Shaji, Assistant Collector Safna Nasiruddin, Additional District Magistrate N.M. Meharali, Deputy Collectors M.C. Rejil, K. Lata, G.S. Rodhesh, P.N. Purushothaman, J.O. Arun, and S. Harikumar, and tahsildars of the district attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-malappuram-collector-assumes-office/article36410582.ece
12 September 2021||Mangaluru,KERALA||Meeting at Christian prayer hall disrupted by Hindutva activists||A group of Hindu Jagaran Vedike (HJV) members allegedly barged into a Christian prayer hall and created a ruckus at Kukkundoor village near Karkala in Udupi district on Friday. The Christian group has accused the activists of criminal intimidation and attempting to harass a woman who had come to the prayer hall. The HJV, meanwhile, has accused the group of indulging in conversion. The activists stormed the prayer hall of Pragati Centre near Anandi Maidan at Nakre in Kukkundoor on Friday evening. They accused Benedict, the organiser of the prayer meeting, of indulging in religious conversion. While taking videos of those assembled at the hall, they hurled abuses and created a commotion, according to a complaint filed with the Karkala Town police. Police intervene The police rushed to the spot and sent away the HJV members. Later, the HJV members filed a complaint against Mr. Benedict. Sunil, a resident of Kuntalpady, who attended the prayer meet, also filed complaint, accusing him of hurting religious sentiments. These complaints were registered for offences under Section 295 A and 298 of the Indian Penal Code. Mr. Benedict also filed a complaint against the HJV members, which was registered for offences punishable under Sections 143, 147, 323, 354, 448, 504, and 506 of the IPC. Mr. Benedict told reporters that the centre was run by a religious congregation from Mangaluru. Denying religious conversion, Mr. Benedict said they were holding prayer sessions in which people from different communities took part. He accused the HJV activists of causing commotion at the prayer hall and hurling abuses at women who attended the session. Shifted venue Mr. Benedict earlier held prayer session at Dooopadakatte, also in Karkala taluk. Following a complaint of religious conversion on July 15, 2021, Mr. Benedict relocated to the hall at Kukkundoor. Mahesh Bailoor, HJV Udupi district general secretary, said there was no permission from the district administration for Mr. Benedict to hold prayer sessions at Kukkundoor. Udupi districtpresident of the All India Christian Federation Prashanth Jatthana demanded strict action against the HJV members for storming into the prayer hall and misbehaving with women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hindutva-activists-in-udupi-disrupt-christian-prayer-meet/article36410252.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,KERALA||Pilot’s non-adherence to SOP probable cause of Kozhikode plane crash||The pilot’s non-adherence to the standard operating procedure (SOP) is the probable cause of the Air India Express plane crash at the Kozhikode airport in August 2020, but the role of the systemic failures as a contributory factor cannot be overlooked in the accident, according to the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) probe report. The crash, involving a Boeing 737-800 aircraft, killed 21 people, including two pilots, and injured several others. While trying to land at the airport amid rain, the aircraft overshot the runway and later broke into pieces. There were 190 people onboard when the crash happened on August 7, 2020. The AAIB released the report on Saturday. Report after a year The report, released a little over a year after the crash of the Air India Express plane, said the probable cause of the accident was the non-adherence to SOP by the ‘‘pilot flying”. The pilot continued an unstabilised approach and landed beyond the touchdown zone, “half way down the runway, in spite of a ‘go around’ call by the ‘‘pilot monitoring’’, which warranted a mandatory go around and the failure of the pilot monitoring to take over controls and execute a go around”, it noted. According to the report, the investigation team is of the opinion that the role of systemic failures as a contributory factor cannot be overlooked in this accident. “A large number of similar accidents/incidents that have continued to take place, more so in AIXL, reinforce existing systemic failures within the aviation sector,” the report said. “These usually occur due to prevailing safety culture that gives rise to errors, mistakes and violation of routine tasks performed by people operating within the system. Hence, the contributory factors enumerated below include both the immediate causes and the deeper or systemic causes,” it added. On Thursday, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scinida said the report would be made public in the next couple of days. “... within the Ministry, we will be also putting together a group of people that will be tasked with the responsibility of ensuring that the steps that have been recommended in the report are put in place at the airport,” the Minister said. Last month, the Minister of State for Civil Aviation V.K. Singh told the Lok Sabha that final compensation offers have been made to all the next of kin of the deceased passengers, but none “has sent their acceptance”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pilots-non-adherence-to-sop-probable-cause-of-kozhikode-plane-crash/article36410608.ece
12 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ready to conduct Plus One exams, State tells SC||The State government has submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court (SC) putting forward its case for conducting the Plus One higher secondary examinations in offline mode despite the recent stay by the court. The case will be taken up for hearing again on Monday. The affidavit lays out the arrangements on the part of the State government for conducting the exams by strictly adhering to the COVID-19 protocols and guidelines issued by the health authorities. It pointed out that the SSLC and Plus Two exams had been conducted in April by observing all possible safety measures. It was the rising number of COVID-19 cases that prevented Plus One exams from being held then. Students had been given advance notice about the Plus One exam dates to provide them adequate preparation time. Moreover, the State had in July conducted the engineering exams of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. The JEE (Main) session 4 was also conducted recently, from August 26 to September 2. The State conducts public exams for Plus One students, unlike other exam boards such as the CBSE. As Plus One marks are counted towards the cumulative Plus Two marks to determine eligibility for higher education, the Plus One exams need to be held for proper evaluation of students. Model exams, conducted at home under the supervision of parents, will not be equal to board exams and be a benchmark for academic eligibility. The physical presence of students in schools would eliminate the hurdle of lack of electronic gadgets with them or connectivity issues and that of any possible question paper leaks, the affidavit said, adding the exams would be over by any prospective third wave peak in October. Students who had failed the Plus Two exams earlier have to clear both Plus One and Plus Two subjects in which they had failed. Their prospects too would be hurt if the exams were not held. The government also pointed out in the affidavit that the High Court had held that there were no serious lapses on the part of the government in scheduling the exams. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty had earlier made it clear that the government would abide by the decision of the apex court on the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-to-conduct-class-xi-exams-kerala-govt-tells-sc/article36410247.ece
12 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||20,487 new cases, 26,155 recoveries||Kerala reported 20,487 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 1,34,861 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate dipped to 15.19% on the day. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in public and private hospitals keeps fluctuating and 2,352 patients are in ICUs now (2,385 patients on Friday), while the number of patients requiring ventilator support was 1,006 (1,008 on Friday). The State’s active case pool is also stabilising, with the State reporting a good number of daily recoveries. The number of patients in the active case pool dipped from 2,37,643 on Friday to 2,31,792 on Saturday, with 26,155 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. There is no let-up in COVID-19 deaths. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 22,484 with the State adding 181 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,272, while the total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe COVID have more or less stabilised for the past one week and dipped slightly to 31,637. The cumulative case burden ever since the pandemic began now stands at 43,55,191 cases. Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases at 2,812, followed by Ernakulam 2,490, Thiruvananthapuram 2,217, Kozhikode 2,057, Kollam 1,660, Palakkad 1,600, Malappuram 1,554, Alappuzha 1,380, Kottayam 1,176, Wayanad 849, Kannur 810, Idukki 799, Pathanamthitta 799 and Kasaragod 284 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/20487-new-cases-26155-recoveries/article36410606.ece
12 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI State unit slams Annie||The State and Central leadership of the CPI seems to be at odds over high-profile party leader Annie Raja’s statement that a patently misogynist ‘Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh gang’ with a dismal track record in handling crimes against women helms the Kerala Police Strong exception The CPI State executive and council, which met here for three days recently, reportedly took strong exception to Ms. Raja's statement. The CPI State executive reportedly opined that party general secretary D. Raja had lost no time supporting Ms. Raja. He should have cross-checked facts with the State unit. The CPI reportedly tasked a Central secretariat member to convey the State unit's displeasure to Mr. Raja. Remark The BJP and Congress had seized on the remark to berate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who headed the Home portfolio. Moreover, the comment had deeply embarrassed the CPI in the Left Democratic Front. Ms. Raja is currently general secretary of the CPI's women wing, the National Federation of Indian Women. Pressed about Ms. Raja's take on the State police, Mr. Rajendran said at a press conference on Saturday: “The party code applied equally to all members. Senior leaders have no leeway to violate the norms. The CPI has mandated that national leaders not hold forth on regional issues without consulting the State leadership concerned.” An insider claimed the CPI State council and executive members had railed against Ms. Raja’s ‘out of the blue and shallow on facts outburst.’ Many reportedly felt Ms. Raja had cited a one-off incident for damning the police. She had turned a blind eye to the yeoman service rendered by the police during floods and later the COVID-19 pandemic. Risked lives Officers had risked their lives to save citizens. Several died in the line of duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-leaders-slam-annie-rajas-remark/article36410245.ece
12 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bishop’s sermon roils State politics||Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangattu’s “cautionary” sermon on radical Islamists “using narcotic drugs” to corrupt Catholic and non-Muslim youths has roiled Kerala politics. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), the Congress, the CPI(M) and the CPI have warned that the Bishop’s speech about “narcotic jihad” against non-Muslims by Islamists could lethally polarise Kerala’s largely secular society into competing religious groups acutely mistrustful of each other. However, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) seemed caught off guard when Kerala Congress (M) leader and Kottayam district panchayat president Nirmala Jimmy publicly backed the Bishop’s view. Her statement contradicted Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s rejection of the spectre of “narcotic jihad” on Friday. KC(M) is an LDF ally. ‘Rally behind Bishop’ In Thiruvananthapuram, Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan threw the Union government’s weight behind the Bishop. He said Indian politics had shifted seismically since 2010 when the jihadist attack on Newman College teacher T.J. Joseph for blasphemy had elicited a muted response. Mr. Muraleedharan urged the moderates in the Muslim community to rally behind the Bishop. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said society should not be divided on communal lines. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran said spiritual leaders should not lend credence to the divisive political agenda of the Sangh Parivar. Meanwhile, over 200 workers of Muslim organisations, under the aegis of the Muslim Aikya Vedi, on Friday staged a march to the Bishop’s House in Pala seeking action against the prelate. This was followed by another round of protest by 35 People’s Democratic Party activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pala-bishops-narcotic-jihad-sermon-roils-politics-in-kerala/article36410244.ece
12 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||All set for NEET exam||Over 1.6 lakh candidates have registered from the State for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET–UG) 2021 that is set to be held on Sunday. The examination will be conducted across nearly 325 centres in 13 ‘city centres’, viz., Alappuzha, Angamaly, Ernakulam, Idukki, Kannur, Kasaragod, Kollam, Kottayam, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Palakkad, Thiruvananthapuram, and Thrissur. There are no centres in Wayanad and Pathanamthitta. Only 12 students will be accommodated in an exam hall with each being allotted an entire bench to enable effective social distancing. The exams, being conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for admissions to MBBS, BDS, and other undergraduate medical courses, will be held from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. The number of questions has increased to 200, compared to 180 questions last year. In the new NEET question paper pattern, each subject — Physics, Chemistry, Botany and Zoology — will consist of Sections A and B that will comprise 35 and 15 questions respectively. Examinees will be required to attempt only 10 of the 15 questions in Section B of each subject. Regular candidates will be permitted entry to examination centres in a staggered manner from 11 a.m. to 1.30 p.m., while COVID-19-infected examinees can enter either before 11 a.m. or after 1.30 p.m. Official sources said three isolation rooms would be set up at each centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-for-neet-exam/article36410610.ece
12 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Governor for exposure to all lines of thought||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has said universities and classrooms are marketplaces for conflicting ideas and varied schools of thought. Students should be exposed to every aspect of learning. The Governor said here on Saturday that he was not in a position to comment on the developments in Kannur University. But generally, limiting the scope of the study was not advisable. “They teach Karl Marx in foreign university even when those nations do not adhere to Marxism.” “Charvaka rubbished everything Indians held sacred. However, nobody threw a stone at him. Instead, ancient India revered the philosopher as Mahatma Charvaka. His thought is one of the five prominent streams of Indian philosophy,” he said. Panel formed Meanwhile, Kannur University constituted a two-member committee to examine the syllabus for the third semester of MA Governance and Politics programme after the inclusion of writings by Hindutva ideologues stirred widespread protests. Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran said the committee comprising former Professor of Kerala University J. Prabhash and former Professor of Calicut University K.S. Pavithran would submit a report within five days. Mr. Ravindran said there was nothing wrong in including the writings of Hindutva ideologues such as M.S. Golwalkar and V.D. Savarkar in the syllabus. A student had to read the texts and the syllabus aimed to help develop a critical understanding of the topics. Mr. Ravindran said he submitted a report to the Higher Education Minister that the writings of the Hindutva ideologues had been included to enable students to develop a critical understanding about various strands of Indian political thought. He denied the allegation of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran that the writings of the Hindu ideologues had been included with the knowledge of the Minister, CPI (M), and syndicate members. The Vice Chancellor said there was deficiency in the syllabus in structure and content. But he reiterated that there was no attempted saffronisation. ( With inputs from Kannur bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-should-be-exposed-to-all-aspects-of-learning-governor/article36410243.ece
12 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KC(M) brought no extra votes to LDF: Kanam||CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran appears to repudiate the CPI(M) assessment that the Kerala Congress (M) inclusion had electorally benefited the LDF in the 2021 Assembly polls. The CPI State executive and council met here for three days to review the election results. At a press conference on Saturday, Mr. Rajendran said the KC(M) defection to the LDF had weakened the United  Democratic Front. But, it did not cause any increase in the LDF’s vote share. The LDF’s vote share had increased marginally due to its governance record, adept management of the pandemic, and emphasis on expanding the social welfare net during the public health crisis. Moreover, the LDF had surmounted the recriminatory campaign launched by the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with the aid of Central agencies probing the UAE gold smuggling case. The CPI will further study the reasons for its loss in the Muvattupuzha, Karunagapally, Paravur constituencies. The CPI State council reportedly censured Idukki district secretary K.K. Sivaraman for accusing Janayugam , the party’s newspaper, of “eclipsing” the legacy of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru on his birth anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-brought-no-extra-votes-to-ldf-kanam/article36410601.ece
12 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Tourism launches new app||Continuing its efforts to rejuvenate the tourism sector amid COVID-19, Kerala Tourism has brought out an application that encapsulates the beauty of ‘God’s Own Country’ and provides information on tourist destinations with a single click. Actor Mohanlal, an avid traveller himself, formally launched the app in the presence of Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyaz here on Saturday. Mr. Riyaz said the platform, which highlights the State’s tourist hotspots, was aimed at projecting its unexplored destinations. The department has made efforts to identify one such destination in each panchayat that could be scenic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-tourism-launches-new-app/article36410600.ece
12 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB to resume disconnection notices||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has decided to resume issuing disconnection notice to LT (low tension) category consumers who have run up dues on their electricity bills. They will be given 21 days to clear the due, as per a September 10 order of the KSEB. Effective from the date of the order, the decision will be applicable to all categories of LT consumers, which also include the domestic category. Following the COVID-19 second wave, the State-run power utility had suspended disconnections, taking a lenient stand in view of the pandemic-induced economic hardships. Consequently, the overall arrears on electricity payments went up for consumers, straining the KSEB finances. In the LT category alone, arrears on electricity charge payments stand at Rs. 1,389.42 crore as of July 31. A factor that prompted the KSEB to resume disconnections is that many of the defaulters are big consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-to-resume-disconnection-notices/article36410611.ece
12 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Isolated heavy rain till Sept. 15||Parts of Kerala can expect isolated heavy rainfall till September 15 under the influence of a low pressure area that has formed over the Bay of Bengal. Yellow alert has been issued for Kottayam, Ernakulam, Kannur and Kasaragod on Sunday; Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod on Monday; and all districts except Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad on Tuesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put Idukki, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod on yellow alert on Wednesday also. Lower-level westerlies could strengthen along the west coast of the country during the next five days, the IMD said on Saturday. Kerala has recorded a 20% deficiency in southwest monsoon rainfall till Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isolated-heavy-rain-till-sept-15/article36410612.ece
12 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Industries Department launches social media pages||Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve on Saturday launched the Facebook and Instagram pages and the YouTube channel of the Department of Industries and Commerce, under plans to strengthen the State’s business ecosystem. “Seamless communication between the State facilitators and entrepreneurs is a key component of a robust industrial ecosystem. The launch of the social media pages is the latest in a series of measures initiated by the government to turn Kerala into an attractive investment destination,” said Mr. Rajeeve. K. Ellangovan, Principal Secretary (Industries); S. Harikishore, Director, Industries and Commerce; and Suraj S, CEO, Kerala Bureau of Industrial Promotion; were present. Named ‘industrieskerala’, Facebook and Instagram pages, and YouTube channel seek to create awareness among investors and entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/industries-department-launches-social-media-pages/article36410613.ece
12 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel studying suggestions to curb organised crime: CMO||The State government will not countenance any infringement of the civil rights enshrined in the Constitution, nor will it approve of any such proposal, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. A press note issued by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) on Saturday said there had been a demand from certain quarters for legislation to control organised crime in Kerala. “A four-member committee comprising the Chief Secretary, Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Law Secretary, and former Additional Advocate General K.K. Raveendranath has been set up to study suggestions on the matter.” The press note added that no file had been created for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-studying-suggestions-to-curb-organised-crime-cmo/article36410614.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wings clipped||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wings-clipped/article36410590.ece
12 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa police save family from suicide bid||Swiftly responding to a social media post by a family threatening to commit suicide, the Kadapa police swung into action on Friday night and rescued them at their house at Chagalamarri in Kurnool district. A farmer, Midde Akbar Basha of Chagalamarri, on Friday night posted a video on social media, alleging harassment and humiliation of his family by Mydukuru (Rural) Circle Inspector Konda Reddy over a land dispute at Duvvur mandal. Mr. Basha said in the video that his family, including his wife and two children, would commit suicide in a couple of days if justice was not done to them. The video said that though his family possessed the land at Duvvuru for several decades, the police officer was taking sides with his opponents owing to political pressure and was trying to help them. Basha further alleged that the Circle Inspector had threatened to kill him in an encounter, besides abusing his wife. The special branch police of Kadapa monitoring social media posts immediately brought it to the notice of Kadapa SP K.K.N. Anbhurajan, who, in turn, alerted the Duvvuru police. A police team in coordination with the Chagalamarri police rushed to the residence of Mr. Basha and pacified the family and helped them overcome suicidal thoughts. The SP ordered suspension of the CI and inquiry by Additional SP M. Deva Prasad into the issue. Speaking to the media, Mr. Anbhurajan appealed to the public that they contact the police through Dial 100 for redressal of problems and counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kadapa-police-save-family-from-suicide-bid/article36410287.ece
12 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bikes worth Rs. 36 lakh seized, two held||The crime branch police on Saturday nabbed two youth and seized eighteen motorcycles worth Rs. 36 lakh from a hideout at a mango garden at Yadamarri, 15 km from here. Addressing a press meet here, Circle-Inspector (Central Crime Station) K. Ramesh said the modus operandi of the duo –Thota Rajesh (23) of Bangarupalem mandal and G. Eeshwar (20) of Yadamarri mandal – was to steal newly-purchased bikes parked at isolated spots and those parked outside the houses at nights in Chittoor, Nellore and Kadapa districts. Later, they would dispose them of at throwaway prices. Acting on a tip-off, a special party arrested the duo at Murakambattu locality in Chittoor and seized the stolen property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bikes-worth-rs-36-lakh-seized-two-held/article36410288.ece
12 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pulivendula ryots dump tomatoes in stream||Owing to lack of support price, farmers of Ambakapalli village in Lingala mandal of Pulivendula constituency in Kadapa district dumped their tractor loads of tomato crop into a roadside stream. The farmers resorted to the extreme step as they were not in a position to even recover the cost of cultivation. Telugu Desam Party Kadapa parliamentary constituency in-charge M. Linga Reddy called on the affected farmers and expressed his support. “The farmers felt disheartened at not even getting Rs. 2 a kg at the local market, which is far less than the actual cost of production”, he said. Mr. Reddy and other leaders got down the culvert into the stream and inspected the tomatoes. “We initially thought they could be damaged ones, but they are really good quality tomatoes, only dumped owing to lack of remunerative price,” he said. Recalling the Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu’s statement made a couple of days back in Proddatur on making farming remunerative, the TDP leaders urged the State government to get down to concrete action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pulivendula-ryots-dump-tomatoes-in-stream/article36410296.ece
12 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties to lead stir against true-up charges||Activists of the Communist Party of India(CPI) staged a demonstration at the Santhapeta Centre here on Saturday in protest against “hefty true up charges” imposed on the consumers by the electricity distribution companies to recover over Rs. 19,000 crore for the period between 2014-15 and 2018-19. The activists, led by party State committee executive member G. Eshwariah, said poor people who were struggling to make a living during the pandemic were hit hard by the decision of the ruling YSR Congress Party, which had come to power after promising that it would not hike power tariff if it was voted to power. Even Dalits, who were promised electricity free of cost, were not spared. The Left parties would spearhead a massive State-wide stir to press for the withdrawal of the true up charges, they said. The government would have to face a mega stir like the one that led to the infamous Basheerbagh police firing in united Andhra Pradesh, said CPI SPSR Nellore district secretary Ch. Prabhakar. In Ongole, Pradesh Congress vice-president Sripathi Prakasam accused the YSRCP of competing with the Centre in imposing hefty taxes on the people. The hefty charges had come out as a shock for the people who were reeling under the socio-economic crisis triggered by COVID, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-to-lead-stir-against-true-up-charges/article36410292.ece
12 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||173 new COVID cases in Nellore||The number of active coronavirus cases rose to 4,848 even as five more persons succumbed to the infection in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. The toll increased to 2,091 in the region as three persons in SPSR Nellore district and two in Prakasam district died due to the pandemic in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. Out of this, SPSR Nellore reported 1,023 COVID-related deaths and Prakasam 1,068 so far. The cumulative tally crossed the 2.77 lakh mark in the region as 173 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 117 in Prakasam district tested positive for the infection. At least 122 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 74 in Prakasam district recovered during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/173-new-covid-cases-in-nellore/article36410290.ece
12 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nature-friendly, small Ganesh idols take centre stage this time||The nine-day festival of Ganesh Chaturthi, which began on Friday, was more of personal in nature in Prakasam district for the second year in a row, thanks to the curbs announced to check COVID-19 cases. ‘Small is beautiful’ remained the theme as a majority of devotees went for idols made of turmeric and natural clay. Temples, big and small, also chose idols measuring two-to-three feet in height for the celebrations. There was a good demand for idols of one-to-two feet this year this time, bucking the trend of buying idols of 10-to-12 feet, said a wholesale idol seller here. PoP idols few and far between With the government disallowing community-level celebrations following directions from the Centre, huge PoP(plaster of Paris) idols were few and far between in the district, thus making way for environment-friendly festivities. Devotees, who thronged the Ganesh temple at the Nellore bus stand centre, in big numbers were allowed only after temperature checks at the entrance. Unlike in the past when immersions were accompanied with music and dance, devotees were seen taking the small idols on their head for immersion without much fanfare this year. Many apartment owners installed clay idols for the first time and immersed them within the premises avoiding the usual big procession to the sea shores and other water bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nature-friendly-small-ganesh-idols-take-centre-stage-this-time/article36410293.ece
12 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three nabbed for ‘cheating’ granite baron||Prakasam police arrested three offenders, including two “fake policemen”, for allegedly cheating a granite baron of Rs. 2 lakh in cash and recovered the amount from them at Vemavaram cross roads, near Ballikurava, in Prakasam district late on Friday. Addressing mediapersons here on Saturday, Superintendent of Police Malika Garg said the 32-year-old granite baron, Lalith Devasi, who used to transport polished granite slabs to various places within the country and abroad, was taken aback when a truck loaded with granite meant for shipping was waylaid by two persons, Ravi and Harshavardhan, posing as policemen at Konidena village on the intervening night of September 6 and 7. The duo reportedly told the driver that the records relating to the consignment were not in order and beat up the driver as he refused to move the truck to the police station. On contacted by the truck driver, the granite baron began negotiations with the duo through one Tirupathaiah. Tirupathaiah helped the baron strike a deal with the duo following which the baron gave Rs. 2 lakh in cash to the duo for release of the vehicle. The granite baron, after a lot of dilly-dallying, complained to the Ballikurava police after ascertaining those who waylaid the truck were not police personnel. Probe conducted by the police revealed that Tirupathaiah was the main accused in the case and had hatched a plot with the duo, both his accomplices, to cheat the granite baron, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-nabbed-for-cheating-granite-baron/article36410289.ece
12 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed, two injured in accident||One person was killed and two others were injured when the car in which they were travelling hit the railings while negotiating a curve on the first ghat road leading to Tirupati, on Saturday. According to preliminary reports, the accident took place about three km ahead of Alipiri. While Sivalinga Goud of Medak succumbed to his injuries, the condition of the one of the two injured is said to be critical. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-killed-two-injured-in-accident/article36410294.ece
12 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for desecrating statue||The Tirupati Urban police on Saturday arrested a man on charges of desecrating Rajiv Gandhi statue in front of the Municipal Corporation building. M. Subramanyam Reddy (53), who used to make a living by polishing wooden furniture, had reportedly become mentally unstable and lost his source of livelihood. ‘In inebriated condition’ According to the police, he had consumed alcohol on the night and allegedly desecrated the statue in an inebriated condition. The police found no mala fide intention behind the act. The police began investigation based on a complaint filed by the Congress and zeroed in on Subramanyam Reddy based on CCTV footage recordings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-desecrating-statue/article36410297.ece
12 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BGUS seeks review petition in HC on Ganesh idol immersion||Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsava Samithi (BGUS) has asked the State government to file a review petition in the High Court or move the Supreme Court over High Court order issued against immersion of Ganesh idols made of Plaster of Paris (PoP) and metallic colours in water bodies. Addressing the media on Saturday, the committee members alleged that the court order was in violation of fundamental rights and religious freedom ensured by the Constitution. They sought to know why the State government had not taken facts about water bodies’ pollution linked to Ganesh idols immersion. BGUS members pointed out that pollution control board reports on pollution levels of Hussainsagar and a few other lakes had revealed that idol immersion had no impact on the quality of water. They also mentioned that a GO issued in the past suggesting use of PoP idols compared to clay idols and the order was still in force. Stating that the immersion of clay idols would increase the sediment in lakes/water bodies as they disintegrate within a couple of hours, BGUS members said the GO had also mentioned that the PoP idols would not cause any pollution as the material could be retrieved from the lake bed and shifted out in a couple of days after immersion. The pollution control board reports on pollution levels of Hussainsagar lake before, during and after the immersion had also proved that the idol immersion had no impact on the lake water quality. In fact, the water of Hussainsagar and many other lakes in and around the city was being polluted with industrial effluents and untreated domestic drainage water flowing into them round the year, they said. They sought to know what was the basis to say that idol immersion was polluting the water and asked the government what to do with the idols installed in streets, resident and other associations and individual homes when immersion is not allowed in any water bodies. They also appealed to police authorities to re-install idols removed at some places or face opposition from people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bgus-seeks-review-petition-in-hc-on-ganesh-idol-immersion/article36410551.ece
12 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Engineering counselling begins, but permissions yet to come||A hazy picture on seats and colleges blurred the options for engineering aspirants on the first day of options that began on Saturday due to delay in granting affiliations to the colleges as well as permissions for increased intake in the existing courses by the Jawaharlal Nehru University of Technology Hyderabad (JNTU-H). Even as students logged in to exercise their options to choose courses and colleges JNTU-H had not totally given affiliation orders to be included in the options by the counselling officials. Some permissions came late on Saturday. Lack of clarity on new courses like Machine Learning - Artificial Intelligence; Computer Science and Design; Artificial Intelligence - Data Science in the Computer Science Engineering (CSE) stream; Automation and Robotics in Mechanical Engineering stream also confused students. Colleges had already submitted requests for permission but were not granted so far. Officials explained that colleges that wanted to reduce their intake in some existing branches in favour of the new courses were permitted, and that too, after a long delay. However, decision is still pending on colleges that sought permission for introducing these new courses with new intake. Counselling officials from the Department of Technical Education entrusted with the job of uploading the details on the counselling portal too were not aware of the reasons for the delay. “We are uploading as soon as we get the requisite orders and we have no role in the delay,” a senior official explained. Meanwhile, the government added a few more colleges and seats on Saturday evening taking the total engineering seats to 65,219 in 172 colleges under the Convenor quota for which web options are open. These include 3,645 seats in 15 colleges under various universities. The remaining 61,574 seats are in 157 affiliated colleges. Management quota in the affiliated colleges are done separately and not under the purview of the government counselling. Under JNTU-H 1,790 seats are available in five university colleges and 54,599 seats in 141 colleges. Under Osmania University, 620 seats are available in two university colleges and 5,978 seats in 13 affiliated colleges. Kakatiya University has 825 seats in three varsity colleges and 997 seats in three affiliated colleges. Mahatma Gandhi University has 180 seats in one college. The Convenor quota also fills the non-farmer quota seats in B.Tech (Agriculture) under PJTSAU and B.Tech (Dairy Technology) under PVNR Horticulture University and B.Planning seats under JN Architecture and Fine Arts University (JNAFAU). Students can give their web options till September 16 in the first phase of counselling. The procedure of certificate verification and web options will be open again in the second phase of counselling when the dates are finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engineering-counselling-begins-but-permissions-yet-to-come/article36410567.ece
12 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ATR operations from Warangal soon||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has assured Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao that his Ministry will take steps to shortly commence flight operations by ATR aircraft from the land in possession of Airports Authority of India at Mamnoor in Warangal district. Technical clearance for the airport at Jakranpalli in Nizamabad district will be issued while the Ministry will supervise setting up of an airport by the India, Air Force at Adilabad, the Minister informed Mr. Rao. He also said the Ministry would take steps to run flights by smaller aircraft after re-examination from Basantnagar in Peddpalli district, Kothagudem and Devarakadra in Mahabubnagar district. Mr. Scindia paid a courtesy call on Mr. Rao at his camp office on Saturday after the launch of a project to deliver medicines by drones at Vikarabad. He was accompanied by IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao. He gave the assurances in response to the Chief Minister’s plea seeking development and operations from the six airports that were proposed to the Centre by the State government. Mr. Rao also called for metro connectivity to the Hyderabad international airport. He sought connectivity by direct flights to Hyderabad from cities in south east Asia, Europe and the US. A release said Mr. Scindia promised all-out cooperation by the Ministry for the development of Hyderabad airport in view of the economic growth potential of the city. The meeting was attended by Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Karola, GMR group chairman G. Mallikarjuna Rao, Ministers and senior officials of the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/atr-operations-from-warangal-soon/article36410561.ece
12 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Actor booked for ‘reckless driving’||A day after Tollywood actor Sai Dharam Tej was injured in a road accident and hospitalised, police booked a case against him under Section 336 and 279 Indian Penal Code and Section 184 of MV Act. He met with the accident at Madhapur on Friday evening after his sports bike skidded on the road. He suffered injuries and was rushed to Medicover Hospital. From there, he was shifted to Apollo Hospitals in Jubilee Hills and is stable. The actor is the nephew of megastar Chiranjeevi. With Friday being a public holiday due to Ganesh Chaturthi, there was not much traffic on the usually busy road. Madhapur DCP in-charge M. Venkateshwarlu said the actor was riding his bike at 75-80 kmph and on the cable bridge, beyond 100 kmph as against the speed limit of 40 kmph. Just before the accident, Mr. Sai Dharam was trying to overtake an autorickshaw from the wrong (left) side, the senior officer disclosed, adding he was wearing a helmet. Mr. Venkateshwarlu said the actor had purchased the sports bike from one Bura Anil Kumar on second-hand basis, but had not got it registered in his name so far. Previously, an e-challan for Rs. 1,135 was imposed on the bike for overspeeding and it was cleared on Saturday by an unknown person. “It was found that Sai Dharam Tej has a valid driving license only to drive light motor vehicles(cars etc). However, it is being inquired whether or not the injured actor possesses any valid driving license to drive a motorcycle with gears on public roads,” the officer said. No blood alcohol test was conducted.  It is being inquired whether or not the injured actor possesses any valid driving license to drive a motorcycle with gears on public roads. M. Venkateshwarlu, Madhapur DCP in-charge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/actor-booked-for-reckless-driving/article36410555.ece
12 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Enjoy a carnival on Tank Bund today||With a massive response to the traffic-free Sunday initiative on Tank Bund road from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m., the HMDA has decided to organise art and cultural activities this time on September 12 to make it a more enjoyable experience for visitors. The coveted ceremonial Bagpiper Band of the Indian Army, AOC Secunderabad, will be performing live on Sunday. This will be followed by local artistes wowing citizens with their beat boxing and singing skills. Professional clown artists, jugglers, cyclists and others have been roped in to showcase their acts. A laser show is also being planned. Dedicated stalls have been allotted to handicraft artisans from Shilparamam. Along with music and shopping, food trucks would be stationed all along the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/enjoy-a-carnival-on-tank-bund-today/article36410564.ece
12 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MoP decision to bail out discoms||Two significant decisions taken by the Ministry of Power (MoP) in recent weeks are expected to come to the rescue, to a large extent, of two distribution companies (discoms) in the State facing sizeable revenue gap even after joining the Ujjwal Discom Assurance Yojana due to loss, leakage and pilferage. Although the Northern and Southern discoms and the State government are opposing privatisation of distribution business, they see some silver lining in the decisions of MoP – transfer of the 33 kV transmission system to the transmission utilities from the discoms, metering of all feeders and installing prepaid energy meters to all consumers in the divisions with over 15% transmission and commercial loss. As per the MoP decision, all electrical divisions having more than 50% consumers in urban areas with the aggregate transmission and commercial losses (AT&C) of over 15% in 2019-20, other electrical divisions with AT&C losses over 25% in 2019-20, all government offices at block (mandal) level and above and all industrial and commercial consumers shall be provided with smart meters, except for agricultural connections, with prepayment mode by December 2023. “Although implementing the measures would be a herculean task for the discoms already in huge losses, they would certainly help the utilities overcome the losses with assistance/funding from the State and Central governments,” a senior executive in the Southern Discom said. The AT&C losses of Southern Discom were at 15.41% and that of Northern Discom at a whopping 34.49% in 2019-20 and their cumulative losses, even after the State government taking over a major portion of losses under the UDAY, crossed Rs. 12,000 crore by the end of 2019-20. As of June-end, the average AT&C losses of Southern Discom were an improved 9.7% but the average cost of supply-average revenue realised was high (poor) at Rs. 1.24 per unit. In case of Northern Discom, AT&C losses were still high at 21.99% but the cost-revenue gap has narrowed down to Rs. 0.21 per unit. “Installation of prepaid energy meters will prevent revenue leakage taking place due to a few sections of consumers, particularly in urban areas,” the executive said. Even the installation of smart meters, not prepaid but tamper-proof and highly-efficient in recording energy consumption, has been very poor in the State till December-end last. The progress of installing smart meters in Southern Discom areas was 2% as 23,669 meters were installed against the target of 11.06 lakh and in Northern Discom the progress was just 6% with installation of 10,215 meters against target of 1.76 lakh. Metering of feeders in Northern Discom has already been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mop-decision-to-bail-out-discoms/article36410558.ece
12 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||French woman killed by adopted daughter, 2 others||The body of a 68-year-old French national, who went missing two days ago, was found in the bushes near Himayat Sagar reservoir on Saturday morning. Marie Christene De Rochemonteix, a resident of Dargah Khalij Khan in Gandipet mandal of Rangareddy district, was the founder and chairman of Marica Group of Schools, which has branches in Toli Chowki and Dargha Khalij Khan Village. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shamshabad zone) N. Prakash Reddy said Marie was murdered by her adopted daughter Roma (24), her live-in partner Vikram Sriramula (25) from Kondapur and his friend Rahul Gowtham alias Sai (24) from Jagadgirigutta. “They conspired and killed Ms.Marie for her property,” he said. The victim, along with her family, had been living in the city for over 30 years. She had two daughters — Marie Solange who stays at Suncity and Rebecca, who resides in Puducherry and adopted two girls — Roma and Priyanka. Recently, Marie created Roma’s profile on a matrimonial website. In May, Roma developed acquaintance with Vikram through the website after which they started to live together in a rented house at Kondapur. Marie refused to perform their marriage after she learnt about their relationship. The couple, thus, conspired along with Rahul to kill her and get her property. On September 8, Roma went to meet Marie at her house. Later , the victim dropped Roma in her car at Marica High School, Toli Chowki, and headed home. Roma dropped a message to Vikram and Rahul who were waiting outside her house. “The duo ambushed her in her house, strangulated her to death with a rope and stuffed her body in her car trunk. They then dumped it in the bushes near Himayath Sagar reservoir bushes to destroy evidence,” DCP Reddy said. Later, they parked the car back at her house, stole her car keys, laptop and phone. The next day, they transferred Rs. 2 lakh to Roma from Marie’s bank account to mislead her sisters. Based on the complaint lodged by Solange’s husband Prashanth, a missing case was registered on September 9. The needle of suspicion pointed at Roma. Police apprehended her and on further questioning, she confessed to the murder along with her partner and his friend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/french-woman-found-dead-in-hyderabad/article36410242.ece
12 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||VW showcases Taigun in city||Volkswagen Passenger Cars India organised on Saturday a preview of Taigun in the city, its mid-sized SUV whose national launch is slated later this month. “The southern market is extremely important for Volkswagen and we are happy to host our exclusive preview in Hyderabad. The Telangana State contributes significantly towards our sales in India,” Brand Director of the company Ashish Gupta said in a release. The company is expected to announce the cost of the SUV at the national launch scheduled for September 23. Taigun is the first product under Volkswagen India 2.0 Project. The SUV will be available with two engine options -- 1.0L and 1.5L. Pre-bookings for Taigun are open across the country via authorised Volkswagen dealerships and online booking platform, the company said. Sources said that Volkswagen has received 9,000 bookings from across the country, of which 800 are from Telangana and 350 from Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vw-showcases-taigun-in-city/article36410563.ece
12 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fish marketing societies to be formed||The State government is planning to form fish marketing societies to ensure that fishermen are not exploited by middlemen by underpaying their cache. The societies, in turn, would sell the fish through Fishermen Federation. Speaking at the Fishermen Coordination Committee meeting held here on Saturday, Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries Talasani Srinivas Yadav said the federation and the coordination panel would encourage and help fishermen who go on fishing in the inter-state projects/barrages such as Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar, Pulichintala and Sunkesula. The coordination panel was formed to discuss the problems being faced by fishermen and work for their redress. Although fish production had increased, fishermen were unable to make good income because of middlemen. The Minister stated water bodies, irrigation tanks and ponds, under control of gram panchayats, were already transferred to the Fisheries department and the request for transfer of water bodies in the control of municipalities would also be taken to the Chief Minister’s notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fish-marketing-societies-to-be-formed/article36410559.ece
12 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases drop below 300 again||The daily load of COVID-19 cases in Telangana has again dropped to under 300 as tests, too, dropped to around 70,000. On Saturday, 69,833 samples were examined and 296 people were found positive for coronavirus. The new infections on Saturday included 74 from Greater Hyderabad region, 29 from Karimnagar, and 22 from Warangal Urban. The death toll stood at 3,893 with one patient succumbing to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-cases-drop-below-300-again/article36410554.ece
12 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police clueless about rape, murder suspect||Hyderabad police has virtually no clue about the only suspect in the sensational rape and murder case of a six-year-old girl at Saidabad over 72 hours since the offence took place. Top police officers told The Hindu they racking their brains as the suspect, Raju, has no mobile phone and his actions were not recorded on CCTV cameras in the area, as many of them are defunct. They are also questioning ‘almost every’ relative to trace him, but in vain, since he has not met or called any of them, including his wife. Multiple teams were deployed to trace Raju, an alcohol addict. “He is like a vagabond; eats, drinks and sleeps on the footpath or next to nalas. We are having difficulty finding him,” a police officer said. Police said the girl was raped and murdered by her neighbour at Singareni Colony on Thursday. When her half-naked body with bite marks was found in Raju’s house, locals blocked roads at Champapet and Karmanghat. As a result, heavy police force was deployed in the area. “The girl’s mother had her suspicions over Raju as he too was missing,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-clueless-about-rape-murder-suspect/article36410552.ece
12 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ganesh immersion after 10 p.m.||Ganesh immersions on Tank Bund road would be allowed only after 10 p.m. on Sunday and that too, from the Sailing Club/Marriott Hotel side, in view of traffic-free Sunday on that road. According to a press release, any immersion before 10 p.m. is not allowed and it should be done on NTR Marg or towards People’s Plaza side on PVNR Marg. All immersions would be in accordance with the recent High Court directives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ganesh-immersion-after-10-pm/article36410565.ece
12 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Toddler drowns in neighbour’s sump||An 18-month-old baby drowned in her neighbour’s water sump at Sudheer Kumar Colony in Hayathnagar on Saturday. According to police, Nithya, Vankdothu Raju’s daughter, was playing with her sibling and other children in the locality outside their house. Around 10.30 a.m. she went to the neighbour’s house. The sump was left uncovered. She was taken to a nearby hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/toddler-drowns-in-neighbours-sump/article36410566.ece
12 September 2021||Khammam,TELANGANA||‘Bangaru Telangana’ claims are hollow: Praveen Kumar||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) State coordinator and former IPS officer R S Praveen Kumar has alleged that the toiling masses continue to live in abysmal conditions in various parts of Telangana in sharp contrast to the oft-repeated claims of the persons at the helm about “Bangaru Telangana” regime. Some aggrieved women farmers of the of Yallannagar in Konijerla mandal narrated their tale of woe before the former IPS officer turned BSP State coordinator on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bangaru-telangana-claims-are-hollow-praveen-kumar/article36410557.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Tuck Jagadish’ movie review: Shiva Nirvana and Nani film hits a few right notes, despite being a familiar family drama||There’s a small story behind the ‘tuck’ in the title. The reason, which explains the quirk of the protagonist Jagadish (Nani) to sport a tucked look, can bring a smile to many government officers. The pre-interval twist is also in sync with this ‘tuck’ story. Director Shiva Nirvana, in his first full-fledged rural film and his second with actor Nani, tries to introduce a few new touches to familiar masala and family drama tropes. Watching the film that now streams on Amazon Prime Video, it’s hard not to notice the calibrated moves with which certain scenes have been designed, intending to draw whistles in cinema halls. In better times, this might have been what Telugu film circles define as a ‘panduga’ (festive) family cinema. In its digital release, the film manages to hold interest, but for the overdrawn and tiring last act.  Tuck Jagadish begins like countless mass masala films, ushering us into a fictitious village Bhudevipuram where bloodshed happens over sharing fruits of labour and, of course, land. There’s the wise and just village elder Aadisesh Naidu (Nasser) who wants peace and a reckless Veerendra (Daniel Balaji), whose weapons speak louder than his words. Naidu hopes that his older son Bose (Jagapathi Babu) will work for the betterment of the village. The younger son Jagadish nurtures dreams of going abroad. We know that overseas dreams will eventually take a backseat and Jagadish will be the quintessential son of the soil. The anchor of the film lies in its emotional segments, especially those where Jagadish and his family members have to re-evaluate their bonds. The importance of family ties are emphasised time and again, with dialogues about putting blood relations over everything else, and how even deeply divided families stand a chance to start afresh over a meal. The sequence where Jagadish settles a dispute over a meal is filmy and unconvincing, while other segments take a more realistic approach. The breezy romance between Jagadish and Gummadi Varalakshmi (Ritu Varma as the village revenue officer) is a welcome breather from the heavy-on-emotion family segments. (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)   Tuck Jagadish  Cast: Nani, Ritu Varma, Aishwarya Rajesh, Jagapati Babu  Direction: Shiva Nirvana  Music: SS Thaman, Gopi Sundar  Streaming on: Amazon Prime Video||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tuck-jagadish-movie-review-shiva-nirvana-and-nani-film-hits-a-few-right-notes-despite-being-a-familiar-family-drama/article36410569.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Be ready to sacrifice everything for country’||AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday told party volunteers not to desire any post, and work for the people and the country. “Bhagat Singh and Baba Saheb Ambedkar are our chief ideologists and we walk the path shown by them. Bhagat Singh, at a young age, did make the supreme sacrifice for the country... Like Bhagat Singh, each of our volunteers should be ready to make the supreme sacrifice,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a video address. Mr. Kejriwal said that a new national council had been elected and welcomed the members. He said the AAP was formed to serve the people and make sacrifices. “To all new members of the National Council, I want to say that one thought should be there in your mind: ‘How can I serve the community and the country, and if needed, be ready to sacrifice everything for the country’,” he said. “Don’t desire any post in the AAP. Your happiness should come from work... Work in such a way that Arvindji will come to you and say: ‘I have seen your work or heard about your work and please take this post or fight election on this ticket’,” he added. He said the party workers should give up any greed or desire for posts. “I don’t want a time to come when people will look at us and say, ‘They have become like the BJP or the Congress’,” the AAP chief said. He claimed that after seeing the AAP run a successful government in Delhi, people look at their work and say that AAP is the only hope. He said that the AAP has come to change the politics of ‘Satta Se Paisa aur Paise se Satta’. “When plasma therapy came, the world’s first plasma bank was opened in Delhi in ILBS Hospital and the second one was opened in Lok Nayak Hospital. Delhi gave home isolation technique to the whole world,” Mr. Kejriwal claimed. “In Delhi, we honoured the sacrifice of all the COVID-19 warriors by giving their families a ‘Sahayta Raashi’ of Rs. 1 crore,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/be-ready-to-sacrifice-everything-for-country/article36410469.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Air India pilot’s non-adherence to SOP probable cause’||The pilot’s non-adherence to the standard operating procedure (SOP) is the probable cause of the Air India Express plane crash at the Kozhikode airport in August 2020, but the role of the systemic failures as a contributory factor cannot be overlooked in the accident, according to the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) probe report. The crash, involving a Boeing 737-800 aircraft, killed 21 persons, including the two pilots, and injured several others. While trying to land at the airport amid rain, the aircraft overshot the runway and later broke into pieces. There were 190 persons onboard when the crash happened on August 7, 2020. The AAIB released the report on Saturday. The report, released a little over a year after the deadly crash, said the “probable cause of the accident was the non adherence to SOP by the PF [Pilot Flying]”. The PF continued an unstabilised approach and landed beyond the touchdown zone, “half way down the runway, in spite of ‘Go Around’ call by PM [Pilot Monitoring]”, it noted. According to the report, the investigation team is of the opinion that the role of systemic failures as a contributory factor cannot be overlooked in this accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pilots-non-adherence-to-sop-probable-cause/article36410276.ece
12 September 2021||new delhi,||City drowns in heavy downpour||From colonies and underpasses to the Indira Gandhi International Airport and the vicinity of the Supreme Court, heavy rainfall inundated Delhi on Saturday. The Public Works Department received around 350 waterlogging complaints, many of which originated from residential colonies, which fall under the jurisdiction of the civic bodies. Delhi Traffic Police said the WHO building on Ring Road, NH-48 near Dhaula Kuan, Palam flyover, Azadpur to Mukarba Chowk, Khajuri Khas to Brijpuri and multiple locations in Dwarka witnessed severe waterlogging that affected vehicular movement. Minto Bridge, Sawan Park underpass, Tilak Bridge, Shakti Nagar underpass, Roshanara underpass, Azad Bhawan pump house, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Bhero enclave underpass, Azadpur underpass, and the Zakhira RUB were inundated. Waterlogging receded at these spots after the rain stopped and pumps were deployed to expel water towards the end of the day. IGIA’s Terminal-3 also witnessed waterlogging, but Delhi International Airport Limited spokesperson said the situation was brought under control “within a few minutes”. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta blamed the waterlogging situation on the “negligence and corruption” in the cleaning and maintenance of sewers by the Delhi government departments, including flood control, the PWD and the Delhi Jal Board. “The city government had shown people the dream of making Delhi a world-class city, but due to rampant corruption, Delhi has now become the dirtiest capital in the world,” Mr. Gupta said. ‘Mute spectator’ Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri criticised the AAP government for “remaining a mute spectator” as commuters suffered due to flooding of roads and colonies. “The waterlogging is due to choking of uncleaned drains. It is shameful that no one in the AAP government is coming forward to take responsibility for this inefficiency,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-drowns-in-heavy-downpour/article36410459.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||19 colleges approved under ‘Vidya Vistar’||At the 99th Foundation Day of Delhi University (DU) held on Saturday, Vice-Chancellor P.C. Joshi said that as part of the varsity’s outreach programme, 19 colleges and five departments had been approved under the Vidya Vistar scheme to establish academic linkages with 33 colleges in remote areas across the country. The foundation day which falls on May 1, could not be held earlier due to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said. Global standards Stating that the university had sustained “the highest global standards and best practices in higher education,” Mr. Joshi added that “active deliberations” were currently under way to prepare a detailed framework for the implementation of the National Education Policy from the next academic session. “The university is considering engaging International Adjunct Faculty in its various departments. This proposal is with the view to tap external talent and their specialised knowledge, expertise and experience to add significant value to the teaching-learning process, research activities as well as in the overall development of the university and contribute to its internationalisation,” Mr. Joshi said. Revived giving grants Stressing on the importance of research at the university, Mr. Joshi said, “In order to provide impetus to research, the university has revived giving grants to teachers. As many as 250 applications were received for the Institute of Eminence research grants and about 165 research proposals have been sanctioned for a total grant of about Rs. 5.5 crore.” At the event, 29 teaching and non-teaching, retired and in-service staff were conferred awards under various categories. Union Minister Kiren Rijiju, Secretary Higher Education Amit Khare, former Puducherry L-G Kiran Bedi and film-maker Imtiaz Ali were some of the distinguished alumni who were honoured at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/19-colleges-approved-under-vidya-vistar/article36410471.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||CM to inaugurate revamped Chandni Chowk today||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate the redeveloped Chandni Chowk on Sunday evening. Initially scheduled to be dedicated to the people by August 15, a government source said the programme got “slightly delayed” due to heavy rainfall which the city has witnessed this monsoon. According to a senior government official, Mr. Kejriwal, Public Works Department (PWD) Minister Satyendar Jain, Ballimaran MLA Imran Hussain and Chandni Chowk MLA Prahlad Singh Sawhney will be part of the ceremony, which is scheduled for 4 p.m. In the coming days, an agency will be appointed to provide last-mile connectivity on the 1.3-km-long stretch through vintage golf carts. A design for new model cycle rickshaws for the same purpose, designed by IIT-Delhi, and installation of CCTV cameras will also be finalised. At a meeting of the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation in June, directions were issued to ensure that as many as 107 cycle rickshaws, which will be allowed to ply on the pedestrianised stretch soon, be on the road by September 30. Ajay Bhardwaj, BJP general secretary of Chandni Chowk district, said they would stage a silent protest prior to the inauguration. Mr. Bhardwaj said residents and traders were facing issues because of waterlogging due to the alleged design flaws in the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-to-inaugurate-revamped-chandni-chowk-today/article36410466.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Need to spread, promote Mahatma Gandhi’s work’||The teachings of Mahatma Gandhi “should not remain limited to some seminars and workshops”, rather should be spread through programmes of “mass participation”, recently appointed vice-chairman of Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti (GSDS) Vijay Goel said on Saturday. Mr. Goel, who assumed office on Friday after being named to the post on September 2, said the GSDS had carried out 162 programmes last year, ranging from theatre workshops for the underprivileged, “co-existence” programmes for schoolchildren and health-related activities during the pandemic. However, he said there was a “need to reach more people” through the activities of Gandhi Smriti, which is the house where Gandhi spent his last few months and where he was assassinated on January 30, 1948. The second campus at Gandhi Darshan, at Rajghat, also hosts exhibitions. “There is a need to propagate Mahatma Gandhi’s work. Gandhi Smriti should be a place of inspiration through people’s participation. The number of people who visit Gandhi Smriti and the museum there, needs to be increased,” Mr. Goel, a former Union Minister. He said Gandhi’s teachings of truth and non-violence remained important today and needed to reach the new generation. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken inspiration from Gandhi’s teachings while launching programmes like Swachh Bharat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/need-to-spread-promote-mahatma-gandhis-work/article36410467.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||No COVID deaths for 4th day||The city reported no one new COVID-19 death in 24 hours for the fourth consecutive day and the total number of deaths stood at 25,083, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, 35 new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,38,211. A total of 74,540 tests were done in a day and that test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.05%. Of the total cases, 14,12,716 people have recovered and there are only 412 active cases. The COVID-19 vaccine stock in the city on Saturday would last for five days, as per another bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-covid-deaths-for-4th-day/article36410465.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP leader goes 'rafting' on submerged road||Taking a dig at Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over the extensive waterlogging in Delhi on Saturday, BJP leader Tajinder Bagga went “rafting” on an inundated road and thanked him for making it possible in “every nook and corner” of the city. In a video posted on Twitter, the national secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha is seen sitting in a boat on a submerged road in Bhajanpura as cars, motorcycles and buses wade past him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-leader-goes-rafting-on-submerged-road/article36410457.ece
12 September 2021||new delhi,||Over 40 rescued from bus trapped at waterlogged Palam flyover underpass||The Delhi Fire Services (DFS) on Saturday rescued around 40 people from a bus trapped at the waterlogged underpass of Palam flyover. DFS chief Atul Garg said two fire tenders were dispatched around 11.30 a.m and all the passengers were rescued. Later in the day, fire service officials rescued a young woman who was trapped in her car due to waterlogging near Mayapuri metro station in west Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-40-rescued-from-bus-trapped-at-waterlogged-palam-flyover-underpass/article36410458.ece
12 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘BJP wants to impose RSS agenda’||Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Saturday accused the Central and the governments in the States led by the BJP of attempting to impose the agenda of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh in the country. “Constitutional rights of the people are being crushed. Ever since the BJP government was formed, there has been a campaign to implement the RSS agenda bypassing the Constitution. Even the constitutional institutions are being used against the opponents by interfering with the constitutionally guaranteed rights of all of them,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-wants-to-impose-rss-agenda/article36410643.ece
12 September 2021||Guwahati,||Assam govt. extends AFSPA for another six months||The Assam government extended the ‘Disturbed Area’ status of the State for another six months from August 28 under the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA), according to an official statement issued on Saturday. The AFSPA was imposed in Assam in November 1990 and is extended every six months since then after a review by the State government. “The Government of Assam in exercise of powers conferred by Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958, has declared the entire State of Assam as ‘Disturbed Area’ up to six months with effect from August 28, 2021, unless withdrawn earlier,” the single-paragraph statement said. The statement did not mention any reason for the extension of the AFSPA in the State. In the Northeast, the AFSPA is in force in Assam, Nagaland, Manipur (excluding Imphal Municipal Council Area), Changlang, Longding and Tirap districts of Arunachal Pradesh, and areas falling within the jurisdiction of eight police stations in Arunachal Pradesh, bordering Assam. Civil society groups and rights activists in the region have been demanding the withdrawal of the ‘draconian’ law. The AFSPA empowers security forces to conduct operations anywhere and arrest anyone without any prior warrant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-extends-afspa/article36410452.ece
12 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||BJP offered me cash: Shrimant||In a revelation that would cause huge embarrassment to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, former Minister Shrimant Patil has said that he was offered money by the saffron party while he switched loyalty from the Congress, which he did not accept and instead sought a good ministerial posting. Speaking to presspersons at Ainapur in Kagwad taluk of Belagavi district on Saturday, Mr. Patil said that he was offered money during Operation Lotus. “They asked me how much money I wanted. But I told that I do not need money and asked them to give suitable position after government formation. I have come to BJP without taking any money,” he said. Coming just ahead of the start of the legislature session starting on Monday, this issue might be taken up by the Opposition Congress. Though Congress and JD(S) have constantly accused the BJP of luring their MLAs with offers of money and position, the saffron party has been denying it. Mr. Patil was one among the 16 MLAs from the Congress and the JD(S) in 2019 who had switched to BJP, bringing down the coalition government formed by the two parties. Mr. Patil had won the 2018 elections from Kagwad constituency as a Congress candidate. After he moved to BJP, he won the byelection and was made Minister in the B.S. Yediyurappa-led BJP government. He was dropped from the Cabinet after Mr. Yediyurappa stepped down and Basavaraj Bommai became Chief Minister. Mr. Patil said that he had joined BJP without accepting money, but did not know why he was not given ministership. “I have done farming for two decades but last time I was given Textile and Minority Welfare portfolio, which I have handled honestly. The Chief Minister has assured that I would be included during next Cabinet expansion. If the Agriculture portfolio is given, I will handle it efficiently and help people,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-offered-me-cash-shrimant/article36410238.ece
12 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan focuses on domestic tourists||Following a steep decline in the number of active COVID-19 cases, attempts are being made in Rajasthan to attract domestic tourists to the popular destinations of forts, palaces and resorts. Since international travellers are unable to visit the State during the pandemic, the government and private agencies are focusing on domestic tourists. The Federation of Hospitality and Tourism of Rajasthan (FHTR) has launched the first digital campaign to promote tourist destinations and connect tourism activities with the State’s rich heritage of arts and crafts. The campaign has started with the focus on ecotourism in forest areas with the participation of local communities. The State government has also announced its plan to bring a new ecotourism policy to explore the potential offered by ecological diversity with the emphasis on people’s participation in the conservation of flora and fauna. The policy will also help create employment opportunities. Governor Kalraj Mishra inaugurated the digital campaign by unveiling a poster at Raj Bhavan here on Friday. Mr. Mishra said the private sector’s role in tourism promotion would be very significant, as the digital communication would enable the stakeholders to reach out to the target groups in an effective manner. FHTR president Apurv Kumar said digital marketing would promote tourist destinations on all platforms and establish the federation as a single body to represent the industry, which will work cohesively to market the State and interact with the government bodies. In its first phase, the campaign will explore the potential in the eco-tourism sector through trekking, birdwatching, hiking, overnight camping, safari and cycling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-focuses-on-domestic-tourists/article36410644.ece
12 September 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra records 3,075 COVID-19 cases, 35 deaths||Maharashtra reported 3,075 new COVID-19 cases and 35 deaths on Saturday, taking its total tally to 64,94,254 and death toll to 1,38,096. With 3,056 patients discharged during the day, the total of number of recoveries reached 63,02,816. The case recovery rate now stands at 97.05%, while the fatality rate is 2.12%. The State has 2,95,772 people in home quarantine and 1,954 in institutional quarantine. The number of active cases now stand at 49,796. The number of tests conducted in the State rose to 5,58,36,107, with 1,33,479 samples tested during the day. The districts of Dhule, Hingoli, Akola, Nagpur and Wardha and municipal corporations of Malegaon, Dhule, Jalgaon, Parbhani and Amravati did not report any fresh COVID-19 cases. Rise in Ahmednagar The Ahmednagar district continued to report the highest number of infections, with 693 cases recorded on Saturday. It was followed by rural parts of Pune, with 376 new infections, while Satara district reported the highest fatalities at 12. Among the State’s eight regions, Pune reported the highest new COVID-19 cases at 1,018. Mumbai region reported 710 new cases, Kolhapur region 413, Latur 94, Aurangabad 17, Nagpur 10, and Akola region reported eight new cases. Of the 35 fatalities, the highest (17) were reported from Pune region, followed by eight fatalities in Kolhapur region. Aurangabad, Akola and Nagpur regions did not report any fresh fatalities, while Mumbai region reported five deaths, Nashik three, and Latur region reported two deaths. 361 cases in Mumbai While Pune city reported 144 new cases and no deaths, Mumbai city recorded 361 new cases and four deaths as per the State Health Department’s data. The tally of tests conducted so far in the city rose to 96,86,025, with 35,851 samples tested on Saturday. The recovery rate is 97%, while the doubling rate increased to 1,185 days. There are no containment zones in the city. As many as 43 buildings are sealed at present as five or more patients were found there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-3075-covid-19-cases-35-deaths/article36410654.ece
12 September 2021||New York,||U.S. honours 9/11 victims on anniversary||America marked the 20th anniversary of 9/11 on Saturday with solemn ceremonies given added poignancy by the recent chaotic withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan and return to power of the Taliban. At the 9/11 memorial in New York, relatives wiped away tears, their voices breaking as they read out the names of the almost 3,000 people killed in the al-Qaeda attacks. "We love you and we miss you," many of them said as sombre violin music played at the official ceremony, attended by dignitaries including President Joe Biden and former presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton. At the Ground Zero site where 2,753 people died — some of whom jumped to their deaths from the collapsing towers — the service started shortly after 8:30 am local time under tight security, with Lower Manhattan effectively locked down. Mourners clutched photos of their loved ones, their pain still raw despite a whole generation having grown up since September 11. Bruce Springsteen sang his song "I'll See You in My Dreams," and after nightfall twin light beams will be projected into the New York sky. Smaller ceremonies took place across the country, including outside fire stations throughout New York in remembrance of the 343 firefighters who lost their lives to save others, while a brief moment of contemplation took place in Times Square.  World leaders struck a cordial tone, sending messages of solidarity to the U.S., and saying that the attackers had failed to destroy Western values.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-honours-911-victims-on-anniversary/article36410163.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Competition should not lead to conflict’||U.S. President Joe Biden told his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on Friday that both countries needed “to ensure competition does not veer into conflict” as they grapple with a growing list of differences. The phone call was only the second between the two leaders, and the first time they have spoken since February, not long after Mr. Biden’s inauguration. The months since have seen both sides clash on a number of issues, starting with a war-of-words that played out in public whensenior officials from the two countries met in Alaskain March in what was the first significant engagement with Beijing by the new administration. The differences range from human rights issues in Hong Kong and Xinjiang and the Taiwan question to the COVID-19 origins investigation and now the crisis in Afghanistan. The rancorous U.S-China relationship under former President Donald Trump has broadly carried over into the new administration, which has said it would compete with China when it needed to, but also wanted to cooperate on some issues such as climate change. China, in contrast, has said that cooperation could not take place on issues while the broader relationship remained confrontational, described this month by Foreign Minister Wang Yi as a situation where “if an oasis is surrounded by deserts, then sooner or later the oasis will be desertified.” In Friday’s call (made on September 9 night Washington time), both sides “had a broad, strategic discussion, in which they discussed areas where our interests converge, and areas where our interests, values, and perspectives diverge”, the White House said in a brief statement. “They agreed to engage on both sets of issues openly and straightforwardly. This discussion, as President Biden made clear, was part of the United States’ ongoing effort to responsibly manage the competition between the United States and the PRC. President Biden underscored the United States’ enduring interest in peace, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific and the world and the two leaders discussed the responsibility of both nations to ensure competition does not veer into conflict,” the statement said. A more detailed readout from the Chinese Foreign Ministry said Mr. Xi had “pointed out that for some time, due to the U.S. policy on China, the China-U.S. relationship has run into serious difficulty”. The Chinese leader said, “When China and the U.S. cooperate, the two countries and the world will benefit; when China and the U.S. are in confrontation, the two countries and the world will suffer.” He added: “Getting the relationship right is not an option, but something we must do and must do well.” He said engagement on climate change, COVID-19 response and economic recovery could continue “on the basis of respecting each other’s core concerns and properly managing differences”. Amid the differences, the prospect of cooperation does, however, appear dim for now on issues, including climate change and Afghanistan. Mr. Wang, the Foreign Minister, in an August 29 phone call with Secretary of State Antony Blinken, slammed “the hasty withdrawal” of U.S. forces and told Mr. Blinken that the U.S. “on the premise of respecting Afghanistan’s sovereignty and independence, should take concrete actions to help Afghanistan combat terrorism and violence, rather than practicing double standards or selectively fighting terrorism.” He said while both sides had “recently conducted communication on the situation in Afghanistan and climate change”, the Chinese side “will consider how to engage with the United States based on its attitude towards China.” ‘Stop attacking China’ “If the U.S. side also hopes to bring bilateral relations back on the right track, it should stop blindly smearing and attacking China, and stop undermining China’s sovereignty, security and development interests,” Mr. Wang said. In late July, Chinese officials presented visiting U.S. officials with “two lists” of demands in talks in Tianjin, named a “List of U.S. Wrongdoings that Must Stop” and a “List of Key Individual Cases that China Has Concerns With.” Among Beijing’s demands were to unconditionally revoke visa restrictions on Communist Party members, for the U.S. “to stop suppressing Chinese enterprises”, and to withdraw an extradition request forMeng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of tech firm Huawei who was arrested in Canada and is on trial. Mr. Wang also told Mr. Blinken the U.S. was “politicising origins tracing” of COVID-19, which he described as “a political burden left by the former U.S. government.” “The sooner the U.S. side unloads this burden, the easier it will be to get out of the current predicament,” he said. A U.S. effort to engage China on climate change earlier this month did not appear to make much headway, after Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry travelled to Tianjin for talks with Chinese officials. Mr. Wang told him the prospect of cooperation hinged on how the U.S. handled other issues and that “the ball now is in the U.S. court”. He said, “The U.S. side wants the climate change cooperation to be an ‘oasis’ of China-U.S. ties. However, if the oasis is all surrounded by deserts, then sooner or later, the oasis will be desertified.”  (With inputs from   Sriram Lakshman)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/competition-should-not-lead-to-conflict/article36410160.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||15 killed in Myanmar fighting||Fifteen to 20 villagers, including several teenagers, have been killed in a deadly fighting in Magway region, a villager and reports by independent media said on Friday. The fighting near Gangaw township started on Thursday, two days after a call for a nationwide uprising by the National Unity Government. The clashes broke out when more than 100 troops arrived in four military vehicles to secure the area. Members of a lightly armed village self-defence militia fired warning shots but could not stop the soldiers from entering the area and clashes ensued after that, said the resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-uprising-call-15-killed-in-myanmar/article36410165.ece
12 September 2021||Kabul,||Afghan women stage rally in support of Taliban’s policies||Afghan women wearing full face veils sat in rows at a Kabul University lecture theatre on Saturday, pledging commitment to the Taliban’s hardline policies on gender segregation. About 300 women — covered head-to-toe in accordance with strict new dress policies for education — waved Taliban flags as speakers railed against the West and expressed support for the Islamists’ policies. A handful wore blue burqas, which have only a small mesh window to see from, but most wore black niqabs covering most of the face apart from the eyes. Many also wore black gloves. Women’s rights in Afghanistan were sharply curtailed under the Taliban’s 1996-2001 rule, but since returning to power last month they have claimed they will implement a less extreme rule. This time, women will be allowed to attend university as long as classes are segregated by sex or at least divided by a curtain, the Taliban’s education authority has said. They must also wear an abaya robe and niqab. The women, who organisers said were students, listened to a series of speeches at Shaheed Rabbani Education University in the capital, Kabul. They also defended the new government of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, which has banned demonstrations unless permission is granted by the justice ministry. Daud Haqqani, director of foreign relations at the education ministry, said the protest was organised by the women, who had asked and been granted permission to demonstrate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-women-rally-in-support-of-the-taliban/article36410172.ece
12 September 2021||Washington,||Afghan withdrawal Biden’s incompetence: Trump||Former U.S. President Donald Trump used the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks to slam the “inept administration” of Joe Biden for its “incompetence” over the Afghan withdrawal in a video message on Saturday. “This is a very sad day,” Mr. Trump said in the message. “It is also a sad time for the way our war on those that did such harm to our country ended last week,” he continued. “The leader of our country was made to look like a fool,” he said. He blamed “bad planning, incredible weakness and leaders who truly didn’t understand what was happening.” Mr. Trump also lamented the deaths of 13 U.S. troops in a bomb blast in Kabul last month, and the billions of dollars in U.S. military equipment that was left behind and seized by the Taliban “without a shot being fired.” “Joe Biden and his inept administration surrendered in defeat,” he continued. “We will struggle to recover from the embarrassment this incompetence has caused.” George W. Bush, who was President during 9/11, said on Saturday at a service that disunity today made him “worried” about the future of the U.S. “So much of our politics has become a naked appeal to anger, fear, and resentment. That leaves us worried about our nation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-withdrawal-bidens-incompetence-trump/article36410171.ece
12 September 2021||Washington,||9/11 altered U.S. engagement with the world, says Blinken||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken released a message of remembrance for the nearly 3,000 individuals killed in the terror attacks of September 11, 2001. He said the event had shaped the U.S.’s engagement with the world. “For so many Americans — regardless of whether we lost someone we knew or where we were on 9/11 — the attack felt personal. It still does,” Mr. Blinken said. “As much as any other event in our lifetimes, 9/11 shaped the trajectory of our nation and how we engage in the world,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/911-altered-us-engagement-with-the-world-says-blinken/article36410170.ece
12 September 2021||Kabul,||Taliban kill former V-P Saleh’s brother||The Taliban shot dead the brother of Amrullah Saleh, the former Vice-President of Afghanistan, and his driver in northern Panjshir province, Mr. Saleh’s nephew said on Saturday. Shuresh Saleh said his uncle Rohullah Azizi was going somewhere in a car on Thursday when Taliban fighters stopped him at a checkpoint. “As we hear at the moment Taliban shot him and his driver at the checkpoint.” he said. A message left with a Taliban spokesman on Saturday was not immediately returned. Shuresh Saleh said it was unclear where his uncle, an anti-Taliban fighter, was headed when the Taliban caught him. He said phones were not working in the area. Mr. Saleh led forces resisting the Taliban in Panjshir, which was the last holdout province to be overrun by Afghanistan’s new rulers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-kill-former-v-p-salehs-brother/article36410161.ece
12 September 2021||Beirut,||Crisis-hit Lebanon gets cabinet after 13-month wait||Lebanon ended a 13-month wait for a new government on Friday with the unveiling of a lineup that faces the daunting task of rescuing the country from economic meltdown. A new Cabinet was a condition for much-needed international assistance but its ability to deliver the required reforms remains to be seen. Prime Minister Najib Mikati vowed to leave no stone unturned in efforts to save the country from bankruptcy.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/crisis-hit-lebanon-gets-cabinet-after-13-month-wait/article36410164.ece
12 September 2021||Jerusalem,||Israel captures four of six Palestinian jail breakers||Israeli forces on Saturday captured two more of the six Palestinian militants who made a dramatic escape from a maximum security Israeli jail this week, a police spokesperson said. The two men were found hiding in a truck parking lot in an Arab village in northern Israel, near the city of Nazareth, where two other escapees were captured hours earlier.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-captures-four-of-six-palestinian-jail-breakers/article36410166.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||Prince Andrew served with papers in US sexual assault lawsuit||Britain's Prince Andrew has been served legal papers in a U.S. lawsuit brought by a woman who says he sexually abused her when she was a teenager, a court filing showed on Friday. The complaint was delivered to the Royal's home in Windsor, England, on August 27, according to an affidavit filed in the Southern District of New York.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/prince-andrew-served-with-papers-in-us-sexual-assault-lawsuit/article36410168.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel urges more support for exporters||A Parliamentary panel has asked the Commerce and Industry Ministry to seek more funds from the Finance Ministry for the new tax refunds scheme for exporters — the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products (RoDTEP) — after expressing its displeasure at the long delay in notifying the scheme’s details. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Commerce has also nudged the government to promote domestic manufacturing of shipping containers to cope with the container shortages hurting exports and promote Indian shipping lines which currently account for just 10% of cargo movement in the country. In its report on augmenting infrastructure facilities to boost exports, presented on Saturday, the panel questioned the delay in implementing RoDTEP scheme, announced on January 1 but notified only in August. “The Committee is discontented that notification of rates under the scheme has been delayed by more than seven months and benefits under the scheme have not been passed on to exporters till date. The Committee also opines that the budget allocation of Rs. 12,500 crore for the scheme would be inadequate to meet its objectives,” it noted, urging the Commerce ministry to engage with the Finance ministry for additional allocation. Urging the Department of Revenue to adopt a more transparent approach while dealing with exporters it tags as ‘risky’, the panel has also questioned the government’s indecision on the continuation of the Interest Equalisation Scheme (IES) for exporters which expired on June 30.  ‘Uncertainty hurting’ Emphasising that ‘uncertainty’ is not conducive for India’s overall export ecosystem, the panel indicated that the suspense over the IES’s continuation makes it difficult for exporters to decide whether or not to factor the benefit of the scheme in their costing. The IES provides pre- and post-shipment rupee export credit to eligible exporters, including all micro, small and medium enterprises at a 3% lower interest rate. The panel has suggested that the scheme be extended ‘for at least five years or till the time our interest rates are at par with rates of the competing countries’. The committee also voiced its displeasure after exporters complained about the ‘risky’ exporters tag, which leads to 100% mandatory checks on export consignments and the suspension of IGST refunds. While it welcomed the Revenue department’s steps to identify and penalise fraudulent input tax credit claims by some exporters, the panel cautioned against punishing genuine exporters due to an error in identification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/panel-urges-more-support-for-exporters/article36410143.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘COVID impact on hospitality sector will not last long’||Hospitality education is transforming as COVID-19 has necessitated a blend of contactless technologies and personalised service, says Dilip Puri , founder & CEO, Indian School of Hospitality (ISH). Excerpts:  How did COVID-19 impact the hospitality education sector? It was clearly impacted. Two groups of students — 2020 and 2021 batches — were majorly impacted from job point of view in the hospitality sector. I want to emphasise hospitality of hotels because even pre-COVID, fewer students studying hospitality were looking to join the mainstream hotel industry. The impact on the hospitality industry is not going to last long. It may be slower to recover, but when the recovery happens, it will be like a true hockey stick. What has been the learning from COVID-19? We actually found the switch to online worked very well because we were forced to relook at our content, our curriculums. One was the validity of that curriculum given that in a COVID environment many things are going to change. Employers are going to operate a hotel with half the number of people they used to in pre-pandemic times. Secondly, in many ways, the pandemic has forced us to adopt technology faster and digitise our content. This online digital mixing of education is going to stay post pandemic. What about student intake during the pandemic? Our typical dropout ratios were higher in 2020 than what they were in 2019 and 2018 which means, students wanted to study but as the pandemic continued, either due to financial reasons or the fear of COVID they dropped out. Our new students will join in September, and we have an intake which is higher than it was last year. So, we are clearly growing. What is the level of reskilling happening in the context of job losses in the sector? Yes, there is a significant amount of reskilling happening. Our post-graduate programmes are designed to upskill, reskill and acquire new skills. These students will be far ahead of their peers who didn’t get an opportunity to upskill but continued to work. What about hiring by the global services industry? The Middle East is a very popular place for careers. As this pandemic wears off, more Indians will go there. There is no significant change in the number of people going in pre-pandemic or post-pandemic times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-impact-on-hospitality-sector-will-not-last-long/article36410141.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Will mull tax sops after Tesla starts production’||The Heavy Industries ministry has asked U.S.-based electric car major Tesla to first start manufacturing its electric vehicles in India before any tax concessions can be considered, government sources said. They said the government was not giving such concessions to any auto firm and giving duty benefits to Tesla would not send a good signal to other firms that had invested billions of dollars in India. Tesla has demanded reduction in import duties on electric vehicles (EVs) in India. In a letter to the Road ministry, the U.S. firm had stated that the effective import tariff of 110% on vehicles with customs value above $40,000 was ‘prohibitive’ to zero-emission vehicles. It has requested the government to standardise the tariff on electric cars to 40% irrespective of the customs value, and withdraw the social welfare surcharge of 10% on electric cars.  Union Minister Nitin Gadkari had said Tesla had a golden opportunity to set up its facility in India given the nation’s thrust on e-vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/will-mull-tax-sops-after-tesla-starts-production/article36410147.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBIC moves to ease container availabilty||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has directed its officers to expeditiously dispose the unclaimed, uncleared and confiscated goods that are holding up containers, a move aimed at easing availability of containers for exporters. “To continue the emphasis on enhancing the availability of containers, the Board has decided that the field formations also.... dispose expeditiously the unclaimed/uncleared/seized/confiscated goods including that are holding up containers,” CBIC said. Exporters have time and again raised the issue of shortage of containers as it affects exports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cbic-moves-to-ease-container-availabilty/article36410144.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||NCLAT admits Dhoot petition against Twin Star takeover||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has admitted a petition filed by former Videocon group CMD Venugopal Dhoot challenging an earlier order of the insolvency court NCLT approving a Rs. 2,962 crore takeover bid for its 13 group companies by Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies. The appellate tribunal has issued notices to the resolution professional, lenders and Twin Star directing them to file a reply by September 17. “We have considered the submissions of various parties. We admit the appeal and the respondents are directed to file their reply by September 15, 2021, and, thereafter, the rejoinder, if any, be filed by September 17,” it said. Hearing on Sept. 20 “Let the matter be listed ‘for hearing’ on September 20,” added a two-member bench comprising Justice J. K. Jain and A. K. Mishra. On June 9, the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had approved the takeover bid by Twin Star Technologies for the 13 companies of the debt-ridden Videocon group. However, the NCLT order was stayed by the NCLAT on July 19 over petitions filed by two dissatisfied creditors of the Videocon Group — Bank of Maharashtra and IFCI Ltd. Mr. Dhoot, in his petition has requested the NCLAT to set aside the order passed by the NCLT and to direct the lenders to consider the Rs. 31,789 crore settlement plan submitted by him under section 12 of the IBC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclat-admits-dhoot-petition-against-twin-star-takeover/article36410145.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Fifth Test cancelled, series result clouded in chaos||On a day when India’s pacers would/should have been thinking of landing deliveries at the right spot while bowling from the James Anderson End at Old Trafford on the scheduled second day of the last Test of the Pataudi Trophy, most of them — and several of their counterparts in India and England squads — were on the verge of landing safety in United Arab Emirates. Owing to the issues related to COVID-19 — fears, outbreak or call it what you can — the tantalising fifth Test of the series between India and England was cancelled with less than two hours left for the scheduled toss on Thursday. So what happens to the series? With India leading 2-1 after the fourth Test, have Kohli’s cavaliers ended the 14-year-old drought in England? Or has India conceded the match, thus leading to the series being levelled? Or has the series been suspended, with the match scheduled to take place next year? And what happens to the World Test Championship points table now? Little clarity Well, more than 24 hours since the series has been suspended, the cricket fans will have to wait — possibly for a longer period — to actually know the fate of the series. As of now, there is little clarity on the status of the series and only possibilites can be discussed. While the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB), which modified the statement in no time after announcing India had agreed to forfeit, stated “due to fears of a further increase in the number of COVID cases inside the camp, India are regrettably unable to field a team”, the BCCI said both the boards “have jointly decided to call off” the Test. The timing of the cancellation — with the IPL scheduled to resume in a week — coupled with the fact that the BCCI tried its best to curtail the series to four Tests to accommodate a window for the IPL, has also raised doubts on whether the IPL was prioritised at the cost of a Test match. The fact remains that with four India support staff members having contracted COVID-19 in less than a week, the Indian contingent, especially those travelling with families, were not willing to take the field and risk the spread of the virus. Result unknown As a result, the series is over but we don’t know the result. Unless, the BCCI and ECB decide mutually about the fate of the fifth Test — whether it’s abandoned or forfeited — the International Cricket Council will have to adjudicate the issue and award the WTC points accordingly. Compensation package Both the BCCI and ECB have been in talks over devising a compensation package for the host board. With losses likely to exceed Rs. 300 crore and ECB being uncertain of its insurance claim being settled for COVID-related cancellation, the BCCI has assured one of its allies in global cricket politics its full support. For the fans, the waiting game continues. While the aficionados and connoisseurs continue to discuss whether India has won the series, majority of India’s cricketers in England hope for the virus to stay away as they begin another week of isolation before entering the IPL biosecure bubble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fifth-test-cancelled-series-result-clouded-in-chaos/article36410258.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Rajini stamps his class, wins in style||Veterans Rajini Krishnan (RACR) and Jagan Kumar (TVS Racing) posted brilliant but contrasting victories in their respective categories to light up the second round of the MRF-MMSC FMSCI National motorcycle racing championship at the MMRT, here on Saturday.  Rajini, 41, stamped his authority and class while winning the race in the premier Pro-stock 301-400cc category after starting from P6. On the other hand, Jagan, 31, exchanged leads with arch-rival and pole-sitter Rajiv Sethu (Idemitsu Honda SK69 Racing) in the Pro-stock 165cc before clinching the cliff-hanger with a last-lap overtake with little separating them. Both Rajini and Jagan thus notched their third consecutive wins in the championship having scored a double apiece in Round-1 last month.  The results (provisional – all six laps unless mentioned):   National Championship: Pro-stock 301-400cc (Race-1): 1. Rajini Krishnan (RACR) (11mins, 21.868secs); 2. P.M. Soorya (Rockers Racing) (11:23.279); 3. Rahil Shetty (Gusto Racing) (11:23.414).   Pro-stock 165cc (Race-1): 1. Jagan Kumar (TVS Racing) (11:46.731); 2. Rajiv Sethu (Idemitsu Honda SK69 Racing) (11:46.778); 3. KY Ahamed (TVS Racing) (11:47.691).   Novice (Stock 165cc) Race-1: 1. Anfal Akdhar (Rockstar Racing) (13:05.852); 2. Allwin Xavier (Sparks Racing, Thrissur) (13:05.980); 3. Sarvesh Balappa (Sparks Racing, Hubballi) (13:17.967).   One-Make Championship organised by Madras Motor Sports Club:   Idemitsu Honda India Talent Cup — NSF 250R (Race-1): 1. Kavin Quintal (11:08.113); 2. Mohsin Peramban (11:22.860); 3. Sarthak Chavan (11:22.959 – incl 10-sec penalty for jump start).   CBR 150 (Race-1): 1. Prakash Kamath (13:14.859); 2. Shubankar Joshi (13:23.925); 3. Johann Reeves Emmanuel (13:27.157).   Hornet 2.0 (Race-1): 1. Kevin Kannan (13:26.735); 2. Alwin Sundar (13:35.033); 3. C. Rajkumar (13:35.134).   TVS Apache Open (RR310, Race-1): 1. Navaneeth Kumar (11:49.658); 2. Amarnath Menon (11:50.606); 3. Vivek Pillai (11:50.729).   Rookie (RTR 200, Race-1): 1. Jinendra Kiran Sangave (12:48.856); 2. V. Chiranth (13:04.132); 3. Shreyas Copparam Hareesh (13:04.992).   Girls (RTR 200, Race-1, 5 laps): 1. Rakshitha Dave (11:15.447); 2. Renuka Gajendran (11:30.442); 3. Zigna Pamnani (11:39.959) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajini-stamps-his-class-wins-in-style/article36410315.ece
12 September 2021||New York,||Grand Slam endgame: Djokovic eyes perfect finish||Novak Djokovic will play Daniil Medvedev to try and complete the first men’s singles calendar-year Grand Slam since 1969 after defeating Tokyo Olympic champion Alexander Zverev in Friday’s US Open semifinals. Top-ranked Djokovic outlasted the German fourth seed 4-6, 6-2, 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 to reach Sunday’s championship match at Arthur Ashe Stadium against Russian second seed Medvedev. One step away One more victory will give the 34-year-old Serb the first calendar-year Slam since Rod Laver accomplished it 52 years ago. Djokovic also seeks his fourth career US Open title and his 21st overall Slam crown, which would lift him one above the all-time record he shares with Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer, both absent with injuries. Australian legend Laver, 83, was in the stands to watch as Djokovic took a measure of revenge for Zverev beating him in the semifinals at the Tokyo Olympics, denying Djokovic’s bid for a Golden Slam. Medvedev defeated Canadian 12th seed Felix Auger-Aliassime 6-4, 7-5, 6-2 to reach his third career Slam final. Djokovic is the oldest US Open finalist since Andre Agassi at 35 in 2005 and could be the oldest US Open champion since Ken Rosewall at 35 in 1970. The final is a rematch of February’s Australian Open final won by Djokovic in straight sets. Later, Britain’s Joe Salisbury and American Rajeev Ram won the men’s doubles title defeating Britain’s Jamie Murray and Brazil’s Bruno Soares 3-6, 6-2, 6-2. On Thursday, British 18-year-old qualifier Emma Raducanu and Canadian 19-year-old Leylah Fernandez set up a historic Grand Slam final. Raducanu became the first qualifier to ever reach a Grand Slam final, and the youngest Slam finalist in 17 years, by ousting Greek 17th seed Maria Sakkari 6-1, 6-4. Fernandez beat second seed Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus 7-6(3), 4-6, 6-4, for her third Open win over a top-five rival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-meets-medvedev-in-summit-clash/article36410259.ece
12 September 2021||Chennai,||CSK players from England set to join team||The four Chennai Super Kings (CSK) cricketers, Ravindra Jadeja, Cheteshwar Pujara, Shardul Thakur and Moeen Ali, who took part in the truncated India-England Test series, are set to join CSK in Dubai in the early hours of Sunday. Talking to The Hindu from Dubai, CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan said on Saturday night, “The four cricketers have already boarded a commercial flight. They are on their way.” The cricketers will have to undergo an RT-PCR test as soon as they land in Dubai and will have to repeat the same test on the second, fourth and sixth days, said Viswanathan. He added, “If they come through clean, they can join practice from the seventh day.” Aussie paceman Josh Hazlewood, who missed the first leg of the IPL in India, was already with the team and was available for the second leg, said Viswanathan. Dwayne Bravo, Faf du Plessis and Imran Tahir, busy with the Caribbean Premier League, will join the team after the competition concludes in the West Indies in mid-September. “For them, it will be a bubble to bubble movement,” said Viswanathan. He added that English all-rounder Sam Curran, too, will join the team later.  Viswanathan said the spirit in the CSK camp was high. “We have been training here in Dubai since August 20. We already have five wins from seven matches and the players are confident. “Senior cricketers such as skipper M.S. Dhoni and Suresh Raina are already sweating it out in Dubai,” said Viswanathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-players-from-england-set-to-join-team/article36410355.ece
12 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Suhana claws back to clinch title||Suhana Saini rallied brilliantly from a two-set deficit to emerge the girls’ under-15 champion in the World Table Tennis Youth Contender at the Sports Centre Otocec, Slovenia, on Friday. Suhana exacted revenge, carving out a come-from-behind 8-11, 4-11, 12-10, 11-8, 11-9 victory over Romania’s Bianca Mei Rosu who she had lost to in a final recently. “I am very happy she could avenge the loss suffered in the recent final of the WTT Youth Contender event in Varazdin (Croatia),” said Suhana’s coach R. Rajesh. In the earlier summit clash, Bianca had bounced back from 0-2 to win 13-15, 6-11, 11-4, 11-8, 11-3. Suhana, seeded three, defeated Mia Griesel (Germany) in the semifinals, Alesia Sofia Sferlea (Romania) and quarterfinals and Slovenia’s Enya Moltara in the pre-quarterfinals by 3-0 margins. Nervous “I was a little nervous before the match because I had lost twice to her. I really gave my best to come back, and I am happy to win this tournament. I am going to Tunis and, hopefully, I can maintain this level,” said Suhana after the final to the WTT website. Narrow loss Yashaswini Ghorpade raised visions of another title for India but narrowly lost in the decider of the girls’ under-17 final to Romania’s Elina Zaharia. The latter won 8-11, 13-11, 11-7, 6-11, 11-3. Payas bowed out in the semifinals of the boys’ under-19 section while Yashaswini and Diya Chitale also made the last four of girls’ under-19 before losing.  I am going to Tunis and, hopefully, I can maintain this level —Suhana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suhana-claws-back-to-clinch-title/article36410156.ece
12 September 2021||Manchester,||Ronaldo marks United return with flying start; Arsenal tastes first win||Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice on his return to Manchester United after 12 years in a 4-1 victory over Newcastle in the English Premier League on Saturday. There was a tap-in from Ronaldo in the first half and a low strike after the break to restore the lead after Javier Manquillo equalised. Ronaldo’s compatriot, Bruno Fernandes, scored the third and Jesse Lingard completed United's third win in four league games in stoppage time. The 36-year-old Portugal forward secured an unexpected return to United when he was sold by Juventus last month. Tottenham became the final team to lose its perfect record, falling 3-0 at Crystal Palace after new signing Odsonne Edouard scored twice to add to a penalty by Wilfried Zaha on Saturday. Spurs won their opening three games of the season under new manager Nuno Espirito Santo — all by a 1-0 score — but were without a slew of first-choice players at Selhurst Park and were outplayed. Aubameyang scores Arsenal eased the pressure on under-fire manager Mikel Arteta and earned the team its first win of the season after Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang sank Norwich 1-0. The Gunners captain’s 66th-minute winner released the tension that had been bubbling up inside the Emirates Stadium and lifted his team off the foot of the table. Arteta, who had reportedly been given four games to save his job after Arsenal's worst start to a league campaign for 67 years, said the international break was among the most instructive periods of his career. Erling Haaland scored twice as Borussia Dortmund came from behind three times to beat Bayer Leverkusen 4-3 in a thrilling Bundesliga game on Saturday.  The results: Premier League: Arsenal 1 (Aubameyang 66) bt Norwich 0; Brentford 0 lost to Brighton 1 (Trossard 90); Crystal Palace 3 (Zaha 76-pen, Edouard 84, 90) bt Tottenham 0; Leicester 0 lost to Manchester City 1 (Silva 62); Manchester United 4 (Ronaldo 45+2, 62, Fernandes 80, Lingard 90+2) bt Newcastle 1 (Manquillo 56); Southampton 0 drew with West Ham 0; Watford 0 lost to Wolves 2 (Sierralta 74-og, Hwang 83).   Chelsea 3 (Lukaku 15, 90+3, Kovacic 49) bt Aston Villa 0.   Serie A: Empoli 1 (Bajrami 89-pen) lost to Venezia 2 (Henry 13, Okereke 68).   Bundesliga: Bayer Leverkusen 3 (Wirtz 9, Schick 45+1, Diaby 55) lost to Borussia Dortmund 4 (Haaland 37, 77-pen, Brandt 49, Guerreiro 71); Freiburg 1 (Czichos 89-og) drew with Cologne 1 (Modeste 34); Hoffenheim 0 lost to Mainz 2 (Burkardt 21, Ingvartsen 77) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ronaldo-marks-united-return-with-flying-start-arsenal-tastes-first-win/article36410264.ece
12 September 2021||MONZA,||Bottas wins sprint, but Verstappen on pole||Max Verstappen will start the Formula One Italian Grand Prix at the front of the grid despite finishing second in Saturday’s qualifying sprint. Mercedes driver Valtteri Bottas won the 18-lap race at Monza ahead of Verstappen but was already condemned to start Sunday’s GP at the back of the grid after being penalised for taking on power unit components in qualifying on Friday. Red Bull’s Verstappen also claimed two championship points to extend his lead over Lewis Hamilton to five after the reigning champion finished fifth, almost 20 seconds off the pace. Hamilton had started the sprint in second place behind Bottas but dropped back after a dreadful start, making his latest bid for a 100th GP win that much harder. Stuck on 99 The seven-time F1 champion has been on 99 since victory at the British GP in July, but after strong displays in both practice sessions and qualifying looked in good shape to reach a century. However, he will have his work cut out for him from the second row after Verstappen and McLaren’s Daniel Ricciardo came up on either side of him to overtake right at the start. Pierre Gasly would have also have stolen a place on the Briton had he not slid off the track at the first bend after making contact with Ricciardo. Just behind Hamilton in the third row will be Ferrari’s Charles Leclerc, who won at Monza in 2019 and is hoping for the home support to help push the Scuderia to another good result.   The starting grid:   Row 1: Verstappen (Red Bull), Ricciardo (McLaren); Row 2: Norris (McLaren), Hamilton (Mercedes).   Row 3: Leclerc (Ferrari), Sainz (Ferrari); Row 4: Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo), Perez (Red Bull).       Row 5: Stroll (Aston Martin), Alonso (Alpine); Row 6: Vettel (Aston Martin), Ocon (Alpine).   Row 7: Latifi (Williams), Russell (Williams); Row 8: Tsunoda (AlphaTauri), Mazepin (Haas).   Row 9: Schumacher (Haas), Kubica (Alfa Romeo); Row 10: Gasly (AlphaTauri), Bottas (Mercedes).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bottas-wins-sprint-but-verstappen-on-pole/article36410255.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||India tops Group B, to face Ukraine in quarterfinals||As expected, India asserted its superiority in good measure against Hungary and Moldova but signed off with a surprise draw against Slovenia for a place in the quarterfinals of the FIDE Online Chess Olympiad on Friday. An unbeaten India topped the 10-team Group B with 16 match-points and will face Ukraine in the last eight on September 13. Hungary (15) was the other team to qualify from the group. The 3-3 draw against Slovenia did serve as a wake-up call for the host but did not alter its position as the group-topper. Easy outing Earlier, India made sure of topping the group with a round to spare following a comprehensive 5-1 victory over Moldova in the eighth and penultimate round. India saved its best performance of the day for a 4-2 victory over a previously-unbeaten third seed Hungary in the key seventh-round clash. Viswanathan Anand, K. Humpy and Nihal Sarin won with white in style, P. Harikrishna lost while D. Harika and R. Vaishali drew.  Quarterfinal line-up:   Kazakhstan vs USA; India vs Ukraine; Russia vs Hungary; China vs Poland.   Indians’ performances (points scored/ games played):   Viswanathan Anand (4/5), Vidit Gujrathi (3.5/5), P. Harikrishna (2.5/4), B. Adhiban (3.5/4), K. Humpy (3/5), D. Harika (1.5/3), Tania Sachdev (3.5/5), Bhakti Kulkarni (4/5), Nihal Sarin (4/4), R. Praggnanandhaa (3/5), R. Vaishali (4.5/6), Savitha Shri (0.5/3).   The results:   Ninth round: Slovenia drew with India 3-3 (Luka Lenic lost to Vidit Gujrathi; Jure Skoberne drew with P. Harikrishna; Lara Janzelj drew with Tania Sachdev; Teja Vidic bt Bhakti Kulkarni; Jan Subelj lost to R. Praggnanandhaa; Zala Urh bt B. Savitha Shri); Moldova lost to Hungary 1-5; France drew with Azerbaijan 3-3; Sweden lost to Shenzhen China 2.5-3.5; Egypt lost to Belarus 1.5-4.5.   Eighth round: India bt Moldova 5-1 (Vidit Gujrathi bt Victor Bologan; B. Adhiban drew with Ivan Schitco; Tania Sachdev bt Paula-Alexandra Gitu; Bhakti Kulkarni bt Ana Petricenco; R. Praggnanandhaa bt Jegor Lashkin; B. Savitha Shri drew with Alina Mihailova); Hungary bt Sweden 4.5-1.5; Azerbaijan bt Egypt 4-2; Shenzhen China bt France 3.5-2.5; Belarus lost to Slovenia 2-4.   Seventh round: India bt Hungary 4-2 (Viswanathan Anand bt Viktor Erdos; P. Harikrishna lost to Imre Balog; K. Humpy bt Hoang Tranh Trang; D. Harika drew with Bianka Havanecz; Nihal Sarin bt Marcell Borthy; R. Vaishali drew with Kata Karacsonyi); Slovenia lost to Azerbaijan 1.5-4.5; France lost to Sweden 2-4; Moldova lost to Belarus 0.5-5.5; Egypt lost to Shenzhen China 4-2.   Final standings: 1. India (16 match-points), 2. Hungary (15), 3. Azerbaijan (12), 4-6. Shenzhen China, France and Slovenia (9 each), 7. Sweden (8), 8. Belarus (7), 9. Moldova (4), 10. Egypt .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-tops-group-b-to-face-ukraine-in-quarterfinals/article36410150.ece
12 September 2021||New Delhi,||Nishant takes honours||Nishant Dabas capped a fine run by outplaying Walid Ahouda of Morocco 6-0, 6-4 in the final of the ITF grade-2 junior tournament in Cairo. After a struggle the previous three weeks when he managed to win three matches in all, the 17-year-old Nishant struck rhythm. He started well in the fourth tournament by outclassing the second seed Marcel Kamrowski of Poland for the loss of three games. Thereafter, he did not drop a set till he was stretched by third seed Ilia Simakin of Russia in the semifinals when Nishant prevailed 7-6(6) in the third set. It was the first singles title of his career in the international junior circuit for Nishant who trains with coach Zeeshan Ali in the Capital. He had lost five finals earlier, two against Aman Dahiya, two against Chirag Duhan and one against Yu Zhang of China.  Nishant has been winning doubles titles, five of them in all, including three this season, but has been waiting for his first singles title to match his status as the No.1 junior in the country.   The results:   Singles (final): Nishant Dabas bt Walid Ahouda (Mar) 6-0, 6-4; Semifinals: Nishant bt Ilia Simakin (Rus) 6-3, 3-6, 7-6(6).   Quarterfinals: Nishant bt Cooper Williams 6-3, 6-4.   Pre-quarterfinals: Nishant bt Ahmed Zaki (Egy) 6-4, 6-0.   First round: Nishant bt Marcel Kamrowski (Pol) 6-2, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nishant-takes-honours/article36410445.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI:,||Wakeful wins feature event||M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing & Mr. Vikram Singh’s Wakeful (D.S. Deora up) won the Victoria Harbour Handicap, the main event of the races held here on Friday (Sept. 10). D.K. Futnani trains the winner.  1. JACK SPARROW HANDICAP (1,000m), 5-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25: STREET CAT (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Fantastic Hit (Ajeet Kumar) 2, Driftwood Pacific (K. Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Pragmatic (H.M. Akshay) 4. Not run: Benin Bronze. 3/4, lnk and 1/2. 1m, 2.04s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  2. HONEST PLEASURE HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: BOHEMIAN GRANDEUR (Nakhat Singh) 1, Carnoustie (D.S. Deora) 2, Break The The Silence (K, Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Protea (Akshay Kumar) 4. 1/2, 1 and 1-1/4. 1m, 15.07s. Owner: Mr. A.L. Murugappan. Trainer: R. Foley.  3. FLASH DANCE HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: MANZONI (P. Vikram) 1, Asian Empress (Kuldeep Singh) 2, Chaitanya (Ishwar Singh) 3 and Glorious Victory (C. Umesh) 4. 1, 2-1/2 and 2. 1m, 29.14s. Owners: M/s. United Investments & Mr. Rajiv Pasari. Trainer: J.E. Mckeown.  4. COONOOR CUP (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): SWEET FRAGRANCE (Ashhad Asbar) 1, Mystical Magician (Nikhil Naidu) 2, Proposed (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Mujer (Zervan) 4. Not run: Royal Eminence. Owner: M/s. Zaveri Stud Farm. Trainer: P. Krishna.  5. VICTORIA HARBOUR HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 60 to 85: WAKEFUL (D.S. Deora) 1, Celeritas (R. Manish) 2, Lordship (Koshi Kumar) 3 and Mon General (Kiran Naidu) 4. 3-3/4, 2 and shd. 58.67s. Owners: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing & Mr. Vikram Singh. Trainer: D.K. Futnani.  6. THOUGHTS OF YOU HANDICAP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65: EMELDA (Akshay Kumar) 1, Renegade (Azfar Syeed) 2, Shalem (Nikhil Naidu) 3 and Eagle Prince (Nakhat Singh) 4. 2-1/2, 2-1/4 and shd. 1m, 28.62s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: B. Suresh.  7. FLASH DANCE HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: BEAUTY OF THE TURF (Farid Ansari) 1, Uncle Sam (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Sifan (C. Umesh) 3 and Wonderful Era (K. Mukesh Kumar) 4. 1/2, 2-1/2 and 1. 1m, 29.84s. Owner: Mr. C. Gnanavel. Trainer: N. Rupa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wakeful-wins-feature-event/article36410358.ece
12 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Blasters overcome Navy||Indian Super League side Kerala Blasters had a tough start to the season as it managed to weather a resolute challenge from Indian Navy before winning its Group C league match of Durand Cup football by a solitary goal on Saturday. Uruguayan midfielder Adrian Luna scored the only goal of the match through a late 71st minute penalty. Earlier on Friday, former champion Mohammedan Sporting downed Central Reserve Police Force 5-1 a group-A match at the Kalyani Stadium. Azharuddin Mallick and Marcus Joseph shared four goals while substitute Brandon Vanlalremdika provided the finishing touch in the stoppage-time to help Sporting secure its second successive win and a quarterfinal berth from the group. Amarjeet Singh found the only reply for CRPF in the last minute of the action.  The result: Group C: Kerala Blasters FC 1 (Adrian Luna 71-pen) bt Indian Navy 0.   On Friday: Group A: CRPF 1 (Amarjeet Singh 90) lost to Mohammedan Sporting 5 (Azharuddin Mallick 13, 86, Marcus Joseph 64, 66, Brandon 90+2).   Group B: Jamshedpur FC 1 (Jitendra Singh 61-pen) lost to Army Green 3 (Deepak Singh 43, 48, Sochin Chhetri 57) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-overcome-navy/article36410302.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Daruvala dominates second Sprint Race||India’s Jehan Daruvala produced a composed performance to take a dominant win in the second Sprint Race of the FIA Formula 2 championship in Monza here on Saturday. The Red Bull Racing junior driver started second and took the lead into the first corner from David Beckmann and built a small lead ahead of the rest of the pack. After a couple of laps under Virtual Safety Car, racing resumed on lap five and from there on Daruvala, driving for Carlin, was in total control. He slowly built up his lead and took the chequered flag six seconds ahead of Bent Viscaal and Robert Shwartzman. This is Daruvala’s second win in F2 after his Sprint Race win in Bahrain last year. Daruvala on Friday missed out on pole by just 0.041s and will start second in Sunday’s feature race. Earlier, he started and finished ninth in the first sprint race that gave him a second-place start for the second. The win moves him to eighth in the championship with 71 points. Daruvala said, “I think that a win was long overdue this season, so I am very happy. This weekend has been good so far, I’ve been consistently quick. I think we deserved the win, hopefully, I can repeat it tomorrow.”   It feels truly special to hear the Indian national anthem on the top step of the podium. Winning at Monza is every racer’s dream||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/daruvala-dominates-second-sprint-race/article36410311.ece
12 September 2021||Sao Paulo,||Messi inspires Argentina||Lionel Messi shone once more in South American World Cup qualifiers, leading Argentina with all the goals in its 3-0 home win against Bolivia. His hat-trick made him the top international scorer in South American football history. The 34-year-old has netted 79 for Argentina, overtaking Brazil’s Pele’s tally of 77. Meanwhile leader Brazil counted on Neymar to secure its eighth win in eight matches, an easy 2-0 victory over Peru on Thursday. Brazil has 24 points and second-place Argentina 18, both with eight matches played, one less that the other rivals after their superclasico on Sunday was suspended due to COVID-19 protocols. FIFA has yet to decide whether that match will be replayed. Earlier Uruguay had a 1-0 victory over Ecuador to move into third place on the table. The header by Gaston Pereiro in stoppage time allowed Uruguay to get to 15 points and take Ecuador’s third place on the table. Colombia also got an important 3-1 home victory against Chile in a great performance by striker Miguel Borja. Also on Thursday, Paraguay beat Venezuela 2-1.  The results: Uruguay 1 (Pereiro 90+2) bt Ecuador 0; Paraguay 2 (Martinez 7, Kaku 46) bt Venezuela 1 (Chancellor 90).   Colombia 3 (Borja 19-pen, 20, Diaz 74) bt Chile 1 (Meneses 56); Argentina 3 (Messi 14, 64, 88) bt Bolivia 0; Brazil 2 (Ribeiro 14, Neymar 40) bt Peru 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-inspires-argentina/article36410313.ece
12 September 2021||Cassis (France),||Balaji-Ramkumar duo emerges victorious||Third-seeded Sriram Balaji and Ramkumar Ramanathan defeated second seeds Hans Hack Verdugo and Miguel Angel Reyes-Varela of Mexico 6-4, 3-6, [10-8] in the final of the €44,820 Challenger on Saturday. The champions collected €2,670 and 80 ATP points. It was the seventh Challenger doubles title for the 31-year-old Balaji and the sixth Challenger doubles crown for the 26-year-old Ramkumar.  Other results: €44,820 Challenger, Cassis, France: Quarterfinals: Liam Broady (GBr) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 7-6(7), 6-4.   Doubles: Semifinals: Balaji & Ramkumar bt Ernesto Escobedo (USA) & Fernando Romboli (Bra) 6-3, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo: Doubles (semifinals): Leonardo Aboian & Valerio Aboian (Arg) bt Rishab Agarwal & Louis Tessa (Fra) 6-4, 6-3; Quarterfinals: Rishab & Tessa bt Bruno Pujol Navarro & Albert Roglan (Esp) 6-1, 6-4; Ioannis Kountourakis & Alexandros Skorilas (Gre) bt Marlon Vankan (Ger) & Nitin Kumar Sinha 6-4, 6-1.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Doubles (quarterfinals): Martina Capurro Taborda (Arg) & Ma YeXin (Chn) bt Sharmada Balu & Sravya Shivani 6-0, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balaji-ramkumar-duo-emerges-victorious/article36410153.ece
12 September 2021||Hyderabad:,||Juliette in great heart||The champion filly Juliette, who won the Indian St. Leger in her last start, is in great heart as evidenced by her morning trials and mock race and should not find it difficult to win the Golden Jubilee President Of India Gold Cup (Gr. 2), the feature event of Sunday’s (Sept. 12) races.  OUR SELECT PLATE (Div.I) (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat.II) — 1.00 p..m.: 1. Ashwa Migsun (9) Ashad Asbar 56, 2. Dream Jewel (5) Mukesh Kumar 56, 3. Epsom (12) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 4. I Am Superman (1) Md. Ismail 56, 5. Special Effort (3) Surya Prakash 56, 6. Wallop And Gallop (6) Deepak Singh 56, 7. Zamazenta (10) Akshay Kumar 56, 8. Garden Of Eden (4) Koushik 54.5, 9. Golden Amaris (7) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 10. Good Tidings (11) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 11. Inside Story (13) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 12. Pink Splendor (8) B. Nikhil 54.5 and 13. Siri (2) P. Sai Kumar 54.5.  1. ZAMAZENTA, 2. SIRI,   3. INSIDE STORY   TITCH PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 1.30: 1. Aintree (11) N.B. Kuldeep 60, 2. Different (7) Md. Ismail 59.5, 3. Mandala Bay (5) Zervan 58.5, 4. Melting Ice (9) C.P. Bopanna 58, 5. Blissful (3) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 6. Whiskey Martini (6) Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 7. Beauty On Parade (1) Nikhil Naidu 56, 8. Battle Ready (8) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 9. Destine To Be (2) Rafique Sk. 54.5, 10. Hurricane (4) Abhay Singh 54.5 and 11. Aerial Combat (10) Akshay Kumar 53.5.  1. MANDALA BAY, 2. AERIAL COMBAT, 3. BEAUTY ON PARADE   OUR SELECT PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II) — 2.05: 1. Ashwa Sultan (–), 2. Dream Station (2) Zervan 56, 3. Grand Duke (10) C.P. Bopanna 56, 4. November Rain (3) Akshay Kumar 56, 5. Quality Warrior (4) P. Ajeeth Kumar 56, 6. Sorrento (7) P. Sai Kumar 56, 7. Sport On Fire (1) Deepak Singh 56, 8. Starwalt (6) Surya Prakash 56, 9. Sye Ra (8) G. Naresh 56, 10. Tenth Attraction (9) Gaurav Singh 56, 11. Winning Streak (11) P.S. Chouhan 56, 12. Mireya (12) Rafique Sk. 54.5 and 13. Over Joy (5) Ashad Asbar 54.5.  1. NOVEMBER RAIN, 2. DREAM STATION, 3. QUALITY WARRIOR   ROCK OF GIBRALTAR PLATE (1,400m) rated 40 to 65 (Cat.II) — 2.40: 1. Honest Hunter (6) Deepak Singh 60, 2. House Of Diamonds (10) Akshay Kumar 59, 3. New Look (9) Gaurav Singh 58, 4. Crazy Horse (7) A.A. Vikrant 56.5, 5. N R I Vision (3) Koushik 56.5, 6. Southern Princess (5) P.S. Chouhan 55.5, 7. City Of Blossom (4) Aneel 53.5, 8. Super Angel (8) Abhay Singh 53.5, 9. Good Connection (2) Zervan 51.5 and 10. N R I Heights (1) B. Nikhil 51.5.  1. GOOD CONNECTION,   2. HOUSE OF DIAMONDS,   3. SOUTHERN PRINCESS   TITCH PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.15: 1. Miss Marvellous (12) Afroz Khan 60, 2. Appenzelle (4) Nikhil Naidu 59, 3. Kingston (7) Nakhat Singh 58, 4. Greek’s Ace (11) Mukesh Kumar 57, 5. Steve Rogers (2) S.S. Tanwar 56.5, 6. Lacrosse (3) Zervan 56, 7. Alluri’s Pride (9) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 8. Fatuma (6) Gaurav Singh 55.5, 9. Rhine (5) G. Naresh 54.5, 10. Classy Dame (8) R.S. Jodha 52, 11. Urvasi (1) Abhay Singh 52 and 12. Lorena (10) P. Ajeeth Kumar 50.5.  1. APPENZELLE,   2. ALLURI’S PRIDE, 3. LACROSSE   A. KRISHNASWAMY MEMORIAL CUP (1,400m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II) — 3.50: 1. Havelock Cruise (9) Deepak Singh 60, 2. Trump Girl (6) Abhay Singh 58.5, 3. Agni (2) Nikhil Naidu 56.5, 4. Downtown Gal (8) Neeraj 55, 5. Ashwa Bravo (1) P.S. Chouhan 53.5, 6. Staridar (5) Koushik 53.5, 7. Ashwa Yashobali (13) Gaurav Singh 53, 8. Happy Together (4) Nakhat Singh 53, 9. N R I Valley (12) Akshay Kumar 53, 10. British Empress (7) B. Nikhil 52, 11. Lombardy (10) Zervan 52, 12. Strategist (3) Md. Ismail 51.5 and 13. Long Range (11) Afroz Khan 51.  1. ASHWA BRAVO, 2. LOMBARDY,      3. N R I VALLEY   GOLDEN JUBILEE PRESIDENT OF INDIA GOLD CUP (Gr. 2), (2,400m) (Terms), 4-y-o & upward — 4.25: 1. Juliette (1) A. Sandesh 58.5, 2. Alluring Silver (2) P.S. Chouhan 55.5, 3. Bisate (3) Akshay Kumar 50.5 and 4. Parisian (4) Neeraj 50.5.  1. JULIETTE, 2. PARISIAN   CARTER PRINCESS PLATE (2,000m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 5.00: 1. Cheltenham (14) Rohit Kumar 62, 2. Call Of The Blue (1) Gaurav Singh 59.5, 3. Painted Apache (9) Zervan 59, 4. King Roger (13) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 5. Advance Guard (10) Mukesh Kumar 58, 6. Sweet Melody (4) Ajeeth Kumar 58, 7. Dillon (8) G. Naresh 56, 8. Stud Poker (11) Ajinkya 56, 9. Balma (3) Abhay Singh 53, 10. Mehrnoosh (6) Ashad Asbar 52, 11. Win Vision (5) Santosh Raj 52, 12. Bedazzled (2) Afroz Khan 50.5, 13. Forever Bond (7) Surya Prakash 50 and 14. Wot’s Up Jay (Ex: That’s My Star) (12) B. Nikhil 50.  1. KING ROGER,   2. SWEET MELODY,   3. CHELTENHAM  Day’s Best: MANDALA BAY  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juliette-in-great-heart/article36410154.ece
12 September 2021||Dhaka,||Consolation win for New Zealand||Skipper Tom Latham and Finn Allen set up a 27-run win for New Zealand in the fifth T20I against Bangladesh here on Friday. Latham’s unbeaten 50 and a 24-ball 41 by Allen guided New Zealand to 161 for five after electing to bat. The Kiwi bowlers kept Bangladesh down to 134 for eight in 20 overs but the hosts took the five-match series 3-2. Left-arm spinner Ajaz Patel and pace bowler Scott Kuggeleijn took two wickets each as Bangladesh faltered in the chase. Latham stood out with his second half-century of the series.   The scores: New Zealand 161/5 in 20 overs (Finn Allen 41, Tom Latham 50 n.o.) bt Bangladesh 134/8 in 20 overs (Afif Hossain 49 n.o.). Toss: New Zealand; MoM: Latham; MoS: Nasum Ahmed and Latham; New Zealand won match by 27 runs; Bangladesh won series 3-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/consolation-victory-for-new-zealand/article36410300.ece
12 September 2021||Colombo,||Markram, bowlers take SA to victory||Disciplined bowling and a quickfire 48 by Aiden Markram helped South Africa beat Sri Lanka by 28 runs in the first T20I here on Friday. Markram’s 33-ball knock guided South Africa to 163 for five, a total it defended by restricting Sri Lanka to 135 for six to lead the three-match series 1-0. Skipper and left-arm spinner Keshav Maharaj led the bowling with an impressive one for 19 on his T20 debut.      The scores: South Africa 163/5 in 20 overs (Quinton de Kock 36, Reza Hendricks 38, Aiden Markram 48, David Miller 26) bt Sri Lanka 135/6 in 20 overs (Dinesh Chandimal 66 n.o.).   Toss: South Africa; MoM: Markram; S A won by 28 runs and leads three-match series 1-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/facile-win-for-south-africa/article36410301.ece
12 September 2021||JHAJJAR,||Hitesh and Tamanna triumph||Hitesh Chauhan and Tamanna Takoria won the boys’ and girls’ titles in the AITA Super series under-16 tennis tournament here at the Joygaon Academy.  The results (finals):   U-16: Boys: Hitesh Chauhan bt Manish Yadav 6-3, 5-7, 6-1.     Doubles: Vansh Nandal & Manish Yadav w/o Debasis Sahoo & Chandan Shivaraj.   Girls: Tamanna Takoria bt Asmi Adkar 6-0, 7-5.   Doubles: Asmi Adkar & Kaira Chetnani bt Thania Sarai & Dheepa Yazhini 7-5, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hitesh-and-tamanna-triumph/article36410443.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||MCC 175 Not Out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcc-175-not-out/article36410353.ece
12 September 2021||St John’s (Antigua),||T20 WC: Rampaul returns to WI squad||Defending champion West Indies recalled Ravi Rampaul for the first time since 2015 and left out six-hitting star Carlos Brathwaite in its 15-man squad for next month’s T20 World Cup. The 36-year-old Rampaul is back in a West Indies T20 squad for the first time in six years. “Ravi will boost the team’s wicket-taking options in the power-play and the middle phase and will provide another option for the death (late) overs,” lead selector Roger Harper said.  Roston Chase was also included, earning a T20I call-up for the first time, mostly due to his form in the Caribbean Premier League. “Roston Chase has shown that he is a very capable T20 player,” Harper said.   The squad:   Kieron Pollard (Capt.), Nicholas Pooran, Fabian Allen, Dwayne Bravo, Roston Chase, Andre Fletcher, Chris Gayle, Shimron Hetmyer, Evin Lewis, Obed McCoy, Lendl Simmons, Ravi Rampaul, Andre Russell, Oshane Thomas, Hayden Walsh Jr.   Reserves: Darren Bravo, Sheldon Cottrell, Jason Holder, Akeal Hosein .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/t20-world-cup-rampaul-returns-to-west-indies-squad/article36410309.ece
12 September 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI’s Test offer to ECB||The BCCI has told the ECB that it was ready to not only reschedule the cancelled fifth Test but also play two additional T20Is during India’s trip to England next year. The ECB, earlier this week, announced India’s limited-overs tour of England in 2022, with three ODIs and three T20Is to be played from July 1 to 14.    The Hindu understands that while negotiating the cancellation of the Manchester Test due to COVID-19-related reasons, the BCCI proposed that next year’s tour be expanded into one Test, five T20Is and three ODIs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bccis-test-offer-to-ecb/article36410253.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian players start arriving in the UAE||A day after the fifth and final Test of the England-India series in Manchester was postponed indefinitely due to COVID-19 concerns in the visitors’ camp, several Indian players flew out to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to join their IPL squads. While Royal Challengers Bangalore flew out captain Virat Kohli and Mohammed Siraj to Dubai, Mumbai Indians arranged a charter plane to fly out skipper Rohit Sharma, Jasprit Bumrah and Suryakumar Yadav to Abu Dhabi. All the players arriving from Manchester will have to undergo a six-day quarantine in their hotel rooms before joining their teams’ bio-bubble. Meanwhile, Sunrisers Hyderabad opener Jonny Bairstow, Punjab Kings batsman Dawid Malan and Delhi Capitals all-rounder Chris Woakes have pulled out of the tournament due to personal reasons. “They won't be boarding the flight to UAE. One of the reasons for their pull out is the six-day quarantine which they didn’t need to do earlier,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-players-start-arriving-in-the-uae/article36410256.ece
12 September 2021||Sao Paulo,||Pele making ‘satisfactory’ recovery from surgery||Retired Brazilian soccer star Pele remained in intensive care on Friday as he recovered from surgery to remove a tumour on the right side of his colon. Hospital Albert Einstein in Sao Paulo said in a statement that the 80-year-old was recovering “in a satisfactory manner,” though he’s still in intensive care. The statement added that Pele was “awake, actively talking and his vital signs are normal.” The three-time World Cup champion also said on his Instagram that “each day I feel a little better.” Pele won the 1958, 1962 and 1970 World Cups with Brazil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pele-making-satisfactory-recovery-from-surgery/article36410262.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Jaya Education Group wins TDCA fourth division title||Jaya Education Group RC was crowned winner of the Thiruvallur DCA fourth division league after winning six out of the seven matches with 24 points. S. Prabhu was the highest run-getter with 109 runs, while B. Manikandan topped the wickets charts with 17 scalps. Lucas TVS RC came second with five wins from seven matches and both teams have been promoted to the third division.   Raja Ravi Varma’s half-century helped Sumangali CC beat Willow CC by 49 runs in the CDCA second division league match held recently.  The scores:   II div.: Sumangali CC 197/7 in 30 overs (Raja Ravi Varma 52, K. Jagadeesh 40, N. Logeshwaran 4/53) bt Willow CC 148 in 26.5 overs (R. Karthik 71, G. Lokesh 3 /16) .    R. Pandia Raj’s five-wicket haul helped Brindavan CC to a comfortable win over Friends XI in the Kancheepuram DCA first division league match held recently.  The scores: I div.: Friends XI (Tbm) 138/9 in 30 overs (Sree Vignesh 33, B. Anirudh 44, R. Pandia Raj 5/30) lost to Brindavan CC 139/5 18.2 overs (K.S. Vijayaraghavan 56, S. Ashwin Balaj 33).   Jai CC 82/9 in 30 overs (M. Prasanna Venkatesh 28, V. Sanjeev Kumar 3/18) lost to Prahlad CC 84/0 in 9.4 overs (S. Prasanna Venkatesh 59 n.o.).   II div.: Asian Sports 241/5 in 30 overs (Yathin 95, A. Delwyn 57, K.V.S. Udaytejaa 39) bt Southern Railway Institute 59 in 19.5 overs (Tushar 3/9, Vinodth 3/10).   Syndicate 138/5 in 30 overs (Sathvik Athmaraman 33, S. Sathyanarayanan 41 n.o.) lost to G.E. (T&D) RC 142/3 in 25.3 overs (T. Senthamarai Kannan 26, N.S. Seshamani 50 n.o., B. Aswin 41 n.o).      S. Siva’s brilliant six-wicket haul helped Elite Happy X1 to a 64-run win over Chennai Centurion Blue in the semifinals of the Elite NN & RPS Academy open tournament held recently.  The scores: Behind Stumps CA 131/7 in 31. 2 overs (Manchanda Singh 52, Andre Siddarth 42, Jai Suriya 3/21) lost to Elite NN & RPS Academy 138/5 in 27.3 overs (Sanjay Raman 48 n.o., A. Mohammad Aadil 33, V.B. Adhvai 25).   Elite Happy X1 186 in 47 overs (S. Harish 133, Karthik 6/40) bt Chennai Centurion Blue 122 in 40.5 overs (Tarun Surya 35, Tejeshwara 29, S. Siva six for 20).      A hat-trick by off-spinner Venkat and medium-pacer Moideen’s four-wicket haul helped Equitas Bank secure a five-wicket against Apollo Tyres in the semifinals of the G.R. Kuppuswamy memorial tournament.  The scores:   YSCA 145 in 30 overs (V. Naveen Kumar 25, Om. Jagadeeswaran 4/40) bt Royal Enfield 72 in 26 overs (Abilash 4/11).   Apollo Tyres 66 in 18.5 overs (Venkat 3/31, Moideen 4/11) lost to Equitas Bank 70/5 in 16.5 overs.      Kabilan Cricket Academy will conduct an under-12 inter-academy tournament from September 18. For details, contact Prem Kumar (84893 81484) or V.P. Giri Narain (90940 66288).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jaya-education-group-wins-tdca-fourth-division-title/article36410361.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, I div., Nelson vs Globe Trotters (Nelson Wahe Guru-A), Swaraj vs Jolly Rovers (SRMC, turf); India Pistons vs Young Stars (SSN), IOB vs Grand Slam (TI-Murugappa), MCC vs MRC-A (MAC), Vijay vs UFCC (T. Nagar) (IC-Guru Nanak), day one, 9.30 a.m. KDCA league, II div., Avenger Penetron vs Asiatic CA (7.30 a.m.), Omega International School, Kolapakkam; GE (T&D) vs Southern Railway Institute (7.30 a.m.); Fine Star vs Garnet (12.30 p.m.), GE (T&D) A. CDCA league, II div., Chrome CC vs Fynsea (12.30 p.m.), Panagattupakkam ground, Mambakkam; CDCA’s second annual day, S. Kalanithi, IFS, chief guest, Sumangali P4 Indoor, Santosapuram, 5.30 p.m. Elite NN & RPS Academy u-14 inter-academy tournament, Kabilan CA, Perumbakkam, 12.30 p.m.  Motorsports: MRF-MMSC-FMSCI National motorcycle racing championship, MMRT, Irungattukottai, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article36410356.ece
12 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Manika’s allegation: TTFI panel formed||The TTFI Table Tennis Federation of India has formed a five-member committee to examine the allegations made by India’s top woman paddler Manika Batra against head coach Soumyadeep Roy in her reply to the show-cause notice by TTFI. “The Committee has been given six weeks to submit its report,” said Arun Kumar Banerjee, TTFI secretary, to The Hindu on Saturday, after the EC meeting. The Committee includes Chiranjib Choudhuri who will be the chairman and Arun Kumar Banerjee, the convenor. The other members are Yashpal Rana, Parth Goswami and Jinendra Jain. Squad on Sept. 15 Banerjee said the squad for the Asian Championships in Doha (from Sept. 28 to Oct. 5) will be announced on Sept. 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manikas-allegation-ttfi-panel-formed/article36410307.ece
12 September 2021||BENGALURU:,||Veeresh eases into main league stage||H.D. Veeresh blanked M.S. Arun 63-7, 70-48, 68-43 in the final knockout round to enter the main league stage of the State-ranking senior men’s snooker tournament at KSBA.   Priyadarshini’s goal helped Pioneer Women’s FC defeat Bangalore Blues FC 1-0 in the KSFA ‘A’ division women’s league here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/veeresh-eases-into-main-league-stage/article36410303.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 09:11 IST,||Sudoku — September 12, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-12-2021/article36410728.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Becoming MGR||As a child, growing up in a farm in Nazarathpettai near Poonamallee, Arvind Swami used to take long drives every day to get to his school in Adyar. On his way, he would always peer out of the window while crossing Ramapuram, where matinee idol M.G. Ramachandran lived. “Every day, I used to look at that blue-grey gate,” recalls Arvind, sitting comfortably in Thalaivii director Vijay’s Nungambakkam office. “I would see him drive out many times, and get excited looking at him from a distance.” His MGR connection did not stop there. A few years later, two German Shepherd pups that were born in his farm were bought by the MGR family. Much later, when Arvind’s father, V.D. Swami, who was involved in setting up Sankara Nethralaya, invited the actor-politician for the inauguration, Arvind recalls “walking alongside him and just looking at him”. Cut to 2021, Arvind Swami is playing MGR in Thalaivii , the biopic on late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa (played by Kangana Ranaut). This is a different outing for the 51-year-old star, well known for his cinematic outings in the ’90s with Bombay and Roja and more recently, as a stylish baddie in Thani Oruvan . “It was quite exciting and a big responsibility, because MGR is probably the most iconic man in Tamil Nadu, be it movies or politics. It was a character from real life, and resembling him means two things: physicality, which you have seen in movies and public life, and his personal space. That former is a problem that you can work on, but the latter has no reference. For that, I had to bring in my understanding of the character and create a balance between myself and the person I was playing.” In tune with mind and body With ample help from award-winning make-up artist Pattanam Rasheed, Arvind went about transforming into MGR. “In keeping with the timelines in the film, we split the character into four segments: younger days, middle-aged, political life and when his health deteriorated, and worked on the looks accordingly.” Prepping for the role also involved a fine understanding of his own body. “I had to work a lot on getting his mannerisms right; the way he rested his hands, or the way he pursed his lips while speaking. The way my body is structured is the exact opposite of his; I had to figure out a way to translate that on screen without the strain showing.” For that, Arvind stopped hitting the gym for a couple of years. “His bio-mechanics were very different from mine, and I had to work a lot on specific areas, like my leg, to do justice to some of the sequences,” says Arvind, who observed a lot of visual material on the actor-Chief Minister to get aspects like the hop-skip and hand movements right.  Thalaivii also showcases the relationship between Jayalalithaa and MGR, and the MGR-Karunanidhi rapport. “We wanted to show the human side of their relationships and not go into controversies. MGR and Karunanidhi, for instance, had many differences of opinion but they were equally affectionate towards each other,” says Arvind, who is a big fan of MGR films like Anbe Vaa and Ulagam Sutrum Valiban . The way back Arvind Swami’s film career had a major resurgence in 2015, when he played Siddharth Abhimanyu with much swagger in the superhit Thani Oruvan . It was a character that he picked and designed with a lot of care, and looking back, Arvind still feels passionately about that project. “In formulaic films, villains are usually punching bags for the hero. At that time, I was looking to play someone with negative shades, and he [Siddharth Abhimanyu] was quite complex. I insisted to the director [Mohan Raja] that at least 33 per cent of the audience should be in tears when he dies, though you know he must be vanquished. Siddharth was in that great grey area where you do not want him to win, but also do not want something bad to happen to him.”  Thani Oruvan changed the way directors looked at Arvind, and subsequently, he landed interesting roles in films like Bogan and Chekka Chivantha Vaanam . However, Naragasooran , which saw him teaming up with young filmmaker Karthick Naren, is yet to see the light of day due to financial roadblocks. “As an entrepreneur, I am involved in a business that revolves around process and technology. But I cannot decipher the business of cinema. It does not follow any pattern and I find it chaotic. It is most disappointing when you are stuck with a character for a year and a half, and it is not even out there for the public to watch it.” Looking ahead, Arvind Swami is hoping to start a new innings as a filmmaker: he already has started well, with his debut work ( Rowthiram , meaning anger) being the most acclaimed film in the recent Netflix anthology, Navarasa . “I hate that emotion, but I picked it as my son’s name is Rudhra,” he laughs, “The struggle to keep that emotion in check is a daunting task, which I fail at very often.”  Thalaiviiwas quite exciting and a big responsibility, because MGR is probably the most iconic man in Tamil Nadu, be it movies or politics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/becoming-mgr/article36410616.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||What makes a city?||A green tin trunk. Inside are toffee boxes filled with stamps that have travelled countries, continents and time. Handwritten recipes, letters, and sepia-tinted envelopes. A pictorial stamp inscribed for the Ottoman Empire in 1914, when they were nearing total collapse, featuring the former Ministry of War which is now the entrance to the Istanbul University; a handwritten recipe for Everton toffee; a 1935 stamp of Ferdinand Magellan’s landing on the island of Cebu (now part of the Philippines) in 1521. When photographer Ami Gupta chanced upon this treasure chest, a new world opened up. The world of Banoo Pestonji, a woman she had never met and to whom the trunk belonged. Ami instantly realised that this unique collection of historical markers is worth a display. In the group show A Moment In Time at VA Art Gallery, curated by Varuna Arvind and Upasana Asrani, Ami uses photography to record them for posterity. “This was given to my father by his friend in the ’80s, but they date back to much earlier. There was also a book that was part-recipe and part-stamp book. For the stamps, I also used a magnifying lens to show the details, especially the texture of the paper.” Alongside her display stand portraits, landscapes, people and architecture, frozen in time by other Chennai-based photographers: Praneeth Reddy, Rakshitha Arvind and Nirali Datta. In the quaint gallery space, each artist gets their own section, amid a flurry of art and decor pieces that have a permanent place. Praneeth’s collection is a series of powerful black-and-white images — all shot in one corner of his room. The four portraits show models in veils, drapes falling in waves across their faces; an attempt to recreate medieval sculptures through portraits. “In all of my pictures, I would like it if the identity of the person is not revealed. I try to use masks or similar props to ensure that,” says Praneeth. In his notable work titled Hew, thin, streaked fabric masks a face. The controlled lighting makes a powerful statement. As for Nirali, mundane activities call for documentation. Hers is a mix of black and white, as well as coloured photographs, with a specific interest in the sea and skies of Chennai. A seemingly pixelated frame of a building keeps one guessing: it is the reflection of a building on a pool of water. Meanwhile, Rakshita Arvind’s windowscapes take one through Chennai in lockdown. Says Rakshita, who shoots on film, “Last year, I found myself drawn to windows. There was something about trying to show the space or the people inside. There’s a little mystery to it.”  A Moment in Time is on display at VA Art Gallery, Gandhi Mandapam Road, Chennai, till September 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/what-makes-a-city/article36410615.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Reading the signs right||It was an event where faculty members of KCG College of Technology were presented with hypothetical conversations between students. Coming from millennials, these conversations had the distinct flavour of texting. The teachers’ task was to sift through these messages for direct and indirect signs of suicidal intentions. Dr Yamini Kannappan, consultant psychiatrist, Department of Psychiatry, Kauvery Hospital, pointed out that while the participants identified most of the warning signs, they admitted to an inability to start a conversation around suicide. The doctor had been invited by the college management for a session on suicide ahead of World Suicide Prevention Day (September 10). A ‘Suicide Gatekeeper Training Programme’ was the highlight of this workshop where the larger goal was to empower faculty members through QPR (Question, Persuade, Refer). “We handpicked 45 faculty members from across departments for this workshop and they would in turn talk to their colleagues about looking out for signs of distress among students and refer anyone to the student counsellor if needed,” says Revathy Dhushyanthan, a full-time student counsellor with KCG College of Technology. “Previously, faculty members would pick up cues from the students' behaviour and refer them to the Student Counsellor. That has reduced with online classes. Hence this programme.” Experts say teachers must be in constant touch with their students and create awareness about various resources. Divya Dovina, head of department, Psychology, Stella Maris College, points out that last year, at the start of the pandemic, for the first time, the contact numbers of the faculty members of the Psychology Department were put up on the website to enable students to contact them. “This did help as most of us got calls from students going through pandemic-induced stress,” says Divya, adding that it was later extended to the general public. Social media help To understand what’s going through the mind of students, the Department reached out to them through the college’s Instagram handle. “We did a “need analysis” to understand what students were going through and we were happy that many opened up more than we would have expected them to, in a physical environment. Not only because we connected through a medium where they were in regular touch but also because they could remain anonymous,” says Divya. Madras Christian College’s Student Counselling Services brought out a poster — shared on the college website — on dealing with grief during the pandemic, which also lists ways one can offer help to a person who is grieving. Christina D, student counsellor, Loyola College, says students, especially the class representatives and club coordinators, can inform the faculty or counsellor about students showing abnormal behaviour. “Many a time, where a teacher has not been able to spot it, astudenthas alerted us to such behaviour,” she says, adding even parents must watch out for signs. Teachers as gatekeepers Dr. Yamini says teachers can be gatekeepers in this matter and institutions must invest in training them in this role on a regular basis. “For teachers who already know the students, it should be easy to identify changes in behaviour like frequent absenteeism and any signs of constant in attention. And like any teacher does, it’s important to find out what’s happening to the student,” says the doctor. Spot behavioural and virtual cues among students. Status message of students on WhatsApp, posts on social media are cues that teachers can keep a tab on, and sad emoji and photos as status message may be virtual suicide notes, she adds. People need to be trained in identifying and dealing with depression and other factors that can lead to suicide. Towards this need, the stigma associated with depression should be tackled. “Many a time a teacher is in a position to avert a tragedy, provided he/she can identify the warning signs quickly,” says Dr. Yamini, adding “Teachers are not expected to be counsellors but only refer the student to an expert who can offer support. Until then they can just offer hope.”  For assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts call, SNEHA at 44-24640050 or the state helpline number 104   We did a “need analysis” to understand what students were going through and we were happy that many opened up more than we would have expected them to, in a physical environment   Some facts * Various reports say that suicide rates in India are highest among youngsters. While National Crime Records Bureau 2015 study found those between 18 and 45 years as the most vulnerable groups resorting to suicides, a 2012 LANCET report said those in the 15-29 age group. * Family problems, failure in examinations and illness were the main causes of suicides among those below 18 years of age   Some facts * While a National Crime Records Bureau 2015 study found those between 18 and 45 years to be the most vulnerable group, a 2012 LANCET report listed the 15-29 age group. * Family problems, failure in examinations and illness were the main causes of suicides among those below 18 years of age    Tips for intervention  • If in doubt, don’t wait, ask the question • If the person is reluctant, be persistent • Talk to the person alone in a private setting • Allow the person to talk freely • Give yourself plenty of time • Have your sources handy: phone numbers and any other information your might need Dr Yamini Kannappan, consultant psychiatrist, Department of Psychiatry, Kauvery Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/reading-the-signs-right/article36410085.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A lake and a community||The lake next door will remain a “stranger” till you begin to enjoy first-name familiarity with its stakeholders — the plants, the trees, the birds, the butterflies and the creepy-crawlies. When names are exchanged, the first step towards friendship is taken. The restoration of Thalambur lake accounts for this fact and one more. Here is the other one: The lake is a living organism that sustains the local community — the resident groups primarily among them — and should in turn be sustained by it. In an allied thought, the neighbourhood lake ought to be a source of learning about wetland ecology for the schools in its vicinity. There are signs that this philosophy is at work. Two residents’ associations — Arihant Heirloom Flat Owners Association and Adroit District Apartment Association — and a residents-driven environment collective, Thalambur Green Group, have thrown themselves into Thalambur lake-protection initiatives. Besides, another neighbour, The School run the Krishnamurti Foundation of India (KFI) is expected to be in the forefront of an education project around the lake, which would involve at least six other schools in the region. From Thalambur Main Road, the most conspicuous feature of the lake area are two thatched structures with colourfully painted walls standing on a patch studded with painted boulders, tall steel boards and erect stone slabs bearing artwork of animals. The steel boards let visitors know who they are likely to run into. They carry pictorial checklists of the trees, the plants and the birds that “reside” at the lake. “The huts were made only for children to congregate and engage in onsite experiments. It is a living lab for students. We have actually put together a curriculum,” begins Jayashree Vencatesan, managing trustee, Care Earth, which carried out the restoration of the lake, a project initiated and sponsored by Hunduja Leyland Finance as part of its CSR initiative. “Before the pandemic, when the schools were open, KFI’s The School was bringing its children for wetland ecology sessions. Our idea was to work with KFI and other neighbourhood schools and we started conversations with them. We had a discussion in KFI where the teachers told us what the children would really like in terms of onsite experiments. RJ Ranjit Daniels (founder-trustee of Care Earth Trust) had an interaction with the teachers on what needs to be done.” The School is expected to lead the project after the pandemic, when normality has returned. Jayashree points out that as part of the educative process, a “working manual” of Thalambur lake has been created for the benefit of schoolchildren and other stakeholders. “We did a comprehensive survey for a period of one and a half years. One wildlife biologist, Vinod Balasubramaniam; and two botanists — Muthu Karthik Nagarajan and Vivekanandan continuously surveyed the place and documented its biodiversity. The hydrology part of it was led by Thirunavukarasu. The GIS work was done by a team comprising Stephen Jayaseelan, Monichandran and Vignesh,” Jayashree explains, adding that extensive tree-planting, which included palm-tree planting on the bunds, was part of a strategy to enhance the lake’s biodiversity without disturbing its essential character. Community interface There were also components that addressed social needs — “community interface” and “local livelihoods”, which were handled by Senthil Kumar. “We got involved after seeing Care Earth Trust’s work and when they asked us to help in planting the trees,” reveals Naga Srinivas, an executive-committee member of Arihant Heirloom Flat Owners Association and a key member of Thalambur Green Group. Maintaining the space would involve recurring expenditure, and Arihant Heirloom Flat Owners Association seems inclined to meet that requirement. Naga says the Association sponsored around Rs. 5,000 for cleaning the bund. Residents make use of the bund for walking purposes, but their numbers would be much bigger if certain anomalies are dealt with. One issue is in the face. Explains Anbu Vahini, another key member of Thalambur Green Group and a resident of Arihant Heirloom. “Right now women have not been able to use the lake bunds for walking due to open defecation. It happens on the side of the bunds. We have been educating the local community about it, telling them not to do it, but it being a practice that is well-entrenched, it is difficult to put a stop to it. We have planned to talk to the police and ask them to come around those hours and tell people not to misuse the space in this manner. We have planned to put up lights on the lake bunds. Solar lighting can be done which is a plan for the future.” Given some people’s tendency to turn a lake with open spaces into an open bar, a source from Hinduja Leyland Finance discloses that a request has been made to the local police to keep an eye on the lake for such activities while their personnel go on their regular patrols. While such activities inside the lake are certainly unsettling, the most disturbing activity for the residents happens on its periphery. Dumping of garbage by Thalambur Village Panchayat on a vacant land — accessible via the Thalambur-Karanai Road — within sniffing distance of the lake is a source of unrest for residents. Residents point out that the dumping has been taking place since 2017, and the matter has come up before the Green Tribunal. “According to Solid Waste Management 2016 rules, a dump yard cannot come up within 200 metres of a lake, but that has clearly been violated in this case. It is found adjacent to the lake. That is the point we have taken to the Green Tribunal,” Naga shares. “During the rains, the garbage gets washed away into this lake. It is not segregated waste,” says Anbu Vahini. “This situation is of grave concern to us as the Thalambur lake meets the locality’s drinking-water needs.” According to an earlier report in The Hindu in April this year, the Thalambur Panchayat was considering the option of requesting Greater Chennai Corporation to carry the garbage from Thalambur to its dumping site, as it was unable to locate another space within its limits for dumping garbage. With that, the issue still hangs in the air. Naga discloses that after the local-body elections, the residents’ group is hoping to work with the panchayat’s elected leader and resolve the issue. Though the lake project is in the can, Hinduja Leyland Finance and Care Earth Trust still seem to be partly attending to the cleaning and security part of it. Anbu Vahini remarks that in the future when the lake would be fully left in the hands of the PWD, the panchayat and the local custodian group, there should be sufficient coordination between these stakeholders to make it a place that residents in and around Thalambur feel safe about and also find clean enough to keep returning to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-lake-and-a-community/article36410090.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting greener||Srinivasapuram in Thiruvanmiyur now sports more green, thanks to Srinivasapuram Residents’ Welfare Association that has planted saplings as part of Pasumai Chennai, a citizen-driven initiative aimed at enhancing the city’s green cover. According to T. Arunachalam, president of the Association, the tree planting drive handpicked indigenous species best suited for the given conditions. The Zonal Officer of Zone 13, Greater Chennai Corporation, N Thirumurugan was present, together with other Zone 13 officials. Neer Nilai Punaramaippu Iyakkam, a forum for conservation and restoration of water-bodies also planted saplings along the bunds of Madipakkam lake in Ayyappa Nagar, Madipakkam and at Mylai Ponnuswamy Sivagnanam Nagar in Pallikaranai The forum’s drive was supported by Sabari Pasumai Iyyakkam, which also focuses on environment conservation; and Madipakkam Social Service Lions Club. Officials of Zone 14 took part as this planting drive, also part of GCC’s Pasumai Chennai initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/getting-greener/article36410063.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Make these four bridges safer’||Due to the lack of street lamps, motorists taking any of the four bridges across Buckingham Canal that connect Rajiv Gandhi Salai and East Coast Road (ECR) are at high risk for accidents. Of the four, two bridges provide connectivity from Venkatesapuram in Kottivakkam on ECR to Elango Nagar on Rajiv Gandhi Salai. The other two are from Kandaswamy Nagar and Canalpuram in Palavakkam on ECR, and they connect to Karunanidhi Chozhan Nagar and Santosh Nagar in Kandanchavadi on Rajiv Gandhi Salai respectively. The maintenance of these bridges comes under the purview of the Public Works Department. These narrow bridges are primarily used by motorcyclists. “Riding down these bridges is unsafe after sunset, as they are not sufficiently lit and the risk of accidents is high,” says VE Mathiazhagan, a resident of Kottivakkam. Besides, making matters worse, motorists throw safety rules to the wind, driving on the wrong side of road and on footpaths. As if this were not dangerous enough, they drive at a breakneck speed. “For years, we have been requesting elected representatives and the officials concerned to look into the issue, but in vain,” says E Seenu, a resident of Canalpuram. Further, the carriageway on these bridges is battered in some spots increasing the risk of accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/make-these-four-bridges-safer/article36410057.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Tree planting drive by GCC at Heritage Vijeyendra Nagar||As part of Pasumai Chennai, a drive by Greater Chennai Corporation to enhance the city’s green cover, saplings were planted at Heritage Vijeyendra Nagar in Perungudi on Old Mahabalipuram Road.Sunitha Vijayaraghavan, Heritage Vijeyendra Nagar Owners Association says the saplings were provided by the Office of Zone 14 of GCC. “The Association has planted many trees and plants on the roads of the colony. Gardeners are hired twice a month to prune the plants, which are watered by drip irrigation, the water being sourced from a common well. The well is desilted once a year and covered with a mesh. We plan to label each tree in the colony with its botanical and common names. Children aged between seven and 15 will be roped in to tend to saplings planted as part of the Pasumai Chennai,” says Sunitha Vijayaraghavan, president of the Association. U Saravanakumari, Assistant Executive Engineer, Unit 41, “Close 30 saplings have been planted at Heritage Vijeyendra Nagar which comes under Ward 186. The trees include Ashoka, Poovarasu, Pungai.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tree-planting-drive-by-gcc-at-heritage-vijeyendra-nagar/article36410048.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Name boards broken or faded’||Name boards at Karpagam Avenue at Raja Annamalaipuram need attention. A name board at Karpagam Avenue Main Road in broken; and those in Karpagam Avenue First Street, Second Street, Third Street and Fourth Street have faded. Karpagam Avenue First Cross Street, Second Cross Street, Third Cross Street and Sai Nagar do not have name boards, which is a challenge while guiding people, especially cab drivers and those who deliver food and other parcels. Greater Chennai Corporation should look into this issue. Shahul Appavu is the vice-president of Karpagam Avenue Residents Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/name-boards-broken-or-faded/article36410066.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Make the post office accessible’||The Velachery post office functions from the first floor of a rental building, which makes it inconvenient for senior citizens. By virtue of the various savings schemes and domestic and international parcel services it offers, this post office receives good patronage. We request India Post to ensure the post office is made more accessible by running it from the ground floor of any facility. S. Kumararaja is the president of Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/make-the-post-office-accessible/article36410075.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Protect this lake in Pallikaranai’||Residents of a gated community in Pallikaranai are polluting the lake situated near Ambal Nagar by diverting drainage water into it. The lake was recently restored by the government. Despite many complaints being made on the government website and to the local government officials, no action has been taken. We initiated moves to have a discussion with the apartment association, but in vain. Nathan KS is a resident of Pallikarnai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/protect-this-lake-in-pallikaranai/article36410077.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Geriatric service launched||Keeping in mind the challenges posed by the pandemic, Dr Kamakshi Memorial Hospital has launched DrK Eldercare. Dr TG Sivaranjani, who came up with the idea, says, “Given the restrictions imposed on the elderly on account of their age, health and the COVID-19 situation, doctors, nurses and the support staff from the hospital will be available for house visits to provide medical aid to geriatric patients. This could include services such as 24/7 nursing care, sample collection, wound care, physiotherapy, oxygen therapy and anything that does not require a hospital set-up for diagnosis or treatment.” A major highlight of this service is that a geriatric care specialist will be sent to assess the patient’s living space and suggest (if necessary) changes that will make the home environment more comfortable and safe for the patient, says a press release. The initiative offers a free privilege coupon for geriatric consultation and it is valid for a limited period. For details, Call 99400 25000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/geriatric-service-launched/article36410078.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A nesting episode at Karapakkam||A field study seldom plays out with the linearity of a shot arrow. It usually resembles a meandering novel replete with digressions and back stories. A seeming departure from the main plot may actually build it. Translating that into plain and practical avian terms, knowing a species more meaningfully may mean knowing another, at least superficially. A few days ago, at the Karapakkam patch, a tricoloured munia ( Lonchura malacca ) would not abandon a self-imposed task despite approaching footsteps. Its peripheral vision trained on the human presence, the bird was sussing out thin twigs with an evident sense of urgency. It finally had a long twig torn from a slender plant and flapped away to attend to its joint building project with its lady love. Of course, one assumes this was a male tricoloured munia — probably served an ultimatum — as males of the species are believed to be merchandisers of nest-building material. The tricoloured munia is known to be seen in conjunction with the streaked weaver ( Ploceus manyar) during the breeding season. When one of the two species is seen gathering nest material, there are birders who instinctively look for the other. Usually, the gregarious tricoloured munia would be the first-seen, prompting a search for the streaked weaver which is known to stand birders up. On that day and the following one, this writer’s search for the streaked weaver ended in failure. However, in preceding weeks there had been observations from this patch in Karapakkam — a couple of them with photos — of the streaked weaver on eBird suggesting possible nesting activity by the species. In Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan (Volume 10) , Salim Ali and S Dillon Ripley suggest that tricoloured munia pairs have the pesky habit of poking their beak into streaked weavers’ private affairs, inviting themselves to the latter’s nesting colonies, even testing the build-quality of the nests, installed amidst reeds. These munias are however a tolerable presence, and relations do not plummet and turn frosty to the point that these munias are considered a nuisance. Tri-coloured munias would build their nests in the reeds too, not too far from nesting colonies of streaked weavers, but in a scattered fashion. The handbook points out that during the breeding season, increase in the numbers of streaked weavers at a patch would witness a corresponding spurt in tricoloured munias. It suggests that the more streaked weavers you see, the more tricoloured munias are on the way. However, in reality, birders work backwards, guessing that the elusive streaked weavers are around breeding, making that guess when they sight breeding pairs of tricoloured munias. V Santharam, ornithologist, is familiar with the idea of streaked weavers being scarcely sighted, certainly in south India. “That may be the case for Chennai and surrounding areas. It may be different in other places. However, I generally think that the habitat for streaked weavers has shrunk, with swamps being targeted for development.” Santharam elaborates: “The streaked weaver occurs in certain localities and is a habitat-specialist. Unlike the other weaver birds that occur in agricultural lands, including slightly drier areas, the streaked weaver is found in more swampy areas overrun with reeds. It requires a lot more water — Pallikaranai with its reeds is suitable for this species. It is restricted to that kind of a habitat.” In contrast, the tricoloured munia veers towards a more generalist stance when it comes to habitat preferences. “We have records of the tricoloured munia in Rishi Valley where we do not get the streaked weaver at all. Compared to the other munias, the tricoloured munia also likes to be in more damp habitats, especially where you find a lot of sugarcane cultivation, even in wild places like Pallikaranai.” And that is how its paths cross with the streaked weaver’s. ( ‘Resident Watch’ discusses the resident birds of Chennai and surrounding districts )  The tricoloured munia has a preference for damp habitats in addition to the other habitats favoured by the other munias||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-nesting-episode-at-karapakkam/article36410083.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||AGS Colony RWA wants Vijayanagar bus terminus shifted||Last week, AGS Colony Residents’ Welfare Association (ACRWA) - Velachery West made a representation to the Velachery MLA, JMH Aassan Maulaana requesting that the MTC bus terminus be shifted from Vijayanagar junction to the nearby MRTS railway station in Velachery. “Besides decongesting Vijayanagar junction, this arrangement would promote multi-modal transport. However, Vijayanagar should have a bus stop. At present, commuters walk down the distance or depend on autorickshaws to ferry them from the bus terminus to the railway station and vice versa. MTC operates a small bus service between the bus terminus and the railway station, which has become unreliable now,” says Geetha Ganesh, secretary, ACRWA. In this respect, the Velachery MLA JMH Aassan Maulaana, says “A letter about this matter has been sent to the Southern Railway.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ags-colony-rwa-wants-vijayanagar-bus-terminus-shifted/article36410046.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Bus terminus needs to be scaled up’||Metropolitan Transport Corporation’s bus terminus in Thiruvanmiyur needs a facelift and some scaling up. SETC buses are parked on the East Coast Coast Road, causes traffic chaos, and a upgraded terminus should be able to accommodate SETC buses. Murali Balaji is a resident of Journalist Colony in Thiruvanmiyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bus-terminus-needs-to-be-scaled-up/article36410068.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Library yet to come up on land allotted for it||Perumbakkam is developing at a rapid pace, and it is glaring that it yet to open its account when it comes to public libraries. Residents have made a representation to the State Government seeking a public library. “A public library with an IAS study circle should be established in the region,” says NK Raja, president, Nesamani Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, Perumbakkam, also drawing attention to the fact that adjoining Medavakkam and Sithalapakkam also lack public libraries. He points out that available options are far away in Kotturpuram and Egmore — the Anna Centenary Library, Kotturpuram and Connemara Public Library respectively. In August 2018, members of the Association submitted a petition to then secretary of Perumbakkam Village Panchayat seeking that land be earmarked for the construction of a library. At the ‘Grama Sabha’ meeting dated August 15, 2018, the village panchayat passed a resolution in this connection and prepared an estimate. The estimate report was sent to the authorities concerned. The panchayat allotted an area behind a Public Distribution System (PDS) outlet on Mettu Street as space for constructing a library, says Raja. “We sent petitions to the CM’s Cell and the authorities concerned seeking that the amount be sanctioned for the library, but efforts have not yielded results,” adds Raja. Recently, the Association took up the matter with the Sholinganallur MLA S Aravind Ramesh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/library-yet-to-come-up-on-land-allotted-for-it/article36410052.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||An art workshop to cheer up children at the Cancer Institute||Wielding a paint brush since the time she could hold a pencil, 14-year-old Isha Harish seemed destined for great heights in art. In time, the student of Sacred Heard Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Church Park showed herself adept at digital art, a skill she is now putting to commendable use. Isha conducted a five-day digital art workshop to raise money for two organisations — Adyar Cancer Institute and Gurupriya Vision Research Foundation Project — to help them meet their goals during this difficult pandemic situation. “I designed a poster, where I mentioned that the fee would be used toward creating COVID resources. I also mentioned what to expect from the workshop,” says Isha. Fifteen people signed up for the virtual workshop. “The youngest participant was eight years old, and the oldest, in her 40s,” says Isha. The classes were conducted in the evening after her school hours. “I collected Rs. 25,000 through the workshop and used the amount to donate masks to the children’s section of the Adyar Cancer Institute with the help of Rotary Club of Madras Central,” says Isha. Listening to this young artist’s story, Sunil Sethia, a well wisher, donated Rs. 12,500. “That amount I gave to the Gurupriya Vision Research Foundation Project, which is a public charitable trust of Radhatri Nethralaya,” she says. Isha loves to doodle. “I just put my heart into it, sometimes it turns out well and sometimes it does not. All that matters is that I have fun,” she says in ishadoodler.com/ dedicated to all her works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-art-workshop-to-cheer-up-children-at-the-cancer-institute/article36410051.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Replace the transformer’||For the past few years, Guindy Engineers Colony in Thoraipakkam on Old Mahabalipuram Road is witnessing frequent power fluctuations with residents complaining of electronic gadgets and electrical appliances getting damaged. Besides, junction boxes and the transformer regularly emit sparks and burst. The existing transformer cannot cater to the current population. Tamil Nadu Generation & Distribution Corporation Ltd should have the transformer replaced with one of much greater capacity. K Sampath Kumar is the secretary of Guindy Engineers Colony Residents Welfare Association in Thoraipakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/replace-the-transformer/article36410070.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Masks donated||Rotary Club of Chennai Velachery distributed around 2000 masks to the Government Higher Secondary School at Dhraupathi Amman Kovil Street in Velachery. In addition, pulse oximeters, hand-gloves, and face shields were given. These safety guards were given to three other schools at Tansi Nagar, Rajalakshmi Nagar and St Thomas Mount. These are government and government-aided schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/masks-donated/article36410044.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunnambu Kolathur residents seek direct MTC service to T Nagar||Residents of Sunnambu Kolathur, a locality off Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam 200-Feet Radial Road, have called for tweaks in the bus routes 51 and 51A. While 51 connects Velachery with Tambaram West, 51A connects T. Nagar with Tambaram East. Both services are operated via Velachery Main Road, and Sunnambu Kolathur residents have sought that a few trips of both these services be operated via Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam 200-Feet Radial Road. In the fourth week of August, Rajam Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association made a representation seeking these changes, to the managing director of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC); to the State Minister for Transport, and to the Chief Minister’s Cell via email. M. Kasi Raju, a member of the Association, says, “At present, there are no MTC services to Velachery and T Nagar plying via the Radial Road. Besides residents of Sunnambu Kolathur, residents of Periya Kovilambakkam and Eechangadu suffer on account of the prevailing situation. Residents of Sunnambu Kolathur alight at Pallikaranai on Velachery Main Road and take another bus to reach these places. Residents of Periya Kovilambakkam and Eechangadu board buses from Medavakkam Main Road to reach Velachery and T. Nagar.” The following route numbers ply via the Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam 200-Feet Radial Road: 91 (Thiruvanmiyur - Tambaram West), 91 Cut Service (Thiruvanmiyur - Chromepet), 91A (Thiruvanmiyur - Hasthinapuram), 91V (Thiruvanmiyur - Vandalur Zoo) and 91G (Thiruvanmiyur - Guduvancherry) “For the past many years, we have been sending petitions to elected representatives and MTC officials, in vain,” adds Kasi Raju. In this respect, an MTC official says the needful will be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sunnambu-kolathur-residents-seek-direct-mtc-service-to-t-nagar/article36410049.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article36410064.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Camp to collect underutilised items on September 19||A drive to collect underutilised materials will be held on September 19 at 3A, KGeYes Srinidhi, 16th Cross Road, Besant Nagar. Time: From 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. The event is being organised by Goonj, a non-governmental organisation headquartered in New Delhi. Arivind Srinivasan, a resident of Besant Nagar and a volunteer of this drive, says “In this drive, people can drop the items they don’t use any more like clothes, utensils, toys, books, and other articles. Things which are gently used and in a good condition will be donated to the underprivileged.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/camp-to-collect-underutilised-items-on-september-19/article36410045.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Newly-laid road at AGS Colony damaged’||Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) relaid 10th Cross Street in Extension Two at AGS Colony, Velachery just 45 days ago. But Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) dug up the road for pipe-laying work. Upon completion of the work, the road was not relaid properly; only patchwork has been done, that too in a slipshod manner. Due to this, the newly-laid road has worn out in one particular spot. I request the GCC and CMWSSB to do the needful. B Manamohan Rao is a resident of AGS Colony||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/newly-laid-road-at-ags-colony-damaged/article36410072.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Resident watch: A nesting episode at Karapakkam||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/resident-watch-a-nesting-episode-at-karapakkam/article36410054.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A lake and a community||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-lake-and-a-community/article36410059.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||RAISING AWARENESS||Art therapy for patients Angelin Prince, who runs The Candles, has been using art to help people deal with mental illness. For a few years, she has been engaging with residents of the Institute of Mental Health in Kilpauk since 2019, when the non-profit, which works in the field of health and mental health, organised a wall-painting event to mark World Suicide Prevention Day. “We have noticed art bringing positivity to the residents at the Institute, with some of them starting to express themselves better through art,” says Angelin. One popular activity conducted for the residents include collecting fallen twigs, seeds, flowers and stones from the campus and getting the participants to design shapes with them. “We were engaging with the residents as volunteers three times a month till COVID put an end to our visits to the Institute,” she says. In October 2020, for World Mental Health Awareness Day, The Candles again got permission to take up art therapy with the residents. The group is also working with a community at Mevaloorkuppam, a village near Sriperumbudur, to address mental health issues. “We have established a community centre so that we can continually engage with the community,” says Angelin. Living notes Suicide Prevention India Foundation, a non governmental organisation that helps prevent suicides through awareness creation and Gatekeeper training, is marking Suicide Prevention Month inviting people to share their living notes. This year, the theme is “Creating Hope through Action” and it is inviting people to write a personal note, if they wish to stay anonymous, and share on https://www.mylivingnote.com/ For those keen on understanding more about the Gatekeeper training so as to spot signs that put one at risk and offer support, log on to the Facebook pagehttps://www.facebook.com/SuicidePreventionIndiaFoundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/raising-awareness/article36410086.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A campaign for the big day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-campaign-for-the-big-day/article36410061.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Reality check||The black kite as hunter  Looking for ready-made food is among the black-kite’s quiddities, one which overshadows its capacity for hunting. The bird would not shy away from a hunting opportunity when it arrives on a platter. It is known to take rodents and also reptiles, its ability for “aerial acrobatics” particularly assisting it while it hunts down a scurrying rodent. “The shape of its tail, which is forked, enables the black kite to manipulate itself efficiently in the air and maneuver easily, an advantage shared by the drongo,” says ornithologist V Santharam. Sometime ago, Madras Naturalists’ Society honorary secretary G Vijaya Kumar shared an observation about the black kite with this writer: How he watched the bird successfully swoop down on a live fish in the beach waters. Santharam chips in with an account of how he has similarly seen the black kite pick up floating fish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/reality-check/article36410081.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Literature is the antidote to numbness, apathy’||Elif Shafak hardly needs any introduction. Her beautifully designed books can be found everywhere, from airports to libraries. She is out now with her twelfth novel, The Island of Missing Trees, which tackles issues like colonialism, trauma, migration with as much sympathy as it reserves for the lives of trees. In this email interview, Shafak talks about love and empathy as conquering forces. Excerpts: The word ‘love’ appears right in the first sentence ofThe Island of Missing Trees. You have examined love’s various aspects — personal, sexual, social, philosophical — in nearly all your novels. What is this thing called love that so interests you? Love is the biggest mystery. It is how we connect as human beings, how we learn, how we become better. I need to make a distinction right away: I am not referring to possessiveness or selfishness. That has nothing to do with love, which needs freedom to breathe, equality to thrive, openness to flow. As a storyteller, I am interested in the personal, political, sexual, philosophical, social and historical aspects of love. It is a pity that we have only one word to describe an emotion so complex. The ancient Greeks had six different words, even that wasn’t enough. I believe we need new words, a new narrative, to talk about love. In this novel, Kostas Kazantzakis is an evolutionary ecologist and botanist. What are your thoughts on the climate crisis? Kostas is not only a scientist, someone who has dedicated his life to plants, he is also a compassionate and gentle soul who understands how we cannot exist if we continue to destroy our ecosystems. We have become so arrogant, we think we are the centre of the universe, the owners of the planet. That’s nonsense. Trees have lived longer than us. One day we humans will disappear but trees will continue to exist. The climate crisis is the most urgent existential threat to humanity. It is happening in front of our eyes and getting worse every moment. Yet we continue to behave as if it is someone else’s problem. We try to distance ourselves from the climate emergency either spatially (it is happening elsewhere) or temporarily (it will happen in the future). Both these attitudes are delusional. We need to wake up. We need to connect across borders. Whether it is climate emergency or another pandemic or cyber terrorism, these are all global challenges and they cannot be solved with the fuel of nationalism or tribalism or isolationism. You have come under fire from conservative factions for speaking out against social/ political evils but that hasn’t daunted you. What keeps you going? I love the art of storytelling. This is how I breathe. This is how I connect with the world around me, with my fellow human beings, with my own heart. I feel free when I am inside a novel. In daily life we are rarely allowed to be multiple, plural, even though we all contain multitudes. In the age of division and populism, mainstream narratives do not celebrate multiplicity. Just the opposite, they divide us into boxes and expect us to stay there once and for all. But through stories we become intellectual nomads, learn to put ourselves in the shoes of another person. Empathy is a muscle, the more you use it the better you become at it. I believe the novel, with its diverse voices and plurality of ideas, is one of our last remaining democratic spaces. You say inThe Island of Missing Trees: “Cartography is another name for stories told by winners. For stories told by those who have lost, there isn’t one.” Does the novelist tell the stories of those who have lost? I think novelists are not only interested in stories, but also in silences. I am always drawn to silences — the things we cannot talk about easily in our societies. I am drawn to the periphery rather than the centre. There is a part of me that wants to give more voice to the voiceless, make the invisible more visible, bring the periphery to the centre. I think at the heart of literature there is a deliberate resistance to de-humanisation — the belief that through stories we can rehumanise those who have been dehumanised. Literature is the antidote to numbness, apathy.  Read the full interview online.   We have become so arrogant, we think we are the centre of the universe, the owners of the planet. That’s nonsense. Trees have lived longer than us||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/literature-is-the-antidote-to-numbness-apathy/article36410107.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The essential lightness of being||It is said that economists — like the Oscar Wilde character Lord Darlington’s view of cynics — know the price of everything and the value of nothing. An economist may know the precise remuneration for an hour of a person’s work, and yet draw a blank on happiness, loyalty and love. But Prof. Kaushik Basu’s newly published diary, Policymaker’ s Journal: From New Delhi to Washington, D.C. , affirms that love for economics isn’t always a diminishing condition. He chronicled his quick takes on work and life during the years he was chief economic adviser from 2009 to 2012, and chief economist of the World Bank from 2012 to 2016. The diary reverberates with irreverence and makes for delightful reading. Wheels of bureaucracy It captures the author’s many moods but stops short of having an in-depth discussion. There are no exposes, no skeletons tumble out from his working days with the government. Humour and wit in place, his opinions are candid. Readers will laugh over the silliness of important people in big jobs, worry about problems facing the world and wonder about the big questions of life. The book’s first part gives a peek into the workings of India’s notoriously bureaucratic bureaucracy. It reminds readers of Jim Hacker’s encounters with the civil service — although Indian bureaucrats come across as slightly dull relative to the quick-witted Sir Humphrey Appleby and Sir Bernard Woolley. Basu’s struggles to get a health check-up completed at Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital are at once dismaying and hilarious. In the specially designated men’s room in the Finance Ministry, towel stacks are labelled to indicate ranks of officials. Basu’s office assistance staff insist on getting this privilege extended to him, knowing it would ensure that they get to bask in the reflected glory of their boss. Political economy insights appear between the lines. As files travel from desk to desk, gathering no-objection signatures, “everybody gets involved in every decision”. Basu’s belief in the need for government to recede from our lives is evident. Looking at Air India convinces him that ‘big government’ is folly, at least at this stage of working history. It has the best collection of old Hindi film songs, dripping with romance, but it is still a dismal story, guzzling money and delivering poorly. “Governments are generally wasteful and unnecessarily intrusive.” The government must not hold on to the tax revenue and grow big, he believes, “otherwise, “sooner or later it will get captured.” Ideology, Basu discovers, plays hardly any role in policymaking. Pursuit of political gains is the guiding force. Economic policy is poorly crafted because the scope for making plain, simple mistakes increases when clarity of thought and the intention to be effective are subordinated to being guided purely by political gain. Chats on economy Dr. Manmohan Singh is presented as an exception to this rule; his primary interest is to implement good policy. The contrast with his successor, Narendra Modi, and other politicians is especially striking. At one point, the author explains to then Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee that the solution to runaway inflation is not government diktats and price caps (for they will give rise to shortages and queues like in erstwhile USSR and other communist countries). Dr. Singh meets Basu regularly and many of the diary’s entries are about their chats on the economy. The author’s fondness for the former prime minister is a recurring theme through the book. In one of the many anecdotes recounted, Dr. Singh disagrees with an idea Basu has aired. It has stoked controversy, causing the prime minister political difficulty. But he tells the author that that doesn’t mean that he should fall silent, as the role of an adviser is to bring ideas to the table even if they are controversial. When the Cabinet Secretary tries explaining Basu’s note on inflation to the other politicians in the Cabinet, they show “not the slightest interest”. Debating poverty lines   The second part recalls his years at the World Bank where he dealt with big questions and debates: “Exactly, where do you draw the poverty line?”; the “possible conflict between industrialisation and green growth” and the “alternative to the Washington Consensus”. Besides economic theory and policy puzzles, Basu reflects on the loneliness of modern life and attachments with places and people. He meditates on the search for meaning in everyday existence and the wisdom of life’s ambitions. “Is what one is doing of any worth?” On some days, Basu writes with light-hearted wit; on others with penetrating clarity. He pauses now and then to admire beauty and grace— in art, poetry, nature, music, literature, buildings and women. To laugh a little too. At a talk in Dhaka he is called the Shah Rukh Khan of economists. “I tried hard not to nod but I think I did.” But he never loses touch with reality. The plum salaries in the World Bank bring out the best lines. Instead of “Our dream is a world free of poverty”, the board at the main entrance should read, he writes, “Our dream is a world free of poverty, and our nightmare is that the dream will come true.”  The reviewer is a journalist and author.  Policymaker’s Journal  Kaushik Basu  Simon & Schuster  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-essential-lightness-of-being/article36410122.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The past is another country||There are several similarities between Anuk Arudpragasam’s sophomore novel, the Booker longlisted A Passage North and his debut fiction, The Story of a Brief Marriage . Both are set in Sri Lanka, centred on the brutal civil war, built around a male protagonist who is unable to sleep at night, anchored by the “depth and pull of... trauma”, without dialogue and intensely meditative, devotional even. But this novel is more distant than the first from the May 2009 massacre by the Sri Lankan Army that pulled the final curtain on the bloodshed. Six years after the end of the war, we are in Colombo. The same evening Krishan receives an email from Anjum, a former lover he met while studying in Delhi, he gets the news of the death of his grandmother’s caretaker, Rani. She was visiting her village in the North Eastern Province, where she had fallen headfirst into a well, snapping her neck. Through the novel Krishan will wonder if this fall was intentional or accidental, if Rani, who lost both her sons to the war, killed herself. Then there is Anjum, the activist, “one of those people whose being was so taken up with yearning for another world that no single person, no love, no romantic relationship could ever fill the absence in her soul.” We are not told the contents of her email, just the emotional tailspin that Krishan is in after reading it — which helps us gauge the pungency of their relationship. The email is just a narrative tether to the past. This is something Arudpragasam often does — teasing us with possibilities but giving us only what he considers important, necessary and meaningful. His characters begin to feel like thought experiments, realised only at the edges of his observant, moving prose. This isn’t a fault as much as a characteristic, for his literary scalpel is digging elsewhere — he is exploring a“sustained engagement with a single consciousness at a kind of intense level.”Arudpragasam’s control of the story can be seen in the page-long paragraphs and the absence of dialogues through the novel — a stylistic choice he has rationalised as not wanting to “engage in ventriloquism”. Odd, given that the very act of writing is a form of literary ventriloquism. Harking back At the heart of the book is a train journey — from Colombo, where Krishan lives with his mother and grandmother, to Rani’s village in the North Eastern Province, to attend her funeral. Arudpragasam weaves in another train journey as a memory — from Delhi to Mumbai, with Anjum, four years ago. The transition between the past and present, between war footage, memory and the living moment is sometimes obvious and visible almost like the wounds in Krishan’s mind and in the war-trammelled land. Arudpragasam has noted in interviews that he wanted the emotional core of this novel to be the relationship between Krishan and his grandmother, Appamma — where one is retreating from the world while the other is intensely participating in it. However, Krishan’s fixation with the psychological aftermath of the war and his deep guilt for having survived it mean that the grandmother-grandson story remains contextual rather than fulcral. Krishan compares the long, steady decline of Appamma with the suddenness of Rani’s death. Some of the most moving passages consist of interactions between Rani and Appamma, or Appamma’s reactions to Rani’s absence. Hazy, tensile space Arudpragasam’s narrator — third person, yet loyally, closely and internally aligned with the male protagonist — places the present moment between the hammer and anvil of deep meditation and memory, sometimes injecting insights where none exists. So understandably the only scenes where the writing loses this punctilious quality is in the descriptions of sex — when the pleasure of the moment, its “vigorous exertion and peaceful exhaustion”, short-circuits any demand for insight. The writing often lingers in that hazy, tensile, contested space between philosophy — of which Arudpragasam has a PhD from Columbia — and cliché (“soul”, “transcendence”). His writing possesses neither the pedantic rigour of the former nor the slobbering languor of the latter. His insights are not for gaining a deeper understanding of life, but of character and mood. Arudpragasam’s literary brilliance lies in the fact that he transcends the cliché, plumping platitudes with such finely wrought feelings and intense attention, that the cliché is not just forgiven, but also, for a second, believed. The writer is a critic with a weekly online newsletter titledprathyush.substack.com  A Passage North Anuk Arudpragasam Penguin Hamish Hamilton  Rs. 599    The transition between war footage, memory and the living moment is sometimes visible almost like the wounds in Krishan’s mind and in the war- trammelled land||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-past-is-another-country/article36410104.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Now, the British Empire is falling apart, at home||In 1688, an emerging bourgeois class, the landed aristocracy, and the monarch created a ‘pre-democratic constitutional state’; a patrician elite notable for ‘powerful and pervasive informality’ still controls institutions of state, the private sector, the private schools, and the old universities. As there is no written constitution, internal crises bring about piecemeal changes. The state, however, is not absolutist; it shaped industrial capitalism to suit itself, and it created the City of London, a global financial hub with immense influence within the patriciate. The United Kingdom, within living memory the ruler of history’s largest empire, is disintegrating. The proximate cause is Brexit, the 2016 referendum vote to leave the European Union; Scotland voted 62:38 to remain, as did Northern Ireland, 56-44; Wales, like England, voted Leave 53-47. Yet the underlying problem lies, as Tom Nairn explains in this updated edition, in the makeup of the British state itself. English oligarchy Imperial conquest was foundational to the stability of what in 1707 became the United Kingdom; the English ruling class soon established a defining myth: if a fair case is put, ‘a team of decent chaps up there will do the possible’. The largest opposition assemblage, British Labourism, looks permanently mired in ‘cringing conservatism’ towards an immobile social order. Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland all differ significantly from England. The 1707 Treaty of Union between the English and Scottish parliaments preserved Scotland’s legal and judicial systems, its education system, and the Church of Scotland; a strong middle class ran those institutions and the administrative apparatus. 18th-century Scotland also had a rising bourgeoisie and — unlike England — a world-renowned intelligentsia. The Scottish ruling class, however, subordinated statehood to participation in the English and colonial markets, and the brutal Highland clearances meant that the Lowlands benefited most from industrialisation, though the patriciate feared the new proletariat. For Nairn, the 1970s discovery of seabed oil catalysed Scottish neo-nationalism as the post-war British consensus and the economy crumbled. Thereafter the pro-independence Scottish National Party became a parliamentary presence (London controls oil licences and takes all the revenues); the SNP now has a dominant position in the Scottish Parliament and the Scottish seats at Westminster. Cultural oppression In contrast, Welsh nationalism has been a response to forced underdevelopment, depopulation, and cultural oppression. Wales (subordinated by England in the 13th century) played its part in the industrial revolution, the main agents thereof being an Anglicised bourgeoisie. Welsh speakers kept their language alive through the Eisteddfod (the poetry and music festival), the University Colleges of Wales, and museums. Welsh became the language of the industrial valleys, and calls for independence are spreading. Collapsing self-conceptions Northern Ireland — Ulster — is where religion and the relation to Westminster still form a potentially explosive combination. In the 17th century, England settled the province, often violently, with mainland Protestants, to anglicise Ulster and forestall Catholic attempts on the English crown; the entrenched Protestant community benefited greatly from imperial expansion. Nairn is equally severe on the diehard Catholicism which dominated Ulster Catholics and Ireland into the 1960s, and notes Protestant-majority dread of Westminster abandonment.  On current evidence, the U.K. is bereft of the institutional or political-cultural resources it now needs. The old order generates its own atavism; Nairn is caustic about Enoch Powell, born to lower-middle-class parents in the industrial Midlands but so driven by an imagined English rural idyll that he had only racist rantings to offer in its defence. Nairn makes a priceless contribution towards a desperately needed new discourse. The existing one is losing meaning; even the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty has been exposed as a near-fiction. The Crown’s 67 million British subjects, including this reviewer, are living in interesting times.  The reviewer is a former Visiting Professor at IIT Madras.  The Break-up of Britain: Crisis and Neo-nationalism Tom Nairn Verso Books  £16.99||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/now-the-british-empire-is-falling-apart-at-home/article36410115.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Born on September 12, 1957, Hans Zimmer is a German musician who has composed the soundtrack for more than 150 films. His first appearance on TV was as the keyboardist in The Buggles’ music video for their song ‘Video Killed the Radio Star’. His first Hollywood film was Rain Man , and he has since been responsible for epic soundtracks such as Gladiator , Interstellar and the Dark Knight trilogy. Nominated several times for an Academy Award, he won one for a 1994 film. What movie whose score delighted kids and their parents won an Oscar for Zimmer? 2 Alfred Hitchcock didn’t plan to have music in this scene, wanting it to be sparse with only the sound effects. He practically doubled composer Bernard Herrmann’s salary after seeing the scene with the music composed for it. Although the music is in three movements, the most recognisable is the second, which is just a single violin playing a series of discordant, screechy gliding notes. What movie and what scene was this? 3 John Barry was an English composer who started his musical career as a trumpeter in the British Army. In 1962, he arranged the soundtrack of a film, and a theme tune composed by Monty Norman based off a song called ‘Good Sign Bad Sign’, in the stage musical A House for Mr. Biswas . Barry went on to score 10 more movies in the same series, working on different versions of that iconic theme till 1987. Which series was this? 4 Joe Hisaishi is known for his beautiful sweeping scores and his experimentation with electronic, European classical, and Japanese classical music. In 1983 he and director Hayao Miyaki started collaborating, leading to one of the most successful partnerships in a certain industry. This led to Hisaishi’s characteristic gentle, melancholic tone becoming the trademark of Studio Ghibli, the best-known studio in the genre. What genre is this? 5Austrian-born composer Max Steiner became one of the first composers to write scores for films after he moved to Hollywood in 1929. He scored for more than 300 films and won three Academy Awards. Referred to as the ‘father of film music’ he was an inspiration to many composers. His most famous score was for a film — still the highest grossing in history, adjusted for inflation — based on a 1936 novel by Margaret Mitchell. What film is this? ? 6 James Horner was an American composer best known for his integration of choral and electronic elements, and use of Celtic themes. His score for a 1997 film is the best-selling orchestral film soundtrack of all time. What film is this that also features an Irish dancing jig and an ominous piece titled ‘Hard to Starboard’? 7 Danny Elfman first rose to prominence as the singer-songwriter for the new wave band Oingo Boingo. He then shifted to composing music for films, and is known for his extensive collaboration with Tim Burton (all Batman films) and Sam Raimi (all Spider-Man films) and adapting the Mission: Impossible theme from the original TV series. He is also responsible for the iconic theme of the longest-running American animated series, which has had 706 episodes since it started in 1989. What series is this? 8 Howard Shore is a Canadian composer who started off in a jazz fusion band and then became the musical director for Saturday Night Live . After scoring for hit films such as The Silence of the Lambs and Mrs.Doubtfire , his most acclaimed work started in 2001 as he scored for a trilogy of films that won 17 Oscars in total. He went on to do the music for the sequel trilogy to this series. Which trilogy is Shore best known for? 9 Jerry Goldsmith was an American composer best known for his scores for five Star Trek films and three Rambo films. His opening fanfare for a certain production house debuted with the release of The Lost World: Jurassic Park in 1997. Founded in 1912, this is the oldest surviving film studio in the U.S. Which studio’s logo of a spinning globe had Goldsmith’s fanfare accompanying it? 10 Born on September 12, 1952, Neil Peart was a Canadian drummer and songwriter known for his incredible drumming skills and intellectual lyrics. His three-member band has been one of the most successful prog bands since their formation in 1974. They got their name when an ex-member’s brother suggested one that was short and to the point. What was the name, which was fitting because they were in a hurry to play, and because their music also has some incredibly fast, skillful playing from all three members? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article36410131.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Sure thing||A delicate auction led to a final contract of five clubs. Three no trump would have been better, with 10 top tricks, but it was hard for either player to bid it with only a singleton heart. The problem in five clubs is how to avoid two diamond losers and one spade loser. A low spade toward the jack would work on this lie of the cards but would fail on a different lie. There is a line of play available that guarantees the contract. Can you spot it? South should win the opening heart lead with dummy’s ace, draw trumps in three rounds ending in dummy, and lead a low diamond. Should East play low, South plays his eight, losing to an honour with West. West must lead either a spade or a diamond to avoid giving a ruff-sluff. On a diamond lead, South wins whatever honour is played by an opponent and leads his nine of diamonds to drive out the remaining high diamond. The 10 in dummy is established for a spade discard. Should West lead a spade instead, South just plays low from dummy and has three sure spade tricks — enough to discard a diamond from his hand if necessary. It is always rewarding, as declarer, when you find a sure trick line of play for your contract.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sure-thing/article36410134.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from Lansdowne||Pull up your mask properly, and stand away until allowed to enter,” commands a stern voice from behind a manned entrance. After hours of driving across the less popular roads of Uttarakhand, including long, secluded expanses of endless forests, I let my guard slip a bit and allowed my oxygen-starved system to draw in lungfuls of mountain air. The military checkpost at the entrance to Lansdowne, though, snaps me right out of it. Like most cantonment towns in India, martial law rules the roost, making it a bittersweet mix: a regimented but timeless place that could not have been preserved otherwise. Cantonment towns are the perfect antidote to hill station destinations. Having barely ever aided tourism, they are a boon in disguise for conservation. Lansdowne is no different, and much like the rest, was formed for military purposes. It was founded and named after Lord Lansdowne, the then Viceroy of India, in 1887, and the first battalion of the Garhwal Rifles was moved there the same year from Almora. Lansdowne was the only major town established after Almora in the 1870s, a fact I find hard to process considering that today, it’s one of the quietest hill stations I’ve ever been to. On the list of popular names from Shimla in the west to Mussoorie and Nainital, and all the way east to Darjeeling, Lansdowne barely makes a guest appearance. It’s more comparable to other cantonment towns like Ranikhet and Dalhousie, but somehow, despite its checklist complete with the war memorial, parade ground, and a regimental museum named after Victoria Cross awardee Darwan Singh Negi, Lansdowne seems like the introvert that sits quietly at the corner bench. In a long walk spanning its multiple ridges, I try to dissect this ambiguity. Quietly picturesque Leaving behind the cluster of budget hotels that mark the entrance to the town and sprout again amidst general stores in the small main market, I spiral up the empty stretches of Lansdowne. The tarmac-lined paths bordered by dense oak and rhododendron thickets lie quiet, their bark gleaming with the florescence of monsoon moss and the understory rich with grey lichen dotted with colourful, wild mushrooms. My bare face breaks through the film of mist like Lansdowne shatters the myth of packed hill stations, and I pick one of the many forks in the lower mall that leads to St. Mary’s church. Standing on the ridge since 1896, it fell into disuse when India became independent, but has been beautifully restored by the Garhwal Rifles since. Cordoned off by chains and boundaries, the church is closed in the afternoons, and a handful of guests from the café nearby try and take the best selfies they can. They are disappointed that they can’t go inside, but this is the price cantonment towns extract in return for their gift of preservation. Further up the ridge, I walk past Tip-N-Top point, more popular than the town’s more scenic spots. A bit ahead is a temple that most visit, one I quietly skirt; there is a string of temples in and around Lansdowne, but I’ve found mine already. My shrine is the unmarked spot where I stand and watch the rain-drenched expanse of green valleys below, the monsoon sun shining like a pale coin through the screen of grey clouds that float in front of it. This is where I turn around, and begin my way down. I will be doing a little loop, walking past Bhulla Tal, a small lake seized by boating enthusiasts, and making a pit stop at a nearby eating joint for a late lunch. These are all the hotspots that I come across, and it’s not really the rains or the pandemic that has dammed the tourist traffic here. It’s simply the air of quietude that cantonment life and its rules lend themselves to — from tourists who have limited options to stay and explore, to locals who need a series of permits for the simplest of house repairs, everyone must pay a price. But when it comes to the mountains, we were debt-ridden anyway. Born and brought up in the Himalayas, the author writes on culture, ecology, sustainability, and all things mountain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-lansdowne/article36410139.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Not meme, it’s a cruel joke||In April 2021, Ursula von der Leyen, the first woman President of the European Commission, was left without a chair at a summit in Turkey, in what is now known as sofagate. It was a startling display of how we still have a long way to go before women are treated as equals. If this is how men deign to treat women on an international platform, I shudder to think of the plight of ordinary women in their daily lives. Ms. Von der Leyen, in an impassioned speech post-summit, made her take on the incident pretty clear — she deemed it as sexist. There are millions of women across our nation who do not have the privilege that she has — women are unseen and unheard, until the abuse they are subject to escalates into some dastardly deed that shocks society. Soon, everybody springs into action — WhatsApp statuses are updated; poems are composed; Twitter and Insta “warriors” make themselves relevant; candlelight vigils are held; and of course, let us not forget the “not all men are predators” group and their ardent denials. As days pass, the furore dies down and people return to posting cliched, sweeping sexist memes about wives and girlfriends. They may say that after all, it is just “innocent” fun. No, it isn’t. The underlying issue is that most of these memes portray women who speak their mind or stand up to men as overbearing. It is just patriarchy wrapped in so-called humour. It is lamentable that a major section of our comedy industry still rests on the misguided notion that misogyny, homophobia, body shaming, poking ridicule at mental disorders, and rejecting anybody and anything non-conforming, different or unique are hilarious. “The business of being funny is no laughing matter.” Seriously, comedians, meme makers and content creators need to pause and think about what they say and how they say it. Nothing sexist can be swept under the rug as a joke. Not when women face abuse in their own homes; not when women are subject to oppression and suppression at the workplace; not when women are still judged as “asking for it” if they dare to wear something revealing, even if it is just a sleeveless top; not when the so-called freedom women possess is jut a polished veneer. In this era of cancel culture, where a simple hashtag wields the power to make or break a person, it is time we made an informed choice not to propagate memes against vulnerable sections such as women and non-binary people. saikrshn@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/not-meme-its-a-cruel-joke/article36410098.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Those were the days||The Periplus Maris Erythraei (Journal of Sailing the Red Sea) is a book of which only a single original copy exists in Heidelberg. The book is 2,000 years old, dating back to the time of Christ, and is the work of a merchant, most likely a Greek from Egypt, who sails to India. The author is not named but there is no doubt that he tells a real story and that he himself travelled the route he writes of. His book tells us of his sailing to India on a trade vessel, describing the route and also giving us fascinating details about our land. There was no direct passage to the Red Sea from the Mediterranean before the Suez Canal, but there must have been some way to get through the rivers and arrive at the entrepôt of Aden. The Arabs jealously guarded the trade route to India, not allowing Europeans to emerge out of the Red Sea. One had to hug the coast and go up Yemen, Iran and what is now Pakistan before arriving in India — even then the spice ports of Kerala were far off. The better way was to come out of the Horn of Africa past Somalia and use the monsoon winds directly to the Malabar, but this was something only the Arabs and the Indians knew. Direct route In Aden (known to Rome as Eudaimon), the European traders would receive their goods from India, hand over their own wares, and return. This changed sometime in the first or second century before Christ, when an Indian sailor was found marooned and taken to one of the pharaohs of the Ptolemaic dynasty who were, of course, Greeks descended from Alexander’s general Ptolemy. The pharaoh dispatched a navigator named Eudoxus of Cyzicus, who accompanied the Indian back to our country. This opened up the route directly for Europeans — the writer of Periplus tells us about a route that was already well-travelled. Description of the trade along that route forms the primary part of his text. Half the book is devoted to the trade that Rome had with India, which was more important for it than trade with Africa or Arabia. Indian exports and imports were high-end — not for mass consumption but for the nobility. Indian ports were two in the northwest — Karachi and Bharuch — and two in the south — Muziris and Nelcynda (Kerala). The northwest imported fabrics, minerals and coral, and exported silk and cotton. Karachi was only a port while Bharuch was also an industrial centre. It required, as did the southern ports, copper, tin, lead and raw glass, from which it fashioned higher-value products. Bharuch was rich, importing eye-shadow and perfume. It may amuse readers to know that Arabian wine was delivered to Bharuch, the port between Surat and Ahmedabad. Today, one can legally purchase alcohol in Karachi but not in Bharuch. Credible account The ruler of Bharuch received slave girls, slave musicians, and silverware and lived in a much grander space than the ruler of Karachi. In contrast, it seems that the rulers of the southern Indian ports lived as simply as their subjects. Another difference was that the trade in Karachi and Bharuch was run by the locals. In the south, there were signs of a colony, apparently of Romans (there is reference to a temple of Augustus). These Westerners were likely traders settled in India who acted as middle-men between India and the world. Bharuch exported ‘long pepper’ while Muziris exported the famed black pepper to Europe. All these goods would return via the same route, going up the Red Sea to the Mediterranean and Rome. Remember that this is 1,500 years before Vasco da Gama. What we are told about the ‘discovery’ of India by him as the ‘first’ European to sail to India is exaggerated. Indeed, many of the ancient classical texts that talk of visits to India contain exaggerations. Herodotus, the father of history, was described by Plutarch as the ‘father of lies’ for good reason. The Periplus author is credible — for instance, he describes the facial features of Indians from the Northeast accurately — making the book an interesting and engrossing read even after 2,000 years.  Arabian wine was delivered to Bharuch, the port between Surat and Ahmedabad. Today, one can legally purchase alcohol in Karachi but not in Bharuch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/those-were-the-days/article36410102.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A warm tribute to cricket’s greats||Rushed to New Zealand in 1981, the 18-year-old found his spot under the sun. Over the next decade, the Mumbaikar with Mangalorean roots, was intrinsic to Indian cricket. Picked for his left-arm spin and batting at number 11, Ravi Shastri rose through the ranks and eventually opened the innings before a knee injury forced his retirement. He seamlessly moved into the television box and called some of India’s greatest moments on the field. Yet, lost in the acoustics of his commentary, was the image of a gutsy batsman and handy spinner. With two hundreds in the West Indies of yore, besides tons in England, Australia and Pakistan, Shastri could be both obdurate and extravagant as evident in his six sixes from a single over in a Ranji Trophy game against Baroda. Shastri was also the ‘Champion of Champions’ during India’s triumphant run in the 1985 World Championship of Cricket in Australia. Proverbial insider   Currently the Indian team’s coach, Shastri is the proverbial insider and all that experience has been distilled into his book Stargazing: The Players in my Life , with veteran journalist Ayaz Memon lending a hand. This tome is about his views on leading cricketers, much akin to Sunil Gavaskar’s Idols . This is Shastri the cricket-tragic taking guard and describing players ranging from Garry Sobers to Virat Kohli while the who’s who of world cricket get featured across 288 pages. Shastri praises without filters, offers his strong opinions and the self-referencing is never intrusive though it is obvious that his cricketing friends cut across nations and generations. There are poignant notes on Malcolm Marshall, Martin Crowe and Dean Jones, three of his buddies, who have moved onto the Elysian Fields. In the chapter titled ‘My Mentor’, Shastri describes Gavaskar: “His contribution to Indian cricket is incalculable. He gave it spine and self-belief.” Shastri is an unabashed G.R. Viswanath fan. Decades ago he stood outside Koshy’s in Bangalore, while the little master indulged inside through a long night. That devotion is evident when he writes: “Viswanath turned from hero to idol. He hogged my imagination.” Later while profiling Sourav Ganguly, Shastri plays down his differences with the southpaw. He also reveals his early impressions of Sachin Tendulkar, a talent he was clued into much before the rest of the world got to know. Be it Vivian Richards or Richard Hadlee, Rahul Dravid or M.S. Dhoni, Shastri gives both the macro-approach and micro-analysis. Clear insights   And as he writes about others we also get to know about Shastri the man. Tough on the field but eager to split a beer after play, Shastri opines: “As a player and captain in my day, I was always wary of those cricketers who lived by niceties to impress those writing in newspapers or doing commentary rather than trying to win the match.” There are empathetic insights and while discussing Kevin Pietersen, Shastri observes: “Big blokes with a strut and a swagger might exude bravado, but can also be fragile and insecure.” The odd typo is there but overall this is a book that helps you re-acquaint with some of cricket’s greats. On that count, to borrow one of Shastri’s favourite expressions, he delivers like a ‘tracer bullet’.  Stargazing: The Players in My Life Ravi Shastri HarperCollins  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-warm-tribute-to-crickets-greats/article36410119.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Book-schmuck||Dear Agony Akka,  I feel the world is treating me unfair. People (aka my family) are saying I should stop reading novels. (I read sci-fi and fantasy novels mostly) They want me to keep them at bay — which I can’t — simply because I am a 10th grader now. Thanks to Raksha Bandhan, I succeeded in demanding and getting two books or I would have died of book-hunger. Why am I forbidden to read? I know as a 10th class girl I have to write projects, study for exams, etc., but can’t I just spend one hour on weekends to read? Two of my friends post pictures of their bookshelves and my jealousy kicks in. Whole day I mull about how their parents encourage them to read books. I hope you can give a solution to this turmoil condition. Academics or novels or both?  — Miffed, Unlucky Gal    Dear MUG  Novels? Novels?? No, no, you cannot read those. No fiction. No comic books (unless it’s Amar Chitra Katha). No printed material whatsoever that’s not part of your syllabus. This is the guiding principle of Indian parenthood. The idea is to study, pass exams, and emerge after 12 years of schooling as ignorant as you entered it. You need only study, learning isn’t mentioned anywhere. This method has worked well and it’s the only way to keep producing generation after generation of Coaching Institute geniuses who will then become TV news anchors and announce that the Nipah virus has travelled from Kozhikode to Calicut, no doubt at the speed of light. Don’t let anybody tell you that Tim Berners-Lee got the idea for the World Wide Web from a sci-fi story written by Arthur C. Clarke. Or that Igor Sikorsky was inspired by a Jules Verne novel to design the helicopter. Always remember that our TV anchors did not need to read any novel-shovel to come up with the factoid that the new Rs. 2,000 notes had nano-GPS chips embedded in them. They came up with that inspired idea entirely by their own tiny, unread selves. Naturally your parents are sceptical of any outside-syllabus reading — there seems so little point in it. Your mother-father probably belong to 4-5 WhatsApp groups from which they are getting sufficient knowledge about everything, whether science, history or geography. And WhatsApp is stranger than fiction any day. For example, during the pandemic, one forward said that if you can hold your breath for 10 seconds, without coughing or difficulty in breathing, it would indicate the absence of COVID-19 infection. Brilliant. Can you imagine how many crores of rupees we could have saved if we had followed this simple method? Instead, researchers went overboard coming up with RTPCR test and what not. I tell you, all fools. In fact, if we had not only followed that WA message sincerely but also extended the duration of breath-holding to about four-five minutes, many people would have turned blue and collapsed. And dead people cannot get COVID-19. India’s infection numbers would have been lowest in the world. UNESCO would have given certificate. That’s why I am telling. Obey parents. Don’t read anything except textbooks and WhatsApp. You will pass Class X with good marks. Of course, you might end up with absolutely no common sense, cultural awareness, world view, or all-around knowledge of wide range of subjects, but that’s not important. Passing board exams is No. 1 aim of student life. Return Raksha Bandhan books and ask for new dress or fancy phone. At least you can post good selfies.  — AA   agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/book-schmuck/article36410130.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A sweet victory||In the early 1980s, after sightseeing in Udaipur, we packed our bags to go home to New Delhi, about 700 km away. At the station, we searched for an “unreserved” coach on the train. We scrambled into the compartment making our way through several men, women and children sprawled all over, most with their legs resting on the opposite seat, trying to be as comfortable as possible preparing for the nine-hour journey. Too busy trying to get a seat for ourselves, we hardly noticed a young foreigner couple, already ensconced next to a window, going through a Lonely Planet guide, exclaiming as they recognised various sights they had just seen. Is this train always so crowded, they wanted to know. Every traveller on an Indian train wants to know even small details of fellow travellers. Foreigners especially are the centre of attention. But here, the fellow passengers knew very little English and soon, everyone got tired of speaking to the couple in sign language. The train started off, the stations were few and far between and it wasn’t long before we started making desultory conversation with the couple, who told us that they lived in Notting Hill, a neighbourhood of London, and were touring India taking in as many sights and cities as they could during their short holiday. They had taken out a board of Scrabble, and were surprised when we offered to join them. Only English words must be used, they emphasised displaying a dictionary which would be the ultimate arbiter. Though playing against the English and that too from London would be a major challenge, we timidly agreed. The beginning was tough, they obviously knew how to maximise points. The train sped on, the four of us oblivious to the delightful scenery, the broad expanses of the Aravalli range, the picturesque sand dunes, glimpses of wildlife and scattered settlements. The man sat smugly with his letter set perched neatly, while I nervously cradled mine on my lap concentrating, both of us determined to win. Was he getting desperate? He spelt the word “bitten” with a single “t” whereupon I challenged him. The dictionary confirmed I was correct and after this, there was no looking back. Some deft moves and I won! It was delightful beating a Londoner in a game of English language skills. Victory was sweet indeed that even 40-odd years after the trip, I remember the game so vividly. India is the second-largest English-speaking country after the U.S. English has helped unify the Subcontinent, as a common tongue for administration and education. And Indians take special delight in proving themselves better than the English in their own language. priyannaik211@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-sweet-victory/article36410096.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Nipah vs. COVID-19||Kerala, which is battling the country’s highest number of active coronavirus cases, now grapples with the re-emergence of the Nipah virus, which claimed a 12-year-old boy in Kozhikode district last Sunday. In 2018, Nipah claimed 17 lives in Kerala, and 3,000 people were placed under quarantine in Kozhikode. While both SARS-CoV-2 and the Nipah virus are zoonotic — transmitted from animals to humans — there are radical differences in the behaviour of the viruses. The Nipah virus is less transmissible between humans than SARS-CoV-2, but the mortality rate of the former is far greater at 40% to 75%. The death rate in the case of COVID-19 in India is around 1%. While fruit bats are considered the natural reservoirs of Nipah, the zoonotic source of SARS-CoV-2 has not yet been definitively established. There are as yet no vaccines against the Nipah virus, which can cause fatal encephalitis, or inflammation of the brain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nipah-vs-covid-19/article36410092.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The Ambassador and the Private Eye||Krishnan Srinivasan  Har-Anand Publications Rs. 695 Retired Somali ambassador Michael Marco teams up with Kolkata’s only female private detective, Koel Deb, to piece together the solutions to crimes. The clues are all there — can the reader find them before the detectives do? This is the sixth in the series of Michael Marco novels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-ambassador-and-the-private-eye/article36410109.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The Reading List||Sara Nisha Adams  HarperCollins Rs. 599 When Aleisha discovers a reading list tucked into a tattered library book, it sets her on an epic journey across the Pacific to new and wonderful worlds. And when her grandfather arrives at the library, desperate to connect with her, Aleisha introduces him to the magic of the reading list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-reading-list/article36410111.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The Grand Anicut||Veena Muthuraman  Hachette India Rs. 499 Tamilakam is flourishing under Chola rule. King Karikalan’s ambitious project is becoming a reality: a dam, the Grand Anicut, is being constructed to divert the waters of the Kaveri. The arrival of a Roman ship carrying the merchant Marcellus sets off a series of events that will alter the fate of Tamilakam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-grand-anicut/article36410113.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Modi’s India: Hindu Nationalism and the Rise of Ethnic Democracy||Christophe Jaffrelot  Princeton University Press $35 Drawing on interviews conducted across India, Jaffrelot provides an account of how a once-vibrant democracy can go wrong when a government backed by popular consent suppresses dissent and grows increasingly intolerant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/modis-india-hindu-nationalism-and-the-rise-of-ethnic-democracy/article36410117.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Reproductive Politics and the Making of Modern India||Mytheli Sreenivas  Women Unlimited Rs. 875 An examination of existing scholarship from the 1870s to the 1970s, including histories of marriage and birth control, famine and crisis of subsistence, analyses how reproduction became an economic question and was targeted for regulation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/reproductive-politics-and-the-making-of-modern-india/article36410124.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Tagore and Gandhi: Walking Alone, Walking Together||Rudrangshu Mukherjee  Aleph Rs. 699 Tagore and Gandhi shared a deep personal friendship despite differences on many public issues through the 1920s and ’30s. A historian explores the relationship and how they differed with each other without a hint of acrimony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tagore-and-gandhi-walking-alone-walking-together/article36410126.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Kathmandu Dilemma: Resetting India-Nepal Ties||Ranjit Rae  Vintage/PRH Rs. 499 As a close neighbour, India has been deeply associated with seminal changes in Nepal, but the relationship has seen many twists and turns. Partly a memoir, this book by a former ambassador to Nepal examines India’s perspective on these developments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kathmandu-dilemma-resetting-india-nepal-ties/article36410128.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A House Full Of Men||Parinda Joshi  HarperCollins India Rs. 399 Twenty-five-year-old Kittu lives in a full house in Lucknow, but it’s a house full of men, who have no time for her. Sometimes, she feels all alone in the world. Who will lend an ear to her persistent relationship issues, manic obsessions and aspirations?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-house-full-of-men/article36410100.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Why countries abandoned ‘Zero Covid’ strategy||When SARS-CoV-2 virus began spreading globally early last year, Singapore, Vietnam, Taiwan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Australia and New Zealand, like mainland China, adopted a “Zero COVID” strategy. The goal was to aim for almost zero daily fresh cases through a mix of border closing, quarantining people coming into the country, extensive testing and strict implementation of COVID-appropriate behaviour. This not only greatly reduced daily fresh cases, it also led to fewer deaths and health-care facilities not being stretched. But even with a large percentage of the population vaccinated, most of these countries have begun reporting a large number of new cases due to the Delta variant. Some countries have now abandoned the strategy.   In an email to The Hindu, epidemiologist Dr. Giridhara Babu from Bengaluru’s Public Health Foundation of India explains why the Zero COVID strategy is impractical and difficult to sustain and what could be the best exit strategy to aim for.  Recently, despite over 83% of the population being fully vaccinated, Singapore made a dramatic switch from Zero COVID to COVID resilience strategy. Australia too has abandoned its Zero COVID approach. Even with over 61% fully vaccinated, Israel witnessed a surge in daily cases recently. Taiwan, Vietnam and Hong Kong, too, have reported large cases. So, can any country achieve Zero COVID and remain so for long with the Delta variant spreading wildly? Zero COVID cases is a myth as an accomplishment for a longer time. Countries might be successful only for a transient period, but this will not be sustainable. Many countries which set the ambitious and unrealistic goal of achieving Zero COVID have abandoned it, as each of these countries is vulnerable to the ever-evolving virus. Considering that fully vaccinated people, too, can get infected with the Delta variant and spread the infection, can any country remain without any fresh daily cases for a long period after fully opening its borders and resuming all economic activities? No country can permanently shut its borders; with any mobility of people, the virus can only reach the susceptible nations. Countries cannot remain without fresh cases if the borders are opened, and when economic activities are resumed. Only countries with islands and relatively restricted travel could keep the virus in check, at least for a short period. Having no new daily cases is not practical due to its constant evolution. Even as other countries are struggling, how is China able to effectively stamp out outbreaks within a very short time and almost achieve Zero COVID? China has adopted a very hard on itself policy by repeated mass testing (to find out the missing cases), a complete cut-off of Beijing from the rest of the country, stringent curbs barring the inflow of people from high-risk to low-risk zones and very strict home isolation. These tough measures have helped China have a low number of COVID cases, but not sure if this can be replicated anywhere else or be sustained in China. Israel’s coronavirus czar, Salman Zarka has already warned of another wave with new variants. He is talking of a fourth dose and has said that considering the waning of protection from vaccines, additional doses may be needed every few months. Does this reflect the hollowness of the Zero COVID strategy? The idea of additional doses of vaccines is not completely backed by science. The countries advocating booster doses have done so mostly because of the country's failing strategy of COVID-19 control, type and dose of vaccine used and its coverage, and failure to prevent the susceptible population against the evolving virus. Isolated and individual country-specific responses against the virus are bound to fail. These countries can keep the infection at bay only for a short time, only to be infected later due to mobility. People in these countries are always at risk of getting infected with newer variants of the virus. There are multiple challenges with the implementation of booster doses. If the initial doses of a vaccine have not prevented the spread of infection, additional doses also won’t be successful in this goal. For now, ensuring that every eligible person gets two doses in every part of the globe is more important. Even when implemented, acceptance of a greater number of vaccine doses by the public would be a very big challenge. The reactive response to breakthrough infections and mostly mild cases leads to unjustified demand for booster doses. This is derailing the global agenda from what actually needs to be done. Though not eradicated like in the case of smallpox, many countries have eliminated (reduced case transmission to a predetermined very low level) malaria and measles. Is it possible for any country to work towards eliminating COVID-19? As long as the virus flourishes in any part of the world, no part of the world is safe. Isolated plans for COVID-19 elimination in a few countries through vaccination alone will not lead anywhere near elimination, even in those countries. We need a global control strategy and need vaccines available to scale to tackle the virus in every part of the world. Elimination of the virus in the short term is a difficult stand to take because even if a country manages to eliminate the virus, opening the borders will expose people to newer strains of the virus even if the country manages to strictly adhere to COVID-appropriate behaviour. Since the SARS-CoV-2 virus has found new hosts in domestic and wild animals, can the virus be ever eliminated? When elimination of this virus is infeasible, eradication is out of the question. Eradication of the virus means that it has to be completely exterminated; with the ever-evolving and virulent strains, we cannot rule out the virus finding new animal hosts. Adopting one health strategy to protect humanity against emerging zoonotic diseases should be an integral part of preparing for the future. The virus is currently evolving to become increasingly more transmissible, lethal and reduce the protection conferred by vaccination or natural infection. So, under what conditions will we see the virus becoming endemic? Once the combination of acquired immunity and vaccination is achieved in every part of the world, it is expected that most regions may become endemic to SARS-CoV-2. Endemic means sustained transmission at an expected or basal level, although it’s not desirable. I do not see an alternative other than targeting endemicity as the exit strategy. Considering that even fully vaccinated people can get infected but are very unlikely to progress to severe disease, should we stop fussing about daily fresh cases and instead look at the number of people hospitalised, number of severe cases, ICU bed occupancy and deaths? Should daily cases be categorised as reinfections, breakthrough infections and cases in unvaccinated people? Undoubtedly, WHO should begin with a newer case definition. The phobia surrounding the number of people who test positive should stop. It is time to revise the case definition to reflect those who need hospitalisation. Otherwise, the numbers will be inflated due to a combination of asymptomatic breakthroughs and false positives. Vaccination prevents hospitalisation and deaths. We need to continually monitor the breakthrough infections and hospitalisations among them in addition to recording reinfections. However, the goal of the newer case definition should be to prevent deaths and hospitalisation due to severe illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/why-countries-abandoned-zero-covid-strategy/article36410235.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||WHO simplifies treatment guidelines for hypertension||The World Health Organization recently released guidelines for pharmacological treatment of hypertension. Though high blood pressure is a leading cause of disease, disability and death in all regions of the world, affecting an estimated 1.4 billion persons across the world, only 14% have it under control. This is because of three gaps in health system performance. Many who have hypertension are unaware, several of those who are detected are not on treatment and only half of those who are treated are effectively controlled on their prescribed treatment. If health systems do not improve their ability to detect and effectively treat hypertension, serious diseases of heart, brain, kidneys and blood vessels will mount. Adopt healthy habits All persons with raised blood pressure will need to adopt healthy living habits: reduced salt intake; consumption of more fruit and vegetables; avoidance or limited intake of alcohol; regular physical activity; maintenance of a healthy body weight; adequate water consumption, good sleep and stress reduction. In addition, several will need drugs for adequate control of blood pressure. The recent WHO guidelines, specifically addressing drug treatment, were framed by an international expert group chaired by me. Apart from assessing the strength of published scientific research, we also drew on the perspectives of policy makers, health system managers, healthcare providers, patients and communities. While several international guidelines on management of hypertension do exist, many of them reflect the tertiary care perspective of high-income countries. Effective hypertension control must pivot on competent and continuous primary care, for both early detection and long-term management. Guidelines have also been divided over whether hypertension treatment should be initiated on the basis of blood pressure values alone or on a comprehensive risk assessment which takes into account age, gender, smoking status, body mass, prior cardiovascular disease, diabetes and blood cholesterol profile besides blood pressure values. While these measures are useful for customised future risk assessment, insistence on such detailed a priori assessment requiring various laboratory tests may delay initiation of treatment and increase loss to follow-up in primary care. Guidelines must maximise benefits and minimise harm and inconvenience to patients. The benefit of drug treatment was assessed on health outcomes which included the following: blood pressure control, deaths from any cause, cardiovascular mortality, heart attacks, brain strokes, heart failure and advanced kidney disease. Recommendations were graded on the strength of evidence available and distilled with health system perspectives on feasibility of implementation. The aim was to develop evidence-informed, situationally adaptable, resource-optimising, operationally steerable and equity-promoting guidelines which can be implemented in all countries despite varying health system capacities. Suggested thresholds Initiation was recommended for all adults whose blood pressure readings, reliably measured, exceed 140 mm of mercury for the upper level (systolic) or above 90 mm for the lower level (diastolic). However, for persons with a prior history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes or chronic kidney disease, treatment should be initiated if the systolic pressure exceeds 130 mm. The same threshold is advised for persons with a high future risk of developing cardiovascular disease, based on clinical and laboratory assessment. Laboratory tests should be performed at the time of diagnosis of hypertension. However, if testing facilities are not readily available and tests are likely to be delayed, treatment may be initiated with a single relatively safe drug amlodipine (a long acting calcium channel blocker) and tests may then be ordered. When test results are available, they will help with choice of further treatments and in comprehensive risk assessment. When tests confirm that there are no contraindications to certain drugs, three classes of drugs are offered to the prescribing physician on the strength of evidence. They are: thiazide diuretics and thiazide-like agents; angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (both of which act at different levels of the renin–angiotensin system) and calcium channel blockers. Better clinical outcomes are achieved in most persons when drugs from any two of these categories are initially used in combination, in moderate doses, rather than using a single drug in a high dose. This provides the advantage of combining two different but complementary modes of action and avoids the side-effects that accompany a high dose of any single drug. Recommended targets The target is to lower blood pressure values to less than 140/90 mm, in all adults. In persons with known cardiovascular disease, the target is a systolic value less than 130 mm. This is based on strong evidence. The same target is also recommended for persons at a high risk of cardiovascular disease or with co-existing diabetes or chronic kidney disease. Persons in whom treatment has been initiated should be followed up monthly, till the target level has been achieved. Once that has been reached, follow up may be once in three to six months, as feasible. It has been recommended that non-physicians like nurses and pharmacists can provide drug treatment for hypertension if they receive proper training, have prescribing authority, follow specific management protocols and have physician oversight. Community health workers may assist in patient education, blood pressure measurement and delivery of medications, as part of a health team. Telemonitoring and home or community-based self-care are encouraged to improve blood pressure control, as part of an integrated management system. These guidelines are positioned within a strong scientific frame of evidence, while accommodating the practical aspects of implementation across diverse health systems. Low- and middle-income countries, which have the highest health burdens resulting from uncontrolled hypertension, should find it easier to implement these guidelines rather than those tailor-made for high-income countries.  (Prof. K. Srinath Reddy, a cardiologist and epidemiologist, is President, Public Health Foundation of India ,. Views expressed are personal.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/who-simplifies-treatment-guidelines-for-hypertension/article36410224.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Improved water management system for toxic textile effluents developed||Indian researchers have developed an improved water management system that can completely reuse dye wastewater from textile industries, eliminating its toxicity and making it suitable for domestic and industrial usage, the Department of Science and Technology said on September 9. It can reduce water treatment costs and facilitate reuse of water in dry regions, it added. The current three-stage treatment process for wastewater consisting of primary, secondary, and tertiary treatment is unable to treat toxic industrial wastewater. High cost The stand-alone advanced oxidation process (AOP) treatment technique for colour and odour properties in industrial effluents (dye-based) may be insufficient to meet the set government standards and is also limited due to the high cost of AOPs involving continuous supply of chemical reagents. It cannot remove the synthetic industrial dyes and the effervescent colour and odour, which have a long-lasting carcinogenic and toxic effect on the ecological balance, especially aquatic life. In order to remove this toxicity, an upgraded solution with the AOP technology is the need of the day, it added. Working towards this, researchers from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur along with Malaviya National Institute of Technology, Jaipur, and MBM College, Jodhpur, have developed a modified AOP solution. Modified process This completely modified treatment process consisting of the primary dosing step, followed by the sand filtration step, another AOP and subsequent carbon filtration step. It eliminates the need for the conventional primary, secondary, and tertiary processes, resulting in maximum colour removal, and meets the inland water discharge standards. The DST – Water Technology Initiative (WTI), along with the Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE) – supported the development of this technology at pilot-level in collaboration with Laxmi Textile Prints, Jaipur. The much-improved AOP technology targeting zero discharge water management system is being utilised for complete reuse of industrial dye wastewater for domestic and industrial usage at a rate of 10 kilo litres/day. The treatment of toxic and highly carcinogenic industrial dyes of textile effluents is performed using this AOP technology for degrading and mineralising recalcitrant organic matter from effluent wastewater. Low-cost solution It is a direct replacement of the existing treatment plant processes and consists of a low-cost solution of dye adsorption on acid-modified soil, followed by a photochemical reaction step within a photocatalytic visible light filter and a unique carbon and PAN (polyacrylonitrile) nano-mat fibre filtration process. Having been set up on a pilot basis, it remediates industrial wastewater. The technology has resulted in the recuperation of 50% of the treatment cost incurred from conventional processes for water treatment (especially due to the high cost of sludge disposability) in the water-scarce regions of Rajasthan. Further, scaling up of this plant to 100 kilolitres/day capacity to meet the current industrial requirement is underway, it added.  The process results in maximum colour removal and meets inland water discharge standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/improved-water-management-system-for-toxic-textile-effluents-developed/article36410233.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Shapeshifters||What changes are happening in animals due to climate change? Climate change affects not only humans but also animals. In adapting to a warming planet, some warm-blooded animals are shapeshifting and getting larger beaks, legs and ears to better regulate their body temperatures (Trends in Ecology and Evolution).  Strong shapeshifting has particularly been reported in birds. Several species of Australian parrot have shown, on average, a 4%-10% increase in bill size since 1871. This is positively correlated with the summer temperature each year. North American dark-eyed juncos, a type of small songbird, had a link between increased bill size and short-term temperature extremes in cold environments. There have also been reported changes in mammalian species. Researchers have reported tail length increases in wood mice and tail and leg size increases in masked shrews. The researchers are next planning to investigate shapeshifting in Australian birds first-hand by 3D-scanning museum bird specimens from the past 100 years. “The increases in appendage size we see so far are quite small — less than 10% — so the changes are unlikely to be immediately noticeable,” says bird researcher Sara Ryding of Deakin University in Australia Ryding in a press release. “However, prominent appendages such as ears are predicted to increase.” “Shapeshifting does not mean that animals are coping with climate change and that all is fine. It just means they are evolving to survive it — but we're not sure what the other ecological consequences of these changes are, or indeed that all species are capable of changing and surviving,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/shapeshifters/article36410223.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||What is the new framework to share financial data?||The story so far: On September 2, the Reserve Bank of India launched the account aggregator framework aimed at making financial data more easily accessible. Under it, a number of fin-tech entities have been granted the licence to operate as account aggregators. Eight large banks have also agreed to share various financial data about their customers with account aggregators. How will an account aggregator work? The framework will allow financial data to be exchanged between the holders of data and its users. The RBI has allowed a number of companies like PhonePe to act as account aggregators to facilitate this process. Account aggregators will act as intermediaries who will collect data from one financial entity and exchange it with another. For example, a bank which is processing a loan application from a potential borrower may want to access a variety of financial data about the borrower. The lending bank can access details of the borrower’s savings, past loan repayment record, mutual fund holdings and insurance holdings through an account aggregator. The borrower, however, will have to grant consent for the sharing of his data with the lending bank. What are its benefits? At the moment, the various financial data of an individual is scattered across the databases of several financial institutions. So a person’s savings and loans data may be with a bank, his investments data may be with a mutual fund, while his insurance data may be with another financial entity. Under the account aggregator framework, all this data can be easily collated and shared through account aggregators with the consent of the individual. Proponents of the framework believe that the easier availability of data will have significant benefits for the economy. They believe the framework will help financial institutions make better assessment of the creditworthiness of individuals, and thus make better loan decisions. Even though mechanisms such as CIBIL already exist to assess the creditworthiness of individual borrowers, their scope is limited. An individual’s PAN number, for instance, captures only a limited number of transactions which are of value higher than a certain minimum threshold amount. It is said the framework will offer a wider array of data to financial firms, making them more willing to serve creditworthy populations that they earlier ignored. Account aggregators can also make life easier for creditworthy customers by allowing them to share their financial data digitally with ease, it is believed. The availability of wider financial data may also help financial institutions offer better products tailored to the needs of individual customers. What happens next? The issue of the security of the financial data of individuals will be a looming concern going forward, given the risk of data theft. To protect the privacy of individuals, account aggregators are supposed to receive and share financial data in an encrypted form. The RBI has also said the data ownership will reside with individuals. More financial firms are expected to get on board the framework as offering access to their financial databases will help them gain access to the databases of other firms. Over time, financial institutions may also mandate access to data available through account aggregators as a condition for individuals to receive loans and other services. The eventual success of the framework, however, will depend on multiple factors. Some believe an individual’s PAN number may be a better way to access his financial data as it serves as a common link between multiple accounts maintained by an individual. Further, the extent to which financial firms desire extensive, micro-level financial data from their customers and the enthusiasm among customers to share their data will also play a crucial role.  The financial data of an individual is scattered across the databases of several financial institutions. Under the account aggregator framework, data can be collated and shared through account aggregators with the consent of the individual||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/what-is-the-new-framework-to-share-financial-data/article36410158.ece
12 September 2021||September 12 2021 00:00 IST,||E-safety for kids||The story so far: Last week the U.K. government brought into effect the Age Appropriate Design Code or the Children’s Code, as an amendment to the Data Protection Act, 2018, operationalising a set of regulations that will make using the digital space safer for children. While the Code is officially in place only in the U.K., tech majors such as TikTok, Instagram and YouTube have tightened safety rules for children, and campaigners hope this will become the norm globally. What is the Children’s Code? The Children’s Code is a data protection code of practice for online services likely to be accessed by children. As 5Rights Foundation, which spearheaded the movement, said, “It has the potential to completely transform the way that companies collect, share and use children’s data, requiring them to offer children a high level of privacy protection by default.” It sets out 15 standards for online services, including in apps, games, toy and devices and even news services. Unless the service provider is able to prove that children do not access the service at all, it is required to consider making changes as per the Code. What are the threats to children online? Research conducted by 5Rights and Revealing Reality pointed out that within 24 hours of a social media profile being created, children were being targeted with graphic content. It established the pathways between the design of digital services and the risks children face online. According to 5Rights, “It shows that services such as Facebook, Instagram and TikTok are allowing children, some as young as 13 years old, to be directly targeted within 24 hours of creating an account with a stream of harmful content. Despite knowing the children’s age, the companies are enabling unsolicited contact from adult strangers and are recommending damaging content, including material related to eating disorders, extreme diets, self-harm and suicide as well as sexualised imagery and distorted body images.” Further, they concluded that even if the services were not conceived with the intent of putting children at risk, they are by no means ‘bugs’ or mistakes in the code that allow such errors to creep up on children, unbeknownst to the service providers. “These are not ‘bugs’ but features. Revealing Reality interviewed engineers and designers who explained they design to maximise engagement, activity and followers — the three drivers of revenue, not to keep children safe.” U.K.’s Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said, “Data sits at the heart of the digital services children use every day. From the moment a young person opens an app, plays a game or loads a website, data begins to be gathered. Who’s using the service? How are they using it? How frequently? Where from? On what device? That information may then inform techniques used to persuade young people to spend more time using services, to shape the content they are encouraged to engage with, and to tailor the advertisements they see. For all the benefits the digital economy can offer children, we are not currently creating a safe space for them to learn, explore and play.” Who does the Code apply to? The Code, according to 5Rights, applies to “information society services likely to be accessed by children”. The definition of an ISS is “any service normally provided for remuneration, at a distance, by electronic means and at the individual request of a recipient of services”. This includes apps; programs; search engines; social media platforms; online messaging or internet-based voice telephony services; online marketplaces; content streaming services (like video, music or gaming services); online games; news or educational websites; and any websites offering other goods or services to users on the internet. Electronic services for controlling connected toys and other connected devices are also ISS. The code applies to the U.K. based companies and non-U.K. companies that use data of children in the country. However, as has been seen with the example set out by some tech giants, it makes sense to make the entire architecture child-friendly, and not region-specific alone. Will children in India benefit from the Code? As Ms. Denham says, “It is rooted in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child that recognises the special safeguards children need in all aspects of their life.” John Carr, online safety expert based in the U.K., says on his blog that the UNCRC put in an addition, General Comment 25, which looked at child rights in the context of a digital environment. If tech giants universalise their safety architecture, children across the world will benefit from the Code. However, child rights activists say it is high time that the Indian government incorporated child safety into its social media agenda.  Research shows that within 24 hours of a social media profile being created, children are targeted with graphic content. If tech firms universalise safety architecture, children will gain from the Code||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/e-safety-for-kids/article36410157.ece
