15 September 2021||Aligarh,||Govt. stands by small farmer: PM||In his first rally in western Uttar Pradesh after protests against the contentious farm laws broke out last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday claimed that his government stood by the small farmer. Mr. Modi was in Aligarh to lay the foundation stone for the Aligarh node of the defence industrial corridor and a State university named after freedom fighter, educationist and social reformer Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh. He described Uttar Pradesh as a future hub of defence production and education in the country. India was fast moving away from “being an importer to an exporter of defence products,” he said. The Prime Minister refrained from defending the farm laws and invoked Chaudhary Charan Singh in the Jat belt. As the former Prime Minister had stood by the small farmer, the National Democratic Alliance government, through various schemes, was also looking after the interests of those who were cultivating less than two hectares, Mr. Modi said. “Eight out of 10 farmers in India belonged to this category. Be it strengthening the insurance scheme, expanding the Kisan Credit Card or increasing the MSP by 1.5 times, this government is standing by the small farmer.” Earlier, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said his government had paid Rs. 1,43,000 crore to the cane farmers, while from 2007 to 2017, the previous governments paid only Rs. 93,000 crore. Schemes such as the Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna and Atma Nirbhar package had ensured that both jeevan (life) and jeevika (livelihood) could go on during the pandemic. ‘Double engine govt.’ Mr. Modi stressed that the cane farmers of the region would further benefit from the government’s policy of giving a push to biofuel. Praising the State government for controlling the pandemic and emerging as one of the leading States in administering the COVID-19 vaccine, Mr. Modi noted that the State was enjoying “double profit of the double engine government”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-stands-by-small-farmer-pm/article36465510.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||No firm commitment from India on ‘net zero’: Kerry||The world is watching commitments on climate change made by all “big emitters”, said U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry on Tuesday. Mr. Kerry was making a pitch for India to announce a pledge to reduce emissions to “net zero” (carbon-neutral) by 2050 — to ensure global warming is held at 1.5 degrees Celsius — at the upcoming COP26 summit in the U.K. in November. However, the government said it does not consider the “net zero” goal its only priority at present. Mr. Kerry admitted that he had not received a firm pledge from New Delhi on the issue yet. Speaking at the end of his visit to Delhi, where he launched the U.S.-India Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue with Minister of Environment and Climate Change Bhupender Yadav, Mr. Kerry said he had “personally urged the government” to increase India’s commitments to ensure that the global warming levels are held at 1.5 degrees, instead of the 2 degrees announced at the Paris summit in 2015. Mr. Kerry said that it is important to announce the target of 450 GW of renewable energy as a part of India’s “Nationally Determined Contributions” (NDCs) to counter global warming now, as the next decade is critical for the battle against climate change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-firm-commitment-from-india-on-net-zero-kerry/article36465511.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||No clarity on grand Ganesh idol immersion||An element of uncertainty surrounded the immersion of Ganesh idols in Hyderabad this year, which is an event that attracts lakhs of devotees from different parts of Telangana. There was no clarity on whether the public would witness the grand procession and the immersion of the idols even as the State government filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court challenging the Telangana High Court’s order banning the immersion of idols made of Plaster of Paris (PoP) in Hussainsagar and other lakes. The government has filed the petition, but it has not been listed. Sources said the State government had decided to engage a senior counsel, who would make a mention of the matter before the Chief Justice’s Bench. Once the Chief Justice Bench allots the matter to a specific judge, the contentions of the government and the respondents would be heard before passing an interim direction. “That can happen on Wednesday or Thursday, depending on the availability of time and the listing of the case,” a senior government official said, hoping the State government would get some relief in the matter. However, the public, pandal organisers, field-level police officers and civic authorities remained confused as no clarity emerged till Tuesday, and with the grand immersion event just four days away. Normally, the final immersion is scheduled on the 11th day of idol installation. This year, it was decided to organise the event on the 10th day which is coming Sunday. Bhagwantha Rao of Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsava Samithi said on Tuesday that “customary immersion (nimajjanam) of Ganesh idols is fundamental rights of people”. It was the responsibility of the government to ensure protection of fundamental rights. The immersion of idols has been going on for the past several years and the government has to facilitate the same this year as well, he said. Meanwhile, idols were being brought to Necklace road and being immersed in the two baby ponds set up at Jalavihar and Sanjeevaiah park. Only idols of less than 5-6 feet were being immersed in these ponds. These baby ponds were set up by the civic authorities in places like Saroornagar, Miyapur, Raidurg and Kukatpally. “But big idols (most of which are made of PoP) cannot be immersed in these ponds which are not more than 10 feet deep,” a police officer said. The officer is not sure what would happen to the big idols which were supposed to be taken out in procession and immersed on the final day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-clarity-yet-on-idol-immersion-in-telangana/article36465465.ece
15 September 2021||Kolkata,||Sweet news for Joynagar’s moa||The moa of Joynagar — a region- and season-specific sweetmeat that is highly popular in West Bengal but not as universally celebrated as the rossogolla — finally appears to be finding its place under the sun. On Wednesday, the postal department will release a special envelope to celebrate this popped-rice ball that’s glued together with fresh date-palm jaggery and is exclusively manufactured in the town of Joynagar, near Kolkata, in winter months. “There can’t be a matter of greater pride for us. The moa will become more famous now,” Ashok Kumar Kayal, founding secretary of the manufacturers’ association — Joynagar Moa Nirmankari Society (JMNS) — told The Hindu . The special cover — 1,000 of which have been printed — will be released jointly in Kolkata by the APEDA (Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority) and the postal department in the presence of the representative of the manufacturers’ association. The APEDA played a crucial role in the export of moa — for the first time ever — that took place in January this year. Unlike the rossogolla , the moa is highly perishable — it can retain its taste and texture for only 5-7 days under normal refrigeration — and therefore its commercial export was never seriously considered. But on January 19, with active help from the APEDA, a Kolkata-based exporter sent 45 kg of moa to Bahrain by air. Repeat orders — and orders from some other countries as well — poured in, and before the winter was over, some 450 kg was exported in all. “The joint efforts of the APEDA, exporter and the JMNS have made it possible to create tremendous publicity and generated orders by the importing countries. This release [of the special cover] just before the festive season shall boost the business and of Joynagar moa in both the local and international markets. In the upcoming season, we anticipate more than 2000 kg of export,” the APEDA said in a statement. Dates back to 1904 The special envelope will mention this historic export apart from describing the moa , which dates back to 1904 and earned the Geographical Indication tag of Joynagar Moa in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sweet-news-special-postal-envelope-to-celebrate-joynagars-moa-brings-cheer/article36465912.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Glitches remain on I-T portal ahead of FinMin’s deadline||The Income Tax portal remains a festering worry for taxpayers scrambling to file their returns, ahead of the September 15 deadline set by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for the portal’s tech developer, Infosys, to resolve glitches. Tax practitioners said a slew of problems still abound in the return filing modules of the portal. Even routine tasks such as seeking an adjournment in ongoing assessments, complying with the ‘Vivad Se Vishwas’ scheme and uploading a digital signature, are proving to be a challenge. Although the government has extended the deadline for individual taxpayers to file income tax return (ITR) till December 31, it is levying a 1% interest for each month of delay beyond the original July 31 deadline, prompting questions about the exchequer penalising them for administrative failures. “The government has indicated it is aware of the portal’s persistent challenges when it extended the return filing deadlines,” said Shailesh Kumar, partner at Nangia & Co LLP. “However, there is a genuine hardship for taxpayers, who have paid self-assessment tax, but are not able to file ITR due to portal issues. They are still required to pay interest at 1% per month for delay in filing the ITR,” he said. ‘Waive interest’ “The government should waive the interest for those taxpayers, who have already paid their entire tax liability, if they file their ITR within the extended time limit,” Mr. Kumar said, stressing that people are keen to file their returns as no one wants to pay the interest. Some glitches still remain to be sorted out even as there has been some “gradual improvement” in the portal’s interface, said Suresh Surana, founder of RSM India, listing out several hiccups. “The taxpayers are facing issues in auto-population of data from the Form 26AS as imported data either is populated incorrectly or is not at all populated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/glitches-remain-on-i-t-portal-ahead-of-finmins-deadline/article36465535.ece
15 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||National Anthem gets an indigenous touch||Ahead of the 50th anniversary of Meghalaya’s Statehood in 2022, the State Assembly has given an indigenous touch to the National Anthem. Speaker Metbah Lyngdoh had thought of giving ‘ Jana Gana Mana ’  a local flavour more than six months ago. The Anthem sung by non-Hindi speakers to the accompaniment of folk instruments would underline the country’s diversity, he felt. He found in the Shillong-based Lamphang Syiemlieh a musician who could undertake the project. The latter made sure the new version did not violate any legal or constitutional stipulations. “We started working on the project after confirming what is permitted and what is not,” Mr. Syiemlieh said. He is one of the 10 vocalists who rendered the anthem.  The touched-up National Anthem was played on September 10, the first day of the autumn session of the Assem- bly. “We wanted the Anthem to have a distinct ring ahead of the golden jubilee of our Statehood. The outcome of the project was up to the expectations — a different sound to the same lyrics and the original tune,” Mr. Lyngdoh told The Hindu . “I am not sure if other States have done something similar. We would like to think this as a first-of-its-kind experiment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/national-anthem-gets-an-indigenous-touch/article36465673.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, U.K. to begin trade talks from November 1||Formal negotiations for a proposed India-United Kingdom Free Trade Agreement (FTA) will begin on November 1, with an interim “early harvest” agreement to be completed by March 2022, the Union government said on Tuesday. The interim trade pact would involve early tariff or market access concessions on certain key “high priority products and services”, the Commerce and Industry Ministry said in a statement, following a meeting on Monday between Minister Piyush Goyal and his British counterpart, International Trade Secretary Elizabeth Truss. The U.K. government, in a separate statement, noted that the two Ministers agreed on the steps to get ready to launch negotiations “later this year”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-uk-to-begin-trade-talks-from-november-1/article36465987.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Glitches remain on I-T portal ahead of FinMin’s deadline||The Income Tax portal remains a festering worry for taxpayers scrambling to file their returns, ahead of the September 15 deadline set by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for the portal’s tech developer, Infosys, to resolve glitches. Tax practitioners said a slew of problems still abound in the return filing modules of the portal. Even routine tasks such as seeking an adjournment in ongoing assessments, complying with the ‘Vivad Se Vishwas’ scheme and uploading a digital signature, are proving to be a challenge. Although the government has extended the deadline for individual taxpayers to file income tax return (ITR) till December 31, it is levying a 1% interest for each month of delay beyond the original July 31 deadline. Some glitches still remain to be sorted out even as there has been some ‘gradual improvement’ in the portal’s interface, said Suresh Surana, founder of RSM India, listing out several hiccups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/glitches-remain-on-i-t-portal-ahead-of-finmins-deadline/article36465506.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fuel prices quicken WPI inflation to 11.39% in Aug.||Inflation in wholesale prices resurged to 11.39% in August, staying in the double digits for the fifth month in a row. Inflation in manufactured products escalated for the fourth month in a row to 11.4%, as the second order effects of high fuel prices kicked in. Fuel and power inflation firmed up to 26.1% in August after a dip in July, even though food price inflation moderated to 3.43% from 4.46% . “LPG, petrol and diesel witnessed inflation of 48.1%, 61.5% and 50.7% respectively,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist at India Ratings and Research. He stressed that high fuel inflation tends to transmit across sectors as they push up transport, input and wage costs. Core WPI inflation, which leaves out fuel and food, hit an all-time high of 11.1%, continuing an uninterrupted hardening streak of 15 months, flagged ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar. Overall wholesale inflation had moderated to 11.16% in July after hitting a record high of 13.11% in May. On a month-on-month basis, the Wholesale Price Index (WPI) rose 1.04% in August, after three months of sequential increases around 0.6%.  The wholesale price trends are at a divergence with retail inflation which moderated slightly to 5.3% in August from 5.6% in July. Besides crude oil, prices of commodities such as edible oil and basic metals, where global prices are directly passed through to users, have also flared up, he said. “Edible oil inflation has been in excess of 35% since March and basic metals have been above 20% since April,” Mr Sinha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fuel-prices-quicken-wpi-inflation-to-1139-in-august/article36465534.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,||PMK walks out of AIADMK-led alliance||The PMK exited the AIADMK-led front on Tuesday night, announcing unilaterally that it would go it alone in the rural local bodies elections, scheduled for October 6 and 9, in nine newly created districts. It allied with the AIADMK for the 2019 Lok Sabha election and the 2021 Assembly election. PMK president G.K. Mani said in a statement that at a virtual meeting, it was “unanimously” decided to go it alone, “considering the party’s interests”. Party founder S. Ramadoss and Youth Wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss endorsed the decision, he said. The party would receive applications for nomination on September 15 and 16. The elections are being held in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi. Seven of these districts are in north Tamil Nadu where there is a good number of Vanniyar voters. The PMK contested in 23 seats in the Assembly election and won in five. The AIADMK contested in 179 seats and won in 66. The BJP contested in 20 seats and won in four. The AIADMK had also accommodated Mr. Anbumani with a Rajya Sabha seat, though the PMK did not have any MLA in the last Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pmk-walks-out-of-aiadmk-led-alliance/article36465589.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, U.K. to begin trade talks from Nov. 1||Formal negotiations for a proposed India-United Kingdom Free Trade Agreement (FTA) will begin on November 1, with an interim “early harvest” agreement to be completed by March 2022, the Union government said on Tuesday. The interim trade pact would involve early tariff or market access concessions on certain key “high priority products and services”, the Commerce and Industry Ministry said in a statement, following a meeting on Monday between Minister Piyush Goyal and his British counterpart, International Trade Secretary Elizabeth Truss. The U.K. government, in a separate statement, noted that the two Ministers agreed on the steps to get ready to launch negotiations “later this year”, including a series of trade working groups from September to help both sides “better understand each other’s position on potential chapter areas in any trade deal, including tariffs, standards, IP and data regulation”. The proposed trade agreement would unlock the “extraordinary” business opportunities and generate jobs, Mr. Goyal stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-uk-to-begin-trade-talks-from-nov-1/article36465507.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, U.K. to begin trade talks from Nov. 1||Formal negotiations for a proposed India-United Kingdom Free Trade Agreement (FTA) will begin on November 1, with an interim “early harvest” agreement to be completed by March 2022, the Union government said on Tuesday. The interim trade pact would involve early tariff or market access concessions on certain key “high priority products and services”, the Commerce and Industry Ministry said in a statement, following a meeting on Monday between Minister Piyush Goyal and his British counterpart, International Trade Secretary Elizabeth Truss. The U.K. government, in a separate statement, noted that the two Ministers agreed on the steps to get ready to launch negotiations “later this year”, including a series of trade working groups from September to help both sides “better understand each other’s position on potential chapter areas in any trade deal, including tariffs, standards, IP and data regulation”. The proposed trade agreement would unlock the “extraordinary” business opportunities and generate jobs, Mr. Goyal stressed. He emphasised the need to strike a balance between commitments and concessions in goods and services. Discussions to finalise the terms of reference for the FTA negotiations would begin on October 1, he said. “The International Trade Secretary reaffirmed her ambition to negotiate a trade agreement that delivers results for the British people and businesses, including those in digital and data, tech and food and drink,” the U.K. statement highlighted, indicating its priority areas. The U.K. India Business Council, in its pre-FTA submission to the U.K. Department of International Trade, had sought measures to ensure tax parity between the U.K. and Indian businesses and lower tariffs on alcoholic spirits and medical devices, among other items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-uk-to-begin-trade-talks-from-november-1/article36465538.ece
15 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram seeks details of 26 arrested Myanmarese||The Mizoram police have sought detailed information from their Assam counterparts on the 26 Myanmar nationals who were arrested from a guest house in the Rehabari area of Guwahati after arriving in two SUVs from Mizoram capital Aizawl on September 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mizoram-seeks-details-of-26-arrested-myanmarese/article36465909.ece
15 September 2021||MANGALURU,||‘Patient’s anxiety led us to send samples for test’||It was the anxiety of the 25-year-old man from Karwar, who suspected himself to have been infected by Nipah, that led the health authorities to send his blood, urine and nasal swab samples to National Institute of Virology, Pune, for examination. He has no fever or any other symptoms of Nipah or any other infection, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Tuesday. “He is perfectly alright. We have sent his samples for test just to make sure that everything is alright and not to take any chance,” Dr. Rajendra told reporters here on Tuesday. Dr. Rajendra said that the man worked as a microbiologist in a Goa-based company that manufactures test kits for COVID-19 and Nipah. On September 8, he travelled on his two-wheeler from Goa to his home town Karwar when he got drenched in rain. He then had fever and headache. He searched the internet, then thought he could have caught Nipah infection and approached a hospital in Karwar. He was referred to a private hospital in Udupi and then brought to the Government Wenlock Hospital here. Dr. Rajendra said that there was nothing to worry and he was not a “Nipah suspect”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/patients-anxiety-led-us-to-send-samples-for-test/article36465944.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Piled up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/piled-up/article36465587.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fuel prices push up wholesale inflation again||Inflation in wholesale prices resurged to 11.39% in August, staying in the double digits for the fifth month in a row. Inflation in manufactured products escalated for the fourth month in a row to 11.4%, as the second order effects of high fuel prices kicked in. Fuel and power inflation firmed up to 26.1% in August after a dip in July, even though food price inflation moderated to 3.43% from 4.46% .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fuel-prices-push-up-wholesale-inflation-again/article36465505.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fuel prices push up inflation again||Inflation in wholesale prices resurged to 11.39% in August, staying in the double digits for the fifth month in a row. Inflation in manufactured products escalated for the fourth month in a row to 11.4%, as the second order effects of high fuel prices kicked in. Fuel and power inflation firmed up to 26.1% in August after a dip in July, even though food price inflation moderated to 3.43% from 4.46% .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fuel-prices-push-up-inflation-again/article36466076.ece
15 September 2021||Mumbai,||State waiting for GST reimbursement: Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday told members of NITI Aayog that the State awaited GST reimbursement worth Rs. 30,000 crore from the Centre. The amount would touch Rs. 50,000 crore if not paid on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-waiting-for-gst-reimbursement-uddhav/article36465973.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prince Paswan booked on rape charges||Following a Delhi court order, the Delhi Police have registered a case against Lok Janshakti Party leader Prince Paswan on charges of rape on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prince-paswan-booked-on-rape-charges/article36465910.ece
15 September 2021||Kolkata,||BJP files plea against Mamata’s affidavit||In its latest salvo, the Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday alleged that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, in her affidavit filed before the Election Commission of India, had not given information about the cases filed in Assam against her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-files-plea-against-mamatas-affidavit/article36465913.ece
15 September 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra logs 3,530 new cases, 52 fatalities||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 3,530 new COVID-19 cases and 52 deaths, taking the infection tally to 65,04,147 and the toll to 1,38,221, a Health Department official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-logs-3530-new-cases-52-fatalities/article36465971.ece
15 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt. dishonest with aam , Ram, says Sisodia||AAP leader Manish Sisodia and the party’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh participated in a ‘Tiranga Sankalp Yatra’ in the Faizabad town of Ayodhya, targeting the Yogi Adityanath-led U.P. govern- ment. “The BJP government has been dishonest with both aam (common citizen) and [Lord] Ram,” said Mr. Sisodia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-govt-dishonest-with-aam-ram-says-sisodia/article36465675.ece
15 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Fit India Run in Dharwad||Students, government officials and others took part in the Fit India Run 2.0 organised as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations in Dharwad on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fit-india-run-in-dharwad/article36465780.ece
15 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Focus on tag readers in garbage collection||To ensure mandatory collection of garbage and waste segregation, the Belagavi City Municipal Corporation has been provided with over 300 readers to scan RFID tags installed in households.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/focus-on-tag-readers-in-garbage-collection/article36465782.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||9 more die of COVID||The State reported nine more COVID deaths and 1,125 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9-more-die-of-covid/article36465508.ece
15 September 2021||Washington DC,||Modi to visit U.S. for Quad summit, UNGA next week||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit the White House on September 24 to participate in a Quad leaders summit hosted by U.S. President Joe Biden. Mr. Modi will then travel to New York, where he will address the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on Saturday morning. The Quad meeting of Mr. Modi, Mr. Biden and the Prime Ministers of Japan and Australia Yoshihide Suga and Scott Morrison is the first in-person meeting of its kind at the White House. Vaccine initiative The four leaders will review progress made since their first virtual summit in March, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. Specifically, they will review the Quad Vaccine Initiative, a plan to manufacture (in India) at least 1 billion COVID-19 vaccines, for distribution in Asia by the end of 2022. “Hosting the leaders of the Quad demonstrates the Biden-Harris Administration’s priority of engaging in the Indo-Pacific, including through new multilateral configurations to meet the challenges of the 21st century,” the White House said on Tuesday. The leaders “will also exchange views on contemporary global issues such as critical and emerging technologies, connectivity and infrastructure, cyber security, maritime security, humanitarian assistance/ disaster relief, climate change and education”, the MEA said. “The summit would provide a valuable opportunity for dialogue and interactions among the leaders, anchored in their shared vision of ensuring a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region,” the MEA said. The White House statement also referred to discussions around “promoting a free and open Indo-Pacific”. China factor At the March summit, the leaders discussed China’s assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific region and that topic will most likely come up again next week. Afghanistan will also likely be discussed, weeks after the chaotic withdrawal of U.S. troops from Kabul and a Taliban take-over of the country. Bilateral meet There has been speculation on whether Mr. Modi and Mr. Biden will hold bilateral discussions. The Hindu has reached out to the White House for clarification on this. On September 25, Mr. Modi is scheduled to be the first speaker at the U.N. The theme for the general debate is: “Building resilience through hope to recover from COVID-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people and revitalise the United Nations.” The general debate is being held partly virtually this year. Mr. Modi is one of about 109 leaders to address the General Assembly in person, while 60 will deliver virtual addresses, PTI reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-to-visit-us-for-quad-summit-unga-next-week/article36465429.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Hindi a friend of all Indian languages’||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said there was no conflict between Hindi and other Indian languages and that it could progress only through the approach of complementary coexistence. Language was an essential part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of self-reliance. The objective of “Aatmanirbharata (self-reliance)” could be achieved in a real sense only if the country was also independent in terms of relying on its own languages, he said. Speaking at the Hindi Divas Samaroh, Mr. Shah said Hindi was a friend to all the other Indian languages and they complemented each other. Hindi as official language “When we adopted the Constitution, we also accepted the decision on September 14, 1949, to have Hindi as the country’s official language and Devanagari as the script. The decision was taken following an extensive debate, at the core of which was the basic understanding that there was no competition between the Indian languages,” he said, adding that all the languages strengthened one another. Likewise, all the regional languages were also adopted. Mr. Shah said since 2014, there had been a qualitative change and the number of MPs expressing themselves in their own languages had also gone up considerably. Mr. Shah said the new education policy stressed on the use of regional and official languages, particularly the mother tongue for imparting education till the fifth standard. The same principle was being promoted for higher education. When it came to technical education, 14 colleges in eight States were to start their courses in five languages: Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Bengali and Marathi. A high-level committee had been formed for translating the course contents. E-study material was also being prepared in various languages. Stating that it was the occasion to evaluate the steps being taken for the protection and promotion of the official and the regional languages, particularly in instilling a sense of pride in the new generation for their languages, the Union Home Minister said he was confident that Indian languages would always thrive. He said the time had come for the youth to opt for their local languages and shun any feeling of self-doubt and inferiority, pointing out that the Prime Minister too addressed top international fora in Hindi, a trend that was started by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Parents should also interact with children in their own language as the mother tongue would keep them connected to their roots, which was important for their overall progress. History books Mr. Shah said foreign languages were not effective in properly acquainting the people to the country’s glorious past and culture. He advocated translation of the history books of various regions and States into Hindi for the benefit of all countrymen. The Union Home Minister said Indian languages had played a vital role during the freedom struggle under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi, who linked the official language to the idea of nationality. Top leaders such as Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Rajendra Prasad, K.M. Munshi and Vinoba Bhave worked on strengthening Indian languages, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hindi-a-friend-of-all-indian-languages/article36465435.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covaxin may get WHO approval soon||The possible Emergency Use Listing (EUL) by the World Health Organization (WHO) of Bharat Biotech’s COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin by September-end “would bring in ease of international travel to Indians,’’ Dr. N.K. Arora, member, COVID-19 Task Force, told The Hindu on Tuesday. If the approval comes, it would be an international recognition of safety and efficiency of the vaccine and this would help in terms of the host country not insisting on revaccination by a ‘WHO recognised COVID-19 vaccine’ or wanting an RT-PCR test or even quarantine period. The WHO EUL is a risk-based procedure for assessing and listing unlicensed vaccines, therapeutics and in-vitro diagnostics with the ultimate aim of expediting the availability of these products to people affected by a public health emergency. The visa-related issues have emerged as one of the major consular challenges before the Modi government during the post-COVID-19 days. The main issue that has delayed the normalisation of visa procedures for Indian citizens is the fact that the “delta variant” of the virus was India-specific. As a result, many countries delayed normalisation of visa procedures with India. The European Union (EU), which introduced a special “digital pass” called EUDCC (EU Digital Covid Certificate), has not eased the visa procedures for India till now though individual countries of Europe have recognised Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield. The European Medicines Agency maintains that it has not received any application from the SII requesting recognition for Covishield. World body assessment As of now, the student visas for Australia remain closed as despite promising a phased opening, Canberra is yet to indicate a clear timeline for the return of Indian students to Australian university campuses. The Hyderabad-based company that makes Covaxin had applied for WHO EUL earlier this year. The vaccine will be granted EUL after a panel of the world body assesses the vaccine’s immunogenicity, safety and effectiveness. “The EUL will also assist interested UN procurement agencies and Member States in determining the acceptability of using specific products, based on an essential set of available quality, safety, and efficacy and performance data,’’ the WHO states. Besides ease of travel, the WHO EUL is a prerequisite for COVAX facility vaccine supply. It also allows countries to expedite their own regulatory approval to import and administer vaccines. The EUL assesses the quality, safety, and efficacy of vaccines, as well as programmatic suitability such as cold chain requirements, said industry experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-may-get-who-approval-soon/article36465453.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||NHRC notice on farmers’ protest||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday said it had issued notices to the Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan governments over complaints of industrial units and transportation being affected by the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Delhi border. The NHRC stated that it had “received several complaints regarding the ongoing farmers’ protest”, including about 9,000 industrial units and transportation being adversely affected. “Allegedly, transportation is also adversely impacted, causing commuters, patients, physically challenged people and senior citizens to suffer due to the heavy congestion on roads. There are also reports that people have to travel long distances to reach their destinations and barricades have been put on the borders,” a statement from NHRC read. The Commission issued notices to the Chief Secretaries and heads of police of the four States, calling for ‘action taken’ reports. “There is an allegation that there is breach of the COVID-19 protocols by the agitating farmers at the protest site. There is further allegation that the inhabitants are not being allowed to move out of their houses due to the blockade of the passage. Since the agitation involves the issue of human rights, the right to agitate in a peaceful manner is also to be respected. The Commission needs to take care of various human rights issues,” the commission’s statement noted. The panel said it had asked the Institute of Economic Growth to study the adverse impact of the protest on industries, commercial activity, transport and consumers and submit a report by October 10. It had also sought reports from the National Disaster Management Authority, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Union Ministry of Health on the adverse impact on COVID-19 protocols at the protest sites. The panel called upon the Jhajjar District Magistrate to file a report by October 10 regarding the payment of compensation to the family of an activist who was allegedly sexually assaulted at the protest site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-notice-on-farmers-protest/article36465423.ece
15 September 2021||SRINAGAR,||Finally, J&K tribal population to get their due||After a long delay, the Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to implement the Forest Rights Act, 2006, which will elevate the socio-economic status of a sizeable section of the 14 lakh population of tribals and nomadic communities, including Gujjar-Bakerwals and Gaddi-Sippis in the Union Territory. “After a wait of more than 14 years, due rights have been conferred upon the tribal community by implementing the Forest Rights Act, 2006, keeping in mind the basic spirit of social equality and harmony as guided by the Constitution of our country and Parliament,” J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said on Monday. Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, Administrative Secretary, Tribal Affairs Department, described the move as one “that will be written in golden words by the generations to come”. “It will help in ensuring a dignified life to the tribal population. Tribal people have close ties with forests and sadly there was no legal framework. The move will address the prolonged suffering of tribal people and also ensure forest conservation,” he stated. Cases of eviction In the past few years, there were growing cases of eviction of tribals from forest land in parts of the Kashmir Valley and Jammu region. The government termed them “illegal encroachers” but the regional parties accused the Forest Department of acting above the law in these cases. According to the Forum for Human Rights in J&K, headed by former Supreme Court judge Justice Madan B. Lokur and former J&K interlocutor Radha Kumar, the Union Territory saw the arbitrary demolition of Gujjar and Bakerwal houses during a forest reclamation drive in contravention of the Forest Rights Act of 2006. In the latest drive in Shopian on August 3, around 30 FIRs were lodged against encroachers, and seven booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA) in south Kashmir. However, Mr. Sinha has said the implementation of the Act will empower the tribal community by restoring to them the rights for a better life, while fulfilling the primary needs of water, food, home and livelihood. Javaid Rahi, a tribal rights activist, termed the J&K government’s move a “historic occasion”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/finally-jk-tribal-population-to-get-their-due/article36465462.ece
15 September 2021||Srinagar,||Kashmir’s golf scene gets a fairway||In a major push to promote Kashmir as a golfing capital of the country, top golfers are among 125 players participating in the Tata Steel Professional Golf Tour of India's (PGTI) 13th season of golf tournament at Srinagar's picturesque Royal Springs Golf Course (RSGC) from September 14. “It's a proud moment for J&K to host the tournament, as J&K pitches itself as a golfing capital of the country,” Sarmad Hafeez, Secretary, Tourism, said. He said the tournament was a testament to the fact that Kashmir had world class golfing infrastructure. The Tata Steel PGTI will witness participation of 125 golfers, including 119 professionals and six amateurs. Among them are Olympian Udayan Mane, Indian star Jyoti Randhawa and PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar. The four-day tournament is a 72-hole stroke play event with the cut being applied after two rounds. The tournament offers Official World Golf Ranking (OWGR) points for the top five finishers. “The tournament is in line with our long-term objective of promoting professional golf in different parts of the country,” Uttam Singh Mundy, Chief Executive Officer, PGTI, said. The event is seen as a shot in the arm for tourism in Kashmir, which is bouncing back after facing back-to-back slumps, first due to the clampdown that followed the Centre's move to end J&K's special constitutional position in August 2019 and later due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kashmirs-golf-scene-gets-a-fairway/article36465460.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dornier aircraft given on lease to Mauritius by Navy||The Navy has handed over a passenger variant Dornier (PVD) aircraft on lease to the Maritime Air Squadron of the National Coast Guard, Mauritius. The aircraft was presented to the Mauritius Police Force (MPF) at an official ceremony on Monday, the Navy said in a statement. Speaking on the occasion, the High Commissioner of India to the Maldives Nandini K. Singla observed that MSN 4059 had been leased to the MPF by the Indian Navy on a gratis basis to support the current increased load of air operations. “She also mentioned that next year, HAL shall be handing over a brand new state-of-the-art PVD to Mauritius and this purchase has been facilitated by the Line of Credit under the Government of Mauritius,” a Navy statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dornier-aircraft-given-on-lease-to-mauritius-by-navy/article36465456.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Tripura’s voters have realised mistake’||On September 7 and 8, 44 party offices of the Left Front in Tripura were torched. The CPI(M) says 67 houses and shops of its supporters were vandalised. Scores of other supporters were assaulted leaving at least 10 of them seriously injured requiring hospitalisation. Former Tripura Chief Minister Manik Sarkar says the volatile situation reflects the frustration of the people over unfulfilled promises.  The Assembly election is a good 18 months away, but the political situation in Tripura is already volatile. What is the reason for this? The reason is that the BJP has failed to deliver on the promises they made ahead of the 2018 Assembly polls. Urban, rural population, women, youth — in fact, the entire population of the State — are angry and frustrated. They feel cheated. The CPI(M), meanwhile, has not been sitting idle. We have been raising the burning issues of livelihood, food, health care facilities and so on. Gradually, the participation of people in our campaign programmes have improved and that is what has triggered these attacks on our offices. On September 6, they tried their best to stop me from attending a protest in my constituency, Dhanpur. This was not their first attempt; time and again, they have tried to stall visits to a constituency that I have represented for 25 years. The vote share of the CPI(M) has been declining since the 2018 Assembly polls. Have you managed to cover the lost ground? Braving all odds, we are going to the masses, listening to their problems and looking for solutions. The people who were misled to desert us in 2018 are slowly returning to the Left. They have realised their mistake — in fact, many of them come apologising that they got swayed by the BJP. Even those who have always been anti-Left and who voted only to oust the Left government have also started talking to us and aligning with us. They realise that there is no alternative to the BJP other than the Left parties. The CPI(M) is accused of Bengali majoritarianism in the State and was also one of the key reasons for your defeat in 2018. Has the party done any course correction in this regard? It is absolutely wrong to say so. We could not have formed the government in the first place without support of the tribal population in the State. Right from the beginning in Tripura, the bourgeois political parties, including the Congress, have tried their best to isolate Bengalis and the tribals. Our government’s biggest achievement was to bridge this gap. I will not deny that a section of the tribals was not with the Left, but these were mostly those associated with the princely family of the State. They always stayed back with the Congress. Now the same faction headed by Pradyut Maniyka has formed the new party TIPRA. He was himself the Congress’s State president, his father was thrice elected as Congress MP and his mother was a Minister in Congress government. And yes, the BJP has managed to sway a few among the younger generation in the tribal community by creating confusion and anti-Left propaganda. When people are confused, it is not easy to bring them back; it is a continuous process. It is not just the BJP, now you also have to contend with the Trinamool. How do you face the dual challenge? The Trinamool Congress has always been around. The only difference now is that the Kolkata-based media which are controlled by it are able to create a hype. West Bengal and Tripura may share a border but we are not alike. After the debacle in the West Bengal Polls of May 2021, your party claimed that the Left Front was squeezed out of the equation because of the bipolar contest between the BJP and the Trinamool. Isn’t there a possibility of a repeat of such a scenario in Tripura too? Again as I said, the situation in West Bengal and Tripura is completely different. Success in West Bengal does not automatically translate into a victory in Tripura. And even in West Bengal, they are always in campaign mode; have they delivered on any of their lofty promises? Let them work in the State, we will continue to do our work here. The CPI(M) says that its 21 workers were killed in 42 months of the BJP government. Recently, for two continuous days, we saw widespread violence against the Left. In a similar situation in Bengal faced with violence over the years, we saw a lot of your workers deserting you to join the BJP. What makes Tripura different? Our main weapon is our ideology, our sincerity and our commitment towards the masses. That is what we have been doing and that is what we will continue doing. People may commit mistakes. They cannot make the correct decision each time. We are also learning from our mistakes and loss. Our main task is not to disbelieve and disrespect people.  BJP has managed to sway the younger generation in the tribal community by creating confusion and anti-Left propaganda||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tripuras-voters-have-realised-mistake/article36465427.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||Congress panel to focus on inflation, unemployment||The Congress would focus on inflation and unemployment in the first phase as the party’s nine-member committee to plan ‘sustained agitations’ on national issues met for the first time on Tuesday. The panel, headed by Rajya Sabha member and former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Digvijaya Singh, includes general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Uttam Kumar Reddy, B.K. Hariprasad, Udit Raj, Ripun Bora, Manish Chathrath, Ragini Nayak and Zubair Khan. Though there was no official briefing on what was discussed, sources said leaders gave their suggestions in terms of issues that the party can raise among the people. Focus on Uttar Pradesh Ms. Vadra, who mostly focused on Uttar Pradesh, is said to have argued that the Congress should undertake a door-to-door campaign on issues like price rise as it affects every household. Mr. Bora, Rajya Sabha MP from Assam, is said to have argued that agitations need the face of a strong leader and suggested that former party chief Rahul Gandhi should play that role. Leaders also argued that mass awareness campaigns should be first undertaken and agitational programmes should follow. A host of issues including the farmers’ agitation, crime against women, Rafale, Pegasus and alleged misuse of probe agencies were also discussed. Earlier this month, party president Sonia Gandhi had constituted the nine-member panel to run campaigns against the policies and ‘misgovernance’ of the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-panel-to-focus-on-inflation-unemployment/article36465443.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Quad ‘doomed to fail’, says China||China on Tuesday hit out at the upcoming summit of the leaders of the Quad — India, Australia, Japan and the United States — describing the group as a “close and exclusive clique” that was “doomed to fail”. “It is China’s consistent belief that any regional cooperation mechanism should follow the trend of peace and development, and help promote mutual trust and cooperation among regional countries rather than target a third party or undermine its interests,” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said to a question at a daily briefing about the September 24 summit in Washington, which will be attended by Prime Ministers Narendra Modi, Scott Morrison (Australia) and Yoshihide Suga (Japan) and U.S. President Joe Biden. “Forming closed and exclusive cliques targeting other countries runs counter to the trend of the times and deviates from the expectation of regional countries. It thus wins no support and is doomed to fail,” Mr. Zhao said. Beijing raises criticism Chinese officials initially dismissed the Quad, once described by Foreign Minister Wang Yi as an idea akin to “sea foam” that would ‘dissipate’. Beijing has, however, recently stepped up criticism of the grouping as its profile grows, including through the first virtual leaders summit held earlier this year and the first in person summit later this month. Mr. Zhao called on “relevant countries” to “discard the outdated zero-sum mentality and narrow-minded geopolitical perception, view China’s development correctly and respect people’s aspiration in the region and do more that is conducive to solidarity and cooperation of regional countries.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quad-doomed-to-fail-says-china/article36465420.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Political parties must maintain restraint, says JD(U) chief||Janata Dal(U) president Rajiv Ranjan Singh “Lallan” on Tuesday said political parties must maintain “restraint” in their comments, asserting that the country belonged to everyone, be it Hindus, Muslims, Christians or any other community. He stated this in response to a question on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s recent abba jaan comment. Unity in diversity “Terms like ‘unity in diversity’ are used for our country. The country belongs to all. No remarks should be made that harm the country,” he observed. Mr. Singh also took a swipe at JMM leader and Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren for his remarks allegedly aimed at Bhojpuri and Magahi-speaking people of the State. Everybody has a right to settle in whichever part of the country they like, he asserted. While addressing a programme in Kushinagar on Sunday, Mr. Adityanath alleged that people did not get rations before 2017 like they do now. “Because then, people who say abba jaan used to digest the rations. The rations of Kushinagar used to go to Nepal and Bangladesh. Today, if anybody tries to swallow the rations meant for poor people, he will land in jail,” he had said.  Abba jaan is the Urdu term for father; the reference was to the Muslim community. Mr. Singh, who was addressing a press conference, played down the decision of his party, the biggest BJP ally, to send its senior leader K.C. Tyagi to a rally being organised in Jind on September 25 by INLD chief Om Prakash Chautala, seen as part of an effort to form a non-BJP, non-Congress front. “We are strongly part of the NDA [BJP-led alliance],” Mr. Singh remarked, dismissing talks about a third front. The JD(U) was to attend the rally as it was being organised to mark the birth anniversary of Devi Lal, a towering third front leader of his era. He also cited Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s old association with Mr. Chautala. Mr. Singh announced the names of former MLA Khiru Mahto and Gulab Mahto as the party’s president and vice-president respectively of its Jharkhand unit. The JD(U) used to be a strong party in the State. The appointments were part of its effort to strengthen itself in different parts of the country. The party would strongly fight the upcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Manipur, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/political-parties-must-maintain-restraint-says-jdu-chief/article36465439.ece
15 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab gears up for 2022 polls with more booths for voting||Ahead of the State Assembly elections, due early next year, Punjab Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) S. Karuna Raju on Tuesday said that after rationalisation in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic situation, the number of polling booths in the State has been increased to 24,689 from the existing 23,211. Mr. Raju said that due to the COVID pandemic, the limit of voters falling in a polling booth has been reduced from existing 1,400 to 1,200, which has resulted in increasing in the number of polling booths across the State. Mr. Raju said that the Election Commission of India (ECI) has given its concurrence to arrange additional Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) required for the coming Assembly election in Punjab. Mr. Raju said that district wise Nodal Officers are picking up these machines from Madhya Pradesh in GPS-fitted special transport containers under tight security after proper scanning. “In 10 districts, the EVM-VVPATs have safely reached the district headquarters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-gears-up-for-2022-polls-with-more-booths-for-voting/article36465446.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi holds brainstorming session with Ministers||The Union Council of Ministers met at the auditorium of the Rashtrapati Bhavan for what is being termed a “Chintan Shivir”, or brainstorming session, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the Ministers, many of whom are first timers, to stress simplicity in lifestyle, best practices of colleagues and time management. At the meeting, presentations were made by Union Ministers Mansukh Mandaviya and Dharmendra Pradhan on efficiency and time management. Both the Ministers shared good practices on time management, efficiency, root cause analysis of problems and selection of personal staff. Good practices about some basic issues such as dealing with people, promptly responding to letters were also shared in their presentations. Tiffin meetings Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who chaired the five- and-a-half-hour meeting spoke movingly about late Union Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar, as an illustrative example of simple living and high thinking. Mr. Modi also spoke about tiffin meetings during his Gujarat days where everyone used to bring their own tiffins to meetings and shared the food as well as ideas. Sources said the meeting was termed ‘Chintan Shivir’, a contemplation session for overall improvement in efficiency and governance. While Mr. Modi holds regular meetings of the Council of Ministers where various Ministries make presentations on important issues, Tuesday’s meeting was more in the line of a training camp and at least four such meetings will follow, sources said. There are at least 37 new Ministers in the Council of Ministers, most of whom are first timers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-holds-brainstorming-session-with-ministers/article36465497.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Don’t want to reopen order on quota in job promotion: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it was not ready to reopen a debate on its judgments granting reservation in promotion in government jobs to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao reiterated the court’s stand that it was up to the State governments to find ways and means of implementing the court’s June 2018 judgment on the issue. In a 58-page judgment in 2018, a Constitution Bench, led by then Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra, modified a 2006 judgment that required the State to show quantifiable data to prove the “backwardness” of a Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe community in order to provide quota in promotion in public employment. The court expects the States to comply with the judgments and not try to expand or deflect the scope of the case, the Bench, comprising Justices Sanjiv Khanna and B.R. Gavai, clarified. It made these remarks while hearing over 130 petitions variously seeking the implementation of judgments for reservation in promotion. Senior advocate Indira Jaising appearing for one of the petitioners, said the question was how the States were supposed to identify “backwardness”. Justice Rao shot back, “We are not here to advise the government what they should do. It is not for us to tell the government how to implement policy. The court posted a hearing after two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-want-to-reopen-order-on-quota-in-job-promotion-sc/article36465457.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Coronavirus variants Mu, C.1.2 not detected in India: INSACOG||Neither of the two coronavirus variants recently identified by the World Health Organization (WHO) that may pose a global threat has been found in India, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) said in its latest weekly update. The INSACOG is a consortium of laboratories tasked with analysing emerging coronavirus variants. On August 30, the WHO added B.1.621 (including B.1.621.1) to its list of variants of interest (VoI) and named it “Mu”. VoI is a step lower than VoC, or variants of concern. Mu has mutations that potentially allow it to evade the protection conferred by vaccines. The global prevalence of the Mu variant has declined and is currently below 0.1%. However, the prevalence in Colombia (39%) and Ecuador (13%) has consistently increased, according to the WHO. The agency has also added C.1.2 as a new variant of concern. C.1.2 is a sub-lineage of the C.1 variant identified in South Africa. It did not spread globally. “Neither Mu, nor C.1.2 are seen in India so far. Existing recommendations on the sequencing of the positive samples from international travellers may be more strongly implemented. “Monitoring and evaluation of further data appears to be adequate at this time,” the INSACOG report noted. The C.1.2 variant contains mutations of all three types known to increase transmissibility and aids immune escape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coronavirus-variants-mu-c12-not-detected-in-india-insacog/article36465537.ece
15 September 2021||Kolkata,||BJP files plea against Mamata’s affidavit||The campaign for the high-profile Bhabanipur Assembly byelections is intensifying with each passing day. In its latest salvo, the BJP on Tuesday alleged that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, in her affidavit filed before the Election Commission of India, had not given information about the cases filed in Assam against her. A complaint was filed by BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal’s election agent Sajal Ghosh to the returning officer of the Bhabanipur Assembly constituency alleging discrepancies in Ms. Banerjee’s affidavit. Trinamool leader Firhad Hakim, however, said that the complaint in Assam was not against Ms. Banerjee but against another person with the same name. A similar complaint was filed by the BJP when Ms. Banerjee was contesting at Nandigram. During the day, the Chief Minister took to social media extending good wishes on the occasion of “Hindi Divas”. A significant population of Bhabanipur are non-Bengali, Hindi speakers and their support will be crucial to the results. Ms Banerjee had started her campaign by addressing a workers meeting at Atindra Manch and visiting the Ekbalpur area. The Trinamool Congress has brought in heavyweights like Minister Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee to campaign while party MLA Madan Mitra has been campaigning daily in the constituency in south Kolkata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-files-plea-against-mamatas-affidavit/article36465425.ece
15 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram seeks details of 26 arrested Myanmarese||The Mizoram police have sought detailed information from their Assam counterparts on the 26 Myanmar nationals who were arrested from a guest house in the Rehabari area of Guwahati after arriving in two SUVs from Mizoram capital Aizawl on September 12. The police said they were carrying fake voter identity and Aadhaar cards and “on their way to Delhi to study Bible [theology]”. They were found to be citizens of Chin state of the civil war-torn Myanmar. Mizoram Inspector General of Police (Headquarters) John Neihlaia told presspersons in Aizawl that officials had been asked to write a formal letter to the Assam police seeking detailed information about the Myanmar nationals and their fake documents for verification and necessary action according to the law. Forging of documents He said there had been cases of forged documents in the State but these were made in Delhi, Bengaluru and other centres in India, including Manipur. “These [Guwahati case] alleged fake documents could have been made in Mizoram. We will investigate after getting the details and ensure that people responsible for forging documents are punished,” he stated. According to the Assam police, all the 26 Myanmar nationals had identity cards issued by the Faith Theological College and Mission in Aizawl that said they were residents of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizoram-seeks-details-of-26-arrested-myanmarese/article36465458.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Glitches remain on I-T portal ahead of deadline||“The government should waive the interest for those taxpayers, who have already paid their entire tax liability, if they file their ITR within the extended time limit,” Mr. Kumar said, stressing that people are keen to file their returns as no one wants to pay the interest. Some glitches still remain to be sorted out even as there has been some ‘gradual improvement’ in the portal’s interface, said Suresh Surana, founder of RSM India, listing out several hiccups. “The taxpayers are facing issues in auto-population of data from the Form 26AS as imported data either is populated incorrectly or is not at all populated,” he said. “Rectification of ITR, tax credit mismatch, challan corrections and certain other functionalities are still not activated,” Mr Surana said, adding that grievances reported on the portal — that were ‘ideally addressed in a week’ — now take about 30 to 45 days to elicit a response. Mr Kumar said the portal is still evolving with changes in modules of e-filing of ITR form. “On some days, it works fine, on other days, there are technical glitches in some modules. Even through the functioning has improved over past few weeks, but still problems persist making it difficult for some taxpayers while filing the ITR,” he added. The processing speed of the new e-filing portal also remains comparatively slower than the earlier version despite some improvements since the portal’s launch, while ITR forms for companies, partnership firms and Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs) are still not available for filing, Mr Surana pointed out. While corporates have till November-December to file their returns, individual taxpayers with different income sources are facing varying challenges prompting some CAs to charge higher fees for a successful return filing. “There are categories that need to submit one or more forms before filing the return and include their date of submission and acknowledgement in the ITR, but the field for those details haven’t been activated in the ITR,” said a Mumbai-based accountant. Given the glitches in several functionalities, the user interface of the new portal is difficult as it follows a step-by-step approach. “Earlier, we could fill in details on different tabs of the return form and populate them gradually till the time of filing. Now, you cannot fill up the details you may have access to, till all the fields in an earlier step are filled,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/glitches-remain-on-i-t-portal-ahead-of-deadline/article36465430.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Government stands by small farmer, says PM||“Providing a conducive atmosphere to investors, today U.P. makes news for big infrastructure projects. Mafia and scams have become things of the past,” he remarked. Over the years, Aligarh’s locks have protected homes and belongings, he pointed out. “Now defence products made in Aligarh will protect the borders of the country.” The upcoming university would not only provide modern education but also become an important centre of research in defence studies and provide manpower to industries that have invested in the defence sector. The region, as observers had said, was known as an important source of recruitment for the armed forces and the defence corridor and the university would help in diversified employment in the sector. Though Aligarh was covered with BJP posters describing Raja Mahendra Pratap, a socialist, as “Jat Shiromani”, Mr. Modi didn’t pitch him as a Jat icon in his speech. Raja Mahendra Pratap was among those figures of the Freedom movement whose contributions were ignored by the previous governments, he alleged. “The mistakes of the 20th Century are being corrected by the 21st Century India, in its 75th year of Independence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/government-stands-by-small-farmer-says-pm/article36465431.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘No firm commitment from India on net zero’||“The next 10 years will decide whether 1.5 degrees is achievable. And they will also decide whether net zero [emissions] is feasible by 2050. Because if you don’t do enough in the first decade, you can’t get a steep enough production curve to do it afterwards, barring some miracle discovery that we don’t have as yet today,” Mr. Kerry told a group of journalists. When asked if he had any firm commitments from India on raising climate ambitions, Mr. Kerry said “no one said no, but no one said yes”, adding that the final decision was PM Narendra Modi’s prerogative, and “internal deliberations” need to take place to make that decision. At a separate function during the day, a day after he met Mr. Kerry, Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Bhupender Yadav said India is focused on the “key issues” of climate justice and sustainable lifestyles, stressing on the inequality between the demands of developed societies from developing countries on emissions cuts. “[I] Underlined that ‘net zero’ alone is not enough. We need deeds, not just plain words,” Mr. Yadav said, speaking at an event organised by business chamber FICCI. He also referred to a recent report of the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), that said that even if the world achieves a global warming level held at 1.5 degrees by 2050, it would still be “too little too late” to clean up the greenhouse gases already in the atmosphere, as a “clarion call” for developed countries, a Ministry press release said.    (With inputs from   Jacob Koshy)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-firm-commitment-from-india-on-net-zero/article36465432.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||India, U.K. to begin trade talks from November 1||The steps include a series of trade working groups from September to help both sides “better understand each other’s position on potential chapter areas in any trade deal, including tariffs, standards, IP and data regulation”. The proposed trade agreement would unlock the “extraordinary” business opportunities and generate jobs, Mr. Goyal stressed. He emphasised the need to strike a balance between commitments and concessions in goods and services. Discussions to finalise the terms of reference for the FTA negotiations would begin on October 1, he said. “The International Trade Secretary reaffirmed her ambition to negotiate a trade agreement that delivers results for the British people and businesses, including those in digital and data, tech and food and drink,” the U.K. statement highlighted, indicating its priority areas. The U.K. India Business Council, in its pre-FTA submission to the U.K. Department of International Trade, had sought measures to ensure tax parity between the U.K. and Indian businesses and lower tariffs on alcoholic spirits and medical devices, among other items. It had also pitched for curbing non-tariff barriers to goods trade by aligning standards and “simplifying burdensome and costly customs procedures” and steps such as “IP protection and alignment of data protection rules” to enable digitally driven future focussed industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-and-uk-to-begin-trade-talks-from-nov-1/article36465433.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pak.-based terror module busted, 6 held, say police||The Special Cell of the Delhi Police said it had busted a Pakistan-based terror module and arrested six men, including two terrorists trained by the ISI, on Tuesday. Special Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Neeraj Kumar Thakur said the accused haD been identified as Jaan Mohammad Shaikh, 47, alias ‘Sameer’, Osama, 22, Moolchand, 47, Zeeshan Qamar, 28, Mohd Abu Bakar, 23, and Mohd Amir Javed, 31. They were arrested from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Osama and Qamar are Pakistan-trained terror operatives working under the instructions of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), the police said. The police said the alleged terrorists were planning blasts across the country including Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra during the festivals of Ganesh Chaturthi, Navaratri and Ramleela. According to the police, the Pakistan-based Anees Ibrahim, brother of Dawood Ibrahim, was connected with the underworld operatives to execute the terror plan. Osama and Qamar, the police said, were tasked to conduct the reconnaissance of different suitable locations in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh for placing IEDs. “The arrest of the four accused has exposed the nexus of the Pakistan's ISI-sponsored and trained terror modules with underworld operatives,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-based-terror-module-busted-6-held-say-police/article36465499.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Janaka proves his mettle||During the dialogue between Ashtavakra and Janaka, a pertinent argument about Janaka continuing in worldly life even after gaining the rare state of self realisation is raised by the former. Janaka's reply exemplifies the clarity of thought and perception of his realised state which has helped him to reconcile the esoteric and the practical issues in his way of life, pointed out Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. Janaka explains by drawing attention to the differences in approach to the effects of the universe on the body and mind of an ordinary individual and of one who is self-realised. First of all, one who is not aware of the nature of the self is greatly affected by the desires, fears, disappointments, miseries and restrictions caused by the bondage with the world. This serious attachment with worldly ties is the result of ignorance. Even celestial beings, like Indra and others, are disturbed by the fluctuations and threats in their lives and are unhappy. But a self-realised person's reaction is sportive, as he knows the world and its activities are only an appearance and He remains unattached with all he does, though he acts with responsibility. Another fact is that a self realised person is in a state of bliss, a state that transcends the state of what we call happiness, joy or elation. This state of bliss is the natural state of the self. Boiling water appears agitated but returns to its original state of calm when the heat is removed. Moreover, a jnani is insulated from the effects of papa and punya that bind all human beings because he is dissociated from the sarira which is the cause of samsara. These do not affect him though he appears to be in the world of samsara. Smoke and dust may pervade the atmosphere but does it in any way affect the akasa?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/janaka-proves-his-mettle/article36465447.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Submit plan to control Delhi’s air pollution’||Delhi’s Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Tuesday all departments have been asked to submit their respective action plans to control air pollution to the environment department by September 21. He also said the government would then prepare a winter action plan based on it to control air pollution. Mr. Rai said the Development Department has been given the responsibility to make an action plan to solve the issue of stubble in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/submit-plan-to-control-delhis-air-pollution/article36466063.ece
15 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha gets over 869% excess rainfall||Odisha has received over 869% excess rainfall on a single day, leading to large-scale inundation across the State. “Odisha usually receives an average rainfall of 7.8 mm between September 13 and 14. However,it recorded precipitation of 75.6 mm, which is 869% excess rainfall in the past 24 hours,” Director of Bhubaneswar Meteorological Centre H. R. Biswas said on Tuesday. Four persons have lost their lives, while over 2,000 villages in 11 districts across the State have been affected by swirling water due to incessant rain. Special Relief Commissioner P. K. Jena said, “ It has been decided to open few sluice gates of the Hirakud dam.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-gets-over-869-excess-rainfall/article36465454.ece
15 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP to lose U.P. poll: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday targeted Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for his abba jaan jibe, saying the BJP leader changed his language as the saffron party was destined to be “wiped out” in 2022 polls. “The BJP is destined to go,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-to-lose-up-poll-akhilesh/article36465495.ece
15 September 2021||Patna,||Name Taliban a terror outfit, says Owaisi||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday dared the Central government to declare the Taliban a terrorist organisation and put it on the list of outfits banned under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Addressing the media Mr. Owaisi said, “If the government has courage, it should declare the Taliban a terrorist organisation. Since 2013, I’ve been saying that the Taliban’s emergence could be a sign of concern for India and it might benefit China and Pakistan, but for the BJP all Muslims are Taliban.” Asked if the AIMIM will be contesting U.P. Assembly poll next year, Mr. Owaisi said his party was willing to contest 100 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/name-taliban-a-terror-outfit-says-owaisi/article36465437.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prince Paswan booked on rape charges||Following a Delhi court order, the Delhi Police have registered a case against Lok Janshakti Party leader Prince Paswan on charges of rape on Tuesday. While the victim had approached the court in July, the court ordered the police to register the FIR on September 9. “The court’s direction came on Thursday and a case has been registered,” the police said. The complainant, a former LJP officer-bearer, alleged that during one of the meetings with Mr. Prince, he offered her water which she drank and fell unconscious. Later, he allegedly showed her a video wherein he was having “physical relations” with her. She said he proposed marriage and threatened to share the video online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prince-paswan-booked-on-rape-charges/article36465438.ece
15 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP is set to go in U.P.: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday targeted Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for his abba jaan jibe, saying the BJP leader changed his language as the saffron party was destined to be “wiped out” in 2022 polls. “The BJP is destined to go,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-is-set-to-go-in-up-akhilesh/article36465440.ece
15 September 2021||Srinagar,||Three civilians injured in Pulwama||Three civilians were injured in a grenade attack by militants in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Tuesday. The militants tossed a grenade at a police party. “The grenade exploded on the road. Three civilians suffered splinter injuries in the attack,” an official said. This is the third attack by militants in the past three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-civilians-injured-in-pulwama/article36465441.ece
15 September 2021||Kolkata,||RS seat: TMC nominates Sushmita Dev||The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday nominated Sushmita Dev for the Rajya Sabha. Ms. Dev is a former president of the Mahila Congress who joined the TMC only a month ago. Ms. Dev, who represented the Silchar Lok Sabha seat in Assam and had joined the TMC on August 17, thanked party chairperson Mamata Banerjee for the opportunity. The Rajya Sabha seat fell vacant due to the resignation of Manas Ranjan Bhunia who won the Assembly poll. Elections to six seats from five States are scheduled on October 4. The nomination of Ms. Dev assumes significance as it is crucial to the TMC’s plans to extend its footprint in the northeast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-seat-tmc-nominates-sushmita-dev/article36465444.ece
15 September 2021||Amravati/Nagpur,||4 drown after boat capsizes in Amravati||Four persons drowned and at least seven others were missing after their boat capsized in the Wardha river in Maharashtra’s Amravati district on Tuesday, the police said. Two swam to safety, they said. The incident took place around 10.30 a.m.in Warud tehsil under the jurisdiction of Benoda police station, when 12 members of some families from Gadegaon village along with the boatman were on the way to a temple after visiting a waterfall nearby, a police official said. Prima facie , it appears that the boat was unable to sustain the weight of its occupants, he said. The victims had come to Zunj in Warud tehsil for the post-death rituals of a relative on Monday.. On Tuesday morning, they all got on to the boat to visit a temple. However, the vessel capsized in the middle of the river, the official said. Two of its male occupants, aged 27 and 35, swam to safety, he said. Three bodies identified Teams of the police and district disaster management authority have so far fished out four bodies, and three of them were identified as boatman Narayan Matare, 45, Wanshika Shivankar, 2, and Kiran Khandale, 25, the police said. Efforts were on to trace the other seven missing people, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-drown-after-boat-capsizes-in-amravati/article36465448.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India rejects remarks on Kashmir||The remarks by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, on the circumstances in Kashmir are “unwarranted”, said the Indian diplomatic representative to the 48th Human Rights Council (HRC) in Geneva, on Tuesday. On Monday, Ms. Bachelet had expressed her concern about the “frequent” disruptions in communication that continue to affect the Kashmir region. “Any shortcomings in upholding human rights must be addressed in a transparent and impartial manner, anchored in respect for national sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs of States,” stated Reenat Sandhu, Secretary (West), Ministry of External Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-rejects-remarks-on-kashmir/article36465500.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Easier process for adoptive couples||The Women and Child Development Ministry will bridge the legislative gap between the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act (HAMA) and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 that has forced adoptive parents under HAMA to move court to take their child abroad, Ministry sources said on Tuesday. The Ministry will issue a notification to set up a mechanism for NoCs for adoptions under HAMA soon, the functionary said. This will be in compliance with the Hague Convention on Inter-Country Adoptions to prevent child trafficking and is governed through the JJ Act, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/easier-process-for-adoptive-couples/article36465419.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||7,000 MoD staff to move to new offices||As part of the Central Vista redevelopment project, over 7,000 employees of the Ministry of Defence (MoD) will move to new office complexes at two locations from the existing hutments and old buildings around South Block and North Block. The two complexes constructed at a combined cost of Rs. 775 crore are scheduled to be formally inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi later this week. “It is a big thing for us. Since Independence, many of our employees have been in hutments. For the first time, they will move into proper offices,” a senior defence official said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7000-mod-staff-to-move-to-new-offices/article36465421.ece
15 September 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||MBBS aspirant found dead in Ariyalur||The body of an 18-year-old girl belonging to Sathampadi village near Jayankondam, who had written the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) on Sunday in Thanjavur, was found in her home at Thularankurichi on Tuesday morning, the police said. No suicide note was found. K. Kanimozhi had studied Plus Two at a private school in Namakkal. According to her parents, the girl was seen depressed since she wrote the NEET. “She told me that she could not do well in the examination as physics and chemistry questions were tough. I consoled her, but she could not digest it and ended her life. No one should undergo such trauma in life,” said Karunanidhi, father of Kanimozhi, a lawyer. K. Ferozekhan Abdullah, Superintendent of Police, told The Hindu that the victim had reportedly ended her life due to the fear of failure in NEET. Inquiry was on under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. After the preliminary investigation, the body was taken to the Government Hospital in Jayankondam for post-mortem. The parents, who received the body after an autopsy, performed last rites at Sathampadi village in the evening. S.S. Sivasankar, Minister for Backward Classes, and Thamarai S. Rajendran, former Chief Government Whip of the AIADMK, were among those who paid their last respects to Kanimozhi. In 2017, S. Anitha of Kuzhumur village, in Ariyalur, who had impleaded herself in a Supreme Court case challenging NEET, had ended her life. On Sunday, Dhanush who was going to attempt NEET for the third time, was found dead.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mbbs-aspirant-found-dead-in-ariyalur/article36465601.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||13 candidates score full cut-off of 200 as TNEA merit list is out||A total of 13 candidates, including five girls, have scored the full cut-off of 200 marks this year in the merit list published by the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions committee on Tuesday. As many as 1,39,033 candidates are eligible for counselling — including 1,36,973 candidates in the academic stream and 2,060 in the vocational stream. Among them were 12 transgender persons. This year, 440 colleges with 1,51,870 seats are participating in the single-window counselling that will be held in five rounds. Among the top 13 is a candidate from Karnataka. Since he is a native of Tamil Nadu, he has become eligible for counselling, TNEA officials said. The lowest cut-off is 77.5 marks. Of the 1,74,930 registered applications for which random numbers were generated, only 1,42,323 were verified, and 3,290 candidates were found ineligible. The officials said the random number was used only for four candidates. The cut-off is calculated on the basis of a candidate’s score in mathematics (50%), physics (25%) and chemistry (25%). In a first, a separate merit list was prepared for government school students. It has 15,660 applicants, including 499 in the vocational stream and 20 differently abled candidates. The topper has scored 197.9. While 182 differently abled candidates are in the academic merit list, there are two such candidates in the vocational merit list. As many as 1,122 wards of ex-servicemen have applied, including four from government schools. The topper in the vocational stream has scored 193.955 marks. As many as 1,190 candidates are competing under the sports quota for around 500 seats. Unlike last year when 26,533 candidates had scored below 100, only 1,193 candidates are in this category this year. Independent educational consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi says the non-conduct of the Class 12 exams has made the process a challenge. “In 2020, we had 26,533 candidates with less than 100 cut-off. This year, the number has fallen to 1,193. Another issue is the huge number of students in the 160-180 cut-off range. There were 14,185 students [in this bracket] last year, but there are 57,592 students this year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-candidates-score-full-cut-off-of-200-as-tnea-merit-list-is-out/article36465597.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Roads near Chennai Central are a perpetual ‘work in progress’||“I started well in advance from Velachery to the Central railway station to catch a train to Coimbatore. I barely managed to catch my train. My cab got stuck in the middle of the bridge in front of the Central station for over 30 minutes. The heavy luggage I carried prevented me from taking the risk of walking the distance. Vehicles had piled up on the bridge. It was jam-packed,” said Priya, a frequent traveller to Coimbatore. Caught in the pile up of vehicles on the stretch leading to the Central station from Anna Salai and E.V.R. Salai during the peak hours, many spend anxious moments before reaching the station. This has been the familiar situation for the public for a decade now. Fed up with traffic jams, commuters often get down from city buses in the middle of the bridge and literally sprint to the station to catch suburban trains. The traffic policemen remain mute spectators to this almost every day. Commuters from MRTS station or Park Station skip the subway and cross the stretch on foot. What saves the day for them is vehicles moving at a snail’s pace on the road between Victoria Hall and the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Autorickshaws and call taxis are parked near the subways, albeit illegally, worsens the traffic congestion. N. Ramesh, former member of rail users consultative committee, said parking of buses coming from E.V.R. Salai and Pallavan Salai along the E.V.R. Salai is the root-cause of the chaos. When pressed for space, the authorities allow these buses to be parked in the bays on the railway station premises, which aggravates the crisis. The situation turns worse at Medical College junction when the syncrhonised traffic lights are on and this has a cascading effect on Walltax Road, E.V.R. Salai, Pallavan Salai and even up to Anna Salai. Many motorists say it is next to impossible to enter the Central station from Walltax Road in the evening. “The exit and entry points to the lane designated for cars are too narrow. You cannot drop people near the station entrance,” said a senior journalist. There is a special fast lane, but that is only for VIPs and railway officers. The construction work near the Metro Rail station has worsened the problem near the car parking lot. A driver has to pass through a maze of exits and entries before hunting for a slot. “At the central railway station, they go on undertaking construction work and keep on changing plans for parking or other common utilities. There is no proper planning here to regulate the movement of any vehicle for that matter,” said Naina Masilamani, member, Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee. D. Satyakumar, a frequent traveller from Coimbatore, said: “People who get down in the early morning hours get confused. It is impossible to reach the prepaid auto counter. There are no visible sign boards that guide the public to the MRTS and suburban rail stations. Besides, auto drivers and taxi drivers mob the travellers coming out of the station. Outside the station, commuters have to wait either in hot sun or in pouring rain for city buses.” Southern Railway officials said a certain portion of the premises is cordoned off for Metro Rail work. “Hence the place may seem congested. We have restricted the entry of autorickshaw and taxi drivers. Apart from these efforts, we have created two lanes — one for call taxis and another for private vehicles,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roads-near-chennai-central-are-a-perpetual-work-in-progress/article36465609.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases in Chennai cross 200-mark||Chennai returned to the top of the table of fresh infections after several weeks, with 212 persons testing positive for COVID-19 in 24 hours, even as Tamil Nadu reported 1,591 fresh cases and 27 deaths. The State’s case tally has gone up to 26,37,010 and toll to 35,217. At present, 16,549 persons are under treatment. Coimbatore followed close behind Chennai, with 202 cases. Three other districts — Chengalpattu (116), Thanjavur (119) and Erode (128) — recorded a higher number of infections. Ramanathapuram recorded just two fresh cases, Perambalur seven, Tenkasi five and Theni and Thoothukudi nine each. Six persons tested positive in Tirupathur and seven in Virudhunagar. As many as 1,537 persons were discharged after treatment. The number of the discharged patients has gone up to 25,85,244. Five persons died in Coimbatore and three each in Salem and Thanjavur. Chennai, Vellore and Tiruppur and Tiruvallur recorded two deaths each. One each died in Virudhunagar, Ranipet, Pudukottai, Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Cuddalore, Kallakurichi and Kancheepuram. The State has so far tested 4,45,27,080 samples using RT-PCR, including the 1,52,296 samples tested in 24 hours. A total of 4,07,738 doses of Covishield and Covaxin were administered on Tuesday. Among those vaccinated were 452 healthcare workers; 754 frontline workers; 2,44,539 persons aged 18-44; 1,21,964 persons aged 45-59 with co-morbidities; and 40,029 senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-in-chennai-cross-200-mark/article36465600.ece
15 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DMK fields Kanimozhi Somu, Rajeshkumar for RS bypolls||The DMK, on Tuesday, announced party candidates for the two Rajya Sabha seats. Party president and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said Kanimozhi N.V.N. Somu and K.R.N. Rajeshkumar would be the party candidates for the by-elections to be held on October 4. Dr. Kanimozhi is the daughter of late Union Minister N.V.N. Somu. Mr. Rajeshkumar is in-charge of the party's Namakkal-East district unit. The vacancies were caused by the resignations of AIADMK leaders K. P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam upon their election to the Assembly. TNCC unruffled DMK’s main alliance partner, the Congress hopes that the DMK will keep its end of the bargain and provide a Rajya Sabha seat to it when the biennial elections to the Upper House are held next June. Senior leaders in the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee remained unruffled over the DMK naming candidates to both the bypoll seats, primarily because both seats do not have a full six year term. However, a senior leader privy to the seat sharing discussions during the Assembly polls told The Hindu that there was no written agreement with the DMK for the Rajya Sabha seat. Another leader in the party, however, said the Congress will be allotted one Rajya Sabha seat in 2022 and an oral assurance by the DMK leadership during the seat sharing talks is likely to be upheld by the alliance leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-fields-kanimozhi-somu-rajeshkumar-for-rs-bypolls/article36465593.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NHAI contractors seek revision in norms for mining earth||Contractors undertaking work on the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in the State have urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to change the policy of granting permission to mine earth for road construction projects. At a meeting convened by Minister for Highways E.V. Velu on Tuesday, the contractors expressed their inability to continue with the projects due to non-availability of raw material, including earth and blue metal. Many projects stopped Sources said that around 80 projects to construct underpasses at black spots and 25 road projects had been stopped due to shortage of raw material. The contractors said they had raised the issues, including shortage of raw material, at a recent meeting convened by the Union Minister for Highways in New Delhi. “The Minister said on an earlier occasion that if the State government did not cooperate, the NHAI would have no other go but to exit from the projects in the State,” said a contractor, who attended the meeting in Delhi. A contractor, who attended the meeting in Chennai, said they were forced to pay Rs. 37 per cubic feet, instead of actual Rs. 4 to Rs. 7 a cubic feet of earth. “There is a cartel and if we don’t agree to its rates, we are denied permission for mining. We need earth in lakhs of cubic feet for each project and have to spend large amounts on transportation as well. We want district collectors to be able to provide permission,” he said. Contractors had issues with shifting of utility lines and construction of structures along waterbodies. Monthly review Mr. Velu directed the Highways Secretary to review the progress of NHAI projects every month and told the contractors that he had written to the respective Ministers seeking their cooperation in completion of these works. Meanwhile, the Minister issued promotion orders to around 160 staff of the department whose promotions had been put on hold for over three years.  There is a cartel and if we don’t agree to its rates, we are denied permission for mining||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhai-contractors-seek-revision-in-norms-for-mining-earth/article36465618.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK sees no change in alliance for local bodies elections||The AIADMK is hopeful of contesting in the rural local bodies elections in nine districts along with the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), its allies in the Assembly election. A cross-section of the AIADMK functionaries feels that “the alliance remains intact” though it may not have functioned cohesively in the Assembly in the last one month. The three parties were on the same page only on the probe into the Kodanad heist-cum-murder case — they had all walked out. Otherwise, each had a different stand on various issues. The PMK and the BJP supported the presentation of the first agriculture budget, whereas the AIADMK did not offer any comment. When the House adopted a resolution against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the BJP opposed it, but the PMK supported it, with the AIADMK not being present. On exemption of Tamil Nadu from the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET), the AIADMK and the PMK went along with the ruling DMK, whereas the BJP opposed it. Notwithstanding the lack of a coordinated approach in the Assembly, the alliance did not suffer from any blame game or major differences after its defeat in the Assembly election. The only occasion of discord came in July when AIADMK Villupuram (North) unit secretary and former Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam cited his party’s ties with the BJP as one of the reasons for its defeat in the Assembly election. After BJP leader K.T. Raghavan strongly reacted to his remarks, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam swiftly declared that his party’s ties with the BJP would continue. Hours later, he and co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami issued a joint statement, reiterating the continuance of the alliance. Subsequently, BJP State president K. Annamalai called for his party’s ties with the AIADMK to continue. A few weeks later, Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi. Sources in AIADMK say the district secretaries have been empowered to decision on the sharing of seats among the allies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-sees-no-change-in-alliance-for-local-bodies-elections/article36465742.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK’s decision surprises AIADMK||The Pattali Makkal Katchi’s (PMK) decision to go it alone in the elections to rural local bodies in nine districts seems to have surprised the AIADMK, which had hoped to go to the polls along with the former and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). A key functionary of the AIADMK, who hails from a northern district, says that even though the PMK has acquired a reputation for changing its electoral allies frequently, he is not able to fathom the logic behind its latest move. “After all, it was Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who as Chief Minister in February, fulfilled the long-standing demand of PMK founder S. Ramadoss for special reservation of 10.5% for Vanniyars within the quota of the Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities.” Another leader from the northern region claims that his party has been making preparations to face the elections regardless of the nature of the alliance. Asked whether the party will make any effort to reach out to the PMK, K.P. Munusamy, deputy coordinator, replied that it is for the party leadership to decide. Stitched on the eve of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the AIADMK-PMK alliance ensured the return of the PMK’s youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss to the Rajya Sabha. In July 2019, he was elected to the Rajya Sabha on the basis of support of the AIADMK, which was the then ruling party. Earlier, Dr. Anbumani Ramadoss could not retain his seat in the Lok Sabha as he lost in Dharmapuri. In the 2019 rural local bodies’ elections, the PMK, as a constituent of the AIADMK-led alliance, bagged 16 district panchayat wards and 224 panchayat union wards. Not on the same page In the recently concluded month-long session of the Assembly, there were occasions when the AIADMK and the PMK were not on the same page. The PMK and the BJP supported the presentation of the first agriculture budget, whereas the AIADMK did not offer any comment. However, on issues such as the probe into the Kodanad heist-cum-murder case and the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test, the two parties took the same stand. In fact, on the Kodanad issue, the AIADMK, PMK and the BJP had all walked out of the House.  In the recently concluded session of the Assembly, there were occasions when the parties were not on the same page||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmks-decision-surprises-aiadmk/article36465603.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Book on migrants, migration patterns||Experts researching migration patterns in Tamil Nadu, are set to release a book titled ‘ Tamil Migrants — A Demographic, Social and Economic Analysis’ , which is expected to provide fresh perspectives on the subject. The book is expected to provide latest data available for policymakers, academia and those interested in observing patterns in intra and inter-State migration. “We are planning to release the book in the next few weeks. The book is a result of a systematic research on Tamil migrants for the first time,” S. Irudaya Rajan, Founder-Chairman of The International Institute of Migration & Development in Thiruvananthapuram and the lead author of the book, told The Hindu over phone. With news reports suggesting that international remittances constituted 14% of Tamil Nadu’s gross state domestic product in 2015, (which is said to be almost three times the national average), the book is expected to provide the science behind the remittance pattern in Tamil Nadu. “Tamil Nadu can be called a ‘mobile society’. The State has always received several in-migrants over the years and many of them have eventually decided to settle down in Tamil Nadu. And there are also out-migrants from the State, who have travelled to various parts of the world. This book will analyse the patterns both in in-migrants and out-migrants with respect to Tamil Nadu,” he said. The book published by Orient Blackswan depends heavily on the data obtained for the Tamil Nadu Migration Survey, 2015 but also includes additional information on the remittances, internal migration, besides analysing the causes, costs and financing of migration. It also has a comparative analysis of the migration surveys undertaken in neighbouring States Tamil Nadu and Kerala in 2015 and in 2014 respectively. Since the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in major migration back to Tamil Nadu, there is a need for the government to undertake a fresh study, Mr. Rajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-on-migrants-migration-patterns/article36465638.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TUFIDCO is nodal agency for State’s flagship urban development scheme||The Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (TUFIDCO) would be the nodal agency for the implementation of the ‘Kalaignar Nagarpura Mempattu Thittam’ (KNMT), a new scheme announced by the State government for urban development. The ambitious scheme that is to be implemented on a total outlay of Rs. 1,000 crore during 2021-22 would cover all 121 municipalities and 528 town panchayats, since Smart Cities Mission, AMRUT has extensively covered Municipal Corporations and major towns. TUFIDCO would act as the Fund Management Agency of the KNMT fund and would appraise the projects for the scheme, call for tenders for studies and preparation of DPRs, execute/terminate deeds, contracts and agreements, among other functions. According to the guidelines issued on Tuesday, an Urban Development Plan (UDP) would be prepared for each urban body following a detailed survey so as to assess the present availability of basic infrastructure and the gaps to be fulfilled. “A City Water Balance Plan will be prepared for each urban local body. Similar survey and assessment of the gaps will be undertaken for all needed components of the ULBs concerned,” reads the guidelines. Based on the UDP, basic needs would be assessed and works would be taken up to fulfil the infrastructure gaps — be it water supply, street lights, roads/streets and lanes, community infrastructure, such as community halls, markets, libraries/knowledge centres, among others. A five-member Project Sanctioning and Monitoring Committee headed by the Secretary of the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department will decide the sub allocation to municipalities and town panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tufidco-is-nodal-agency-for-states-flagship-urban-development-scheme/article36465641.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t create ruckus on trains, students told||Government Railway Police (GRP) has advised college students not to travel on footboard or indulge in ruckus while travelling on trains. In this regard, the government railway police, Tamil Nadu, conducted an awareness programme for students of Presidency College on the campus about the procedures to be followed while travelling by train. Students were advised to adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines, wear masks, sanitise hands frequently and keep physical distance while travelling in trains. The officers urged the students not to indulge in footboard travel or ruckus while commuting on the train. Tey briefed about accidents caused by careless crossing of tracks and the difficulties faced by passengers and the public when quarrels erupt on trains. The students were briefed about arrests made by police and the consequences to be faced when cases are registered against them. Helpline numbers The railway police 24x7 helpline phone number 512 and contact number 9962500500 are displayed at all railway stations and also inside the trains to contact police about all types of crimes, security related complaints and railway accidents.  Students were briefed about the arrests made by police and the consequences of booking a case||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-create-ruckus-on-trains-students-told/article36465611.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Talks over closure of Ford plant fail||After two rounds of talks held on Monday and Tuesday with the senior management of Ford, union members said the company had made it clear that it would wind up operations at its Chennai plant by the second quarter of 2022. “The talks have failed. The management and other officials said they had explored and evaluated all options before arriving at this decision,” P. Senthil Kumar, general secretary of the Chennai Ford Employees Union (CFEU), told The Hindu . On behalf of the 2,600 workers at the plant, the CFEU on Monday held the first round of talks during which it submitted a letter that said, “The union wants the company to ensure the workers’ livelihood and employment in the event of a sale to some other management.” On Tuesday, the union members asked the management to pay wages until June 2022. “The wage agreement ends in March, which means it will be the last salary. We have requested the management to pay us till June,” Mr. Senthil Kumar said. The workers have to finish making 30,000 more cars over the next three months. “All these are Ford EcoSport. The company has stopped making Ford Endeavour here,” one of the workers said. Production did not happen on Monday and the first half of Tuesday. “There will be no production tomorrow [Wednesday], too, owing to the semiconductor chip shortage,” said another worker. Government sources said Chief Minister M.K.Stalin held an elaborate discussion with Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu and a few officials. He enquired about the current status of the plant and the details of the impact of closure. When contacted, a Ford spokesperson said, “We have started discussions with the union and explained the reasons for the decision. We are committed to working closely with our employees and union to care for those impacted by the restructuring.” Members of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) staged a protest near the plant on Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/talks-over-closure-of-ford-plant-fail/article36465602.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments galore||Guindy railway station is usually bustling with commuters, thanks to the presence of multi-modal transport facility. The railway station has multi-modal options of Metro and bus stand and also the double discharge platforms. However, it is a tough challenge for pedestrians to reach the station from Race Course Road side, thanks to the presence of vendors and hawkers on the narrow way. Unauthorised parking of share autos and other vehicles completes the cup of woes for pedestrians. S. Abishek, a commuter who uses Metro and suburban trains regularly at the Guindy station, said the hawkers and shopkeepers block the narrow pathway during peak hours in the evening. The pedestrians find it difficult to cross the road which is usually chock-a-block with vehicles. He wants the traffic police to prevent unauthorised parking of vehicles and the RPF to evict the hawkers. A senior police officer of the traffic wing said they conducted regular campaigns to clear unauthorised vehicles and hawkers who block the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-galore/article36465610.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Coastal areas to see more dry spells next 30 years’||Localities close to the coast in Chennai are expected to witness dry periods frequently over the next three decades, says a study by Anna University calling for a decision-support system for drought and management of reservoirs. According to a study on spatio-temporal rainfall and meteorological drought by Department of Geology, Anna University, the localities near the coast such as Mylapore, Chepauk and Nungambakkam may experience dry spells more frequently in the coming decades. (The dry period is arrived based on the assumption that rainfall is less than 5 mm for more than 60 days). For instance, the number of times the dry conditions may occur in Nungambakkam is predicted to be in the range of 68-103 times between 2021 and 2099, said Anandharuban P., a research fellow and one of the authors of the study. It was funded by the Department of Science and Technology (Water Technology Initiative). But interior areas like Sriperumbudur, Chembarambakkam and Kattankulathur may experience less dry period. For instance, dry conditions may recur 24 to 38 times at Chembarambakkam in the coming decades till 2099. In Kattankulathur, the number of times a dry spell can occur may vary from 22 to 35. Similarly, wet spells, where more than 200 mm of rainfall occurs in a span of two days, may be higher in interior stations compared to those near the coast. For instance, the frequency of wet spells in Meenambakkam may repeat for 15-22 times in the next decades till 2099. In Chembarambakkam, the number of wet spells may recur for 91-144 times during the period between 2021 and 2099. While the average annual rainfall in the city may increase by 100 mm between 2021 and 2050, there may be a slight decrease in rains from 2051 to 2099. The trends in rainfall in the coming decades were arrived using various general circulation models (GCMs) of international weather agencies. The GCM projected rainfall was scaled down by regional climate model of the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, for predictions for the city and the Adyar river basin. L. Elango, professor, Department of Geology and the study’s corresponding author, said the inflow pattern in reservoirs was dependent on the rainfall. The data of projected rainfall would help in decisions on operation of reservoirs. Various global weather parameters, including sea surface temperature and wind circulation, were analysed for the GCM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coastal-areas-to-see-more-dry-spells-next-30-years/article36465616.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM opens genome sequencing unit||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday commissioned facilities for genetic analysis at the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine in the city. The facility, established at an estimated Rs. 4 crore on the Directorate of Medical Services campus in Teynampet, follows an announcement Mr. Stalin made in the Assembly in August. During the discussion on budget demands, the Health Department had stressed on the need for whole genome sequencing. The Health Minister had pointed out that in the ongoing pandemic, the SARS CoV-2 virus had been mutating rapidly and the new strains increased the severity of the infection. At present, samples are sent to genome sequencing laboratories established by the Union Health Ministry in Karnataka or Telangana. This delayed results of the analysis and treatment. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, MPs, and senior departmental officials were present at the event. On the occasion, Mr. Stalin distributed orders to nine candidates who had been appointed as skilled assistant grade-II through the Medical Services Recruitment Board. As many as 82 persons, who had been given jobs on compassionate grounds in various wings of the Health Department, also received their appointment orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-opens-genome-sequencing-unit/article36465624.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers want French syllabus pruned||Similar to the previous academic year, the Tamil Nadu School Education department had announced a reduction in the syllabus in August for the 2021-22 academic year. However, teachers are worried that the same had not been in the case of French language. They said they would have to race against time to complete portions. “Schools reopened only on September 1 after the first three months of the academic year and language teachers in most schools were not given more than two periods for the first two weeks. It is only from this week that we are being allotted at least three periods,” said A. Chandrasekaran, secretary, Indian Association of Teachers of French (South Zone). He said at least 35% of the syllabus should be reduced and hoped that the department would release a prioritised syllabus for French, Hindi and Sanskrit for senior students. Schools reopened for students of Classes IX to XII on September 1. For students of Classes XI and XII, 60% to 65% of the syllabus for other subjects had been prioritised and for Class X, 61% of the syllabus had been prioritised. M. Dhivyadharshini, a French teacher in a city school, said it would be helpful for students if the syllabus was reduced given that all other subjects had a prioritised subject. “This has to be done carefully by language experts and teachers since lessons cannot be omitted at random. The grammar component especially is well structured as a part of the current syllabus,” she added.  This has to be done carefully since lessons cannot be omitted at random M. Dhivyadharshini French teacher||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-want-french-syllabus-to-be-reduced/article36465614.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes notification increasing speed limits||The Madras High Court on Tuesday quashed a notification issued by the Centre on April 6, 2018 increasing the speed limit for motor vehicles to 120 km/hr on expressways, 100 km/hr on four-lane highways and 70 km/hr on roads within municipal limits. Justices N. Kirubakaran (since retired) and T.V. Thamilselvi also ordered that the speed limit should be maintained as per the August 5, 2014 notification since most road accidents were caused due to speeding on highways as well as municipal roads. The judges directed the Tamil Nadu government too, to come up with a notification fixing speed limits. Though the Centre had claimed that the 2018 notification was issued due to availability of better engines and improvement of roads, the judges said non-compliance to road rules by motorists had, however, not changed. The Bench pointed out that data released by the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, showed that overspeeding was the major cause of road accidents year after year. In 2017, it was 66.7%, in 2018 it was 55.73% and in 2019, it was 64.4%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-notification-increasing-speed-limits/article36465761.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M joins Hedera governing council||The Indian Institute of Technology Madras has joined the governing council of Hedera Hashgraph, an enterprise-grade public network for decentraised economy. Prabhu Rajagopal, faculty in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, who leads remote diagnostics at the institute’s Centre for Nondestructive Evaluation, said Hedera Hashgraph was the most used and sustainable public ledgers in the market. The institute will study new use for the Hedera consensus and token services. It aims at using its expertise in practical and innovative technological solutions to assist other council members and organisations. Recently, the London School of Economics and Political Science became a member of the Hedera governing council, a release from IIT-M said. Mr. Rajagopal’s group is interested in securitisation of large-scale digital data sets arising from sensor logs, which was the initial catalyst for their interest in blockchain and distributed ledgers. IIT Madras has served as an incubator for India’s national blockchain project and BlockTrack, a first of its kind blockchain-based secure medical data and information exchange mobile application for use by medical providers and patients, is being field-tested on the IIT-M campus hospital.  The institute will study new use for the Hedera consensus and token services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-joins-hedera-governing-council/article36465640.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amendment shifting education to Concurrent list challenged in HC||The Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the Centre on a writ petition that challenged Section 57 of the Constitution (Forty Second Amendment) Act of 1976, through which the subject ‘education’ was transferred from the State list to the Concurrent list, which contains subjects on which both the Centre and the States can enact laws. The Constitutional amendment has been challenged on the grounds that it had resulted in upsetting the federal structure which is a basic feature of the Constitution. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu suo motu included the State government too as one of the respondents to the case. They ordered that the Centre and the State government should file their counter affidavits within eight weeks and decided to hear the case next after 10 weeks. The orders were passed after hearing senior counsel N.R. Elango for the petitioner and Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan, who pointed out that moving a subject from one list to another in the seventh schedule to the Constitution could not be done unilaterally by Parliament and that it requires a special procedure of obtaining ratification by the States. Denying any threat to the federal structure, the ASG said education had been moved only from State list to Concurrent list and not to the Union list. After making these oral submissions, he sought time to file a detailed counter affidavit. Chennai-based Aram Seyya Virumbu Trust, which provides legal assistance to the poor, had filed the writ petition. Filing an affidavit in a representative capacity, one of its trustees, Ezhilan Naganathan, a doctor by profession and now a Member of the Legislative Assembly representing Thousand Lights constituency, said retired High Court judges G.M. Akbar Ali and C.T. Selvam as well as Readers’ Editor of The Hindu A.S. Panneerselvan were among the other trustees. He claimed that all the trustees had unanimously decided to file the present writ petition and authorised him to file the affidavit. He pointed out that education was a provincial subject even during the colonial era and referred to the Government of India Act of 1935. Post Independence too, the framers of the Constitution thought it fit to keep education under the State list and only the subject of maintenance of standards in higher education was conferred on the Union.  The Constitutional amendment has been challenged on the grounds that it had resulted in upsetting the federal structure which is a basic feature of the Constitution||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amendment-shifting-education-to-concurrent-list-challenged-in-hc/article36466023.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Talk to Ford management: OPS to Stalin||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday appealed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to intervene in the issue arising out of Ford’s decision to shut its engine and vehicle manufacturing plant at Maraimalai Nagar near Chennai. In a statement, he referred to media reports on the possible adverse impact of the closure on the employees and a large number of suppliers. The Chief Minister should talk to the management and the employees and strive for the plant to continue operation. Leader of the Opposition and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami referred to the death of K. Kanimozhi, who sat for the National Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test (NEET) on Sunday. He said life did not mean pursuing the medical course alone; there were several para-medical courses that did not require NEET for admission. In a statement, he called upon the ruling DMK to “stop its political drama and watching” the death of students. It should explain the factual position to people. He suggested that a committee of teachers, educationists and psychologists be formed to instil confidence in NEET-aspirants and advise them on the other options if they failed to clear the test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/talk-to-ford-management-ops-to-stalin/article36465741.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Superintending archaeologist transferred back to Tamil Nadu||K. Amarnath Ramakrishna, the Superintending Archaeologist, who oversaw the first two phases of the Keeladi excavations, has been transferred back to the Archaeological Survey of India’s Chennai circle. Mr. Ramakrishna has been posted as Superintending Archaeologist, Temples Survey Project (TSP) of the Chennai circle. Currently, he is serving in the Goa circle. Mr. Ramakrishna told The Hindu that he will take up his posting in Chennai after 10 days. The official’s transfer in 2017 to Guwahati created a furore in the State, as it came against the backdrop of the unearthing of various artefacts that pointed to an ancient civilisation having existed in Keeladi. It was alleged that he was transferred to scuttle the ongoing excavations. There was also a delay in approval for the third phase of excavations following which the State government decided to undertake the excavations through the State Archaeological Department. Mr. Ramakrishna’s transfer at a crucial juncture of the excavations was also frowned upon by a division bench of the Madras High Court which had orally asked the ASI to transfer him back in 2019 to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/superintending-archaeologist-transferred-back-to-tn/article36465628.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. withdraws 5,570 cases against protesters||The Tamil Nadu government has withdrawn 5,570 cases filed against those who had protested peacefully against the farm laws and and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, as well as some controversial projects. The cases registered by the AIADMK government against the media have also been withdrawn. In his September 4 order, Home Secretary S.K. Prabakar said the DGP had submitted the details of the cases for consideration of withdrawal. There are 26 cases against the media, 2,831 against those who had protested against the farm laws, 2,282 against those who had protested against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 405 cases against those who had protested against the Salem-Chennai expressway, methane extraction and neutrino observatory projects and 26 against those who had protested against the Kudankulam nuclear power plant. The action was in line with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s announcement in the Assembly on June 24. The public prosecutor had opined that in the cases in which the investigation was pending or the charge-sheet was not taken on file, further action could be dropped by the police. In the cases pending trial, the assistant public prosecutors may be directed to move an application under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for withdrawal of prosecution and follow the procedure prescribed therein.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5570-cases-against-protesters-withdrawn/article36465569.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM to field 1,521 candidates in civic polls||The Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) is set to identify close to 1,521 candidates for the upcoming local bodies elections, which will be held in nine districts on October 6 and 9. Party founder Kamal Haasan is likely to campaign. Vice-president A.G. Mourya said a zonal or district secretary had been put in charge of each of the nine districts. “They will forward the names of potential candidates to the State committee, which includes senior party members such as Thangavelu, Sripriyaa and Senthil Arumugam. We will identify 1,521 candidates,” he said, adding that the party might go it alone. “We will field good candidates... We are working hard,” Mr. Mourya said, admitting that the local bodies elections held in rural areas might pose several challenges to a party that has grown only in urban areas. He said the party hoped to do well in districts in the vicinity of Chennai such as Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Vellore. This would be the first local bodies elections for the party since it was founded in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-to-field-1521-candidates-in-civic-polls/article36465595.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Medical counselling could be held in districts’||The Directorate of Medical Education may conduct counselling for students qualified to join MBBS in their respective districts after taking Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s approval, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. He was responding to former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s comments on the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the medical admission. He said it was unfortunate that a medical course-aspirant had ended his life. Mr. Stalin gave solatium to his family immediately. He recalled the previous AIADMK government’s efforts to get NEET cancelled and said it had not been transparent in disclosing the details of the measures it had taken. It was left to the present government, which now had access to the documents and letters the AIADMK government had sent to the President, to take corrective steps. Mr. Subramanian said the DMK had delivered on its promise to pass a Bill in the Assembly to get the State exempted from NEET. It had also appointed a committee, headed by a retired judge, to receive public opinion that was against the conduct of any entrance exam. The Minister said that even the claim that the AIADMK had garnered 11 medical colleges for the State was untrue. It was former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi’s aim to have a medical college in each district, and the DMK government of that time had started work on six colleges. He said he had met the Union Education and Health Ministers to impress upon them the need for granting approval for starting the 11 medical colleges this academic year. The Bill to exempt the State from NEET had been forwarded to the Governor, and his signature was awaited. The Chief Minister would also meet the President to press for exemption, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-counselling-could-be-held-in-districts/article36465598.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Varsities are low in research output: CAG report||Though the number of students enrolling in higher education and their pass percentage are high, the quality of education offered is probably not good, according to the Comptroller and Auditor General’s report tabled in the Assembly. An audit of University of Madras, Bharathidasan University in Tiruchi, Alagappa University in Karaikudi, and Mother Teresa Women’s University in Kodaikanal assessed the performance of the institutions, pass percentage of students from affiliated colleges, and the universities’ research output. The audit found that though pass percentage was high, a huge number of students had sought revaluation of answer scripts and subsequent “generous marking” cast doubt on the efficiency of answer sheet evaluation system. The report found that placement of the candidates from the arts and science colleges was very low.  The specific area compliance audit conducted from September 2019 to February 2020 covering academic years 2014-15 to 2018-19, examined access, equity, quality and governance of higher education. The State performed well in student enrollment, pass percentage, access and affordability. However, the “abnormal delays in recruitment of regular teaching staff resulted in engagement of large number of guest faculty for government colleges”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsities-are-low-in-research-output-cag-report/article36465604.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Licences of 18 food business units suspended||The Central Food Safety licences of 18 units in the State, including seven dairies, two star category hotels and one pharmaceutical manufacturer, have been suspended by the Central Designated Officers of the Food Safety Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) of the respective southern States for not conducting third party audits. The Food Safety and Standards (Food Safety Auditing) Regulations, 2018, that was notified on August 28, 2018, mandates annual third party food safety audit of food business operators falling under six high risk categories. The audit has to be done by an agency recognised by the FSSAI. Several reminders Even after several reminders and notices, 84 FBOs in southern States had not conducted third-party food safety audit, said a release from the office of the Director of Southern Region, FSSAI. The Central licences of 16 such food business operators (FBOs) in Andhra Pradesh, 16 in Karnataka, 18 in Telangana, 15 in Kerala and one in Puducherry had been suspended. Industry sources said that several hotels remained shut because of the pandemic. The suspension of licences during such a time was not correct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/licences-of-18-food-business-units-suspended/article36465617.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vasan group’s creditors appeal against NCLT order||The committee of creditors of Vasan Health Care Pvt. Ltd and the resolution professional, S. Rajendran, have gone on appeal before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) against the order rejecting extension of time frame under the insolvency process. Last month, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) said the corporate insolvency resolution process for Vasan Health Care Pvt. Ltd cannot be started afresh from the stage of issuance of expression of interest because it would upset the timeline prescribed under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The NCLT had granted an extension only till August 22 to finalise the accounts of Vasan Health Care. After August 22, it had said that the resolution professional could file a liquidation application. Hearing on Sept. 22 The NCLAT has posted the case to September 22 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vasan-groups-creditors-appeal-against-nclt-order/article36465621.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Marksheet distribution||The Directorate of Government Examinations (DGE) has announced that the distribution of original Class XI and Class XII mark certificates for the 2019-2021 academic years will begin from September 17. The marksheet can be collected from schools where the students studied. Students and parents who visit school campuses to collect the marksheets will have to compulsorily wear a mask and follow physical distancing norms, the DGE has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marksheet-distribution/article36465605.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Complete smart city project early’||Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu has demanded that the civic body must clear encroachments by parked vehicles at Pondy Bazaar in T. Nagar, which is getting a makeover under the Smart City project. This would resolve the traffic congestion in the locality. Moreover, the project must be completed soon and traders must be allotted space in the shops. They wanted the State government to take steps to establish traders’ welfare board soon. A joint committee with traders’ participation must be formed to fix uniform rent for commercial complexes across the State. These were some of the resolutions passed in a meeting on Tuesday, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-smart-city-project-early/article36465606.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna Medals announced for policemen||The State government on Tuesday announced the award of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Medal for outstanding devotion to duty (Anna Medal) to 100 police personnel, including five SP (Superintendent of Police) level officers. In recognition of the outstanding devotion to duty of the Police, Fire & Rescue Services, Prison Service, Home Guards, Finger Print Science and Forensic Science Officers/Personnel in the State and also to encourage them, the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Medals are announced on the occasion of former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai’s birth anniversary on September 15 every year. P. Pakalavan, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Triplicane, M. Sudhakar, Superintendent of Police (SP) Kancheepuram, Saroj Kumar Thakur, SP, Namakkal, and V.R. Srinivasan, SP, Dindigul, and K. Meena, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime Branch-II are the SP-level officers who will receive the award. This year, Chief Minister M.K.Stalin has ordered award of the medal to 100 police personnel from the rank of Grade-II police constable to Superintendent of Police, eight personnel of Fire and Rescue Services — from the rank of Fireman to District Officer, 10 personnel in Prison Services — from the rank of Grade I Warder to Superintendent of Prisons, Five Home Guard officers from the rank of Assistant Platoon Commander to Area Commander, two officers from Finger Print Science Unit in the rank of Additional Superintendent of Police and two officers from Forensic Science Department in the rank of Junior Scientific Officer and Deputy Director.  Gallantry award Moreover, the Chief Minister’s Fire Service Medal for Gallantry and cash prize of Rs. 5,00,000 each is awarded to seven personnel for their gallantry act, including K.Sivarajan and P.Krishnamoorthy, who have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty — they were trapped under a collapsed building, while rescuing human lives and property in the fire accident at Sanjay Textiles in Madurai on November 14, 2020. These medals will be presented by the Chief Minister at a ceremonial medal parade to be held in due course, according to a press release.   The Chief Minister’s Fire Service Medal for Gallantry and cash prize of Rs. 5,00,000 each is awarded to seven personnel for their gallantry act||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-medals-for-100-police-personnel/article36465636.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rotary award||Devarattam exponent Kannan Kumar was presented the Rotary Club of Madras East’s (RCME) ‘Dronacharya’ award for the year 2021 at a function held here recently. Learning the art form by watching the elders perform in his native Kodangipatti village from a young age, Mr. Kumar has contributed immensely in popularising the art, a release by RCME said. Lakshmi Viswanathan, dancer, author and choreographer, was the chief guest at the function. The award was presented in association with Saraswathi Vidyalaya Senior Secondary School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devarattam-exponent-kannan-kumar-gets-rotary-award/article36465622.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will file report before CM on reopening classes 1 to 8’||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said on Tuesday that the department would submit a report to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on September 15 about reopening schools for classes 1 to 8. He was speaking on the sidelines of a Chief Educational Officers (CEOs) review meeting in the city where officials from all districts participated. “Discussions were held with officials from all districts, and they shared different expectations with us, which we have made note of. Our detailed report will be submitted to the Chief Minister, after which a decision will be taken on the reopening of schools for other classes,” he said. He said that based on random checks carried out in schools, 83 students from across the State had tested positive for COVID-19 since schools reopened for senior classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-file-report-before-cm-on-reopening-classes-1-to-8/article36465590.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘There will be no compromise on NEET Bill’||There will be no compromise on the issue of dispensing with NEET, and the DMK government will work hard to get the President’s assent to the Bill passed in the Assembly on Monday, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Tuesday. Condoling the death of K. Kanimozhi of Ariyalur by suicide, Mr. Stalin said the government would ensure that such a situation did not arise ever again. “That NEET is not a qualifying exam is being exposed by scams such as the sale of question papers, impersonation of students and frauds by coaching centres. Our government is working to ensure that NEET, which is destroying social justice in education, is removed,” he said in a statement. The Chief Minister requested students not to take any extreme step. He also requested the parents to counsel their children not to lose heart and encourage them to have confidence in their abilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/there-will-be-no-compromise-on-neet-bill/article36465591.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Japanese language course for freshers||The Indo-Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry has announced admissions for the Japanese language Freshers Course N5 — spoken and written. Classes will be held online on Sundays from 9 a.m to noon from October 3. Students can write their Japan Foundation’s JLPT NS in July 2022. Admissions are open for online Japanese language conversation programme (no script). Classes will be held on Saturdays from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. from October 2021 to June 2022. Interested persons can call 044-24354779 or 044-48556140 or 9884394717 or email indo-japan@ijcci.com or visitwww.ijcci.comfor details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/japanese-language-course-for-freshers/article36465615.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Counselling for NEET takers||From Thursday, the 104 call centre will offer counselling for candidates who have taken NEET. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian will launch the counselling session at the office of 104 call centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counselling-for-neet-takers/article36465626.ece
15 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation serves notice on nursing college after 25 students test positive||Coimbatore Corporation has served notice on a nursing college in Saravanampatti after 25 students tested COVID-19 positive. Sources said the civic body served the notice on the college management asking why it was not alerted about the students testing positive. Under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, the Corporation had served the notice as the management was duty bound to pass on the information. The students had contracted the infection from two students who had arrived from Kerala. At the time of crossing the inter-State border, the students had the requisite documents and showed no symptoms. But within a couple of days of their arrival the students had tested positive and from the other students had contracted the virus, the sources said. The management had placed all the students in quarantine as the college housed a COVID-19 Care Centre, the sources said. The Corporation then deployed a health team in Saravanampatti to disinfect the hostel. It had also instructed the management to shift the unaffected students to another hostel in the vicinity. The team was closely monitoring the situation there. Consequent upon the college students testing positive, the Corporation was contemplating asking college managements to ask students from other states to remain in quarantine for a week even if they carried a negative test report or two dose vaccination certificate at the time of crossing the inter-State border, the sources added. Meanwhile, three school students, including one from a Coimbatore Corporation school, had also tested positive. The Corporation had sent home the students to remain in isolation as they were asymptomatic. In another development, the Corporation was looking at vaccinating senior citizens and differently abled at their doorstep. To this end, the Corporation would soon announce contact details. Interested persons or organisations could reach the Corporation on those numbers to register the details, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-serves-notice-on-nursing-college-after-25-students-test-positive/article36465654.ece
15 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||State to support industries investing under PLI scheme||The State government has said it would support the industries investing under the recently approved Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme in the State, according to industry sources who participated in a meeting in Chennai on Tuesday. Minister for Handlooms and Textiles, Khadi and Village Industries Board R. Gandhi, Secretary Apoorva, and Additional Secretary of Union Ministry of Textiles Vijoy Kumar Singh, participated in the meeting with the textile and clothing industry players in the State. Investment period The sources said the investors had only two years as investment period to avail themselves of benefits under the scheme. Hence, they should get all approvals from the State government within a stipulated period. “The Minister and the officials were very supportive and have said the State government will provide all clearances under the single window system. The State government plans to have a separate department for textiles and it will help the investors of the Scheme,” said K. Selvaraju, secretary general, Southern India Mills’ Association, who participated in the meeting. The industry is waiting for details of products that will be covered under the Scheme. Many in Tamil Nadu have expressed interest and are likely to invest, Mr. Selvaraju said. Mr. Singh told presspersons the investors would have to form a separate company, a 100 % subsidiary, to benefit from the PLI scheme. The Central and State governments are keen on generating employment opportunities and the Scheme will support industries to create jobs. Mr. Selvaraju added that Tamil Nadu’s main strength is in cotton textiles and hence, the industry has appealed to the Centre to cover high-end cotton products too under the PLI scheme.  The investors will have to form a separate company, a 100 % subsidiary, to benefit from the PLI scheme Vijoy Kumar Singh Additional Secretary of Union Ministry of Textiles||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-support-industries-investing-under-pli-scheme/article36465647.ece
15 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||With 24x7 helpline, police hope to prevent deaths by suicide||Coimbatore District Police on Tuesday launched Vidiyal , a 24x7 suicide prevention helpline for those in need of assistance in the district to overcome suicidal thoughts. Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam, who launched the integrated control room dedicated to this helpline at the District Police Office here, said that out of 959 cases registered under Section 174 (unnatural death) of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the District (Rural) limits so far in this year, over 480 cases or around 50% fell under deaths by suicide. This included the deaths of five minors by suicide in the district and the cases comprise men and women of all age groups, he said. “We hope to bring this 50% down to zero through this initiative,” he said. Among the causes identified by the police for these cases, suicides due to issues within families were found to be the dominant reason, followed by health-related problems, inability to repay loans and loss of livelihoods, Mr. Selvanagarathinam said. The integrated control room will be manned by eight police personnel, who will be handling the phone calls round-the-clock on all days. These personnel underwent training by mental health professionals last week to handle distress calls, Mr. Selvanagarathinam said. Apart from this, around 70 police personnel or two per police station in the District (Rural) limits and 60 private counsellors will be available to reach out to those in distress and provide spot counselling, he added. Mr. Selvanagarathinam also launched a short film made by Coimbatore District Police to create awareness on cyber crime. Nearly three complaints are being received every day in the district regarding online job frauds and victims of such cyber crimes must contact national helpline 155260, he said.  Vidiyal 24x7 suicide prevention helpline can be reached at 0422-2300999. Assistance to overcome suicidal tendencies is also available through the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-24x7-helpline-police-hope-to-prevent-deaths-by-suicide/article36465660.ece
15 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pricol to obtain legal counsel on labour issue||The management of Pricol will study the recent order by the Industrial Tribunal, Chennai, on temporary transfer of 302 workers. It will obtain legal counsel with regard to the way forward, said a press release from the company. Shifting According to the release, following the 100-day strike by the members of one of the unions of the company in Coimbatore plant in the year 2018 demanding wage increase, its customers had asked for shifting of select operations to other plants of Pricol. Since all 454 workers, who took part in the strike, could not be given employment, 302 of them were given temporary transfer to other plants following the compliance with transfer norms.  ‘Unjustifiable’ The union had taken the matter to the Industrial Tribunal which has said that the transfer is unjustifiable. However, it has also said that it has “no issue of adjudication of dismissal, which is left open to the parties to work out their further remedy in the manner known to law.” Hence, the management will obtain legal counsel on the future course of action, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pricol-to-obtain-legal-counsel-on-labour-issue/article36465669.ece
15 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Staged photography using snakes, one fined||The Forest Department on Tuesday imposed fine of Rs. 8,000 on a man who handled snakes, which he had rescued, for a group of people for photo opportunity without informing authorities. The action was taken after Ranjith, who has been doing snake rescues in Coimbatore, was found handling snakes for a group of people including photographers on the banks of Krishnampathy tank here on Monday. An independent researcher who went to the tank for birding on Monday evening spotted the group with at least two species of snakes – suspected to be green vine snake and trinket snake. The researcher took a video of their activity. Ranjith handled two snakes with bare hands carelessly while others in the group photographed them. “The group was at the tank bund before I reached the place at 5.10 p.m. The whole incident seemed like a staged photography. Taking photograph of snakes in natural environment is not an issue, but catching them from somewhere and doing staged photography is against nature and ethics of the wildlife photography,” said the researcher who did not want to be named. According to him, the group was sitting close to the breeding area of water birds at the tank. They were also handling the snakes for more than 30 minutes and causing disturbances to the breeding water birds in the area, he added. Video and photos of the incident were taken to the attention of the Forest Department late on Monday. T.K. Ashok Kumar, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, called the eight-member group to his office on Tuesday. He said that Ranjith was fined as he failed to inform the Department about the rescue of the snakes and for handling them for photo opportunity. A letter of apology was collected from the seven others, he said. As per the standard practice, trained snake rescuers have been advised by the Forest Department to inform them before rescuing and after releasing the snakes in a suitable habitat. “For record, we take a video at the time of rescue and at the time of release. The rescue and release should be done with the advice of the Forest Department. We take them to the respective forest range office from where they are taken for release. Ideally, the release should be done at the earliest after the rescue,” said a snake rescuer who has been assisting the Forest Department in Coimbatore for several years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staged-photography-using-snakes-one-fined/article36465671.ece
15 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Five secretaries of affiliated colleges to be part of BU Syndicate||The State Assembly amending the Bharathiar University Act, 1981 to include five secretaries of affiliated colleges in the Syndicate marks the fruition of a three-year effort the Association of Self-Financing Arts, Science & Management Colleges of Tamil Nadu had made. The Association had in December 2018 filed a writ petition before the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the University and State Government to include secretaries of affiliated colleges in the Syndicate to make it a truly representational body and its functioning democratic. Prior to moving the Court the Association had sent representations to the University to no avail. It was at this juncture that the Association moved the court, said its president Ajeet Kumar Lal Mohan. Its argument was that the University with a little over 30 departments and around 3,000 students had five representatives in the Syndicate. Whereas, the over 100 affiliated institutions that provided education to thousands of students had no representation in the administrative body. This was unfair and undemocratic, the Association had argued while seeking to amend the University Act, he said and added that after the High Court allowed the Association petition, the University Senate and Syndicate passed resolutions and the registrar forwarded the same to the State Government. Mr. Mohan also said that the change in the Syndicate composition was necessary also because the education scenario today in Bharathiar University was not what it was when the latter was established over three decades ago. He added that credit goes to the Government for seeing merit in the Association’s argument. With the Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudy piloting the Bill and Assembly adopting it, a long-pending demand of academics had been fulfilled, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-secretaries-of-affiliated-colleges-to-be-part-of-bu-syndicate/article36465646.ece
15 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Arappor Iyakkam wants civic body to blacklist contractors||Arappor Iyakkam has asked the Coimbatore Corporation to blacklist the contractors and suspend the officials who aided corruption and bring about transparency in administration. The organisation’s convener Jayaram Venkatesan told reporters here on Tuesday after presenting a petition to Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara on Monday. In the petition, the organisation had alleged that the bidders to several tenders the Corporation had floated were those close to the then Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani. In at least 47 tenders, Mr. Velumani’s brother’s company Senthil & Co. and contractor Rajan Rathinasamy were bidders. Both the contractors had registered with the Corporation using a phone number and used the same IP address to bid online. Likewise, KCP Engineer Pvt. Ltd.’s Director Chandraprakash and the company were bidders in five tenders, he said. The organisation also urged the Corporation to make public the details regarding works in progress in various wards. The Corporation should do away the process of clubbing various works in to a few tenders to create a big package of work. It should also take steps to recover the premises near the West Zone office in R.S. Puram that the Corporation had given by underwriting the rent to a trust run by the former Minister’s brother to run a civil service coaching academy. After hearing to the 14 suggestions and complaints, the Commissioner promised to work on those, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arappor-iyakkam-wants-civic-body-to-blacklist-contractors/article36465652.ece
15 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Medical waste dumped near Puttu Vikki bridge||Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) on Tuesday has ordered an inquiry into the alleged dumping of medical waste near Puttu Vikki bridge in Coimbatore Corporation limits. According to TNPCB sources, residents found the a pile of waste comprising used syringes, vials and medicine bottles dumped on the side of the road on Tuesday morning and reported it to Corporation and TNPCB. Images and videos of the alleged medical waste were circulated on social media platforms. However, when officials from TNPCB – Coimbatore South visited the spot in the afternoon, the medical waste had already been removed, the sources said. Dumping medical waste in an open space instead of handing it over to a bio-medical facility for processing is illegal and further inquiries to ascertain who dumped the waste are on, according to the sources. R. Manikandan of NGO Kovai Kulangal Padhukaapu Amaippu alleged such isolated incidents have been occurring near water bodies in Coimbatore and demanded strict action against those who dump medical waste in open spaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-waste-dumped-near-puttu-vikki-bridge/article36465662.ece
15 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 201 cases||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 201 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to touch 2,39,177 cases. The Health Department reported five new deaths, taking the toll to 2,302. The district had 2,197 active cases and 191 patients were reported to have recovered on Tuesday. Tiruppur district reported 81 fresh cases on Tuesday, which caused its case tally to stand at 91,543 cases. The overall toll went up to 941 following the reporting of two new deaths. The district had 951 active cases and 83 patients from the district recovered on Tuesday. In the Nilgiris district, 39 people tested positive on Tuesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 32,189. The number of deaths in the district stood at 196 on Monday while 343 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-201-cases/article36465666.ece
15 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Public hearing on upgrading town panchayats held||The district administration on Tuesday conducted the first public hearing to elicit opinion on the move to upgrade four town panchayats to municipalities. A release from the administration said the public hearing followed the State government’s announcement to upgrade Krumathampatty, Karamadai, Gudalur and Madukkarai town panchayats. In the first meeting, Collector G.S. Sameeran along with senior officials heard the suggestions from elected representatives. P.R. Natarajan, MP, A.K. Selvaraj, V.P. Kandasamy and Amul Kandasamy, MLAs, participated. The Collector also received suggestions from members of public from the four local bodies, the release said and added that the administration would compile all the suggestions receive to be sent to the State government. Second hearing The second phase of public hearing would be held in the respective local bodies, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-hearing-on-upgrading-town-panchayats-held/article36465657.ece
15 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Chamber to support women entrepreneurs||The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, has created a platform to mentor women entrepreneurs. C. Balasubramanian, president of the Chamber, said the aim is to handhold and guide women regarding technology and finance options. When a woman starts a new venture, she will face several challenges. She may not know whom to approach for the business requirements. The Chamber has formed a sub-committee of women entrepreneurs and the committee members are reaching out to women in businesses and industries. “We are also inviting more women speakers for our meetings,” he said. According to Mr. Balasubramanian, of the total number of people in trade and business here, atleast 20 % are women who are managing the businesses directly. There will be more women who are supporting their family ventures. During the two years, the Chamber is looking at promoting organic farming, supporting women entrepreneurs, enabling digitalisation of trade, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-to-support-women-entrepreneurs/article36465658.ece
15 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Admission to B.Sc. Sericulture to continue’||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University will continue admitting students to the B.Sc. Sericulture course conducted at the Forest College and Research Institute in Mettupalayam. A release from the University said following students’ protest and talks held between them and the Vice-Chancellor and District Collector, it had decided to continue admitting students. Earlier, the University had decided to suspend admission for two years to shift the course to a place that was suitable for mulberry cultivation and silkworm growth. Now, it had decided to rescind the decision, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admission-to-bsc-sericulture-to-continue/article36465645.ece
15 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Orientation programme for candidates seeking engineering seats||Computer Society of India will hold a free orientation programme for candidates participating in the engineering admission process. A release from the organisation said it would hold the orientation programme for students participating in the ‘Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission (TNEA) – 2021 Online Counselling Guidelines’ on September 19, between 10.30 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. This time it would hold the programme online, the release said and appealed to interested persons to send their queries tooffice@csi-cbe.org. Experts participating at the event online would respond to the queries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/orientation-programme-for-candidates-seeking-engineering-seats/article36465655.ece
15 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||PG admission counselling at Govt. Arts College||Government Arts College, Coimbatore, will start the admission process to postgraduate courses by holding counselling sessions on September 16 and 17. A communique from the institution said that on September 16, the college would hold counselling for admission under sports, differently abled, wards of ex-servicemen, NCC and such special quotas. On September17, it would hold counselling for candidates seeking admission under the general quota. The college offered 21 post graudate programmes in both the shifts with a total intake of 552 seats, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pg-admission-counselling-at-govt-arts-college/article36465656.ece
15 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Crime notes||The house of an Armed Reserve constable attached to the City Police was burgled on Tuesday. Police said, the burglary was committed when Lenin Peter had locked the door of the house on Monday night to report for duty, as his family had gone to Udhagamandalam. When Mr. Peter returned on Tuesday morning, he found Rs. 70,000 missing from the house, the sources said. Race Course police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crime-notes/article36465664.ece
15 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Two persons killed, 14 injured in pile-up in Thoppur ghat||Two persons were killed and 14 others injured in a pile-up involving trucks in Thoppur ghat on the Dharmapuri-Salem highway on Tuesday. The pile-up was triggered by a stone laden truck ramming a parked septic tank suction truck at Thoppur ghat a little past midnight. The septic tank suction truck from Hogenakkal had broken down and was parked alongside Thoppur highway. Twelve workmen from Tiruchi and Virudhunagar were fixing the truck, when the accident occurred. Another truck transporting potatoes from Gujarat and headed to Avinashi along with a container truck that was closely following it crashed into the pile-up of vehicles. Driver of the septic tank suction truck Rathinavel of Tiruchi and driver of the stone laden truck Sidhayan from Edappadi in Salem died on the spot. Fourteen others, including the workmen, were grievously injured. They were rushed to the Dharmapuri government medical college hospital. The pile-up that led to several hours of traffic derailment was eventually cleared by the Thoppur police. Deputy Inspector General, Salem Range, S. Maheshwari and Dharmapuri Superintendent of Police C. Kalaiselvan inspected the accident site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-killed-14-injured-in-pile-up-in-thoppur-ghat/article36465772.ece
15 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Registration for NGOs||Non-government organisations (NGOs) running senior citizens’ homes and working women’s hostels are mandated to register under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 and the Tamil Nadu Hostels and Homes for Women and Children Regulation Act. The organisations running senior citizens’ homes and working women’s hostels are required to register under the relevant Acts with the District Social Welfare Officer, Department of Social Welfare, Collectorate Complex, Dharmapuri. Any violations shall be met with action against the erring organisations, Collector S. Dhivyadarshini has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registration-for-ngos/article36465763.ece
15 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Flood alert sounded along River Bhavani||A flood alert was sounded to people living on the banks of River Bhavani here on Tuesday following the discharge of over 5,000 cusecs of surplus water from Bhavanisagar dam into the river. There was a sharp increase in inflow at Kodiveri anicut too. Due to rain in its catchment areas, water level at the dam touched 102 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet on August 30. As per the flood regulation norms, the quantum of water that could be stored in the dam from August to October is 102 feet and hence the entire inflow is being discharged. Officials of the Public Works Department said that on Monday, surplus water of 1,500 cusecs was discharged into the river. However, due to rain in the catchment areas, the inflow increased to over 5,800 cusecs on Tuesday morning. The discharge was stepped up to 5,114 cusecs, resulting in flooding at the anicut, they added. Revenue officials issued a warning to the people living at low-lying areas to move to safe locations as the discharge continues to be over 5,000 cusecs. Also, ban on bathing at the anicut continues while officials are monitor the flow of water. At 4 p.m., the water level stood at 102 feet. The storage was 30.31 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. The inflow was 5,856 cusecs and the discharge was 5,114 cusecs into River Cauvery, 486 cusecs in Kalingarayan Canal and 200 cusecs in Lower Bhavani Project canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-alert-sounded-along-river-bhavani/article36465768.ece
15 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan refugees allege registering of false case||Alleging that the police registered a false case against three youths residing at the Sri Lankan Tamil Rehabilitation Camp at Arachalur, over 60 persons in the camp staged a sit-in protest on Tuesday. As many as 170 families comprising 499 members are living in the camp for 29 years now. Most of them work in the construction sector and also as painters. Recently, three youth in the camp were arrested by the Arachalur police on the charges of smuggling ganja. On Tuesday, the people staged a protest claiming that the three youths were not involved in smuggling ganja and alleged that a false case was registered against them. They said the police refused to give proper reason for their arrest and also allegedly threatened other youths in the camp. A policeman of the Q Branch CID continued to threaten them, they said and claimed that only upon his insistence the case was registered against the youths. They wanted the case withdrawn and the policeman transferred. Later, the police and revenue officials held talks with them and assured them to initiate action. The protestors submitted a petition to the officials and later withdrew the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-refugees-allege-registering-of-false-case/article36465770.ece
15 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||40 kg of unhygienic meat seized in Erode||Officials of the Food Safety and Drug Administration Department inspected hotels and restaurants in the city and seized 40 kg of unhygienic, stale and cooked poultry meat on Tuesday. A team led by J. Thanga Vignesh, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration Department, inspected a biryani shop on Gandhiji Road and found cooked chicken and mutton stored in refrigerators. The meat was reheated and served to customers upon orders. The officials seized eight kg of meat from the shop. Likewise, they raided a few other hotels and seized 32 kg stale meat and took samples. Later, the meat was destroyed. They said artificial flavours were added beyond the permitted level to the meat and asked people to avoid consuming such items. Later, the team inspected shops to check for plastic usage and whether safety norms were followed as per Food Safety and Standards Act, 2011. A sum of Rs. 10,000 was levied as fine on shopkeepers for various violations while notices were served on five hotels asking them to rectify their mistake. “If they continue to sell such food items, fine will be imposed besides initiating legal action,” the officials warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/40-kg-of-unhygienic-meat-seized-in-erode/article36465766.ece
15 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Chennimalai sub-station , there will be no power supply in the follwoing areas between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. on September 15 : Chennimalai Town, Uthukuli Road, Ingur Road, Kumarapuri, Sakthi Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Chinna Pedariyur, Namakkal Palayam, Arachalur Road, Kuppuchipalayam, Thippam palayam, Ammapalayam, Velampalayam, Ramalinga puram, Pudupalayam, Ashokapuram, Orathu palayam, Ayyampalayam, Palathozhuvu, Kodumanal, Veppili, K.G. Valasu, Pasuvapatti, Murugathozhuvu and M.P.N. Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article36465769.ece
15 September 2021||ERODE/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school students get State ranks in engg. admission||A student from Namakkal bagged the fourth place and two students in Erode district secured fifth and ninth place respectively among the government school students in the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission 2021 merit list that was released on Tuesday. Deepak Kumar J.S. of Vennandhur Boys Higher Secondary School, Namakkal, scored 196.2 cut-off and bagged fourth place. School principal Mahesh Kumar said though Deepak got a place in the Top 10, he aimed to pursue MBBS studies. He expressed confidence that the student would score high marks in NEET as well. U. Dharshini of MRG Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Veerappanchatiram, Erode, secured 196.165 cut-off and bagged fifth place while V. Mega of Government Higher Secondary School at Thudupathi secured 195.58 cut-off and bagged ninth place among the 10 toppers from government schools in the State. Dharshini’s parents were daily earners. She secured 484 marks in SSLC board examination and 585.14 marks in Plus Two. She prefers to do her engineering in computer science in a reputed institution and wishes to clear the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Mega secured 477 marks in his SSLC exams while he secured 583.87 marks in Plus Two. He had already joined an engineering institute in computer science and wished to clear UPSC. His parents are daily wagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-school-students-get-state-ranks-in-engg-admission/article36465777.ece
15 September 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||390 vulnerable booths found in Kallakurichi||A critical and vulnerability mapping of the polling booths in Kallakurichi district ahead of the upcoming rural local body elections on October 6 and 9 has identified 390 of the 1,889 polling booths in the district as vulnerable. The mapping, carried out by the police also marked the vulnerable booths in 180 locations across the district, according to Collector P.N. Sridhar. Speaking to reporters, he said that in addition to web cameras and polling personnel, micro-observers would be deployed in all these booths to monitor the polling process. As per the State Election Commission’s guidelines, 15 flying squads had been constituted to check poll code violations. An round-the-clock election control room has also been set up. People can call the toll-free number 1800 425 8510 to report poll code violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/390-vulnerable-booths-found-in-kallakurichi/article36466029.ece
15 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Food dealers told to register for licence||Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy has urged food dealers to register themselves with the Department of Food Safety for licence under the Food Safety Act. According to the Collector, under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, the food dealers are mandated to register based on their turnover and sales with the Food Safety Department. This includes wholesale, retail dealers, distributors of oil, jaggery, bakery items, sweets, ice creams, cold drinks, sodas, snacks, spices and masalas, milk, food distribution vehicles, road side food hawkers, fruit and vegetable stalls, caterers, water can distributors and manufacturers, salt manufacturers, school and college canteens, anganwadi centres, and free food distributors in places of worship. Under the new legislation, the department issues the permits that were earlier issued by the local bodies. Any dealer in food with an annual turnover of less than Rs. 12 lakh shall register by paying a fee of Rs. 100 and upload the details onwww.foodlicensing.fssai. gov.inSimilarly, varying tariffs for dealers with an annual turnover of Rs. 12 lakh shall be paid for registration. The packaging shall bear the registration number, date of manufacture and expiry, failing which the manufacturer shall be booked under the provisions of the Act. People may lodge complaints with respect to food safety on whatsapp to 9444042322.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-dealers-told-to-register-for-licence/article36465762.ece
15 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Doctors deplore delay in incentive payment||Doctors across the State owing allegiance to Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) are annoyed over the delay in payment of one-time COVID incentive announced by the Chief Minister and the non-implementation of the government order announcing pay hike and promotion with effect from June. With resentment brewing among the doctors, the TNGDA has called for a State executive meeting in Madurai on October 3 to discuss their demands and decide the course of action. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, the association president, Dr. K Senthil Kumar said the doctors had worked through the pandemic under physical and mental duress and deserve a better treatment than just empty promises. A few days after taking over as the Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin had announced incentives for three months, from April to June, for all frontline medical workers in the government sector, who treated COVID-19 patients during the second wave. Slabs were announced for different categories offering Rs. 30,000 each to doctors, Rs. 20,000 each to nurses/ PG students/ trainee doctors and Rs. 15,000 each to all other para-medic staff and sanitary workers. The amount had not been provided till date, Dr. Senthil said, adding it affected about one lakh personnel. What has further irked the healthcare professionals is the sudden withdrawal of the pay hike and promotion as sanctioned vide GO 293 dated June 18. “It was to be implemented with immediate effect and we received it in the first month. But in the last two months, it has been denied based on queries raised by the officials, including Director and Joint Director (Medical services) and Director (Public Health),” Dr.Senthil pointed out. Sources say, a goodwill gesture by the CM has suddenly been stopped without any official communication due to dissent expressed by 4,000-odd young doctors, the new entrants in the profession, who do not benefit from the G.O. The PHC workers and microbiologists who work in labs had been questioned about their duty in wards, which was irrelevant, it was pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-deplore-delay-in-incentive-payment/article36465935.ece
15 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Upgraded mental health helpline launched||With an aim to reach out to more people who are facing different kinds of psycho-social distress, an upgraded Speak2us Mental Health Helpline, with a cloud telephony system, was launched by the M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation (MSCT & RF) here on Tuesday, in association with the HCL Foundation, Madurai Corporation and CII, Madurai Zone. Anyone facing mental health issues or those seeking support for their friends or relatives in mental distress can contact 93754 93754 to reach out to trained volunteers who can provide emotional support. People with severe mental health issues who may need additional support will be directed towards mental health professionals that work with the foundation. These 45 volunteers who include psychologists, social workers and retired teaching professionals were trained in the basics of mental health counselling by Dr. Rajaram Subbian, a psycho-social consultant and Executive Director of Basic Needs India, Bengaluru. Though the helpline has been functional since October 2020, with the cloud telephony system now in place, it can cater to more calls efficiently. While speaking at the inauguration, Dr. C. Ramasubramanian, Senior Consultant Psychiatrist and Founder of MSCT & RF, said that around 13% of the Indian population suffers from some kind of mental health issue and Tamil Nadu stands second in the country when it comes to suicides. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar felt that the initiative was a first of its kind in a tier-II city. “A helpline for mental health is not very common even in tier I cities like Chennai. I believe it is a necessary and first-of-its-kind step. Most of the neighbourhood problems that we come across are results of mental health issues. We need to remove the stigma attached to it and start addressing them, just like how we deal with our physical health issues,” he said. Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education P. Pon Muthuramalingam and Chairman of CII, Madurai Zone B. Subbaraman spoke on the occasion. Mr. Pon Muthuramalingam promised to share the helpline number to colleges so that students will become aware of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/upgraded-mental-health-helpline-launched/article36465939.ece
15 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two new ring wells at Agaram may well mark end of 7th phase||The unearthing of two new ring wells at Agaram and the completion of work on digging out a six-layer ring well at the Keeladi main site are perhaps the last few surprises of the season as the archaeology staff prepare to wind up the seventh phase of excavation by this month end. The large-scale explorations in the cluster of sites, also including Manalur and Konthagai, 12 km southeast of Madurai, are being carried out by the Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology to establish the existence of an urban settlement on the banks of the Vaigai river more than 2,600 years ago. In this round, the excavation at Agaram over two acres has yielded the highest number of ring wells. Four were excavated between February and August and two new ones were unearthed over the weekend. “We are yet to trace it fully for the full dimensions, only the upper portion of ring wells have been exposed so far,” one of the officers at the site told The Hindu . Of the two ring wells found at Keeladi this season, archaeologists have just completed the tracing of the first one that was exposed in July with a banded rope design in the top ring at a height of 44 cm. The ring well has now been traced up to a depth of 140 cm, with six rings interlocked one below the other. The seventh layer was found broken. While the excavations at Konthagai led to unearthing of skeletal remains and 11 burial and storage urns, at Manalur and Keeladi main, the findings also included weavers’ tools, beads and bangles made of shell, glass, stone, terracotta and semi-precious stones and potsherds and indicated a trading activity during the Sangam Age. The excavations in almost all the quadrants at the four sites have reached the bottom layer of natural soil, indicating no further trace of antiquities, said Deputy Director (Archaeology) R Sivanandam. The staff have now begun the documentation of approximately 1,200 artefacts unearthed in this phase. The decision to fill the pits – measuring 15x18 feet and 4.5 metres deep – with soil at Keeladi as was done after the completion of previous rounds, is however, pending. Sources say with an on-site museum coming up soon, the excavated pits with the ring wells attached to the walls, may be kept open for public viewing as an added attraction. The seventh phase of excavations began in Keeladi this February and coincided with the second season at the other three sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-new-ring-wells-at-agaram-likely-to-mark-end-of-7th-phase-of-excavation/article36465631.ece
15 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Call to speed up vaccination||With the third wave fear looming large, doctors have appealed to the State government to speed up the vaccination drive on a war footing. While sounding optimistic, the doctors said COVID-19’s third wave may not be as severe and scary as the second but is inevitable. The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association president, K Senthil told mediapersons here on Saturday that vaccination in the eligible population should be done in the shortest period of time to prevent the surge of the next wave. Citing the success of the Sunday mega camps when 26 lakh people were vaccinated in a day in Tamil Nadu, Dr.Senthil suggested similar camps need to be held at least thrice a week over the next two months to check the coronavirus spread in the State. He said all departments need to join hands to administer at least five crore more doses over the next 60 days and assured full support and cooperation of government doctors to achieve the target. According to him, of six crore people in Tamil Nadu, one crore have taken both doses and four crores are done with the first dose. Injecting the pending doses should become a priority now, he asserted, and added, elective procedures can be halted excluding emergency and life saving services in order to mobilise and focus on the mass vaccination drive. “Stocks of vaccine, mobilisation of the people living in rural interiors and pooling in of staff from across all departments are the need of the hour if we want to increase our vaccination coverage without delay and keep our population safe,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-speed-up-vaccination/article36465936.ece
15 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC Bench orders re-postmortem of body of SC temple priest||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered the re-postmortem of the body of a Scheduled Caste temple priest alleged to have been murdered by a group of Caste Hindus in Pudukkottai district. The wife of the deceased temple priest has sought a CB-CID probe into the incident. Justice G. Ilangovan directed a team comprising doctors and forensic experts of Pudukkottai Government Medical College Hospital to conduct the re-postmortem. The court was hearing the petition filed by K. Villayi, the wife of the temple priest Karuppaiya. Villayi said that her husband, Karuppaiya, was a temple priest at a Kali temple in Theeyathur in Pudukkottai district. On June 16, he was attacked by a group of Caste Hindus after he had offered the ‘vibhuti’ in hand. She said the group of Murugaiah, Prabhu, Velavan, Ananthan and Kesavan had questioned her husband over offering the ‘vibhuti’ in hand instead of offering it on the archanai plate. She said that they attacked her husband as he had touched them. A complaint was lodged with the local police. But no steps were taken against the accused. The group also lodged a complaint against her husband. A peace committee meeting was held, but ended in vain, she said. Under these circumstances, the petitioner said that her husband went missing on August 14. He had gone out to buy betel leaves at about 8 p.m., but did not return home. On August 15, her husband was found hanging from a tree, she said. She alleged that her husband was murdered due to caste animosity and it was not a case of suicide. She complained that there were injuries on the body of her husband. She sought the conduct of a re-postmortem and a CB-CID probe into the incident. The court has sought the reports in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-bench-orders-re-postmortem-of-body-of-sc-temple-priest/article36465716.ece
15 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||TNLSA member-secretary directed to assist HC||Coming across a case of a man from Tirunelveli languishing in prison for over 25 years with no assistance extended to him to file an appeal against conviction by the trial court, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the Member-Secretary of Tamil Nadu Legal Services Authority (TNLSA) to appear before the court. Criminal appeal  The court was hearing the criminal appeal filed against the conviction and sentence imposed by Additional Sessions Judge II, Tirunelveli, in 1996. The trial court sentenced the man to life imprisonment for committing sexual assault and murder. Only in 2018, the appeal against the conviction was filed through legal aid. Appearing for the man through legal aid, advocate R. Alagumani submitted that there were many such convict prisoners languishing in the prison for want of proper legal aid to file an appeal against their conviction. He submitted that the court could issue directions to the TNLSA to collect details of such convicts and provide legal aid to them. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and J. Nisha Banu directed the Member-Secretary of the TNLSA to appear before the court through video conferencing on September 17 to assist it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnlsa-member-secretary-directed-to-assist-hc/article36466056.ece
15 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No proposal to rename Madurai airport, HC told||Taking note of the Central government’s submission that there was no recommendation or proposal made by the State government to rename Madurai airport, the Madurai Bench of Madras dismissed a petition that sought a direction to restrain authorities from renaming the airport after any local personalities except Lord Devendran or Goddess Meenakshi. The court was hearing the petition filed by C. Selvakumar of Madurai, president of Tamil Nadu Devendra Kula Vellalar Right Redemption Movement. He said steps were being taken to rename Madurai airport after Muthuramalinga Thevar, and if it was done it would lead to law and order problems. Therefore, the authorities concerned should be restrained from doing so, he said. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar took cognisance of the Centre’s submission that it had not received any such proposal from the State government. The court observed that the petition was speculative in nature and it was filed without any basis, and dismissed it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-proposal-to-rename-madurai-airport-hc-told/article36465942.ece
15 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ex-serviceman assaulted by wife, kin||An ex-serviceman, M. Jayapandi, who questioned his wife, Vasanthi for being a spendthrift, was brutally assaulted by her, and her family members near Chekkanoorani on Monday. She gave her three sovereigns of gold to her parents. When Jayapandi questioned her, her father Pandi, mother Eswari and brother Muthuviruman, assaulted him with iron rods. He was admitted to a private hospital. Chekkanoorani police booked all the four members and arrested Muthuviruman. Man dies after quarrel P. Sundarapandi, 27, of Kidaripatti, died after he was hit by a two-wheeler at Mapparai bus stop near Kidaripatti on Sunday. Police said that a boy, along with his mother Deepa, hit him while riding a two-wheeler. Even as he questioned them, she called up her relatives. Four persons arrived at the spot and picked a quarrel with him. After locals pacified them, Deepa and her relatives left. Sundarapandi developed fits and was rushed to Melur GH and subsequently admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital here. However, he died on Monday morning. Sundarapandi’s mother P. Muniyammal lodged a complaint with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-serviceman-assaulted-by-wife-kin/article36465941.ece
15 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court denies bail to main accused in illegal child adoption case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has denied bail to Idhayam Trust director G.R. Sivakumar, the main accused in the illegal child adoption case. Justice B. Pugalendhi dismissed the bail petition of Sivakumar, and sought a report on the involvement of the second accused, Madarsha. The bail petition of Madarsha was adjourned. The accused were said to have sold infants to childless couples. A woman who was unable to maintain her children handed them over to the home run by the trust. Sivakumar claimed that one infant was affected by COVID-19 and he would take it to hospital. He then informed the woman that the infant died and the final rites were performed as per COVID-19 protocol. Suspecting his activities, the woman lodged a complaint and it was found that the main accused had sold the infant to a childless couple. It was also alleged that he had sold another infant to another childless couple. The childless couples said Sivakumar told them that necessary legal formalities would be completed later. Earlier, the court granted bail to the two childless couples and three others in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-denies-bail-to-main-accused-in-illegal-child-adoption-case/article36465937.ece
15 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘300 murder victims in T.N. were Dalits from 2016 to 2020’||Between January 2016 and December 2020, around 300 persons who were murdered in Tamil Nadu belonged to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, according to information obtained by Evidence, an NGO, through the Right To Information (RTI) Act. However, the reasons for the murders – whether they were committed over caste-related issues or personal enmity – were not available. Evidence’s executive director A. Kathir said on Tuesday the organisation had filed RTI applications in all the 38 districts, but obtained information from 33 districts. Some officials in Tirunelveli and Tirupur districts refused to share information citing “vague” reasons and if these were added the total number of SC/ST victims could be around 350, he said. A study of the information based on police stations in the districts indicated that on an average five murders had been reported every month. While Thoothukudi recorded 29 murders, Madurai accounted for 28 and Kallakurichi (bifurcated from Villupuram) 24, Nagapattinam 19 and Coimbatore 17 during the period. The information showed that only in 13 cases had courts convicted the guilty. In at least 30 incidents, the accused were acquitted by courts, 28 cases were pending in police stations and 229 cases were pending in courts at different stages, he said. The amended SC/ST (Prevention and Atrocities) Act of 2015 stated that from the time chargesheets were framed cases had to be expedited in 60 days. However, a whopping 86% of cases were still pending. According to Mr. Kathir, in general atrocities against the SC/STs rose during the COVID-19 pandemic. While financial assistance and pension were given to the families of the victims, only in very few cases had their families got government jobs, while the order to give cultivable land had not been given at all, the information showed. He said the Supreme Court had directed the establishment of exclusive courts, judges, premises, other infrastructural facilities and appointment of government advocates for trying SC/ST atrocity cases. However, very few districts had initiated even the first step towards this directive. Thanking Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for his announcement to form a high-level committee to review crimes against SC/STs, he said it should meet twice a year. However, the information revealed that it had only met thrice in the last 30 years in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-least-300-murder-victims-in-tn-were-dalits-ngo/article36465639.ece
15 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Arts colleges begin online orientation for freshers||A few of arts colleges in the city have started online orientation programmes for first year UG students for the academic year 2021-22 and are in the process of beginning online classes for them in the coming week. The American College which conducted its freshers’ orientation on Monday through online is set to begin online classes for first years from Wednesday. Its principal M. Davamani Christober said, “After the orientation programme, a department-level briefing and introduction session was also done. The online classes will begin on Wednesday and continue regularly as first year students aged below 18 cannot be vaccinated for now.” Principal and secretary of Lady Doak College Christianna Singh said, “After the 3-day online orientation programme that starts on Wednesday, we will begin online classes from next week. Since we will be going for a continuous assessment system to evaluate semester scores, we do not want to miss out on working days, even when it is through the online mood.” D. Pandiaraja, Principal of Thiagarajar College, said that they are planning to conduct an online bridge course after the scheduled orientation on Friday. “The 1-week online refresher course aims to bridge the gap between school and college studies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arts-colleges-begin-online-orientation-for-freshers/article36465940.ece
15 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Worker murdered in drunken brawl||Vehicular traffic on Madurai-Tiruchi highway came to a grinding halt on Tuesday night after villagers blocked the four-way road demanding the arrest of a person accused of murdering a sanitary worker, S. Nondisamy (46), at Therkkutheru. The police said that Nondisamy, a Dalit, and S. Andisamy (40), a caste Hindu, were consuming liquor at Sembur. A quarrel erupted between them. When it took a turn for the worse, Andisamy hit Nondisamy with a log on the head killing him on the spot at around 7 p.m. The accused fled the scene. Later, relatives of Nondisamy blocked the highway for 30 minutes till 8.40 p.m. They demanded that the accused be arrested and sought compensation for the family of the deceased. However, police pacified them following which the crowd dispersed. Again the villagers blocked the road from 9.30 p.m. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range), N. Kamini, and Superintendent of Police, V. Baskaran, held talks with the agitators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/worker-murdered-in-drunken-brawl/article36465943.ece
15 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 131.00 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,032 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 57.97 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 663 cusecs and a discharge of 1,819 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,963 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday was (in mm): Gudalur 6.8, Periyar dam 6 and Thekkadi 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36465747.ece
15 September 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Coastal districts gear up for N-E monsoon||Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai district administrations have initiated measures to address emergencies that could arise during the northeast monsoon from October to December. The northeast monsoon contributes about 60% of the total annual rainfall in the region. Since the Cauvery was flowing above its capacity level and the canals/ channels were running at full capacity last year during the northeast monsoon, farmers could not drain the water from the fields. They suffered heavy losses as the grains germinated in the field itself. As many as 955 cyclone relief camps were established in the district, and 6,430 first-level responders were entrusted with the responsibility of rescuing stranded people. Over 2,000 sheds were erected to accommodate cattle and livestock. To replicate the safety measures this year too, District Monitoring Officer for Nagapattinam V. Arun Roy, Secretary-MSME, chaired a meeting along with Collector A. Arun Thamburaj, and formed coordination committees comprising officials of various departments for disaster management at taluk and panchayat union levels. The committees were apprised of their responsibilities such as evacuation of people from low-lying areas, managing multi-purpose rescue and relief centres and safeguarding livestock and cattle from the brunt of possible flooding. Mayiladuthurai Last month, the Mayiladuthurai administration put in place measures to tackle emergencies during the northeast monsoon. Collector R. Lalitha activated the police, fire and rescue services, coastal security group, home guards, and NCC units of colleges to ensure rapid response to emergencies. Offices of Revenue Divisional Officers and Tahsildars would have control rooms for round-the-clock monitoring. The Public Works Department - Water Resources Organisation, Cauvery Division, was entrusted with the task of having sand bags and causurina poles in large numbers. The Highways Department was advised to keep ready mechanised saws to clear fallen trees. Likewise, the Electricity Department was asked to monitor low-hanging wires and have electric poles ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coastal-districts-get-ready-to-tackle-n-e-monsoon/article36465718.ece
15 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Model Code of Conduct comes into force in Namakkal||The district administration on Tuesday issued guidelines on adherence to the Model Code of Conduct at the rural local bodies where by-elections have been announced. According to officials, by-elections will be conducted for one ward member post in the district panchayat, one ward member post in Erumapatti Panchayat Union, five Village Panchayat President posts and 18 ward member positions in village panchayats. In a release, District Collector Shreya P. Singh said the public could contact the election control room at 04286-280855 for any violation of model code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/model-code-of-conduct-comes-into-force-in-namakkal/article36465778.ece
15 September 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Intelligent Power Module demonstrated||Demonstration of Intelligent Power Module for fall armyworm, an invasive pest, under rainfed condition was initiated at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s Cotton Research Station at Veppanthattai in Perambalur district earlier this month. TNAU is operating a scheme, Developing Integrated Pest Management Module for Maize Fall Armyworm and Validation under Areawide Integrated Pest Management (AWIPM), through farmer participatory approach in Tamil Nadu for studying and managing fall armyworm in maize, Dean of Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute, Tiruchi, P. Masilamani, said. “All research management methods will be demonstrated at CRS, Veppanthattai, for rainfed maize ecosystem. About 60 demonstrations will be conducted at farmer’s field of Perambalur district. The module on fall armyworm management is an integrated one consisting of cultural, chemical and biological methods,” said Somasundaram, Associate Professor and Head, CRS, Veppanthattai. Maize being one of the important crops of Peramblur, it is cultivated in an area of 68,473 hectares. Last year, farmers faced difficulties in managing the pest which affects the profit of the farmers and the food grain production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intelligent-power-module-demonstrated/article36466073.ece
15 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP, AINRC intensify lobbying for lone RS seat in Puducherry||With the Election Commission of India (ECI) set to issue the notification for the October 4 Rajya Sabha polls on Wednesday, there is intense lobbying by both the All India N.R. Congress (AINRC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) for the lone seat in the Union Territory. Once the notification comes into force, interested candidates can file nominations till September 22. The Commission has indicated the last date for withdrawal as September 27. The poll will be held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on October 4. AINRC chief and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy is keen to nominate former Minister Malladi Krishna Rao (in the previous Congress government) for the seat, though there are other claimants from his party. According to a source in the AINRC, an influential family with members in the party has also shown a keen interest in the nomination to the Rajya Sabha. “Within our party, things will be sorted out as the final say rests with the Chief Minister. He is the final decision-making authority,” the source said. However, the party’s headache lies in the fact that its important ally in the NDA, the BJP, is “very determined” to get its nominee elected to the Upper House. “It’s part of the party’s strategy nationwide to increase its tally in the Upper House. So, it is important to get our party man nominated to the Rajya Sabha,” a BJP leader said. Getting a member elected from the Union Territory is also important for the party’s expansions plans, especially in Tamil Nadu, the leader said. The names of Union Minister of State for Fisheries L. Murugan and party local unit president V. Saminathan are being floated by party circles. “A final decision will be taken by the party high command regarding the Rajya Sabha seat in the NDA and also about the BJP candidate,” the leader said. Party in-charge Nirmal Kumar Surana, who was here for two days last week, is expected to make a second visit on Monday, a BJP leader said. When contacted, Mr. Surana said, “We are a responsible alliance partner and will certainly follow the coalition dharma. We will sit together and negotiate as was done during the seat sharing talks and Cabinet formation.” The Rajya Sabha election will be the first test for the NDA alliance after its first government was formed outside Karnataka in the south, say political observers.  Within our party, things will be sorted out as the final say rests with the Chief Minister AINRC source||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-ainrc-intensify-lobbying-for-lone-rs-seat-in-puducherry/article36466031.ece
15 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports 103 new COVID-19 cases, no deaths||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory as 103 new cases were confirmed on Tuesday. Puducherry accounted for 52 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,697 tests, followed by Karaikal (38), Yanam (2) and Mahe (11). The test positivity rate was 1.81%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.85%. The cumulative toll in the Union Territory stood at 1,823 — Puducherry (1,434), Karaikal (242), Yanam (105) and Mahe (42). With 105 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 858. Of this, 167 patients are in hospitals and 691 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,24,939 cases against 1,22,258 patients recovered. Of an estimated 17.10 lakh tests conducted to date, over 14.51 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 7,248 persons took the jab against COVID-19 to take the total vaccinated population in Puducherry to 8,71,079. One dead in Cuddalore Cuddalore district reported one more COVID-19 death and 35 new cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 62,827. A 65-year-old man died of the disease, taking the toll to 848. The district saw 61,548 recoveries and 382 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 17 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of cases in the district to 45,121. Kallakurichi district reported one death and 29 cases, taking the overall tally to 30,510. The official death toll in the distrct stood at 313.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-reports-103-new-covid-19-cases-no-deaths/article36466026.ece
15 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Reopen Pondicherry University’s campus’||The Student’s Federation of India (SFI) in Puducherry conducted a protest in front of the Pondicherry University on Tuesday demanding the reopening of the campus, which was shut down after the outbreak of COVID-19 in March 2020. According to the SFI, the Students’ Council had previously petitioned university authorities to demand resumption of offline classes. However, the administration had not responded to the plea, prompting the protest. The protest was led by Jai Prakash, SFI Central Committee member, and Faisal Banna, Pondicherry University unit secretary. Mr. Prakash slammed the irresponsible act of the Pondicherry University administration of not opening the campus when all the educational institutions under the Tamil Nadu government had already reopened. The protestors also objected to the university’s practice of denying entry to students in the name of the pandemic, but at the same time demanding payment of fees for sports and laboratory facilities, to which they do not even have access. The SFI said most Central universities have already opened or have released notification regarding reopening. It demanded that the Pondicherry Central University should reopen the campus after providing vaccination to its students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-pondicherry-universitys-campus/article36466025.ece
15 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIDWA takes out rally protesting LPG price hike||The All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) took out a rally to protest the rising prices of LPG and other measures of the governments at the Centre and Union Territory that hurt the common man. ‘Reopen ration shops’ The AIDWA also demanded reopening of ration shops, which have remained shut for over a year, and the expansion of the work guarantee programme. The rally which began at the Kamaraj Statue near Raja Theatre proceeded across the thoroughfares to culminate near the Immaculate Conception Cathedral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aidwa-takes-out-rally-protesting-lpg-price-hike/article36466024.ece
15 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Vinayaka idols immersed in U.T.||As many as 33 Vinayaka idols installed on private premises across the town were immersed on Tuesday in the Beach Promenade. The procession passed off peacefully without any untoward incident. The procession, which began on Kamaraj Salai, went around the town and reached the beach after covering places, including Jawaharlal Nehru Street, Mahatma Gandhi Street and Sardar Vallabhai Patel Salai. The Vinayaka idols were mounted on various vehicles, including trucks, and a crane was used to immerse big idols in the sea. The police had made elaborate security arrangements across the town. Hundreds of policemen were deployed along the procession route. They also diverted traffic on Jawaharlal Nehru Street, Kamaraj Salai and the Beach Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vinayaka-idols-immersed-in-ut/article36466030.ece
15 September 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Library officer detained||J. Kannan, 59, District Library Officer (in-charge), was arrested on charges of bribery by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption police here on Tuesday. Senthil Kumar, 35, filed a complaint that he, a differently abled person, was working as a librarian on the basis of a wage of Rs. 300 a day. He was posted in a branch library at Mallur near Thiru Uthirakosamangai in Ramanathapuram district. It is said that the employee’s post has to be renewed after 90 days. When he completed 85 days, he approached the district library officer seeking renewal for which the superior had demanded Rs. 30,000. When he stated that he would not be able to pay so much, the officer reportedly threatened to post another candidate in his place. Apprehending that he may turn jobless, Senthil Kumar lodged a complaint with the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption police. Armed with Rs. 5,000 cash, Senthil Kumar approached Kannan and offered him to take it as advance when the V&AC DSP Unnikrishnan, Inspectors Rajeswari and Kumaresan, who were hiding in the vicinity, trapped him. After arresting the district library officer, the police seized his laptop and a few documents in his office. They were interrogating him for about two hours. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/library-officer-held-on-graft-charge/article36465757.ece
15 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Medical oxygen capacities being increased in taluk hospitals||The Health Department as a precautionary measure has initiated measures to increase medical oxygen capacities at taluk government hospitals here. Third wave Three taluk government hospitals at Attur, Mettur and Edappadi are being provided with additional medical oxygen generation and storage facilities to meet oxygen needs in the event of a third wave in the district, according to health officials. The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital was the tertiary care centre for COVID-19 treatment in the district and patients who required continuous supply of medical oxygen were being referred to the Hospital as taluk hospitals were offering oxygen support primarily from cylinders, officials said. The Hospital was provided with two medical oxygen generator plants under the PM-Cares Fund. As part of improving facilities at other hospitals, a medical oxygen generator plant that could generate 500 litres per minute was being installed at Attur government hospital under PM-Cares fund, said K. Nedumaran, Joint Director of Health Services. A modular oxygen generator had been set up at Edappadi government hospital with CSR funds and a 3,000-litre medical oxygen plant would be installed at Mettur government hospital under the State government’s scheme, he added. Mr. Nedumaran said while the facility at Edappadi could support up to 102 beds, Attur plant could support up to 300 beds. The works would be completed within a week, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-oxygen-capacities-being-increased-in-taluk-hospitals/article36465774.ece
15 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead in farm well||A 28-year-old man was found dead in a farm well near Vazhapadi. According to the police, Raja from Irakampet in Kabilarmalai here came to Erivalavu with his family on Monday for a funeral. Later, Raja along Karthik, Dileep, Jeeva and a few others consumed liquor on Monday night and a quarrel occurred within the group. The gang chased Raja and he fell into a 30-feet-deep farm well near Puthupatti. Villagers alerted the police and Fire and Rescue Services. Raja’s body was recovered and sent to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. The police secured Karthik, Dileep and Jeeva. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead-in-farm-well/article36465759.ece
15 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||150 bags of PDS rice seized||The Salem City Police seized 150 bags of smuggled rice during a vehicle check near Kondalampatti on Tuesday. Based on a tip-off, the police intercepted a truck and seized the rice bags each weighing about 50 kg. The police also seized 20 bags of rice flour from the vehicle. The police arrested lorry driver Mayakannan, and his accomplice Sathish Kumar, Narayanan and Yuvaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/150-bags-of-pds-rice-seized/article36465775.ece
15 September 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Teachers’ house in Kalayarkoil burgled||Unidentified robbers decamped with Rs. 6 lakh in cash and 150 sovereigns of gold jewellery from a locked house in Kalayarkoil near here on Tuesday. Police said that Jesuraj (45) lived in Vasanth Nagar near TANGEDCO office with his wife Arockia Rosy. Both of them were working as teachers. Normally, they leave home at 9 a.m. and return by 5 p.m. When they turned up at 5 p.m., they saw the rear door broken open and the valuables missing from the house. Superintendent of Police Senthilkumar, DSP Palpandi, Kalayarkoil Inspector Pandian and others inspected the scene of crime. The finger prints were lifted from the spot. Preliminary inquiries revealed that they had withdrawn the money from a public sector bank on Monday (Sept 13) and kept it in their home. It is likely that someone who had knowledge about the valuables kept at the home could have committed the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-house-burgled/article36465751.ece
15 September 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Two minors booked for murder of boy||P. Deenadayalan, 4, was allegedly pushed into an unused well by two minor boys following a quarrel between neighbours here on Monday. Fire and Rescue Services personnel fished out the body of the boy on Tuesday morning after struggling to trace the body in the unused well with 30-foot depth of water since Monday evening. The police said that D. Parthiban, a van driver, dropped his son Deenadayalan at his mother, Lakshmiammal’s house on Monday. When she alerted him about Deenadalayan who has gone missing from home since afternoon, a complaint was lodged with Sivakasi Town police. A team, led by Sivakasi Deputy Superintendent of Police, A. Babu Prasanth and Sivakasi Town Inspector of Police, Banumathi, conducted an enquiry on Monday evening. CCTV footage A video footage of a closed circuit television camera showed that Deenadayalan going with the two boys, both cousins. Only the cousins returned home later. When the police questioned the boys, who are studying in 8th and 6th standard, they reportedly admitted that they had pushed Deenadayalan into the well. The police said that the boys were living with their grandmother and Lakshmiammal was their neighbour. The grandmother questioned Deenadayalan when he played on the mound of sand dumped by the neighbour. A quarrel ensured and Lakshmiammal shouted at the elder boy. “The boy developed a grudge against Deenadayalan and both the cousins had taken him to the well and pushed him into it,” a police officer said. The police have altered the boy missing case into murder. The minor boys have been charged of kidnap and destroying evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-minors-booked-for-murder-of-boy/article36465745.ece
15 September 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||‘Pay more wages to MGNREGA workers’||Members of All India Democratic Women’s Association staged a demonstration in front of Sivakasi Panchayat union office on Tuesday demanding an increase in daily wages under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to Rs. 600. Its State secretary S. Lakshmi led the protest. They wanted the Centre to increase the number of days of work given to the registered workers to 200 a year from the existing 100 days. “As of now, the daily wage is Rs. 210. With most of the small scale industries functioning only for 3 to 4 days a weeks, the workers have lost their regular wages. So, the Government should pay more for the workers,” she said. Pointing out to the proposal of including nine panchayats around Sivakasi and Tiruthangal municipalities with Sivakasi Corporation, they wanted continuation of allocation of MGNREGA works to those panchayats. “Even the work with fireworks units have come down drastically in the last few years. The local workers are finding MGNREGA as the only alternative source of livelihood. So, continuation of work under rural employment guarantee scheme will help them a lot,” she added. AIDWA functionaries Saroja, Balammal and Tamil Selvi and Communist Party of India (Marxist) functionary Balasubramanian were among those who addressed the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-more-wages-to-mgnrega-workers/article36465752.ece
15 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Provide monthly honorarium to women, AIDWA tells govt.||The All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) on Tuesday urged the DMK government to extend monthly honorarium of Rs. 1,000 to families holding ration cards with women mentioned as the family head. Slogans in support of the demand were raised at a demonstration held near the Collectorate here under the leadership of its Thanjavur district secretary S.Thamizhselvi and attended by all India vice-president U. Vasuki and State secretary S.K. Ponnuthai. The demonstrators also urged the government to discontinue the bio-metric registration system to avail rations through the public distribution system and remove NPHH marking on family cards since it affected poor families. Demanding issuance of free house-site pattas, they insisted that the government check the increasing retail prices of gas cylinders, petrol and diesel. ‘Increase no. of days’ They also exhorted the Central and State governments to enhance the number of days under MNREGS from 100 to 200 and to hike the wages under the scheme to Rs. 600. The works relating to agriculture activities should also be brought under the MNREGS, which should be extended to urban civic bodies such as town panchayats and municipalities for the benefit of the poor living in urban localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-monthly-honorarium-to-women-aidwa/article36465726.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchendur temple to get more facilities||A comprehensive project report for creating basic infrastructure facilities for the benefit of devotees visiting Subramaniya Swami Temple here is being prepared, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekar Babu has said. After inspecting the shrine on Tuesday along with Minster for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Anita R. Radhakrishnan, he said a range of infrastructure facilities would be jointly created in the temple at a cost of Rs. 150 crore to be shared by the HR and CE Department and private companies. The report, which was prepared earlier, had been modified following detailed discussion with the Secretary, Department of HR and CE, the Commissioner and the Collector. The modified project report would get the final nod after it was presented to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. He informed that the Chief Minister would formally inaugurate the day-long annadhanam scheme in Tiruttani, Samayapuram and Tiruchendur temples on September 16 through videoconference. He said temple properties worth Rs. 900 crore had been retrieved from encroachers even as the government had enacted law to punish encroachers up to 5 years of imprisonment. “If the devotees come to know about encroachment of temple properties, they can give complaint to the HR and CE Department,” he said. He said that the Chief Minister had ordered renovation of 300 temples across the State to conduct ‘kumbabhishekam’ in the temples where the ritual had not been performed in the the last 12 years. He said one of the 10 arts and science colleges to be started by the HR and CE Department would come up at Vilaathikulam. When the ministers were inspecting the temple, the devotees complained to them that they had to wait for a few hours in the queue for offering dharshan, he assured them that the issue would be discussed by the Commissioner with the Collector and Mr. ‘Anita’ Radhakrishnan to find the right solution on an early note. The ministers inspected the ongoing development works in the temple, free lunch dining hall, kitchen and the ‘panchamirdham’ preparation hall. Commissioner, HR and CE, J. Kumaragurubaran, Collector K. Senthil Raj, and ASP, Tiruchendur Harsh Singh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchendur-temple-to-get-more-facilities/article36465749.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bio-mining project picks up pace||The bio-mining project to segregate and process accumulated solid waste at Ariyamangalam dump yard has gathered pace. On behalf of Tiruchi Corporation, Erode-based Zigma Global Environ Solutions is executing the project with a scheduled deadline of 24 months from the date of issuance of the work order. It began processing and clearing the garbage in January last. A sum of Rs. 49 crore was sanctioned for the bio-mining project. According to sources, the company was mandated to remove 7.60 lakh cubic metre of municipal solid waste from the dump yard. It was also asked to reclaim 47.5 acres of land used for dumping garbage collected from different parts of the city over the last 50 years. While the company initially began the process of segregating and processing the garbage, it added one more bio-mining plant a few months ago to speed up the clearing work. It employed 150 workers, including skilled, unskilled and supervisors, for the task. As of August, it is claimed that 4.8 lakh cubic metre of solid waste had been cleared. It means that more than 70% of the solid waste has been cleared successfully. “It is a tough task to clear the garbage mounds. It has been a major issue to residents of Ariyamangalam, Kattur and neighbouring areas for so long. We find significant progress in clearing and transporting the municipal waste,” says P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation. He said that four lakh metric tonne of waste, after being segregated into gravel, recyclable and plastic waste, had been cleared from the site. Similarly, 25,000 metric tonne of plastic waste had been transported to various cement factories so as to use them as fuel in high-power kilns. About 1,500 metric tonne of solid waste was being processed a day. Mr. Rahuman said that one more bio-mining plant had been set up at the site for accelerating the work. Though the project was expected to be completed by December, labour shortage during the lockdown delayed it. However, it would be completed before March 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bio-mining-project-picks-up-pace/article36465728.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Clamour for creation of new districts in central region||There has been a string of demands for creation of new districts in the central region, with the latest being raised by DMK MLA from Manachanallur Assembly constituency S. Kathiravan, who mooted the creation of a new district with the town as headquarters by bifurcating Tiruchi district. Raising the demand during his maiden speech in the Assembly, Mr. Kathiravan observed that Tiruchi was a big district and people in places such as Uppilliyapuram, Thottiyam and Pachamalai hills had to travel a long distance to reach Tiruchi town to avail various government services. The district could be bifurcated to create a new one with Manachanallur as headquarters and include Manachanallur, Musiri, Lalgudi and Thuraiyur Assembly constituencies. The demand for bifurcation of Tiruchi district is not new entirely new. There have been demands and expectations of creation of a new district with Srirangam as headquarters when former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa represented the temple town after being elected from here in 2011. Welcoming the MLA’s suggestion, Saravanan Natesan, an activist, observed that the reasons pointed out by Mr. Kathiravan were valid. “If a new district is created, the northern side of the Cauvery will see better development and people will have better access to government services,” he said. In recent years, there has also been a strong demand for creation of a new district with Kumbakonam as headquarters. Traders and residents of the town have made a strong pitch by organising meetings and agitations pressing their demand. The demand is to make the Kumbakonam division, covering Kumbakonam, Tiruvidaimarudur and Papanasam Assembly seats, a new district. The issue was raised at a recent public hearing on the expansion and upgradation of Kumbakonam municipality as a Corporation, according to V. Sathyanarayanan, general secretary, Federation of All Traders Associations, Kumbakonam. “During the election campaign here, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin assured voters that a new district with Kumbakonam as headquarters will be created. We hope he fulfils the assurance soon,” Mr. Sathyanarayanan said. Post-election, there have been demands for creation of new districts from sections of people in Tiruvarur and Pudukottai districts too. A meeting of representatives from political parties and service organisations held in July in Mannargudi demanded the creation of a new district with the town as headquarters. A demand to create a new district with Aranthangi as headquarters was aired by a section of people in Pudukottai district too recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clamour-for-creation-of-new-districts-in-central-region/article36465733.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||About 180 acres of temple lands retrieved, says HR&CE Minister||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekar Babu on Tuesday said that about 180 acres of temple lands had been retrieved from encroachers till now. Speaking to reporters after inspectingi Jambukeswarar Temple at Tiruvanaikoil here, Mr. Sekar Babu said the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department would engage in the task of retrieving more encroached temple lands across the State. Mr. Sekar Babu said any person could lodge complaints relating to encroachments of temple lands. The department had changed the earlier system wherein complaints could be given by the HR & CE Commissioner only. Suitable amendments had been made in the law as per the guidance of the Chief Minister, which had paved the way for the new rule. Also, amendments had been made in the law in respect of appointment of board of trustees for temples by making their tenure as two years instead of three to enable more people to get a chance to become members. Wherever there were problems in the board, the department had appointed thakkars to ensure that there were no disruptions in any works in temples. The DMK government was taking steps to reform the department which had got ruined. Earlier, Mr. Sekar Babu accompanied by Minister for Municipal Administration, Urban and Water Supply K.N. Nehru inspected the bathing pond created for the temple elephant, Akila, on the shrine’s premises. Mr. Sekar Babu inspected Arulmigu Mariamman Temple at Samayapuram near Tiruchi where the whole-day annadhanam scheme would be launched on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/about-180-acres-of-temple-lands-retrieved-says-hrce-minister/article36465738.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BHELSIA reaches out to BHEL for redress of vendor grievances||BHEL Small Industries Association (BHELSIA) has made a representation to BHEL Corporation seeking steps for redress of grievances of vendors for a win-win outcome. Handing over a memorandum containing the initiatives that need to be taken to the Chairman and Managing Director of BHEL Nalin Shinghal, at New Delhi, president of BHELSIA Rajappa Rajkumar said the annual rate contract for 12-18 months for jobs with Price Variation Clause had to be implemented with modification in terms and conditions as per earlier contracts without reverse auction. Considering the expertise developed by the vendors, BHEL must off load jobs of Nuclear Power Corporation of India to select units. Alternatively, the vendors must be permitted to execute jobs inside BHEL premises using their expertise, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said. BHEL must take the initiative to bag orders from the defence sector and railways for coach and wagon building, and offload sub-assembly to MSME units in Tiruchi region. Likewise, BHEL could also fulfil orders for manufacturing containers, banking on vendors. Women entrepreneurs  Special consideration must be extended to women entrepreneurs and ORBIT workshop employing physically challenged people. Considering the pandemic and steep increase in raw material price, the BHEL has to cancel pending orders of its Tiruchi and Ranipet units and ISG Bengaluru, without any penalty. In consideration of the circular issued by the Central Government, reduction in performance bank guarantee to three percent has to be considered for all the contracts by all BHEL units, the BHELSIA president said. Over the last three years, some vendors have been suspended for not participating in the reverse auction, non-submission of bank guarantee due to delay in getting the approval from the bank, and other reasons. The vendor units were started exclusively to cater to the need of BHEL, their suspension will make them permanently sick, and eventually cause close-down. Considering the long relationship and also the losses incurred due to issues related to BHEL, all the suspensions should be revoked as a special case, he said. Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar also mooted formation of an Apex Committee to discuss and review various activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhelsia-reaches-out-to-bhel-for-redress-of-vendor-grievances/article36465714.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. teachers buoyed by good response to undergraduate courses||Overwhelming response from applicants to undergraduate programmes in government arts and science colleges in the region has apparently lifted the mood of the teachers. Having wrapped up the admission process for the UG programmes, the colleges are expected to complete the admissions for postgraduate programmes also during this week. Last year, the online admission process was a dampener to a certain extent, though the seats were, more or less, filled up during the course of the academic session. This time around, the colleges were given permission to conduct offline counselling as well by following the COVID-19 protocols. The filling of sanctioned strength of students this year has brought in a sense of relief for teachers in some of the departments who had the fear of being transferred due to poor admissions hitherto. There were applicants manifold for all the 15 undergraduate programmes offered by Periyar EVR College (Autonomous). The seats for the shift-11 programmes: B.A. Tamil Literature, B.A. English Literature, B.Sc. Chemistry, B.Sc. Computer Science, and B.Com have also been filled, Principal J. Suganthy said. The Government Arts and Science College in Thuvakudi has also filled up the seats for all the UG programmes. The college offers some unique programmes such as B.Sc. Chemistry in Tamil, B.A. Political Science, and B.Sc. Psychology. The college is the only institution in the central districts to offer B.Sc. Psychology, Zonal Secretary of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers' Association, David Livingston said. Patronage for the UG courses of the government arts and science colleges has been higher this time when compared to last year, Prof. David Livingston said, adding that though the admissions have been good, it remains to be seen if the colleges will go ahead with increasing the intake by 25% as advised by the government recently. Principals have been advised to optimise the utility of building infrastructure in the government arts and science colleges for accommodating as many students as possible, Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education A. Megala said. According to the college heads, the affordable fee is the prime factor for the patronage for undergraduate programmes accorded by students belonging to lower economic strata. The fee for the entire year does not exceed a few thousands of rupees. For Arts students, the fee is Rs. 3,275, and for Science students, it is Rs. 3,295. The fee is Rs. 2,695 for Computer Science and BCA programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-teachers-buoyed-by-good-response-to-ug-courses-in-arts-and-science-colleges/article36465717.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi girl is topper in TNEA-2021||A Tiruchi student J. Nithyasree, who belongs to Srirangam, is the topper in the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions - 2021, the counselling process conducted by Anna University for admission to engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu. Two other students from the Central region who figure in the top 10 ranks constitute P.L. Uma Shwetha (sixth position), who hails from Alagapuri village in Thirumayam taluk in Pudukottai district, and S. Sarathivasan (eighth rank) of Thuvakudi Malai in Tiruchi district. The top 10 rankers in the engineering counselling process constitute four girls and six boys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-girl-is-topper-in-tnea-2021/article36465719.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Poor road upkeep around Gandhi Market poses hardship to vehicle users||The poor condition of roads around Gandhi Market is posing hardship to motorists. The centrally located market is extremely busy even during nights as wholesale trading takes place mainly after dusk. Moreover, lorries and trucks transporting vegetables, fruits and flowers from different parts of the country unload their consignments during the late hours. With the arrival of many heavy vehicles and operation of a number of buses, cars and two-wheelers, the roads around the market face enormous pressure. They are extensively used round the clock. But their poor upkeep has made driving unpleasant for two-wheeler riders and heavy vehicle drivers. Barring the stretch between Marakkadai and Gandhi Market, all other roads are riddled with potholes, making the task tough for motorists. Considering the extensive use of the roads, Tiruchi Corporation laid concrete road a few years ago for about 50 metres along the northern side of Gandhi Market, where wholesale and retail fruits commission stalls are located. The stretch that served the purpose well in the initial stage has developed deep potholes at several places. City buses bound for Tiruverumbur and Thuvakudi have to go via the stretch before joining Thanjavur road. A large number of load carriers use it extensively to offload fruits. The poor condition forces drivers to negotiate the concrete road carefully, hindering the smooth movement of vehicles, and often causes traffic snarls. The fish market road behind Gandhi Market is in a worser condition than the other three roads around the market. During rainy days, the road looks like a field that is being readied for paddy transplantation. The top surface of the road has been eroded completely. “It is difficult to drive on uneven road and the bad condition of these roads has not changed for over three years,” says M. Sabbi, a trader. The traders say they brought the situation to the attention of Corporation officials on several occasions, but the issue has not been sorted out. Special attention must be given to repair and maintenance of the roads around Gandhi Market as they are extensively used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-road-upkeep-around-gandhi-market-poses-hardship-to-vehicle-users/article36465721.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Engineer’s 30th book on valuation released||B. Kanaga Sabapathy, a city-based civil engineer and registered valuer, has brought out his 30th book on valuation. Mr. Kanaga Sabapathy, former national vice-president of the Institution of Valuers, handed over the first copy of the book, Fundamental Principles of Valuation (Practical Valuation Volume 30), to Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi, on Monday. He has dedicated the book to his alma mater, Regional Engineering College (now National Institute of Technology). Mr. Kanaga Sabapathy has authored six more books on other subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineers-30th-book-on-valuation-released/article36465723.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Collector presents district-level arts awards to five artistes||The district-level arts awards for 2018-19 were presented to five artistes by Collector S. Sivarasu on Monday. While the Kalai Ilamani award was presented to bharathanatyam dancer, B. Abhinaya, the Kalai Valarmani award was given to morsing artiste K. Sowbhagyalakshmi.    Silamba m artiste V. Thangaraj bagged the Kalai Sudarmani Award and folk dancer Saku. Sathyan was presented the Kalai Nanmani Award.Thavilartiste Viji Murugan was presented the Kalai Mudhumani award. The awardees were selected by a committee headed by the Collector. The awards are given under the auspices of District Arts Society by the Department of Arts and Culture, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-presents-district-level-arts-awards-to-five-artistes/article36465725.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||37-foot-tall stone idol of Anjaneyar to be installed at Melur temple||A 37-foot tall stone idol of Lord Anjaneyar will be installed inside Sanjeevana Anjaneyar Temple situated close to the the Coleroon at Melur village near Srirangam. The idol, made by a team of sculptors at Tirumuruganpoondi in Tiruppur district, was brought in a huge trailer lorry and reached the private temple located inside a grove early on Monday. A peetam is under construction on the temple premises for installation of the idol of Lord Anjaneyar weighing 110 tonnes. The private temple is being run by Sri Sanjeevana Anjaneyar Trust. Its managing director is R. Vasudevan, a Hanuman upaasakar residing at Srirangam. The idol left Tirumuruganpoondi on September 11 and reached Melur two days later. It took over one-and-a-half years for the sculptors to make the idol, says V. Rahul, son of Mr. Vasudevan. At present, daily pujas are being done to a small idol of Sri Sanjeevana Anjaneyar. Contributions from donors have enabled in making the idol. Plans are afoot to install the huge idol in the Tamil month of Aippasi , he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-foot-tall-stone-idol-of-anjaneyar-to-be-installed-at-melur-temple/article36465730.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||294 fresh positive cases in central districts||Two hundred and ninety-four people tested positive for COVID-19 in central region on Tuesday. Four more patients — three from Thanjavur and one from Pudukottai — succumbed to complications arising out of the infection as per the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. The caseload continued to remain high in Thanjavur district with 119 poeple testing positive for the virus. The remaining eight districts in the region reported less than 50 cases. Forty-three more fresh cases were reported in Tiruchi, 32 each in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam and 16 each in Mayiladuthurai and Karur districts. Pudukottai reported 17 fresh cases, Ariyalur 12 and Perambalur seven, the least in the region. Thanjavur had the highest number of active cases in the region with 1,010 people under treatment, including those under home treatment, as on Tuesday. There were 531 active cases in Tiruchi, 415 in Tiruvarur, 334 in Nagapattinam, 278 in Mayiladuthurai, 198 in Pudukottai, 185 in Karur, 139 in Ariyalur and 83 in Perambalur. Constables quarantined Three police personnel attached to Cantonment Crime police station tested positive for COVID-19 a couple of days ago. They comprised a Head Constable and two Grade-I Constables and were in home quarantine, said police sources. Samples had been taken from the Inspector, Sub-Inspector and other police personnel attached to the police station and the test results were awaited, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/294-fresh-positive-cases-in-central-districts/article36465735.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps to be held in city today||COVID-19 vaccination camps would be held by civic authorities at the following places in the city on Wednesday: North Devi School, Srirangam; Renga Matriculation School, Raghavendrapuram; Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College; Bharathiar School, Keezha Kondayampettai; Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School, Teppakulam; Anganwadi Centre, Rockfort;Ellai Mariamman Temple complex, Jeeva Nagar; Nathersha Pallivasal; Corporation School, Madhuram grounds, E.B.Road; Xavier’s SchooL, Varaganeri; Sri Yadukula Sangam School, Edatheru; Anganwadi Centre, Mettutheru, Varaganeri; Nagammai Street Library, Mela Kalkandarkottai;Panchayat School, Military Colony; Corporation Middle School, Subramaniapuram; Seven Dolours School, Sangilandapuram;Corporation Park, Mullai Nagar; Nesam Centre,Pudutheru, Sembattu; St.Antony School,Renga Nagar, K.K.Nagar;Anganwadi centre, Mela Panchapur;Corporation School, Khajapettai; Anganwadi Centre,Bharathi Nagar, Thennur; Corporation SChool, Thennur; R.C.School, Uyyakondan Thirumalai; Bishop Heber College; Corporation School, Kuratheru; Anganwadi Centre, Salai Road, Cholarajapuram; S.M.Higher Secondary School, Woraiyur; Anganwadi Centre,Panchavarnaswamy Temple Street;Urumu Dhanalakshmi College, Kattur; Anganwadi Centre, Jaganathapuram, Ariyamangalam; Anganwadi Centre, Malaikovil; and Corporation School, Bhagavathipuram. Covishield doses Three hundred doses of Covishield would be adminsitered at each of these camps, which would begin at 9.30 a.m., an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-to-be-held-in-city-today/article36466075.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||48-year-old Head Constable’s body found near railway track||The body of a police Head Constable who was attached to Illupur police station in Pudukottai district was found near the railway track between Tirumayam and Pudukottai on Tuesday. Railway Police gave the name of the deceased as K. Kannan, 48, of Pichaithaanpatti village near Pudukottai. Railway Police sources said the Head Constable was fatally knocked down by a train. He had availed leave for two days and come home as his wife was said to have been be unwell, said the sources. The Government Railway Police, Karaikudi, registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/48-year-old-head-constables-body-found-near-railway-track/article36465736.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Civic poll to be held on October 6 and 9||As the election model code of conduct came into effect since Monday evening with the notification of civic polls, Collector V. Vishnu declared open the election control room at the Collectorate on Tuesday in the presence of N. Manivannan, Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli to receive complaints regarding poll code violations or give information about the election to be held in two phases on October 6 and 9. Speaking to reporters after opening the round-the-clock poll control room, he said the rural civic polls would be held to elect 12 district panchayat councillors, 122 panchayat union ward members, 204 village panchayat presidents and 1,731 village panchayat ward members and the winners would elect a District Panchayat Chairman, a Vice-Chairman, 9 panchayat union chairmen, 9 vice-chairmen and 204 village panchayat vice-presidents. In other words, direct election would be held on October 6 and 9 for 2,069 positions in 9 panchayat unions and indirect election would be conducted on October 22 for electing 224 persons. A total of 6,73,868 voters including 3,30,487 men, 3,43,325 women and 56 other voters would exercise their franchise in 1,188 booths – 30 all men voters booths, 30 all women voters booths and 1,128 all voters booths - to be established across the district. Of this, 333 booths have been identified as ‘sensitive booths’ where micro observers and additional policemen will be posted besides webcasting of the polling. A total of 20 Returning Officers and 277 Assistant Returning Officers will be posted. While 5,002 personnel will be deployed for the first phase of the polls to be held on October 6, services of 4,511 officials will be utilised during the second phase of the polling on October 9. To check the violations of model code of conduct, 5 flying squads – each with a Deputy Tahsildar, 3 police personnel and a videographer - have been deployed. Complaints pertaining to poll code violations can be registered with the round-the-clock control room by calling 74026 08438 or toll-free number 1800 425 8373, Mr. Vishnu said. Virudhunagar Model code of conduct has come into force across all panchayats in three unions of Sattur, Rajapalayam and Virudhunagar and in 35 panchayats in other panchayat unions where election would be held for 54 posts of rural local bodies. In a press release, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that ordinary election would be held for one post of district panchayat ward councillors, three posts of panchayat union ward councillors, four posts of Presidents of village panchayats and 46 posts of village panchayat ward members. A total of 89,691 voters, including 43,379 men, 46,302 women and 10 transgenders would be eligible to cast their franchise on October 9. A total of 14 Returning Officers and 46 Assistant Returning Officers have been appointed for the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-poll-to-be-held-on-october-6-and-9/article36465756.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Farmhand beheaded||A farmhand was beheaded by unidentified persons near here on Monday night due to suspected prior enmity. K. Sankarasubramanian, 38, of Keezha Seval Nainarkulam was found beheaded near the liquor shop at Thidiyoor Vadugarpatti under Munneerpallam police station limits on Monday night. When the people saw the trunk lying near the liquor shop, they informed the police. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan visited the spot and sent the body to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. The police found that Sankarasubramanian was murdered and beheaded by the assailants even as he was returning home on his bike after buying liquor in the TASMAC shop at Thidiyoor Vadugarpatti. When the police started searching for the head, it was found lying on a grave in the Gopalasamudram cremation ground, which gave the police vital clue about the motive behind the murder of Sankarasubramanian. Following enmity between two groups of people in Gopalasamudram in 2013, one Manthiram was murdered. Since the head of Sankarasubramanian had been kept on the grave of Manthiram, police suspect that the relatives of Manthiram might have murdered Sankarasubramanian. Further investigations are on even as special teams are on the lookout for a few suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmhand-beheaded/article36466057.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Exempt us from vaccination drive’||The Village Health Nurses have appealed to the Department of Public Health to exempt them from the vaccination drives between Mondays and Wednesdays so as to concentrate on their prime duty of taking care of pregnant women. In the petition submitted in the Collectorate on Tuesday, they said that they had been involved in the anti-COVID-19 operations after the outbreak of the pandemic. Since the governments were keen on increasing the rate of vaccination by organising mega vaccination camps, they were involved. However, they had to take the vaccines from the nearest Primary Health Centres and go to the target areas for vaccinating the hitherto uncovered population, which was taking a lot of time, energy and resources. If the vaccine was taken in a vehicle from the supply point and disburse to the Village Health Nurses on the field, it would further make the vaccination drive effective by minimising the time being consumed for supply of the vaccines. At the same time, it would also enable them concentrate on their primary duties of taking care of pregnant women, recently delivered mothers, distribution of assistance to poor pregnant women. So, they should be exempted from vaccination-related work. Since they had to work up to 1 a.m. to upload the vaccination-related details and information regarding other duties assigned to them, teachers, self-help group members and personnel affiliated to the Department of Local Administration should be involved in preparation of vaccination beneficiaries’ list, uploading this detail on the website and bringing the public to the vaccination centres, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exempt-us-from-vaccination-drive/article36466053.ece
15 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||SP escapes unhurt in road accident||Superintendent of Police (SP), Tiruppur district, G. Shashank Sai escaped unhurt after one of the tyres of the car he was travelling burst and the vehicle overturned near Uthukuli in the early hours of Tuesday. According to police sources, the incident happened when he was returning from Chennai. Seat belt Mr. Sai and the driver were wearing seat belts and did not suffer injuries. The Uthukuli police sent the SP and the driver in another vehicle, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sp-escapes-unhurt-in-road-accident/article36465648.ece
15 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco engineer arrested for graft||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) arrested an Assistant Electrical Engineer, attached to Tangedco office on Avinashi-Mangalam Road, on charges of demanding Rs. 2,000 as bribe to provide electricity connection for a newly built house at Avinashi in Tiruppur district. The complainant approached the DVAC, who laid a trap to nab Dilshad Begum, on Tuesday. The sleuths caught her red-handed while accepting the bribe, the sources said. The accused was booked under sections of Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-engineer-arrested-for-graft/article36465667.ece
15 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Healthcare scheme reaches over 6,000 beneficiaries in one month||As many as 6,107 beneficiaries were covered by the Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam doorstep healthcare scheme within a month in Tiruppur district. In a release, Collector S. Vineeth said that when the scheme was launched in Avinashi taluk on August 5 and 6, as many as 107 beneficiaries were treated for non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, high blood pressure as of September 5. Healthcare personnel from five primary health centres in the taluk at Thulukkamuthur, Thirumuruganpoondi, Cheyur, Nambiyampalayam and Avinashi visited the residences of the beneficiaries of all ages for the scheme, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthcare-scheme-reaches-over-6000-beneficiaries-in-one-month/article36465663.ece
15 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Court relaxes bail condition for Kodanad case accused||The District Sessions Court here on Tuesday relaxed a bail condition for “Walayar” Manoj, one of the prime accused in the Kodanad dacoity-cum-murder case. M. Munirathinam, advocate for the accused, said the Judge had granted bail to his client in July 2021.  Surety One of the bail conditions was that Manoj would have to provide surety from two persons, either residing in the Nilgiris or in Coimbatore, and that he would not go absconding. As Manoj was not able to get two persons to provide the sureties, Mr. Munirathinam approached the court seeking relaxation in the bail condition. District Judge-cum-Chief Judicial Magistrate C. Sanjai Baba allowed two family members of Manoj from Kerala to sign as sureties for the bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-relaxes-bail-condition-for-kodanad-case-accused/article36465649.ece
15 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore, neighbouring districts get ready for local body polls||The district administrations in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur are gearing up for the local body election that will be held in two phases between October 6 and 9. With the model code of conduct coming into force, the administrations led by Collectors in these three districts held meetings with the police, revenue, local body and rural development officials on the measures that need to be taken as part of poll preparedness until October 12, when the counting of votes will begin. “We had a detailed meeting with the District Collector on security and other issues. We will strengthen security arrangements accordingly,” Deepa Sathyan, Superintendent of Police, Ranipet Police, told The Hindu . The newly carved-out districts like Ranipet and Tirupattur were much quicker in putting in place the required security arrangements within their limits soon after the model code came into effect. Along with the district police, the Ranipet district administration, led by its Collector, on Tuesday formed three flying squads, also known as mobile surveillance teams, comprising police, revenue and local body officials, for major areas to prevent any violations including cash and gifts distribution and other freebies. The Ranipet district has 25 police check-posts including eight at the inter-district level, with Vellore and Tiruvannamalai. Revenue teams will create additional check-posts on key routes in the district. Tirupattur Collector Amar Kushwaha had a detailed meeting with the police, revenue and local body officials on Tuesday and ordered the surveillance teams to strengthen border areas with more check posts. At present, 14 check-posts, including those at Kothur, Kollapalli and Velathigamani Benda, are bordering Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Additional check-posts on key routes connecting rural and urban areas and districts like Tiruvannamalai and Vellore are being set up. Special surveillance teams are also being formed to monitor district borders and major areas like Ambur, Jolarpet, Yelagiri Hills and Vaniyambadi. At present, Vellore district police have deployed one police inspector and 10 constables in each panchayat union office where candidates file their nominations for the elections. Each panchayat office also gets one police constable as part of security arrangements. Currently, the Vellore district has six panchayat unions including Katpadi, Gudiyatham, Anicut and K.V. Kuppam. It has six inter-district check-posts with three each in Katpadi and Gudiyatham. Candidates can file their nominations from Wednesday at panchayat union offices in these districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-neighbouring-districts-get-ready-for-local-body-polls/article36466059.ece
15 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram district gears up for local body elections||Collector D. Mohan inspected the preparations at the counting centre located in the Arignar Anna Government Arts and Science College in Villupuram on Tuesday for the upcoming rural local body polls in the district. The Collector also inspected the facilities being prepared at educational institutions in Kaanai and Mugaiyur blocks. He inspected the strongroom in the arts college premises and directed officials to ensure ramps in all centres for disabled persons; uninterrupted power supply and drinking water amenities; separate passage for political party agents; and seating arrangements with physical distancing. The district will witness elections to about 6,097 posts in two phases on October 6 and 9. Mr. Mohan said 2,948 polling booth will be set up across the district for the rural local body polls. Of this as many as 694 booths have been identified as vulnerable and critical. As per the voter list, 13,83,687 rural voters in the district will be exercising their franchise. Men voters account for 6,87,420, women, 6,96,115 and others 152.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villupuram-district-gears-up-for-local-body-elections/article36466028.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. withdraws 5,570 cases against protesters||The action was in line with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s announcement in the Assembly on June 24. The public prosecutor had opined that in the cases in which the investigation was pending or the charge-sheet was not taken on file, further action could be dropped by the police. In the cases pending trial, the assistant public prosecutors may be directed to move an application under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for withdrawal of prosecution and follow the procedure prescribed therein.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-withdraws-5570-cases-against-protesters/article36465744.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode crosses one-lakh mark in COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Tuesday crossed the one-lakh mark in terms of the total number of COVID-19 cases reported since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020. A total of 128 new cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the total cases to 1,00,082. While 119 persons were discharged, 1,278 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 52 positive cases were reported of which 46 were indigenous. In Namakkal, 46 indigenous cases were reported. As per the bulletin, three deaths were reported in Salem and one death was reported in Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-crosses-one-lakh-mark-in-covid-19-cases/article36465764.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Student induction programme, 9 a.m.  SNMV College of Arts and Science : E-Conference on ‘Novel Biotechnological Approach to Sustain in Pandemic Scenario’, 10.30 a.m.  Rotary Club of Coimbatore Cosmopolitan: ‘Save Limbs’ – Early Detection and Treatment of Diabetic Foot Problems to Prevent Amputation, 8 p.m.  VLB Janakiammal College of Arts and Science: Webinar on ‘Tally Prime for Career Growth’, 10.30 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Engineer’s Day celebrations, 1.30 p.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Engineer’s Day celebrations, 5 p.m.  Karpagam Institute of Technology: Engineer’s Day celebrations, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36465665.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science: Students Development Programme – series 7 on Be a Winner, Kavidasan, Director, Roots Industries India Limited, Coimbatore, guest speaker, webinar, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article36465765.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||LED street lights: MLAs fume over slow pace of project||Members cutting across party lines in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday complained about poor street lighting in Bengaluru, as the consortium that bagged the global tender in 2018 to replace 4.85 lakh street lights with energy-efficient LED lamps is working at a slow pace, resulting in dark spots in several parts of the city. Manjunath R. of the JD(S) raised the issue during the question hour and said after the agreement was signed with the consortium, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) stopped releasing funds for installation or repair of street lights during the last two years and this pushed several areas of the city, particularly those on the outskirts, into perpetual darkness. He said his Dasarahalli constituency had nearly 6,500 factories and women, especially garment factory workers, felt unsafe in the night without street lights. Consortium comprising Shapoorji Pallonji and Company, SMC Infrastructure, and Samudra Electronic System, bagged the global tenders and has undertaken the task of replacing the city’s street lights since 2020. It has decided to complete the project in five phases in 30 months. Senior member Ramalinga Reddy (Congress), Ravi Subramanya and Aravind Limbavali (both BJP), and other members spoke on the issue and demanded that the government take action against the consortium. Mr. Subramanya said the consortium had been completing work constituency wise and this had led to dark spots in many areas of the city. Villages that were added to the BBMP limits have no street lights, he said. Target set Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the issue came up during the review meeting and the consortium had been asked to install three lakh new LED lamps by this December-end. Mr. Bommai said a penalty of Rs. 1 lakh per week would be imposed on the consortium for delay in installation of LED lamps. The BBMP incurred an expenditure of Rs. 245 crore per year for operation and maintenance of street lights. The replacement of the existing street lights with LED lamps would save electricity consumption and bring down electricity bills for the BBMP significantly, according to sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/led-street-lights-mlas-fume-over-slow-pace-of-project/article36465577.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to administer 30 lakh doses in vaccination drive on Sept. 17||Karnataka will carry out a massive vaccination drive on Friday and the plan is to administer 30 lakh doses, said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday. Though Mr. Bommai made no mention of it, the drive coincides with the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Several States have announced similar drives on the day. So far, Karnataka has administered 4,82,05,237 doses of COVID-19 vaccine, of which 1,26,67,887 are second doses. The Chief Minister, who held a preparatory meeting with the Deputy Commissioners of all districts on Tuesday, said he has directed the officials to ensure adequate arrangements are made. Karnataka, which stands sixth in the country in terms of vaccine doses administered so far, plans to ramp up vaccination to achieve its target of covering the entire 4.97-crore adult population by November. “We administered 1.10 crore doses in August alone, the highest in a month. This month so far, we have already received 48.96 lakh doses from the Centre. We are well on course to fully inoculating the adult population by November-end,” the Chief Minister said. The State has been conducting ‘Lasika Utsava’ wherein vaccination camps are being held every Wednesday to administer 10 lakh doses. The target is to administer five lakh doses a day (on other days), but numbers have been low in the past one week. Officials attributed this to festival holidays. Mr. Bommai said the Centre plans to administer nearly three crore doses on the massive vaccination day on September 17. “We have submitted a special request to the Centre,” he said. “The plan is to cover on priority all BPL families and construction workers in every district and slum dwellers in urban areas, especially Bengaluru Urban,” the Chief Minister said. Pointing out that officials have been directed to involve private hospitals, medical colleges and nursing homes in the massive drive, the Chief Minister said special inoculation camps would be organised as part of the drive in districts. “The required stocks will be transported to the districts well in advance and distributed to the vaccination centres to avoid last-minute hassles. All Ministers will monitor the drive in their respective constituencies from wherever they are on that day. I will be in Kalaburagi on September 17 and will launch the drive from there,” he said. Saying that the number of new cases was on a steady decline in the State, he attributed it to the fast pace of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-administer-30-lakh-doses-in-vaccination-drive-on-sept-17/article36465554.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kalasipalya market to be shifted to Singena Agrahara||The wholesale vegetable market in the narrow congested bylanes of Kalasipalya, a nightmare to navigate through especially when it rains, may be a thing of the past soon. Enthused by the successful experiment of shifting the market to the city’s outskirts in Singena Agrahara off Electronics City during the pandemic-imposed lockdown in 2020, the Department of Agricultural Marketing has decided to permanently shift the market there. Given Kalasipalya also doubles up as a private bus services hub, buses and trucks have made the market almost unsustainable. This is not the first time a proposal has been made to shift the market out. An earlier proposal to shift it to a 30-acre plot in Byatarayanapura, Yelahanka, got stuck in land acquisition issues and never took off. But not this time. “We have already finished acquiring 42 acres of land in Singena Agrahara where a well-equipped market with nearly 500 shops will be developed soon and the wholesale vegetable market shifted there. Ideally all wholesale markets must be on the city’s outskirts to lessen travel by farmers and avoid traffic in the city,” said Karee Gowda, Director, Department of Agriculture Marketing. The department has already paid Rs. 48.5 crore for land acquisition, sources said. The new market being planned will have wide roads, parking facilities for trucks, and all modern facilities, sources said. R.V. Gopi, president, Vegetables and Fruits Wholesale Merchants’ Association, said all wholesale traders are willing and ready to shift to Singena Agrahara, provided a well-equipped market is developed. “During the lockdown last year, we were asked to shift to an empty plot of land there, with no facilities. That cannot be the case,” he said. “There are 430 wholesale shops in Kalasipalya and another 200-250 shops that are retail shops. While the wholesale shops will move, the retail shops will stay here,” he added.  We have already finished acquiring 42 acres of land in Singena Agrahara where a well-equipped market with nearly 500 shops will be developed Karee Gowda, Director, Department of Agriculture Marketing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalasipalya-market-to-be-shifted-to-singena-agrahara/article36465540.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Safer Access to Schools’ tool launched||In Bengaluru, it is estimated that nearly 90 % of children live within 5 kmfrom the school and 58% walk to school. A web based GIS (Geographic Information Systems) tool ‘Safer Access to Schools’ (SATS), which is touted to help civic agencies in designing infrastructure to ensure safer commute for schoolgoing children — one of the vulnerable roads users — was launched here on Tuesday, by the World Resources Institute (WRI), India with support from Underwriters Laboratories. Some of the insights of mapping indicate that as of 2019 road accident fatalities occurred during the opening and the closure of school hours; around 227 (31%) pedestrian crash fatalities and 46 (6%) children’s fatalities owing to road accidents happened within 250 metres of the school zone. In addition, 64 crash fatalities happened within 100 metres and 75 crash fatalities occurred at bus stops likely to used by school children. WRI said that the SATS tool will address the gap in implementation of safety measures around schools by providing integrated data sets that can be utilised by city agencies, traffic police, civic groups, schools, and researchers in their coordinated efforts to plan and implement a safer school environment for the children. Pedestrians account for 37% of road fatalities between 2017-2020 and 50% of the pedestrian deaths occurred on the major arterial road networks. The data reveals that 20% of pedestrian deaths also occur near metro stations and major bus stands. The tool was launched at the ‘Enabling Safer Streets for Bengaluru’ session at WRI India’s event ‘Connect Karo 2021’. Participating in the session, Joint Commissioner (Traffic) B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda said, “Unfortunately, there is not enough space for pedestrians to walk on the road. Compared to CBD areas, more pedestrian fatalities in road accidents are getting reported in outer parts of the city. There is need for prioritising safety of pedestrians while designing the roads.” “When we break down the data of the 40% preventable deaths among children due to road traffic crashes, we see 60% of the deaths are of 15 and 18-year-old children, basically those more active on streets. For every death, there are also 30 severe injuries and 70 moderate injuries that do not get recorded. We need medical surveillance data also to be a part of the system,” said Gautham M.S., Assistant Professor, Epidemiology and Public Health at NIMHANS. B.S. Prahalad, Chief Engineer (Roads and Infrastructure), Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, said that the civic agency has developed more than 150 km of footpaths and is working on developing 58 km of footpaths under Smart City. He added that there is a proposal to build 5 km of footpath in each ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/safer-access-to-schools-tool-launched/article36465562.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protests mark Hindi Diwas||Several Kannada groups and Janata Dal (S) party workers staged protests against the “Hindi imposition” across the State on the occasion of Hindi Diwas on Tuesday. Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) claimed to have picketed over 2,000 banks across the State demanding services in Kannada. Even in cyberspace, the hashtag #StopHindiImposition gained about 60,000 tweets. Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy tweeted, “India is a union of many cultures, languages and people. Why is there a stupid attempt to impose one language over us?” JD(S) workers, led by T.A. Saravana, held a demonstration in the city. Joining in the protest, Congress leader Siddaramaiah tweeted to say he was not opposed to learning Hindi, but to the “cunning imposition of a language”. The BJP maintained silence. “All banks should offer services in Kannada, including in their printed material. Those from outside posted here must learn Kannada or be transferred back to their home States,” demanded T.A. Narayana Gowda, president of KRV. The forum also petitioned all MLAs and MPs from the State to raise the issue of the necessary Constitutional amendments to Articles 343 to 351 that provide primacy to Hindi. Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj led protests at Mysore Bank Circle and said Kannada must be the language of preference in which all services are available in the State. Several prominent celebrities, prominent among them actors Dhananjay and Chetan Ahimsa, also took to Twitter to voice their opposition to “Hindi imposition”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protests-mark-hindi-diwas/article36465566.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mysugar controversy: Nirani promises not to bid for cooperative factory||The decision on privatisation of State-owned Mysugar in Mandya will be taken by the Chief Minister, even as Industries Minister Murugesh R. Nirani announced that his family-owned Nirani Sugars would not participate in the bid to take control of the now shut factory. On a day when the sugar politics of Mandya reached the Legislative Council, Mr. Nirani also announced that he would hand over the control of Pandavapura Sugars factory in Mandya district. Currently, farmers are protesting in Mandya against the government’s move to privatise Mysugar. Recently, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had aired his opposition to the privatisation move. Mr. Nirani, whose family owns nine sugar factories with a crushing capacityof 72,000 tonnes a day, has been facing opposition from a section of farmers in Mandya after Nirani Sugars took over the Pandavapura factory. “200% I will not bid for Mysugar. Despite investing Rs. 50 crore without the lease document and spending months to restart Pandavapura Sugars, I have been blamed for taking over the defunct mill. I have decided to hand over the factory to the old management by the end of this crushing season,” he announced on the floor of the Council while participating in the discussion on privatisation of Mysugar on Tuesday. The Chief Minister would take a decision on Mysugar after convening a meeting of farmers and political representatives from Mandya, he added. Earlier, questioning the rationale to privatise Asia’s first sugar mill started in 1933 by the erstwhile rulers of Mysuru, Janata Dal (Secular) member K.T. Srikante Gowda said Mysugar had been ailing for the last two decades as the government deputed 29 managing directors to run the factory. “When the factory with modern machinery is ready to run, what is the benefit of privatisation,” he sought to know. He said the co-generation plant with a capacity of 28 MW had not even started working, and the total value of the factory’s property was about Rs. 2,000 crore. Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil asked the reason for privatisation when the factory was viable. Acknowledging that the factory offered good opportunities as it had the latest technology, Mr. Nirani said, “Give me 15 days, I will ensure crushing of 5,000 tonnes a day. So far, the factory has not crushed more than 3,000 tonnes a day,” he said. He added that many sugar factories were “in coma” and would soon be auctioned off. “Even after the government spending Rs. 520 crore, the factory was unable to utilise facilities. Why should we not privatise,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysugar-controversy-nirani-promises-not-to-bid-for-cooperative-factory/article36465573.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Seven rescued as fire breaks out in hotel at Trinity Circle||Fire and Emergency Services personnel rescued seven persons from a four-storey hotel in the centrally located Trinity Circle that was gutted on Monday [September 13] night. Furniture and other valuables worth lakhs of rupees were destroyed in the fire at Ajanta Trinity that broke out at 10 p.m. An autorickshaw and a four-wheeler parked in the basement were also gutted. The hotel has 96 rooms, but most were unoccupied. The hotel had two guests. Fire and Emergency Services personnel said that the fire engulfed the basement and ground floor while smoke covered the rest of the two floors. Three fire tenders rushed to the spot and put out the fire. Two guests and five employees who were on the premises were rescued. “Had the fire spread to the adjacent building, the damage would have been more,” a Fire and Emergency Services officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-rescued-as-fire-breaks-out-in-hotel-at-trinity-circle/article36465547.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC sues union seeking damages of Rs. 2.66 crore for loss during bus strike||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) on Tuesday told the High Court of Karnataka that a civil suit has been filed before the jurisdictional court seeking a sum of Rs. 2.66 crore from the union and others towards loss and damage caused owing to the bus strike from December 11 to 14, 2020. In a statement submitted before the Court on the actions taken for recovery of loss and damages caused due to strike by its employees, the BMTC has also said that around 3,600 employees took part in strike and proceedings were initiated against them and action was taken in 43 cases so far. The details were submitted before a Division Bench, comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by a cultural and social service organisation. On the action taken in connection with another strike by State transport employees from April 7 to 21, 2021, the BMTC has said that it has terminated the services of 359 trainee employees and discharged 230 employees who were in their probationary period, and ordered the premature retirement of 27 employees while dismissing 676 employees from service. Of the 2,494 employees who were suspended for participating in the strike during April this year, and order of suspension of 2,421 were recalled later. While recording the actions initiated, including registration of of several criminal cases in connection with the strike, the Bench disposed of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-sues-union-seeking-damages-of-rs-266-crore-for-loss-during-bus-strike/article36465560.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kolar tanks not full owing to shortfall in treated water from Bengaluru, says Minister||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) has been supplying 90 million litre per day (MLD) of treated sewage as against the agreed quantum of 210 MLD and shortfall in availability is the major reason for non-filling of many tanks in Chickballapur and Kolar districts, Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs and Minor Irrigation J.C. Madhuswamy informed the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. In reply to a question of V. Muniyappa of the Congress, Mr. Madhuswamy said the BWSSB had not been able to provide 210 MLD owing to leakage, non-establishment of sewage treatment plants and other reasons. The government has implemented the Hebbal–Nagawara (HN) Valley project aimed at supplying treated sewage for secondary use in drought-prone districts of Kolar and Chickballapur. The original project envisages pumping 210 MLD recycled water from Hebbal (150 MLD), Hennur (40 MLD), and Horamavu (20 MLD) to help revive depleting water tables in the two districts. Reduced usage? K.R. Ramesh Kumar(Congress) questioned the BWSSB’s decision of not providing endorsement to 210 MLD and asked whether the detailed project report was done without consultation of the BWSSB. Mr Kumar said he wanted to know whether the population of Bengaluru and use of water had reduced for the shortage in the availability of sewage for recycling. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he would chair a meeting on the issue soon to critically examine the role of the BWSSB and take all steps to ensure justice to the people of the two districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kolar-tanks-not-full-owing-to-shortfall-in-treated-water-from-bengaluru-says-minister/article36465580.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yettinahole: Heated exchange over relief||The Legislative Assembly witnessed heated exchange between Law and Parliamentary Affairs and Minor Irrigation Minister J.C. Madhuswamy and senior Congress member G. Parameshwara over the delay in land acquisition and payment of compensation to farmers for implementation of the Yettinahole water project, envisaged to provide 24 tmcft of potable water to the people of Kolar, Chickballapur, Tumakuru and other water-starved districts. During the question hour in the Legislative Assembly, Dr. Parameshwara raised the issue of delay in the acquisition of 2,681 acres of land for constructing a balancing reservoir for storage of water pumped from the Yettinahole at Bairagondlu village in Koratagere constituency in Tumakuru district. Seven villages would be submerged if the balancing reservoir was built at Bairagondlu and the government had fixed compensation of Rs. 9 lakh per acre here as against Rs. 28 lakh per acre at Doddaballapur for the same project. Mr. Madhuswamy said the government cannot give Rs. 28 lakh per acre in Koratagere and held Dr. Parameshwara responsible for the delay in the acquisition of land for the project. Both leaders belong to Tumakuru district. Irked over the Minister’s statement, Dr. Parameshwara said the government cannot discriminate in payment to farmers in the State for the same project and lashed out at the Minister for the delay in land acquisition. The Congress member also took exception to altering the project and escalation of the cost from Rs. 12,900 crore in 2012 to Rs. 23,151 crore in 2021. Intervening during the debate, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he would chair a meeting soon and resolve issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yettinahole-heated-exchange-over-relief/article36465578.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Guidelines will be given after Cabinet discussion: CM||Amidst raging controversy over demolition of temples in Mysuru district as per Supreme Court direction, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday asked the authorities concerned to desist from enforcing hurried measures to demolish temples. The CM said clear guidelines on the stand to be taken by the administrations of districts would be given within two days after discussing the issue with the State Cabinet. Making it clear that he would place the facts related to Mysuru temple demolition before the State legislature, Mr. Bommai said notices had been issued to Deputy Commissioner and tashsildar of Mysuru district seeking explanation on why the demolition was taken up without taking everyone into confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guidelines-will-be-given-after-cabinet-discussion-cm/article36465983.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||67% of candidates sit for COMEDK||Around 67% of students attended the undergraduate entrance test in both shifts held by the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (COMEDK) on Tuesday. The test was conducted in 157 cities across the country and there were no malpractices reported from any of the centres, COMEDK authorities said. The exam was held keeping in mind COVID-19 protocols, they added. COMEDK UGET is a gateway for admission to around 180 engineering courses at private engineering colleges in the State. As many as 44,741 candidates out of the 66,304 registered for the test appeared for the exam on Tuesday. There were some hiccups reported. At Aligarh, 120 students were scheduled to take theexam, but the government authorities refused permission for the exam as an event that was to be attended by the Prime Ministerwas scheduled 1 km from the exam venue. Immediate alternative arrangements were made 10 km away. The candidates said the paper was easy. Amoda Hegde, a student of Deeksha CFL College, said the paper was as per expectations. “Most of the questions were NCERT-based and were approachable. The exam was moderate because the questions were application-based and not memory-based. Physics was the easiest. Chemistry was moderate, and maths was moderate to difficult. There was no surprise element in the exam. But the paper was more calculation-oriented,” he said. A press release issued by COMEDK stated that the provisional answer keys would be notified on September 17 along with forms for challenging the answer keys, and the final answer key made available on September 23. The score cards would be made available on the applicant login portal on September 26, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/comedk-entrance-test-sees-67-attendance/article36465551.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested on charge of misbehaving with BPO employee||The Ashok Nagar Police arrested a labourer for allegedly misbehaving with a woman employee of a BPO. The incident took place on Langford Road on Sunday. A senior police officer said that the 22-year-old woman had complained that she was walking to the bus stop, when the incident occurred. She raised the alarm prompting passers-by to rush to her help. Meanwhile, the Hoysala police came and took him into custody and the police registered a case against him under outraging the modesty. Woman, son charged with murder A 52-year-old man complained to the police that his alcoholic friend had allegedly been beaten to death by his wife and son. Based on the complaint filed by Nehru Thammaiah, friend of the deceased, Srinivasa, 47, the police on Sunday filed a case against Durga, 40, and her son Deenu, 19, charging them under murder. In his complaint, Thammaiah said that Srinivasa was a chronic alcoholic who used to complain to him that his wife and son would tie his hands and legs and beat him up everyday after he returned home. Mr. Thammaiah had allegedly warned Durga and Deenu against the torture but it continued . Due to Mr. Thammaiah’s warning and interference, Durga had even shifted the family to another house recently, the police said. On Saturday, Mr. Thammaiah received a message that Srinivasa was dead and that Durga had filed a complaint of unnatural death . Mr. Thammaiah suspected that Durga and Deenu had beaten Srinivasa to death and requested the police to investigate in detail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-on-charge-of-misbehaving-with-bpo-employee/article36465543.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug rackets unearthed, nine persons arrested||The K.G. Halli police on Tuesday busted a drug-peddling racket and arrested three persons, including a Nigerian national, who had allegedly come to the city on a business visa to sell drugs. Based on a tip-off that a foreign national was selling drugs, a police team raided a place near the BDA complex near HBR Layout and arrested the accused, while he was allegedly waiting to deliver the drugs to his clients. Later, the police raided his house and recovered 150 MDMA pills and two mobile phones worth Rs. 2.5 lakh. A detailed questioning led the police to arrest two more local persons employed in a tea stall, who were working for the Nigerian national.  All the three have been booked under the NDPS Act, and the police are investigating further to ascertain the source of the drugs.  The police also issued a notice to the owner of the house who will be questioned for violating the rules. House owners, as per the rules, should get copies of the visa and travel documents before renting out their premises and they should inform the local police about foreign tenants, a police officer said. In another incident, CCB officials arrested three persons, including a Nigerian national and two of his associates from Kerala, and recovered 500 ecstasy pills worth Rs. 30 lakh.  In a similar incident, the Jnanabharathi police arrested three persons, identified as Mustafa and his associates Marappa and Raja Babu from Bangarapet, and recovered 2.5 kg of marijuana from them. The trio were allegedly waiting in a car to hand over the consignment to their clients when the police caught them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-rackets-unearthed-nine-persons-arrested/article36465544.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police cane CFI members protesting against NEP||Hundreds of students representing the Campus Front of India, Karnataka, were caned and detained by the police when they tried to march towards Vidhana Soudha to protest against the National Education Policy during the Assembly session on Tuesday. The protestors gathered at the Mysore Bank Circle shouting slogans against the State and the Central governments for implementing NEP “unscientifically”. The protesters blocked the junction by staging a dharna and later tried to enter the prohibited area to go to Vidhana Soudha. Injuries sustained The police resorted to caning and bundled them into the vehicles and took them away as part of preventive detention. Many students sustained injuries in the caning . Additional police force were deployed in and around Vidhana Soudha as a precautionary measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-cane-cfi-members-protesting-against-nep/article36465558.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Officials transferred||AnilKumar T.K., Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department (Medical Education), has been transferred and appointed Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, relieving Javed Akthar from the concurrent charge. Rashmi Mahesh V., Principal Secretary, Backward Classes Welfare Department, has been given the concurrent charge of Principal Secretary, Kannada and Culture Department. Selvakumar S., Secretary, Department of Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood, has been placed in concurrent charge of the post of Secretary, Cooperation Department, relieving Jayaram N. from the concurrent charge. Ravishankar J., Commissioner for Excise, has been transferred and posted as Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department (Medical Education). He has also been given the concurrent charge of the post of Commissioner for Excise until further orders. Vishal R. has been transferred and appointed Commissioner for Public Instruction, in place of Anbu Kumar, who has been appointed as Managing Director, Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation, Bengaluru. Reju M.T. has been transferred and appointed Managing Director of Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation. Ram Prasath Manohar V. has been transferred and appointed Special Commissioner (Revenue),Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike.He has also been given the concurrent charge of the post of Managing Director,Karnataka State Infrastructure Development Corporation.Ravindra P.N. has been transferred and posted as Inspector-General of Registration and Commissioner of Stamps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-transferred/article36465568.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New COVID-19 cases drop to 559||New COVID-19 cases in Karnataka dropped to 559 on Tuesday — the lowest tally in the second wave. On Monday, there were 673 cases. With Tuesday’s cases, the total positive cases touched 29,62,967. Bengaluru Urban reported 231 cases and four deaths. With 12 deaths, the toll rose to 37,529. This is apart from 23 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,034 persons were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 29,09,656. The State has 15,754 active patients. The Case Fatality Rate was 2.14%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-covid-19-cases-drop-to-559/article36465555.ece
15 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bill seeking to set up prison development board tabled||A Bill to provide for constitution of the Karnataka Prison Development Board for strengthening of prisons and initiating correctional administrative measures was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. The Bill, titled Karnataka Prison Development Board Bill, also provides for initiating measures for the welfare of prisoners and prisons’ staff. The board is proposed to be set up to examine the living conditions of prisoners and to contemplate correctional programmes. Prison industries The Bill also seeks to provide for developing the “prison industries” and formulate a plan for modernisation of prisons and job-oriented programmes, including technical programmes in different areas and trades to help prisoners earn incentives and also ensure that they earn their livelihood after their release. Meanwhile, another Bill was tabled to amend the Central act of Identification of Prisoners with respect to its application to Karnataka. The Bill, titled Identification of Prisoners (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, seeks to include collection of blood, DNA, voice, and iris scan samples under the definition of the word “measurements” of offender for effective surveillance and prevention of breach of peace and crime. The Code of Criminal Procedure (Karnataka Amendment) Bill seeking to provide for recording evidence of the witness by audio-video-electronic means in the presence of the advocate of the accused was also tabled in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-seeking-to-set-up-prison-development-board-tabled/article36465570.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: Remove illegal occupants from K.R. Market in 3 months||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday set a deadline of three months for the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to take action as per law against unauthorised occupants of shops in the city’s K.R. Market complex. The BBMP has also been directed to take appropriate action against those illegally occupying the shops despite lapse of licence, those encroaching upon the pavements, public passage, fire exits, and other common areas. A Division Bench, comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, issued the directions while disposing of a batch of petitions related to various illegalities in allotment of shops and allowing of shops in public passages and areas passages leading to fire exits. Earlier, counsel appearing for the BBMP assured the Bench that the civic body is willing to take appropriate action against all illegalities with the market complex in a time-bound manner while leaving it to the Court to fix the necessary time period for initiating actions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-remove-illegal-occupants-from-kr-market-in-3-months/article36465548.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Om Birla to address joint session on Sept. 24||Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Tuesday informed the House that Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla would address a joint session of both the Houses of the legislature on the last day of the session on September 24.A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee of the Assembly, Mr. Kageri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/om-birla-to-address-joint-session-on-sept-24/article36465575.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two Congo nationals detained for jumping bail||The Banaswadi police detained two citizens of Congo – Ndasi Didier, 26, and Buheshe Bahogwerhe, 27 – who disappeared after coming out of prison on bail. They were produced in the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO). The FRRO, after verification, issued a movement restriction order and referred them to the Foreigners Detention Centre in Nelamangala. The two Congo nationals had been arrested under the Foreigners Act and sent to judicial custody. They were released on bail recently, police said. The East division police have undertaken a special drive to indentify and trace illegal foreigners who are involved in criminal activities and are out on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-congo-nationals-detained-for-jumping-bail/article36465542.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No power today||There will be no power on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in view of carrying out conversion of overhead lines into UG/AB cable works. According to a press release, the areas to be affected are: Srigandhakaval: NGEF and surrounding areas. Byadarahalli: Rajiv Gandhi Nagara, Bhyraveshwaranagara, near Wild Craft, Kebbehalla, Hanumantharayanapalya. R.R. Nagar: Balaji Layout, Vijayashree Layout, Mookambika Layout, BHEL Layout and surrounding areas. Widia: Thirumalapura Village and surrounding areas. Bandemutt: Apoorva Layout, Gandhinagara, Subhash Nagara, Valagerahalli and surrounding areas. Sir M.V.; BDA Area Block-1, Upakara Layout, RTO Office Main Road and surrounding areas. Banashankari: Satellite bus stand, KSFIC Road, New Timber Yard Layout and surrounding areas. Chandra Layout: Nagadevanahalli 9th Block and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-power-today/article36465549.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB to probe stock broking company cheating case||Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has ordered the Central Crime Branch (CCB) to probe the cheating case against a reputed investment company. Based on a complaint filed by one of the investors, a case was registered in Seshadripuram police station and later transferred to the CCB for a detailed probe. The company, Karvy Stock Broking Limited, having its head office in Hyderabad with branches across the country, received investments from thousands of clients to trade in shares and investments. Initial inquiries revealed that the company pawned the shares of its clients in a bank to avail huge loans which it invested in other companies. This is a clear violation of SEBI guidelines, which attracts legal action, officials said. As the case has interstate ramifications, the CCB will conduct a probe in detail for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-to-probe-stock-broking-company-cheating-case/article36465559.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. not opposed to probe against co-op. bank’||The State government is not against setting up of an expert committee to probe the financial irregularities in Sri Guru Raghavendra Cooperative Bank, which has affected over 40,000 depositors, Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar said on Tuesday. Rs. 192 crore recovered Responding on the issue in the Legislative Council, he said the government had to discuss with the RBI on setting up of the committee. He said multiple inquiries were currently on and Rs. 192 crore had been recovered while Rs. 871 crore was estimated to be the losses. “Cases have been filed against employees and directors of the bank. The Registrar of Cooperative Society is coordinating with the RBI,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-not-opposed-to-probe-against-co-op-bank/article36465574.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP takes up tree pruning||The city’s civic body has taken up a campaign to prune dry branches of trees to prevent accidents during the ongoing rainy season. The BBMP will also use the campaign to protect trees from nails, boards, cables and other such hazards affecting them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-takes-up-tree-pruning/article36465541.ece
15 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bill seeking to reduce dependency on Cauvery for drinking water tabled||In a bid to reduce dependency on Cauvery water and underground water for drinking requirements of Bengaluru, a Bill was introduced in the Assembly to make rainwater harvesting mandatory for owners of sites with not less than 108 sq. m of area. Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage (Amendment) Bill, tabled by Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, seeks to mitigate urban flooding and reduce pollution of surface water as well as groundwater. Empowering ULBs to levy fee Karnataka Municipalities and Certain Other Law (Second Amendment) Bill, which seeks to empower urban local bodies to levy fee for granting permission for erecting outdoor advertisement boards (hoardings), was tabled in the Assembly. The Bill was introduced to ensure that urban local bodies do not incur loss of revenue as the advertisement tax has been subsumed under GST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-seeking-to-reduce-dependency-on-cauvery-for-drinking-water-tabled/article36465571.ece
15 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man allegedly rapes minor for months||A minor girl was allegedly raped by a person repeatedly over a couple of months at a village in Chikkamagaluru taluk. The incident came to light on Tuesday when the victim filed a complaint with Sakharayapatna police. The accused had captured a video showing one of the victim’s family members in a compromising position and raped the girl threatening that he would make the video viral if she did not cooperate with him. It is said that the accused had shown the video clip to a couple of his friends, who passed lewd comments at her in public places, referring to the video clip. The police have booked the case under the POCSO Act and other sections under the IPC. The police have arrested the main accused and his associate who teased her. The girl is said to have mentioned two more names in the complaints, accusing them of teasing her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-allegedly-rapes-minor-for-months/article36465975.ece
15 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Vaccination drive in Hassan on Friday||The Hassan district administration has planned a COVID-19 vaccination drive on September 17 aiming to cover 80,000 people on the day. It will set up booths on the lines of the pulse polio campaign across the district. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, on Tuesday, said over 1,200 booths would be set up. Along with the Health and Family Welfare Department staff, final year students of nursing colleges would be involved. The administration had also sought the cooperation of the Indian Medical Association and the owners of private nursing homes in the district. The DC appealed to the public to make use of the drive to get vaccinated against COVID-19. “We can fight COVID-19 by getting vaccinated. The vaccine is safe and there is no need to worry. Those who have not yet taken the vaccination should approach the nearest booth and get it,” he said. B.A.Paramesh, CEO, Hassan ZP, instructed the panchayat development officers to launch a door-to-door campaign to convince people to get the vaccine. “The officers should motivate people to get vaccinated. Those who have taken only the first dose should be asked to get the second one,” he said. Number of cases Hassan district reported 10 new COVID-19 cases and one death on Tuesday. Among them, four were from Hassan taluk, three in Arasikere, one each in Arkalgud, Channarayapatna and Holenarasipur taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-drive-in-hassan-on-friday/article36465979.ece
15 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Inform people about Nipah’||Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh instructed officers of the Health and Family Welfare Department to be on alert in the wake of Nipah infection reports in Kerala. The DC held a meeting with officers in Chikkamagaluru on Tuesday. “People should be informed about the symptoms of the infection which is transmitted to humans through animals like bats. There is a need for an awareness campaign on the infection,” he said. District Surveillance Officer Manjunath said the infection was first traced in Malaysia in 1998. any people have lost their lives to Nipah virus. “The symptoms include fever, giddiness, tiredness, similar to any other viral infection initially. As its impact on the body increases, the patient may lose consciousness. Symptoms last between six and 16 days. Early diagnosis and proper medical care are necessary,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inform-people-about-nipah/article36465977.ece
15 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Another theft in Hassan||Two bike-borne miscreants snatched a gold mangalsutra worth over Rs. 1.6 lakh from a woman near Handrangi village near Hassan on Monday. Thara, in her plaint said she had gone to get water from a tank when the two approached her in the guise of filling a bottle. They snatched her chain weighing 36 grams and fled. The Dudda police registered the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-theft-in-hassan/article36465978.ece
15 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Use of tag readers emphasised in garbage collection in Belagavi||To ensure mandatory collection of garbage and waste segregation, the Belagavi City Municipal Corporation has been provided with over 300 readers to scan RFID tags installed in households, Deputy Commissioner of Belagavi M.G. Hiremath has said. Chairing a coordination meeting at the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) set up under the Smart City Scheme in Belagavi on Tuesday, Mr. Hiremath said that already RFID tags have been installed on 1,12,669 property, including houses, and only compulsory use of tag readers will help in collecting correct data on waste collection and segregation. He asked the officials to ensure that the tag readers are put to use compulsorily. Emphasising the need for creating awareness on the functioning of ICCC and the services available to citizens, Mr. Hiremath said that if the people received quick response and redressal to issues raised by them, then more will download the My Belagavi Citizen App and use it for availing themselves of different services. He asked officials of all departments to focus on this. Pointing out that projects under Smart City Scheme will be handed over to the respective departments only after completion of all works, he said that it was necessary that all departments worked in coordination to get the benefit of the command centre. Managing Director of Belagavi Smart City Limited Praveen Bagewadi said that already various facilities created under the scheme have been handed over to the municipal corporation and other departments. Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amte pointed out the need for modification of some services from the ICCC so that it benefited the Police Department. He said that there is a need for synchronisation of CCTV footage with the computer systems of the RTO and the Police Department. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime & Traffic) Sneha P.V. mentioned some of the changes to be made in the mobile application so as to make it more people-friendly. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Sharanappa, Deputy Director of Information and Public Relations Gurunath Kadabur and several municipal officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/use-of-tag-readers-emphasised-in-garbage-collection-in-belagavi/article36465788.ece
15 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Students, govt. officials and others take part in Fit India Run 2.0||Students from various colleges, government officials and other employees took part in the Fit India Run 2.0 organised as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations in Dharwad on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil flagged off the run and urged youths to indulge in physical activities and exercises daily in order to keep fit. He said that in these days of sedentary lifestyle, physical activities are important to maintain good health. A fit body will lead to a fit mind, which, in turn, will help people make active contributions to society. He urged students to take inspiration from Indian athletes who performed well in the recently concluded Olympic and Paralympic Games. Subsequently, the Deputy Commissioner, accompanied by Assistant Commissioner B. Gopalkrishna, District Youth Officer of Nehru Yuva Kendra M. Goutam Reddy, District Information and Public Relations Officer Manjunath Dollin and others, also participated in the run. Starting from College Road, the run passed through Alur Venkatarao Circle, S.P. Circle, Bendre Bhavan before reaching Sadhanakeri Lake Garden. The Government First Grade College, Jigaluru Arts and Commerce College for Women, Nehru Yuva Kendra, the Department of Information and Public Relations jointly organised the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-govt-officials-and-others-take-part-in-fit-india-run-20/article36465787.ece
15 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protest marches taken out in Dharwad||Stating that the Union government is imposing Hindi on States while neglecting regional languages, members of pro-Kannada organisations staged protests in Dharwad on Tuesday. The members of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (Swabhimaan and Shivarame Gowda faction) and Jaya Karnataka Organisation took out protest marches in Dharwad against what they termed as imposition of Hindi. They also staged demonstrations in front of the SBI Main Branch and the office of Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad. The protestors said that in its bid to impose Hindi on States, the Centre declared September 14 as Hindi Divas, which was against principles of the federal system. Under the Constitution, all languages have been treated as equal and no language is superior or inferior, they said. They said that the Union government has asked States to make Hindi learning compulsory. At a time when regional languages were already on the verge of extinction due to the onslaught of English, the government should take steps to protect and promote regional languages. However, it is acting against the interests of regional languages and their speakers, they said. The one nation one language policy announced by Union Home Minister Amit Shah is aimed at making Hindi a compulsory language and it is unscientific, they said. The protestors also said that nationalised banks are insulting Kannada in the State by not printing challans, receipts and other forms in Kannada. Immediate corrective measures should be taken, they demanded. In Hubballi In Hubballi too, various organisations staged demonstrations objecting to Hindi Divas and what they termed meting out step-motherly treatment to regional languages. They also submitted to the taluk officials a memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-marches-taken-out-in-dharwad/article36465790.ece
15 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Comedian in hospital after assault||Comedian and theatre artiste Raju Talikoti has been admitted to hospital in Vijayapura after a relative of him attacked him over a family issue. The incident is said to have taken place at Yogapur Ashraya Colony in Vijayapura. In his complaint, Raju Talikoti has said that he was threatened at gun point and assaulted. Raju Talikoti is now being treated in a private hospital. Meanwhile, a counter complaint has been filed against Raju Talikoti in the Vijayapura Woman Police Station for assaulting Sana Karajagi, wife of Fayaz Karajagi, who is a relative of Raju Talikoti. Ms. Karajagi has been admitted to a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/comedian-in-hospital-after-assault/article36465785.ece
15 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||STEMI facility initiated in 15 taluk hospitals||The Kalaburagi branch of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research has treated nearly three lakh patients in the last five years, said institute director C.N. Manjunath. After inspecting the ongoing construction works at the hospital, Dr. Manjunath told a press conference on Tuesday that the existing Jayadeva hospital in Kalaburagi has one operation theatre and two cathlabs. The new 350-bed hospital spread over seven acres of land will have full-fledged facilities, including three cathlabs, three operation theatres, a 125-bed Intensive Care Unit, a 175-bed general ward and a 50-bed special ward. To avoid delay in treatment of cardiac attack patients in rural areas, the hospital has expanded its services to rural parts by launching Cardiac Attack (ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction-STEMI) Management Project in the taluk level. Under the Union Health Ministry’s National Health Mission coordinated programme, the hospital has initiated this facility in 15 taluk hospitals in Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Bidar and Vijayapura districts. Doctors in these taluk hospitals have been trained to handle emergency cardiac arrest cases before shifting patients to the hospital and this will help avoid risk to patients. In the last 12 years, the hospital has treated nearly 12 lakh patients in its three branches in Bengaluru, Mysuru and Kalaburagi. “We are committed to treating the poor and the rich on an equal footing. The Kalaburagi branch has also benefited patients from the border regions in Maharashtra and Telangana,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stemi-facility-initiated-in-15-taluk-hospitals/article36465791.ece
15 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||High school students to attend classes in different sessions||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Tuesday said that physical classes will resume for high school students on Friday and schools will conduct classes in different sessions — morning for classes IX and X and afternoon for Class VIII. Talking to reporters here, Dr. Rajendra said that as most of the schools have bigger classrooms, there is no restriction on the number of students attending offline classes. Fee issue Private school managements have been asked not to deny the opportunity to attend offline or online classes for students whose parents have not paid fees. The managements are waiting for an order from the government on payment of fees, he said. Ambulance misuse About reports of misuse of ambulances by people from Kerala to enter the State, Dr. Rajendra said that the Kasaragod district administration in Kerala will be asked to provide details of patients entering Dakshina Kannada for treatment in advance to the district administration. Production of RT-PCR test negative certificate at the border check-post and one week quarantine for students and others who return to Dakshina Kannada after a visit to Kerala will continue until further orders from the State government, he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-school-students-to-attend-classes-in-different-sessions/article36465958.ece
15 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man sentenced second time to 10 years in jail||Additional District and Sessions Judge, Fast Track Sessions Court-1, Mangaluru, Savitri V. Bhat has sentenced Naveen (27) of Shibaje village of Belthangady taluk to 10 years rigorous imprisonment on finding him guilty of raping a minor girl. He was earlier sentenced to 10 years imprisonment for raping the minor girl’s elder sister. According to the charge-sheet, Naveen was arrested by the Dharmasthala Police in 2017 for raping the minor girl’s elder sister, when she was a minor. After coming out on bail, Naveen married the girl’s sister when she turned 19. Also, he lived in their house. In the last week of February 2019, Naveen is said to have raped his wife’s younger sister. He is said to have subsequently assaulted her sexually six more times. She became pregnant and was brought to the Government Lady Goschen Hosptial where she underwent abortion. A case was registered against Naveen and he was arrested by the Dharmasthala Police again. The blood samples of the victim, foetus and Naveen were subjected to DNA test and Naveen was found to be the cause of the girl’s pregnancy. The Belthangady Police then filed the charge-sheet charging Naveen with offences under Section 376 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (PoCSO) Act. Special Public Prosecutor C. Venkataramanaswamy examined several witnesses, including DNA expert who was a crucial prosecution witness. The minor girl, however, turned hostile. The judge on September 9 sentenced Naveen to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 for the offence under Section 6 of PoCSO Act. He was also sentenced to seven years in jail and ordered to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000 for the offence under Section 376 of IPC. Both the sentences will run concurrently. As the victim had turned hostile, no compensation was awarded under the Karnataka Victim Compensation Scheme.  In the earlier case, he was charged with raping a minor whom he married when she turned 19 The minor was taken to the Government Lady Goschen Hosptial where she underwent an abortion||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-sentenced-second-time-to-10-years-in-jail/article36465957.ece
15 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Oscar Fernandes lived an unblemished life’||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Tuesday described the former Union Minister Oscar Fernandes as someone who led an unblemished life, grooming hundreds of party leaders. Speaking to reporters after paying homage to the departed leader at the district Congress office in Udupi, Mr. Shivakumar said that no one is eternal. As such late Fernandes utilised the opportunities for the benefit of people and did not have even a single blemish in his political career spanning over five decades. Mr. Shivakumar said that he had over four decades of association with the late leader. Oscar Fernandes, along with M. Veerappa Moily and Janardhan Poojari, had not only strengthened the party base across the State but also contributed to its growth. He said that late Fernandes was an “Ajatashatru” and that he didn’t want to hurt anyone. KPCC working president Dhruvanayan, the former Minister Pramod Madhwaraj and others accompanied Mr. Shivakumar. Hundreds of Congress workers and leaders paid homage to the departed leader. Earlier, the mortal remains were brought to Mother of Sorrows Church in Udupi, the parish to which Fernandes belonged. They were kept there to allow the public to pay their last respects. A mass too was held at the church. Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari and others paid their last respects to Fernandes there, said senior Congress leader M.A. Gafur. The mortal remains were later brought to Mangaluru where they were kept at the district Congress office to allow the public to pay homage. Mr. Shivakumar and other senior leaders were present. Mr. Gafur said that after keeping the body overnight in the mortuary at Fr. Muller Hospital, it would be taken to Milagres Church on Wednesday at 10 a.m. and a mass will be held at noon. Thereafter, it will be flown to Bengaluru in the evening. The body will be kept at the KPCC office on Queen’s Road in Bengaluru at 10 a.m. on Thursday and later, taken to St. Patrick’s Church for final rites at 3.30 a.m. It will be buried in the Hosur Road cemetery thereafter. Meanwhile, Udupi district BJP organised a meeting to condole the death of Fernandes on Tuesday. Member of Legislative Assembly K. Raghupati Bhat, Coastal Development Authority chairman Mattar Rathnakar Hegde and others spoke about the contribution of Fernandes to the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oscar-fernandes-lived-an-unblemished-life/article36465962.ece
15 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MIT students bag third place in rover design challenge||Students of Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) bagged the third position in the second edition of International Rover Design Challenge (IRDC) 2021, as announced by The Mars Society South Asia (MSSA). The second edition of IRDC was organised by MSSA this year. MSSA is the official chapter of The Mars Society for the South Asian region. The Mars Society is the world’s largest, most influential space advocacy organisation dedicated to the human exploration and settlement of Mars. The MIT team, Mars Rover Manipal, had to submit a System Concept Review within a set time-frame and scored 530 points, a release said. Mars Rover Manipal had 30 members from second and third year engineering streams designing rover parts keeping in mind the various factors that would be different on Mars. They were expected to carefully plan each subsystem of the rover, considering various extra-terrestrial conditions and parameters in the design. A 26-page report which included CAD, simulation, PCBs, graphs and flowcharts were submitted, along with a short video. The competition was entirely virtual and submission was from home. The competition took place during July-September and 32 teams from four countries (India, Poland, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh) participated. MIT Director Cdr. Anil Rana congratulated the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mit-students-bag-third-place-in-rover-design-challenge/article36465949.ece
15 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Offline classes for I PU to start tomorrow||Close on the heals of resumption of physical classes for high schools and higher primary sections, the of Department Pre University Education on Tuesday announced reopening of physical classes on Thursday for first PU students in Dakshina Kannada. Deputy Director of PU Education in Mangaluru in his order said that classes for first PU students will have to be conducted during afternoons after obtaining prior permission from him. Principals of the respective colleges will have to ensure that all COVID-19 guidelines are properly followed, the order said. Colleges should encourage students from Kerala admitted to first PU classes in the district to attend classes online, the order said. If such students, however, wish to attend physical classes by travelling daily from Kerala to Dakshina Kannada, they should produce RT-PCR test negative certificates every seven days, the officer said. Similar rules will apply to teaching and non-teaching staff travelling from Kerala daily to Dakshina Kannada. Besides, all teaching and non-teaching staff should undergo RT-PCR tests every fortnight and possess COVID-19 negative report. Students staying in hostels should bring COVID-19 test negative certificate not older than 72 hours before joining hostels. Colleges should hold physical classes specifically meant for hostel students and day boarders, he said. Consent letter from parents is mandatory to allow students for physical classes, he said and added that students should not be compelled to attend physical classes.  Deputy Director of PU Education says prior permission must for classes which will have to be conducted during the afternoons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/offline-classes-for-i-pu-to-start-tomorrow/article36465955.ece
15 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Special vaccine drive on Friday||As many as 1.5 lakh vaccine doses will be available for administration across the 500 vaccination centres during the special vaccination drive to be held in Dakshina Kannada between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. on Friday, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Tuesday. Talking to reporters, Dr. Rajendra said that the district administration has set a target of vaccinating 40,000 persons in Mangaluru City Corporation Limits, 25,000 in Moodbidri taluk, 20,000 each in Ullal City Municipal Council area, Bantwal and Puttur taluks and 10,000 each in Mulky and Sullia taluks. While 50% of the doses will be earmarked for those who book slots online, the remaining will be administered to people going to the vaccine centres, he said. Dr. Rajendra said that private hospitals have been roped in for this drive and they will provide free vaccine doses on Friday, in addition to paid vaccination. The Deputy Commissioner said that the district administration could not administer vaccine to one lakh people last week because of paucity of volunteers. Only 53,000 people were vaccinated. More volunteers will be involved for the special drive on Friday and arrangements are being made to reach out to vulnerable people and those in the border areas. Facilities are being created to vaccinate on people’s doorsteps to help those who are unable to reach the vaccine centres. So far, Dr. Rajendra said, nearly 80% of eligible persons have been administered their first dose. More than 50,000 people are due for their second dose. “Volunteers are being used to map the beneficiaries and arrangements will be made to vaccinate them. We are trying to reach saturation mode,” he said. In Udupi Meanwhile, the Udupi district administration has also organised a special vaccination drive on Friday. Nearly 80,000 doses, both first and second, of vaccine will be administered at 300 vaccination centres for those aged above 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-vaccine-drive-on-friday/article36465959.ece
15 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three women arrested, gold earrings recovered||The Puttur Police arrested three women from Davangere in a case of theft of a pair of gold earrings, weighing 50.242 grams and valued at Rs. 2.6 lakh, in a jewellery store on September 1. They have recovered the earrings. The police gave the names of the arrested persons as Bibijan, Husain Bi and Jaitumbi. According to a complaint, the accused came to Jos Alukkas store in Hindustan Complex and hoodwinked a salesperson into believing that the gold ornaments they had brought for pledging to be of antique value and took away the pair of gold earrings. They gave fake address to the salesperson. The salesperson later checked the pledged gold ornaments only to find that it weighed only 3.065 grams and worth Rs. 13,400.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-women-arrested-gold-earrings-recovered/article36465950.ece
15 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Warrant issued against Shivakumar||A local magistrate court in Sullia has issued a warrant asking State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar to appear before it on September 29 to adduce evidence in a case registered in 2016. In February 2016, Sai Giridhar Rai, former president of Bellare Merchants Association, had had a heated conversation with Mr. Shivakumar, who was then the Energy Minister, over poor electricity supply in the region. Mr. Rai also had a similar conversation with the local MESCOM Assistant Executive Engineer (AEE). After a compliant by the AEE, Sullia Police entered the house of Mr. Rai by breaking open a portion of the tiled roof of his house and arrested him for offences punishable under Section 353 of Indian Penal Code. In the charge-sheet submitted to court, Mr. Shivakumar was mentioned as one of the prosecution witnesses. On two earlier occasions, Mr. Shivakumar failed to appear before court to record his evidence. The court, hence, has issued the warrant asking the police to produce Mr. Shivakumar before it on September 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/warrant-issued-against-shivakumar/article36465792.ece
15 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Final year degree classes also from Friday||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has said that colleges will be allowed to hold offline classes for final year degree students from Friday. In a statement issued here late on Tuesday evening, Dr. Rajendra said that colleges have to conduct classes by adhering to COVID-19 prevention norms that would be laid down. A detailed order will be issued on Wednesday, he added. Dr. Rajendra’s response comes following a demand from students and educational institutions for opening offline classes for degree students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/final-year-degree-classes-also-from-friday/article36465956.ece
15 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Notice served over removal of unauthorised religious structures||The Mysuru district administration has received a notice from the Karnataka government over its drive to remove unauthorised religious structures in its jurisdiction. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham said, “We are gathering the information and will submit a complete report to the government.” The district administration had begun a drive against unauthorised religious structures in public places on the basis of directions issued by the Karnataka government in 2010 following an order from the Supreme Court in 2009. Apart from taking action against such unauthorised structures in various parts of the district, the administration had identified 93 such places of worship in Mysuru and drawn up dates to initiate action against them. On September 14, when reporters asked Mr. Gautham about the status of the drive, he said, “We will follow government’s instructions. For the time being, we are waiting and watching... the matter is sub-judice. I cannot comment further.” However, he said there will not be any ‘aggravation’ of the situation. He refused to divulge the contents of the notice, which he described as ‘official correspondence about the issue (demolition of unauthorised religious structures)’. Mr. Gautham said the tahsildar of Nanjangud too received a notice regarding the demolition of a temple. “He will also submit a report,” he added. The Mysuru district administration’s action against unauthorised religious structures was criticised by political parties. On September 13, BJP MP Pratap Simha claimed that he had drawn the attention of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to the issue and the latter had promised to review the list of unauthorised religious structures submitted to the court by the government. Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had condemned the demolition of an ancient temple in Nanjangud. He had criticised the BJP government for demolishing the structure without consulting people of the region and hurting their religious sentiments. JD(S) MLAs G.T. Deve Gowda (Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency) and S.R. Mahesh (K.R. Nagar) had expressed concern over the hurt to the religious sentiments of people on account of the district administration’s action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-served-over-removal-of-unauthorised-religious-structures/article36465974.ece
15 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Six sub-committees instituted||A day after elephants arrived in Mysuru for the low-key Dasara celebrations from their jungle camps, the district administration on Tuesday constituted six Dasara sub-committees for organising and overseeing the festivities, which, like last year, have been scaled down in view of the pandemic. The festivities will begin atop Chamundi Hills on October 7 and conclude on October 15. This year, the Jamboo Savari on the finale will be confined to the palace premises. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, who is the Dasara Special Officer, issued an order constituting the six sub-committees with each of them consisting of a deputy special officer, a working president and a secretary. They have been constituted for Dasara procession, illumination, reception and invitation, cultural events, cleanliness and arrangements and tableau. They have to function under the purview of the Dasara High-power Committee and the Dasara Executive Committee. The sub-committees have been told to make use of the funds released for the festivities in a transparent manner and in accordance with the rules. The order said the sub-committees have the obligation of discharging their responsibilities in a suitable manner without any room for lapses. They must work with proper planning and efficiently discharge tasks entrusted to them, the DC said. They must submit accounts of expenditures of Dasara events besides ensuring that government rules are not flouted. Meanwhile, the eight Dasara elephants that arrived here on Monday are resting on the premises of Aranya Bhavan here. They will receive a traditional welcome into the palace on Thursday. Accompanied by their families, the mahouts and kavadis of the elephants are taking care of their jumbo team led by Abhimanyu, 58, who is carrying the 750-kilo golden howdah for the second year in a row. The Forest Department had identified 14 elephants for the Dasara tasks. However, only eight were selected and brought after the Gajapayana, flagged off at Veerana Hosahalli near Nagarahole on Monday. Last year, five elephants, including howdah elephant Abhimanyu and its two companions, had taken part in the Dasara procession within the palace premises. This year, the department had proposed to keep at least two to three elephants as standby. Forest veterinarians have certified the health of the participating elephants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-sub-committees-instituted/article36465976.ece
15 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru Congress leaders demand action against Pratap Simha’s ‘provocative’ statements||Taking serious objection to BJP MP Pratap Simha’s allegedly provocative statements that threaten communal peace in the society, Mysuru District Congress Committee has urged Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham to immediately take action against the MP. A delegation of Congress leaders met the Deputy Commissioner on Tuesday and lodged a complaint against Mr. Simha. Reminding the DC of the MP’s ‘communally inflammatory’ utterances at a recent Karnataka Development Programme (KDP) meeting at the Mysuru Zilla Panchayat auditorium in the presence of Minister in charge of the district S.T. Somashekar and MLAs, the Mysuru District Congress leaders said the MP and the district administration should be held responsible in the event of communal violence breaking out. The Congress leaders have taken serious note of Mr. Simha’s reported warning of serious consequences if DC of Mysuru did not act against a dargah on the footpath of D. Devaraj Urs Road and a mosque on Irwin Road. In the complaint, Mysuru District Congress Committee president B.J. Vijaykumar and Mysuru City Congress Committee president R. Murthy clarified that the matter relating to the dargah on D. Devaraj Urs Road, compound of the mosque on Irwin Road and other temples was pending before the High Court and Supreme Court. The Congress has also clarified that it was not against the removal of places of worship like temples, mosques and churches that had come up in illegally in public places after taking the local leaders into confidence as per the directions of the Supreme Court. The MP, instead of discussing development issues at the KDP meeting, resorted to raking up issues that allegedly provoke religious sentiments and pit one community against another while reportedly threatening the Deputy Commissioner of dire consequences, all which is a ‘unpardonable crime’, stated the complaint by the Congress. Pointing out that all the 140 crore people living in India enjoyed equal rights under the Indian Constitution, the Congress complaint said the MP’s act of discriminating people on religious lines - Hindus, Muslims and Christians – was against law. The Congress leaders said the BJP should be held responsible for any damage caused to temples, mosques or churches anywhere in the country. Hence, the Congress has demanded protection to all places of worship and immediate action against the MP for trying to disrupt communal harmony. Apart from Mr .Vijaykumar and Mr. Murthy, the delegation of Congress leaders comprised former MLAs M.K. Somashekar and Kalale Keshavamurthy, besides KPCC spokespersons M. Lakshmana, H.A. Venkatesh and Manjula Manasa, besides Congress leader from K.R. Nagar D Ravishankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-congress-leaders-demand-action-against-pratap-simhas-provocative-statements/article36465981.ece
15 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Schools set to reopen in Kodagu on Sept. 17||The long wait of students has finally ended as the schools and colleges in Kodagu are set to reopen for resuming physical classes for the first time this year in the wake of the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) falling below 2% in the district. The classes will resume from Friday. The government had not permitted schools and colleges to reopen in Kodagu in view of the worrying TPR, which was above 2% for a long period. Kodagu’s proximity to Kerala was another reason the State went slow on reopening schools. Classroom teaching for students of classes VI to X and PU will begin from Friday as government, aided and unaided schools will reopen. All PU colleges will reopen for offline classes. As per the COVID-19 guidelines, the staff at the hostels run by the departments of Social Welfare and Backward Classes must have taken at least one dose of vaccine. Staff at schools and colleges too must have taken at least one dose. The Deputy Commissioner has asked schools, colleges and hostels to sanitise their premises before the commencement of physical classes. The students of degree and above courses should at least be partially vaccinated. Schools and colleges have been asked to ensure the parents of students are vaccinated. One room in a school/college should be reserved as isolation room. Dakshina Kannada too has announced the opening of classes from September 17 for students of classes VIII and above, and from September 20 for students of classes VI and VII.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-and-colleges-set-to-reopen-in-kodagu-on-sept-17/article36465556.ece
15 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tiger dies of snare wound after fight with porcupine||A tiger met with a grizzly death due to grievous wounds caused by a snare laid in the Hediyala subdivision of the Bandipur Tiger Reserve, on Tuesday. The incident came to light when the forest guards on patrol in the Gendathur beat under the Gundre range, stumbled upon a tiger carcass in an elephant proof trench. On observation it transpired that the tiger was a male, aged around 5 to 6 years. It had apparently fought and hunted down a porcupine and its quills embedded in the paws and limbs were still intact. It is suspected that the tiger was first incapacitated from hunting in the fight with the porcupine and hence may have moved closer to the forest boundaries and near the EPT to stalk and hunt smaller prey animals. It apparently walked into a snare laid by miscreants and this acerbated the earlier injury caused by the porcupine and it met with an agonizing death. Though snares are rare around Bandipur, the park authorities have launched a combing drive across the tiger reserve, more so in the Gundre range. Sniffer dog Rana was deployed to track down miscreants and the authorities say they are confident of nabbing those responsible for laying the snares in due course. The postmortem of the tiger was conducted as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) protocol in the presence of senior officers and wildlife wardens and incinerated. Veterinary doctors have also collected samples of viscera from the carcass and have sent it to the laboratory for analysis. This is the seventh tiger to have died in Bandipur so far this year and fourteenth in Karnataka due to various causes, as per the records of the NTCA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiger-injured-in-fight-with-porcupine-dies-of-wounds-caused-by-snare-in-bandipur-reserve/article36465564.ece
15 September 2021||Mysuru/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Under pressure, removal of unauthorised religious structures stopped in Mysuru||Mysuru district administration’s drive against unauthorised religious structures in public places, based on an apex court order, has been stopped with pressure mounting against it from several quarters. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, under pressure from the Opposition and also his own partymen, including BJP MP from Mysuru Pratap Simha, asked the authorities to desist from enforcing “hurried measures”. He said clear guidelines on the stand to be taken by the administration would be given within two days after discussing with the State Cabinet. He said he would place the facts related to demolition before the State legislature and added that notices had been issued to the Deputy Commissioner and the tahsildar of Mysuru district seeking explanation on why the demolition was taken up “without taking everyone into confidence”. Meanwhile, the Mysuru district administration has received notice from the government over its drive. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham said, “We are gathering information and will submit a complete report to the government.” The district administration had begun a drive against unauthorised religious structures in public places on the basis of directions issued by the Karnataka government in 2010 following an order from the Supreme Court in 2009. Apart from taking action against such unauthorised structures in various parts of the district, the administration had identified 93 such places of worship in Mysuru and drawn up dates to initiate action against them.  Mr. Gautham said, “For the time being, we are waiting and watching... the matter is sub judice . I cannot comment further.” However, he said there would not be any “aggravation” of the situation. The Mysuru district administration’s action against unauthorised religious structures was criticised by political parties. On Monday, Mr. Simha had vociferously opposed the drive. The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had condemned the demolition of an ancient temple in Nanjangud. JD(S) MLAs G.T. Deve Gowda and S.R. Mahesh too had opposed it. Meanwhile, Congress leaders have taken serious note of Mr. Simha’s reported communally loaded remarks. They said the MP had warned of “serious consequences” if the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru did not act against a dargah on the footpath of D. Devaraj Urs Road and a mosque on Irwin Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/under-pressure-removal-of-unauthorised-religious-structures-stopped-in-mysuru/article36465567.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A grand procession||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-grand-procession/article36465952.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Food for cattle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-for-cattle/article36465784.ece
15 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Schools in State will reopen at the earliest: Sivankutty||Steps will be taken to reopen schools in the State at the earliest, General Education Minister V. Sivankutty has said. He was conducting the State-level inauguration of the Shalabodhyanam project being implemented by the General Education Department in association with the Samagra Shiksha Kerala at Government Town Upper Primary School at Kayamkulam on Tuesday. “The Education Department is in consultation with Health and Local Self-Government Departments. Schools will be opened soon after taking into account the COVID-19 situation,” the Minister said. Mr. Sivankutty said the State had set a model in the general education sector. “When COVID-19 led to the detachment of the teacher-student relationship in other States, Kerala has been able to conduct online classes. We have conducted SSLC and Higher Secondary examinations,” he said. The Minister said the Shalabodhyanam project would inculcate in students a love for nature. U. Prathibha, MLA, presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-in-state-will-reopen-at-the-earliest-sivankutty/article36465917.ece
15 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||1,118 people test positive Alappuzha||Alappuzha district reported 1,118 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The test positivity rate was recorded at 16.88%. The fresh cases include 1,096 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 21 others remains unknown. One health staff also tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, 1,998 people recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 11,337. In Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 1,043 persons testing positive for the disease on the day. Of the fresh cases, 1,031 persons, including five health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR was 16.84%. With 107 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Ettumanur — 69 cases . As many as 1,558 persons recovered, bringing down the active cases to 7,790. Meanwhile, 51,488 persons remain in quarantine. 632 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 632 persons tested positive. The TPR was 15.3%. With 41 cases , Ezhamkulam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Adoor — 29 cases. Meanwhile, the decease claimed four more lives in the district. With 1,161 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 8,962.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1118-people-test-positive-alappuzha/article36465925.ece
15 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Sub-treasury inaugurated at Haripad||Treasuries in the State will be made more people-friendly, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. He was inaugurating a sub-treasury at Revenue Tower in Haripad on Tuesday. Better facilities Mr. Balagopal said the infrastructure facilities in treasuries across the State would be improved. The Haripad sub-treasury will function on the ground floor of the Revenue Tower. Ramesh Chennithala, MLA, presided. A.M. Ariff, MP, Haripad municipal chairman K.M. Raju and others attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sub-treasury-inaugurated-at-haripad/article36465918.ece
15 September 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Kudumbashree construction groups prove their mettle||Members of women construction groups under the District Kudumbashree Mission in Wayanad have proved their mettle in house construction as they have completed building 25 houses in a short span of time. As many as 74 Kudumbashree members of 17 construction groups, each group comprising four to six members, are working in the sector now. The Mission had provided 53 days’ training for members on all aspects of construction work with the support of the Wayanad Social Service, an NGO in the district, and Rural Self-Employment Training Institute here two years ago. “Now, our group is able to undertake all works related to the construction sector, including electrification, painting and plumbing, without outsourcing workers, except for works like concreting roofs,” says A. Veena of the Sree Deepam construction unit at Panamaram in the district. ‘We do not expect a huge profit from the venture, except our daily wages,” she says. The groups are also undertaking construction works of cattle sheds, wells, and concrete roads under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, apart from house construction works. Upgrading units “Now, we are planning to upgrade the units as micro contracting agencies to undertake construction works of government departments,” says P. Sajitha, district coordinator, Kudumbashree Mission. Recently, the government had issued an order to permit the agencies to undertake the construction works of civic bodies, the Public Works Department and the Kerala Water Authority below Rs. 2 lakh, Ms. Sajitha adds. The Tribal Development Department had recently handed over the construction works of six houses, each house at a cost of Rs. 6 lakh, for homeless tribespeople on the banks of the Karapuzha river at Poothamoola near Muttil to three groups. Each house has two bedrooms, a hall, a kitchen and a toilet. They could complete the construction works in six months even during the pandemic period. Former District Collector Adeela Abdulla inaugurated the houses by handing over the keys to the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-construction-groups-prove-their-mettle/article36465841.ece
15 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Land deeds for all in Wayanad in 5 years: Riyas||P.A. Mohamed Riyas, Minister for Public Works, has said that land deeds for all deserving families in the district would be issued in five years. Speaking after inaugurating the district level “pattaya mela” through video conferencing, Mr. Riyas said that the government had adopted steps to provide land deeds to 2,500 people in the district in five years. The function was part of the pattaya melas conducted across the State on the day. “A piece of own land is the dream of all people” , Mr. Riyas said, adding that when a person got the deed for his land, it would help him to live with pride in society . The programme was held in connection with the 100-day action plan of the State government. As many as 406 title deeds, including 292 land tribunal pattayams, five land assignment pattayams,15 Devaswom pattayams, 41 possession certificates as per the Forest Rights Act and 53 possession certificates under the land bank scheme of the State government, were handed over on the occasion adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. T. Siddique, MLA, presided over the function. District Collector M. Geetha delivered the keynote address. O.R. Kelu and I.C. Balakrishnan, MLAs, inaugurated the taluk level pattaya melas at Mananthavady and Sulthan Bathery respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-deeds-for-all-in-wayanad-in-5-years-riyas/article36465860.ece
15 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Mechanical excavation banned||Wayanad District Collector M. Geetha, who is also chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority, has issued a total ban on mechanical excavation of earth in the district from September 14 to September 30. The directive has been issued in the wake of heavy rain being experienced in the district. The debris of landslip and flood could be removed with machines, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mechanical-excavation-banned/article36465852.ece
15 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||BJP, CPI(M) activists hurt in clash at Thalassery||An activist of the Bharatiya Janata Party and a member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) were hacked and suffered injuries in a clash between the two party members in Thalassery on Monday night. According to the police, the clash took place in Melur. In the incident, P. Dhanraj, 33, a BJP activist from Melur, was hacked and injured. After getting the preliminary treatment at the Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital, he was shifted to a private hospital in Kozhikode. Meanwhile, C. Manish, 37, who was hacked and suffered injuries in his hand, was admitted to the Thalassery Cooperative Hospital for treatment. The BJP alleged that Dhanraj was waylaid by CPI(M) activists, including Manish, when he was travelling on his bike. However, the CPI(M) alleged that Dhanraj had attacked Manish by forcibly entering his house. The BJP denied the allegations, stating that Manish was involved in various political and criminal cases. In light of the situation, the police have beefed up security in the region. The Dharmadam police have registered cases. Meanwhile, a meeting has been called at the police station to maintain peace and to avoid the spread of violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-cpim-activists-hurt-in-clash-at-thalassery/article36465861.ece
15 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Man held on charge of marriage fraud||Aboobacker Siddique, 46, accused of cheating women after marrying them and absconding, was arrested on Tuesday. A team led by sub inspector Premrajan of the Sreekandapuram station arrested him from Kallayil in Kozhikode. In 2009, he had married a woman from Sreekandapuram. However, she later filed a complaint of sexual abuse, following which he was arrested. But he absconded after coming out on bail. During the probe, the police found that he had married women in Kundamkuzhi and Malappuram too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-marriage-fraud/article36465858.ece
15 September 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CUK to reopen for research students||Research students will arrive on the campus in the first phase of resumption of classes at the Central University of Kerala (CUK). Students who have to submit their dissertation within the next six months will arrive on September 17, according to a release here. The campus reopening committee, which met on Monday, evaluated the preparations. The classes for the others will be decided at the next meeting. Students must present an RT-PCR negative certificate and parental consent to enter the campus. They should have taken a vaccine dose. Students will have to undergo a week’s quarantine at the university hostel. Only one person can stay in a room. COVID-19 test will be carried out after the quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cuk-to-reopen-for-research-students/article36465891.ece
15 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Fire’ in aircraft tests CIAL’s response to emergencies||A ‘fire’ broke out in engine number 2 of Alpha Airways — AD 567 — at Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) on Tuesday around 2.15 p.m. The aircraft had 15 passengers aboard and six crew members when the pilot spotted the fire just before take off. Smoke started emanating from the aircraft triggering a full-scale emergency alert at the airport. One ‘injured’ passenger was airlifted by a Coast Guard helicopter. Only, the fire was a staged one and the airline was a fictitious one simulated using an aircraft provided by Indigo Airlines. It was part of a full-scale emergency drill conducted by CIAL to ensure its operational readiness and security during emergencies. The biennial exercise was held in association with all security stakeholders at the airport, various airlines, Coast Guard, district administration, Airports Authority of India, and several hospitals. Airport Rescue and FireFighting force (ARFF) rushed to the aircraft with their advanced firefighting equipment and fire tenders within seconds. Mobile Command Control was set up under the leadership of Airport Director A.C.K Nair. Central Industrial Security Force led by Assistant Commandant Prem M J took charge of security. Facilities like emergency control room, assembly area, triage area, friends and relatives reception centre, survivors reception area, media centre, and reunion area were also set up to coordinate rescue efforts as instructed by the Command Post. Detailed review The rescue mission was declared completed at 3.30 p.m. The drill was conducted strictly adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. It was followed by a detailed review in which the airport’s efficiency in rescue operations was assessed,” said Mr. Nair. CIAL Managing Director S. Suhas lauded various agencies and officials for their excellence. He expressed satisfaction with the competency of the agencies in crisis response and crisis management. Deputy Collector Vrinda Devi, A M. Shabeer, Executive Director, CIAL, Kala P. Nair, Joint General Manager, Airports Authority of India, and Roby John, Airport Manager, Indigo Airlines, attended. CIAL Emergency Task Force, Airline Operators Committee, Airport Health office, Kerala Police, Kerala Fire Force, BPCL, Customs, Meteorological Department, CELEBI, AITSL, BWFS, and hospitals in the districts participated in the drill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-in-aircraft-tests-cials-response-to-emergencies/article36465871.ece
15 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Local bodies miss deadlines for scientific waste management||Twenty-seven local bodies in Ernakulam have not yet achieved 50% coverage in the collection of waste from households, as per the estimates by the Department of Local Self Government. The latest evaluation of the waste management scenario was carried out by the department in the first week of September. The grama panchayats figuring in the list include Ezhikkara, Karumaloor, Manjapra, Sreemoolanagaram, Asamanoor, Rayamangalam, Vengoor, Mulavukad, Njarakkal, Vadavucode-Puthencruz, Pindimana, Kottapady, Kavalangad, Kuttampuzha, Elanji, Avoli, Arakkuzha, Payipra, Valakom, Marady, Edavanakkad, and Kottuvally. The municipalities that have not yet achieved 50% coverage are Koothattukulam, Thripunitura, Thrikkakra, and Maradu. The secretaries of these local bodies were asked to step up waste collection from the doorstep to 50% by August. However, the civic bodies did not initiate measures mostly citing the pandemic as a reason for the delay. But the department has now made it clear that the implementation of the project cannot be stretched further as other grama panchayats and municipalities had made progress compared to its situation in June-July. Twenty local bodies, which had achieved 50% in doorstep collection of waste, were asked to increase it to 80% by August. Only six civic bodies could attain the target. It included Chottanikkara, Vadakkekara, Kunnukara, Mookannoor, Thirumarady, and Edakkatuvayal. The erring local bodies included Varapetti, Thiruvaniyoor, Ramamangalam, Amballoor, Poothruka, Palakuzha, Keezhmadu, Varappuzha, Mulanthuruthy, Udayamperoor, Kumbalanghi, Nayarambalam, Choornikkara, and Alangad. Among the urban local bodies, Kochi Corporation, North Paravur, and Eloor municipalities scaled up the waste collection process to 80% of the households while Angamaly, Kothamangalam, Muvattupuzha, and Aluva failed to improve the coverage. Fourteen local bodies that were given poor rating in the previous evaluation held in June-July initiated steps to collect the waste from the households. They were: Karukutty, Thurvaur, Malayattoor-Neeleswaram, Mudakkuzha, Koovapady, Vengola, Keerampara, Kizhakkambalam, Parakadavu, Chellanam, Okkal, Mazhuvanoor, Ayampuzha, and Paingottur. Ten local bodies, which had figured in the list, started collection from August onwards were Nellikuzhi, Vazhakkulam, Pothanikad, Pallarimangalam, Kuzhippilly, Ayavana, Kaloorkad, Puthenvelikkara, Chengamanad, and Kumbalam. The Deputy Director of Panchayats, Ernakulam, will hold regular meetings with the secretaries of the local bodies to improve the waste management process at the earliest. The officials are responsible for empowering the ruling councils on the need to introduce scientific measures for waste collection and disposal, according to the Department of Local Self Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-miss-deadlines-for-scientific-waste-management/article36465879.ece
15 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pandemic proves a blessing for this Kochi start-up||Collecting feedback and conducting surveys seem to have assumed a life of its own since the outbreak of the pandemic bringing rich dividends to SurveySparrow, a Kochi-based start-up offering a multifarious experience management platform for companies. The start-up posted growth over 300% during last year alone despite being largely marred by the pandemic and in the process hit a landmark of one lakh customers third year into its operations. It is tailored for organisations with a workforce of 50 or more. “Ours is a Software as a Service-based platform, which help our clients conduct surveys and improve their service. With Work From Home being the new norm, it helps our clients conduct pulse surveys on a consistent basis without which companies may overlook problem areas needing intervention. Pandemic has fast-tracked the digitisation drive leading to a sudden rise in demand for online surveys,” said Shihab Muhammed, CEO of SurveySparrow. There has been a similar increase in demand for Net Promoter Score (NPS), which is calculated on a scale of 1-10, to analyse the probability of recommendation of a service or product by customers. The in-built NPS platform offered by SurveySparrow would help companies gain feedback and accurately measure customer loyalty. Founded on the idea to help brands refine their experience regardless of their size and industry, SurveySparrow has evolved from a mere survey tool to an end-to-end experience platform. Having started operating out of a mere 100 sq.ft. space in Kochi in 2017, SurveySparrow, which has closely associated with the Kerala Startup Mission, has now grown to employ 120 workers from at least 15 States. “About 50% of our clients are from the US, while Europe and Asia account for 25% and 12% respectively,” said Mr. Muhammed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-proves-a-blessing-for-this-kochi-start-up/article36465867.ece
15 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Brahmapuram biomining cost to exceed present estimate||The biomining of legacy waste at the Kochi Corporation’s Brahmapuram dumping yard will exceed the cost of Rs. 54.9 crore agreed upon between the civic body and the firm chosen for executing the work, according to official estimates. There is no clarity yet on who will bear the increase in the cost as there is considerable difference in the quantity assessed as per the agreement and the actual volume of waste lying at the site. The cost of Rs. 54.9 crore is for the biomining of 4.75 lakh cubic metres of municipal solid waste. Interestingly, a drone survey by the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, held in February as per the directions of the Corporation had estimated the quantity of waste at 5.51 lakh cubic metres. A government order on June 27 had asked the Corporation to issue the work order to the company based on the report submitted by the NIT-Calicut on the quantity of legacy waste. Mayor M. Anilkumar said that an assessment will have to be carried out based on an agreement as the study by the NIT-Calicut had found that the quantity of waste at the site was 5.51 lakh cubic metres as on February. Any additional cost will be a burden on the civic body’s exchequer, he said. The corporation authorities are banking on financial aid from the government for meeting the cost for biomining. An official order is yet to be issued on the share of the government and the Corporation towards the actual cost required for executing the project. The civic body had requested full government funding for removal of the waste even though the chances of government accepting it seem remote. On the stalemate over the running of the existing plant after tenders were invited for it, Mr. Anilkumar said that the council is awaiting a report by the Standing Committee on Health about the technical expertise of the single firm that had participated in the tender proceedings. The report is expected within 10 days, he said. The contract for running the plant, which was awarded to a company, had expired way back in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brahmapuram-biomining-cost-to-exceed-present-estimate/article36465882.ece
15 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||District CPI(M) initiates punitive action against several leaders||The CPI(M) district committee has initiated serious action against several leaders on multiple counts of misdemeanour and dereliction of duty during the Assembly polls. At the meeting on Tuesday, which was attended also by acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan, a decision was taken to remove C.K. Manisankar from the district secretariat for the debacle of the party’s independent candidate Dr. J. Jacob in the Thrikkakara constituency. The candidate’s campaign was steered by Mr. Manisankar. Meanwhile, district committee member C.N. Sundaran would be demoted to the area committee, citing laxity on his part in campaigning for M. Swaraj in the Thripunithura constituency. Koothattukulam area secretary Shaju Jacob was removed from the post for a controversial social media post in the wake of the Left candidate’s defeat in Piravom. The area office secretary, Arun, has also been removed. The most stringent action came against K.D. Vincent, Vyttila area secretary, who has been lowered to the branch committee. The charge against Mr. Vincent was that he tried to secure the candidature in Thrikkakara and was lax in campaigning for the LDF candidate. Following a complaint made by the Left candidate in Perumbavoor, district secretariat member N.C. Mohanan would face public censure. The district committee, which considered the reports of commissions that looked into the failure of the front in  Thripunithura, Piravom, Thrikkkakara, and Perumbavoor, resolved that there was severe laxity by these leaders in the electioneering. The disciplinary action recommended by the district committee will have to be ratified by the State Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-cpim-initiates-punitive-action-against-several-leaders/article36465880.ece
15 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One more held in drug seizure case||The excise crime branch probing the seizure of over 1 kg of MDMA from an apartment in Kakkanad on Tuesday made one more arrest. The arrested man was identified as Shifan Taj, 23, a resident of Amballur near Kanjiramattom. He reportedly transferred a sizeable amount to the bank account of one of the accused. It, the excise suspects, was used to fund the drug smuggling. He was remanded in judicial custody. The accused is suspected to have transferred over Rs. 2 lakh to the bank account of one of the six accused already arrested and remain in judicial custody. Since the arrested could not give a satisfactory explanation about the transfer, he was arraigned as an accused under the NDPS Act on charges of conspiracy. The investigation has been revolving around the bank transactions to find the involvement of more people in the case. The idea is to identify the suppliers and buyers of the accused in and outside the State. The team is looking to track down those who have had financial dealings with the accused persons based on bank transactions. A list of the suspects has been drawn up in this connection. The excise suspects that the gang, allegedly part of the inter-State drug peddling network, had several customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-held-in-drug-seizure-case/article36465877.ece
15 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Matsyafed all set to strengthen market intervention||The Kerala State Cooperative Federation for Fisheries Development (Matsyafed), the apex cooperative in the fishing sector, has proposed increasing the capacity for frozen fish storage at its Kochi facility as well as utilising its full capacity and establishing similar facilities at at two other centres with a view to help fishers store their catch so as to help them negotiate better prices in the midst of allegations that the fishing community is exploited by buyers and their agents. Matsyafed has put up a proposal for renovation of the Kochi fish freezing facility and the government is likely to consider the proposals. The State government, which has been supportive of the inland and marine fisheries sectors, has provided generous support to the fishing community, said T. Manoharan, chairman of Matsyafed. He said that only about 30% to 35% of the Kochi facility was being utilised now. The capacity utilisation can be improved and operations carried out in three shifts to enable better storage. One of the problems facing the fishing community is that once the catch is landed, they are at the mercy of the buyers, who basically fix a price for the catch. However, if the fishers are able to store their catch they will be in a position to bargain for a better deal. Matsyafed is aiming at creating such a facility across the State, said Mr. Manoharan. He said that the State government has been considerate and positive about the proposals. Matsyafed sources said that the Kochi facility was last renovated in 1997 and the plant may further be renovated to increase its storage capacity from the present 25 tonnes per day to about 60 tonnes. However, fish catch is seasonal and that is one of the reasons why the capacity utilisation is low at present. The plant can then be operated in thee shifts to cater to the new requirements and as per the plans of the cooperative. Mr. Manoharan also said that Matsyafed looked towards increasing the capacity at its three net-making facilities in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, and Kannur so as to meet the requirements of the fishing community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/matsyafed-all-set-to-strengthen-market-intervention/article36465869.ece
15 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KMRL withholds selection of consultant||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has preferred to withhold the tender to shortlist the project management consultant (PMC) for Kochi Metro’s Kakkanad (Infopark) extension, since the Union Cabinet has not yet accorded sanction for the 11.20-km extension that is expected to cost Rs. 1,957 crore. Eight firms, including a few from the public sector, had responded to the tender whose technical bids were opened a week ago. The metro agency has not opened the financial bids, since the Cabinet’s decision on the extension is awaited, it is learnt. The intention to invite bids in advance to select a PMC was to save on time as and if the extension got the final approval, and also because funds had been allocated in the Union Budget. It is yet unclear whether the Centre will accord sanction for a conventional metro or whether it will suggest a metro-lite/metro-neo system in the corridor, sources said. The PMC would be in charge of the design and many other tasks, while also ensuring that works were being done in adherence with the approved design and its specifications. In the meantime, officials associated with acquiring land to widen the Jawaharlal Nehru International (JLN) Stadium-Infopark corridor as a 22-m wide stretch said they are hopeful of adhering to the December deadline fixed to complete the land acquisition process. Handing over of compensation is over in most other areas, except in Vazhakkala village, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/8-firms-in-fray-for-metros-project-management/article36465873.ece
15 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID protocol violated at Guruvayur, says HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday observed that the COVID-19 protocol was violated during the wedding ceremony of the son of industrialist Ravi Pillai that was held recently at the Guruvayur Sreekrishna temple, and that the temple nadappanthal (roofed footpath) became an auditorium in the process. The Bench made the oral observations while considering a suo motu writ petition regarding the decking up of the nadappanthal in connection with the ceremony. Though the protocol stipulated that only 12 persons shall attend the ceremony at a time, a huge crowd attended the function, which was evident from the visuals, the court noted. ‘All treated alike’ There cannot be any discrimination between daily wage earners and those occupying Constitutional posts when it comes to the matter of faith and all shall be treated alike. All the faithful have the right to hold wedding ceremony at Guruvayur, the court observed. The CCTV footage of the nadappanthal shall be kept in safe custody till another direction from the court, the Bench instructed the administrator of the Guruvayoor Devaswom Board managing committee. The court also ordered that the Revenue Secretary of the Devaswom, Ravi Pillai, the District Police Chief of Thrissur and the sectoral magistrate of the temple area be impleaded in the petition. The Bench directed the Devaswom administrator to file an additional affidavit by providing the details of the number of weddings held at the temple, the time allotted for each ceremony, whether private security agencies were deployed at the temple for the wedding in question and whether permission was issued for decking up the nadappanthal . The court posted the case for October 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-protocol-violated-at-guruvayur-says-hc/article36465890.ece
15 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Experts slam delay in rolling out Water Metro ferries||Terming the price tag of over Rs. 7.30 crore each of the first batch of Water Metro ferries proposed in the Greater Kochi area as prohibitive, technical experts have sought “appropriate technology” rather than the “most-modern”, to rein in capital and operational expenditure. They have also slammed what they termed as undue reliance on foreign firms for technology which could be sourced or developed from within India. While condemning the “continuous missing of targets” in rolling out the 23 ferries, former Director of Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) Neelakandan Unni said it was over two years since their service was originally scheduled to begin. Indigenisation missed “The undue delay in commissioning the first lot of ferries could be a pointer towards engineers grappling with complex issues which may become more pronounced during the operation and maintenance phases. India missed a great opportunity since these boats could have been designed and built with 100% indigenous inputs and components, especially so since world-class ship technology and naval architecture experts are available in Cochin Shipyard (where the ferries are being built) and at Department of Ship Technology, Cusat. This alone would have ensured economy in its operations and maintenance,” he said. Naval architect and Professor at Cusat’s Department of Ship Technology, K. Sivaprasad, who was associated with designing many boats, echoed a similar view. “Emphasis must be laid on 'Make in India' and 'appropriate technology', rather than bank on other countries, at least for the next batch of 55 ferries. This is crucial from the financial and operational point of view”. He spoke of the need to rationalise the fare structure (KMRL has pegged it at Rs. 4 per km), to benefit the common man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-slam-delay-in-rolling-out-water-metro-ferries/article36465875.ece
15 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Email threatens to cause explosion in shipyard||The Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) where the country’s first Indigenous Aircraft Carrier Vikrant is under construction, has received yet another email threat. This was the second such threat in less than a fortnight. The latest one received on Sunday threatens to cause an explosion at the CSL using fuel tankers. One of the five officials, who had received the previous threatening mail, received this one as well. CSL authorities have lodged a complaint with the South police though they remained tight-lipped. Though an inspection was held with the help of bomb disposal and dog squads, nothing suspicious could be found. “The investigation is under way to nab the guilty. We cannot reveal anything at this stage though,” said C.H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City). He said that the security for the CSL had been already beefed up after the first email threat. Both the police and the Central Industrial Security Force have intensified security and patrolling for the CSL both on land and water A probe to track the IP address from which the first message was sent was in the advanced stage when the new threat was received. Central agencies are also actively involved in the case, considering the national security implications. Before the receipt of the threatening mails, the CSL was in the news when a resident of Afghanistan on forged identity documents was found engaged as a casual labourer there. He has since then arrested and found to have been in Pakistan in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/email-threatens-to-cause-explosion-in-shipyard/article36465878.ece
15 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Award for physics teacher||Pius Augustine, faculty member of the Department of Physics at Sacred Heart College, Thevara, has won the Dinabandhu Sahu memorial award instituted by the Indian Association of Physics Teachers. Dr. Augustine won the award for his significant contribution to undergraduate physics teaching. The award ceremony will be held later, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-physics-teacher/article36465874.ece
15 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Woman, daughter found dead||A woman and her daughter were found dead, probably after they were fatally knocked down by a train, at Pulinchodu near Aluva on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Philomina, 61, and her daughter Abhaya, 33, of Choornikkara. They were returning home when the accident occurred. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-daughter-found-dead/article36465876.ece
15 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,893 test positive in Ernakulam; TPR 13.4%||As many as 1,893 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday. A total of 1,829 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 51 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 13.4%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 40 included Kuttampuzha (88), Nayarambalam (67), Thripunithura (58), Chottanikkara (53), Angamaly (42), Vadakkekara (42), and Vadakkekara (41). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Elankunnapuzha, Karumaloor, Keerampara, Kunnukara, Panampilly Nagar, Pindimana, Puthrika, Mudakuzha, Vaduthala, Sreemoolanagaram, Asamanoor, Aarakuzha, Kadamakudi, Kaloorkad, Thoppumpady, Pachalam, Pallarimangalam, Poonithura, Pothanikkad, Maneed, Maradi, Vadavucode, Aikkaranad, Chakkaraparambu, Perumpadapu, Paingottur, Karuvelipadi, and Palakuzha, according to an official release. 14,125 tests As many as 28,091 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district, and 14,125 tests were conducted on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1893-test-positive-in-ernakulam-tpr-134/article36465883.ece
15 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Appointments: HC dismisses TDB appeal||An appeal of the Travancore Devaswom Board against the stay order of a single judge on its appointments for the posts of assistant professors in colleges under it was dismissed by a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday. The single judge had earlier stayed the appointments on a petition that the board failed to provide reservation in appointments as contemplated under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and relevant government orders. The court had also directed the board to proceed with the recruitment after considering the reservation for people with disabilities. However, the board continued to make appointments disregarding the government order. Taking note of the developments, the single judge, in a writ petition, had directed the board to refrain from continuing with the selection process. It had also directed that the selections already made by the board would be subject to the result of the writ petition. In its appeal before the Division Bench, the board challenged the interim order of the single judge . Dismissing the appeal, the Division Bench consisting of Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice C.P. Mohammed Nias noted that the single judge was correct in law to prevent further appointments during the pendency of the writ petition. There was also a prima facie finding that the action of the board, in proceeding with the selection, was in violation of the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act and also the relevant government orders, the Bench noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appointments-hc-dismisses-tdb-appeal/article36465889.ece
15 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Power impasse in Erattupetta||After a brief lull, the days of administrative impasse are back in the Erattupetta municipality. A day after pulling down the United Democratic Front from power, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) has categorically dismissed having any links with the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). The announcement, which comes close on the heels of an unprecedented mobilisation of Christian groups in Pala following the ‘narcotic jihad’ issue, has once again pushed the municipality into a phase of instability. As the development drew Statewide attention, the LDF appears to have been caught off-guard with the United Democratic Front (UDF) as well as the Bharatiya Janata Party raising allegations of an unholy nexus between the CPI(M) and the SDPI. CPI(M) stance CPI(M) leader and Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan here on Tuesday reiterated the CPI(M)’s ‘proclaimed stance’ of not holding on to power with the support of the SDPI. “We had the opportunity to lead the municipality on at least three occasions, but chose to stay away from power as we did not want the support of the SDPI. Our position on this remains clear and unchanged,” said Mr. Vasavan. As to the support extended by SDPI councillors to its no-trust motion, Mr. Vasavan clarified that the coalition had never demanded their help in this regard. Besides Mr. Vasavan, Poonjar MLA and Kerala Congress (M) leader Sebastian Kulathungal, who had been accused by the UDF of orchestrating the no-trust move, too came on record denying any links with the SDPI. “It was the raging infighting within the Congress that forced a UDF member to change her stance and support the motion. Whoever is raising allegations on this should also furnish evidence,” he said. Cong. lacks plan The Indian Union Muslim League-Congress coalition too appears no closer to finding a solution on the way forward. In the 28-member council, the coalition now has 13 members, excluding a rebel; LDF has nine; and the Social Democratic Party of India has five members. While the LDF has been forced to drop its plans to capture the council by fielding Ansalana Pareekutty — the UDF rebel — as the chairperson, the UDF too appears to be on a sticky wicket in the absence of an absolute majority. “In any given scenario, the position of the SDPI remains crucial. But considering the developments unfolding in Pala, the leading coalitions cannot afford to accept their support,” pointed out a Congress leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-impasse-in-erattupetta/article36465926.ece
15 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||129 families get title deeds in two districts||Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan here on Tuesday inaugurated the district-level distribution of title deeds. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Vasavan said the State government could so far distribute title deeds to 13,500 people. “This government functions with a clear intention and direction even in its infancy stage. Although the Cooperation Department had set a target of creating 10,000 jobs within 100 days, it was able to provide employment to 16,345 people,” he said. Of the 74 families who received the title deeds, 20 were from Kottayam taluk, 12 from Kanjirapally, 14 from Changanassery, 15 from Vaikom and 13 from Meenachil. Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, MLA, presided. Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, and District Collector P.K. Jayasree were present. In Pathanamthitta Health Minister Veena George inaugurated the distribution of title deeds in Pathanamthitta. As many as 55 title deeds were distributed on the occasion. Ms. George said plans were afoot to issue title deeds to 6,324 people across the taluks of Konni, Ranni and Mallappally. She also spoke of the State government’s plans to focus on various missions of the first government such as Ardram, Haritha Keralam, LIFE Mission and so on. The government was holding consultations on what needed to be done at the State level. A district-level planning of the activities by these missions would also be carried out, she said. District Collector Divya S. Iyer and district panchayat president Omallur Sankaran were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/129-families-get-title-deeds-in-two-districts/article36465919.ece
15 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) hits back at CPI over poll blame||A meeting of the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] high-power committee here on Tuesday came down heavily on the Communist Party of India (CPI) for its report on the recent Assembly elections which finds fault with the regional party for the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) losses in the Pala and Kaduthuruthy seats. The meeting accused the CPI of nursing an unfounded concern over losing its position within the LDF to the KC(M). Terming the findings in the report childish, the meeting said many remarks in it were baseless and contradicted the analysis carried out by the CPI(M) on the seats lost. “One should not forget the fact that many of those who are now busy judging the popular base of Mr. Mani have lost many elections. The CPI should also examine if it lost the seats such as Muvattupuzha and Karunagapally as it candidates lacked popular support,” said one leader. Urging the CPI leadership to inquire with Vazhoor Soman, the CPI legislator from Peerumedu, as to whether it had received the KC(M) support, it asked the CPI to introspect whether the KC(M) candidates received votes of the CPI in return. ‘No change in attitude’ Assessing that the CPI’s attitude toward KC(M) has not changed despite the latter switching to the LDF, it pointed out that the CPI(M) and other constituent parties, however, are thoroughly convinced of the benefits from its association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-hits-back-at-cpi-over-poll-blame/article36465892.ece
15 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Many govt. primary schools in Kozhikode remain headless||Government Mappila Upper Primary School, Chennamangallur, in Kozhikode, has over 1,200 students and Government Mappila Upper Primary School, Kodiyathur, has around 1,000. Both do not have a head teacher at the helm for the past couple of years. They are among the 151 government primary schools in the district where senior teachers have been given charge due to a legal tangle. There are 17 educational sub-districts in Kozhikode, in which Feroke, Mukkom, and Kozhikode city have the largest number of such schools without a head teacher, according to sources. Government Lower Primary School, Kothamangalam, Koyilandy, reportedly has the largest number of students without a head teacher. The teachers claim that it is difficult to take forward administration and teaching duties together. There are over 1,600 such head-less schools across the State.  The legal battle is between the State government and a section of teachers who are qualified to be promoted as head teachers. At least 12 years of teaching experience, and clearing of department-level tests and an exam on the Kerala Education Act and Rules (KEAR) are mandatory as per the Right to Education Act to become a head teacher. The Act had given three years from 2011 for aspirants to pass the mandatory Account (Lower) test conducted by the Kerala Public Service Commission and the KEAR test. The Education Department exempted those who turned 50 by June 2, 2014, from this rule. Promotions based on this were questioned in the Kerala High Court, which directed the government to issue a notification. Test mandatory The Kerala government in February 2018 issued an order making test qualification mandatory for promotion of teachers as head teachers. However, the sub-rule (4) under 45 B in the KEAR contradicted that order as it permanently exempted those aged 50 from passing the Account (Lower) test. The Kerala Administrative Tribunal on February 25, 2019, put an end to the exemption, saying any executive order or circular from the government should not go against statutory rules. The High Court, in another order on January 27, 2020, also cancelled the age-based exemption and directed to revert all those who were promoted as head teachers since 2018. After a section of unqualified head teachers approached the Supreme Court against this order, status quo was asked to be maintained. The State government has not appointed head teachers to these schools since then. The Kerala Administrative Tribunal (KAT) in February stayed a circular issued by the Education Department, which said that teachers aged above 50 could be promoted as head teachers even if they did not clear the mandatory tests. A section of teachers says that there has been no legal hurdle to appoint head teachers in government primary schools. Appointments had been made in Wayanad, Palakkad, and Thrissur districts after test-qualified teachers managed to get favourable orders from the KAT. When the Tribunal asked if there was any problem in appointing the teachers, the government reportedly said there was a bar only on taking unqualified teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-govt-primary-schools-in-kozhikode-remain-headless/article36465844.ece
15 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||14 houses to be handed over under Punargeham project||Fourteen homes built under the Punargeham project will be handed over to fishing families in Kozhikode district on Thursday in four different events to be held at Kozhikode, Elathur, Koyilandy and Vadakara. Fisheries Deputy Director Ranjini P.K. told reporters here on Tuesday that the event was being organised as part of the State government’s 100-day action plan to ensure rehabilitation of fishing families that live within 50 metres of the coastline. Punarageham was designed in the backdrop of recurring sea attacks and the resultant loss of life, property and livelihood in the State every year. Under the project, a family will get a maximum of Rs. 10 lakh to buy land and build a house. In Kozhikode district, 2,609 families have been identified in 34 fishing hamlets spread over 80 km from Chaliyam to Azhiyur. Of them, 318 families have expressed willingness to relocate in the first phase of the project. Seventeen of them have identified plot and house together for purchase while 53 have identified land alone. A district-level approval committee headed by the District Collector has approved them and the registration formalities are in progress. “Most of the families have identified land near the coastline. However, due to the high price of land in the city, some families have chosen to move to remote areas,” said Ms. Ranjini, adding that the move might affect their livelihood prospects due to the distance from the sea. Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas, MP M.K. Raghavan, MLA Thottathil Raveendran, Mayor Beena Philip, and District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy will take part in the event to be held at Samudra Auditorium at Kozhikode at 4 p.m. on Thursday. Houses will be handed over to five families here. Other events The other three events will be held at CMC Girls’ High School at Elathur where Forests Minister A.K. Saseendran will hand over house to one family; at EMS Mini Auditorium at Koyilandy where Kanathil Jameela, MLA, will hand over houses to three families; and at Cultural Centre at Vadakara where K.K. Rema, MLA, and K. Muraleedharan, MP, will hand over houses to five families. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the event at Thiruvananthapuram announcing the handing over of 308 houses and 303 apartments in the State.  Most of the families have identified land near the coastline. However, due to the high price of land in the city, some families have chosen to move to remote areas Ranjini P.K. Fisheries Deputy Director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/14-houses-to-be-handed-over-under-punargeham-project/article36465850.ece
15 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Corporation begins revision of town planning scheme||The Kozhikode Corporation is revising its Detailed Town Planning (DTP) scheme that determines the norms for development in each ward. This is the first time in 40 years that the Corporation is introducing variations to the DTP scheme, much to the relief of architects and planners in the city, who have been troubled by the differences between the City Master Plan and the DTP scheme. Master Plan The Corporation passed the Master Plan that encompasses all the 75 wards along with Ramanattukara and Feroke municipalities and Olavanna panchayat in 2017. “There are several changes needed in the DTP scheme, in accordance with the changed times. We have kick-started the change, ward by ward,” said Krishna Kumari, town planning standing committee chairperson. It was criticism raised by councillor K. Moideen Koya at a recent meeting of the Corporation Council that sped up the process of revising the DTP scheme. As a first step, the town planning standing committee had convened a meeting of councillors from the wards of Palayam, Valiyangadi, Kuttichira, Chalappuram, Moonnalungal and Nadakkavu to discuss the changes required. “Our regional town planners are quite equipped. They are conducting a survey to identify the required variations in all the wards. However, public opinion is also important and hence, there will be several rounds of discussions with the ward councillors, before anything is finalised,” said Ms. Kumari. Next 25 years The changes in the DTP scheme are being made considering the requirements for the next 25 years. “We are also taking into consideration the protection of some of our heritage monuments,” she said, adding that the variations would be presented before the council for approval within a few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corporation-begins-revision-of-town-planning-scheme/article36465851.ece
15 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||1,117 new cases in Kozhikode; TPR 12.39%||Kozhikode district reported 1,117 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, the lowest number in recent weeks. The daily test positivity rate too slumped to 12.39% when 9,203 samples were tested. As many as 3,342 people recovered from the infection. Active cases According to the district medical officer, 1,090 of the fresh cases were due to local transmission of the infection and the source of 20 others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation had 269 cases of locally acquired infections. The active caseload in the district dropped to 25,779, of whom 22,383 are under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1117-new-cases-in-kozhikode-tpr-1239/article36465857.ece
15 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Media being used as propaganda arm: Speaker||The media are being used as a propaganda machinery by both the state and capitalist forces and it is also found to play to the tunes of communalism, Assembly Speaker M.B. Rajesh has said. Delivering a lecture at an event held in memory of late journalist N. Rajesh here on Tuesday, the Speaker said that news was being made into a commodity and a spectacle. “I am reminded of an incident told by a school teacher during 2019, a year after the disastrous floods. One of his students asked him if there would be floods that year too. Because he apparently liked watching people waddling through water on TV while he curled up under a blanket on a sofa in his drawing room,” said Mr. Rajesh. Watching other people’s plight had become fun for some, he said. Fake news Mr. Rajesh said untruth was being “worshipped” as the society was being flooded with fake news and paid news (to suit the interests of the state and capitalist forces). “Another cause for concern is the celebration of communalism. On the day of the shilanyas of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, some TV news anchors were seen singing a live duet. That was also a declaration that independent journalism is dead in India,” he said. He said media freedom in the country was not separate from the fundamental rights of the people. “However, both politicians and those in the media should subject themselves to self-criticism. Some mediapersons seem to think that they are beyond criticism. It is not correct. The media should always stand with the people’s interests,” said Mr. Rajesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/media-being-used-as-propaganda-arm-by-state-capitalist-forces-speaker/article36465843.ece
15 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Nipah virus: curbs lifted||Containment zone restrictions in Chathamangalam grama panchayat and surrounding wards in Kodiyathoor grama panchayat and Mukkom Municipality in Kozhikode district, imposed in the wake of the death of a 12-year-old boy due to Nipah infection, have been lifted. This is because no new positive cases have been reported from the area during the incubation period of 14 days. A release quoting Health Minister Veena George, issued from Thiruvananthapuram, said on Tuesday that ward number 9 in Chathamangamalam, however, would continue to have the restrictions. These decisions were taken after deliberations by an expert committee and a medical board. Shops in other wards could be opened and people could travel. Those who had fever or other symptoms should stay at home. Ms. George said that any uneasiness should be reported to health workers. Three more people on the boy’s contact list have turned negative for the virus. So far 143 samples had been found to have no trace of the infection. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 vaccination that was stopped in view of the Nipah death in the containment zone areas would be resumed on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nipah-curbs-in-chathamangalam-and-nearby-wards-lifted/article36465856.ece
15 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Maoist leader held||The anti-terror squad of the State police arrested Maoist leader Usman Melethil on Tuesday. He was wanted in connection with an Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act case involving Allan Shuhaib and Thaha Fazal registered at Pantheerankavu in Kozhikode in November 2019. However, there were conflicting reports about the time and place of his arrest. Although the police selectively leaked to the media that Usman was arrested from Pattikkad, near Perinthalmanna, on Tuesday, sources indicated that he had been picked up on Monday from another location. Usman was taken to a police camp at Areekode for questioning. Tribal sources said Usman was seen in the Kakkadampoyil, Thirunelli and Mepadi areas in recent months. The case Distantly related to C.P. Jaleel, the Maoist leader from Pandikkad who was killed by the police at a resort in Wayanad, Usman was chatting with Allan and Thaha when they were picked up by the police on November 2, 2019. The police team which picked up Thaha and Allan from Pantheerankavu had not been aware of their Maoist links. Usman had been named the third accused in the case booked under the UAPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maoist-leader-held/article36465893.ece
15 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC to launch retail fuel outlets||As part of diversifying its services to achieve financial sustainability, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is set to venture into fuel retail. With an eye on boosting its non-ticket revenue, the public-sector utility will formally launch KSRTC Yatra Fuels on Wednesday to enable the public to access its retail petrol and diesel pumps being set up on its station premises. 100-day programme Figuring among the government’s 100-day programme, the facility will be inaugurated by Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal at the East Fort bus depot here. Transport Minister Antony Raju will chair the inaugural session while General Education and Labour Minister V. Sivankutty will conduct the first sale at the outlet being established at the station. Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil will release the KSRTC Yatra Fuels logo. Eight outlets Eight of the proposed 75 retail outlets are being currently launched. Besides at the East Fort in the capital city, such facilities have come up in Kozhikode, Cherthala, Chadayamangalam, Munnar, Muvattupuzha, Chalakudy, and Kilimanoor. With oil firms The project is being undertaken in association with public-sector oil firms. While sales will be restricted to petrol and diesel initially, the fuel stations will soon include ‘clean fuels’ such as liquefied natural gas (LNG) and compressed natural gas (CNG), the ‘Chhotu’ 5 kg LPG cylinders, as well as electric charging stations, according to a KSRTC release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-to-launch-retail-fuel-outlets/article36465847.ece
15 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala to raise its concerns at GST meet||Kerala is set to seek at the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meet on Friday, among other things, an extension of the compensation period and a comprehensive relook at the GST regime. Finance Minister K. N. Balagopal, who will attend the 45th meeting of the council in Lucknow, said here on Tuesday that the State would also push for a bigger share from the Central pool. The five-year GST compensation period ends in July 2022, but faced with declining revenues, a situation that has been aggravated by COVID-19, States including Kerala, have been demanding an extension of the period by another five years. “It is now obvious to the States that the GST structure is inherently flawed. Experience shows that it has not been helpful to the States,”' said Mr. Balagopal. Further, Kerala is expected to raise the problem of falling tax revenues. The State has objected to the Centre bolstering its revenues through the collection of fuel cess, which needs not be shared with the States. Kerala has also opposed the move to bring petroleum products under the ambit of GST. “Our stand is that the present system of cess collection is not right. The States should also get their fair share from it,” Mr. Balagopal said. According to the Finance Department, the State’s own tax growth has witnessed a decline since the rollout of the GST. Earlier this month, Mr. Balagopal had painted a grim picture of the State finances saying a significant drop in revenues awaited the State in the immediate future. Revenue deficit The GST compensation period ends in July 2022. The revenue deficit grant too will see a decline from around Rs. 19,000 crore now to Rs. 4,000 crore in the coming fiscal years, he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-to-raise-its-concerns-at-gst-meet/article36465864.ece
15 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ranking system for PSUs soon||The State government is planning to introduce a ranking and classification system for public sector units (PSUs) on the lines of the Maharatna and Navaratna classification of the Central PSUs, with the organisations in the top category having more autonomy in their functioning. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve told The Hindu on Saturday that the ranking system would be based on the overall performance review of the PSUs and other parameters. “Currently, the processing of the master plans submitted by the PSUs are in the last stage. The final review will be held on September 15. After that, a performance review of the PSUs will be conducted, based on which the new rating system will be implemented,” he said. The classification of the PSUs would be in four categories — diamond, gold, silver and bronze — based on parameters including net worth, turnover, number of employees, revenue per employee, sales per capital employed, profits before tax, and investments. Objective “One of the aims of the system is financial functional autonomy with accountability. For a company in the diamond category, there will be a higher level of autonomy. Many decisions can be taken at the company level, without coming to the government. There is anyway a representative of the government in the director board, who can place the government’s opinion in any matter at the board,” said Mr. Rajeeve. Panel suggestion An expert committee, which had submitted a report last year on the PSUs, had put forward a model classification recommending seven of them for the top category — Kerala Minerals and Metals Limited (KMML), Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Kinfra), Kerala State Industrial development Corporation (KSIDC), Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC), Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE), Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco), and Kerala State Backward Classes Development Corporation (KSBCDC). The authority for approving classification of all State PSUs will be with the Public Enterprises Board (PEB), with the classification based on the data for the past five years. The committee has recommended that the classification of PSUs may be reviewed once in three years based on the criteria for classification and the PSUs may be upgraded or downgraded after such review. The Union government introduced the Navratna scheme in 1997 for Central PSUs, with the top-rated companies getting powers in the areas of capital expenditure, human resource management, and investment in joint ventures. The Maharatnas can undertake mergers and acquisitions as well as make equity investments to establish joint ventures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ranking-system-for-psus-soon/article36465888.ece
15 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Punargeham scheme guidelines relaxed||In a bid to find more takers for its Punargeham rehabilitation scheme for coastal families, the State government has relaxed certain contentious norms in its guidelines that deterred many from coming under its purview. The meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Tuesday to review the progress of the scheme decided to alter the clause that stated that if work on the house was not completed within a year of receiving the first instalment of the assistance, the beneficiary would have to return the sum along with 18% interest. The modified clause did away with the need to pay the interest amount. The government also decided to nullify the clause that required beneficiaries to relinquish their existing land if they had less than five cents. While the land would remain in their possession even after enrolling for the Punargeham scheme, they would have to demolish the existing building and also refrain from constructing new structures. They would be permitted to undertake farming or utilise the space to store their fishing equipment. The beneficiaries, who were currently required to bear the registration fees while purchasing land, would no longer be required to shoulder the burden. Besides, while the guidelines mandated two cents of land and house with area not less than 500 sqft. in the case of those who wished to purchase existing houses under the scheme, this criterion had been decreased to 400 sqft. similar to the LIFE Mission. According to Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, the decisions had been made to convince more coastal families to avail themselves of the scheme that was aimed at rehabilitating those residing within 50 metres of the high tide line. While 18,685 such families were identified through a survey conducted in 2018, only 7,716 expressed willingness to shift to different locations. As part of the scheme, financial aid of Rs. 10 lakh was being provided to beneficiaries who were required to purchase land and construct house. While the first instalment of Rs. 6 lakh would be released to purchase land and cover registration fee, stamp duty and other costs, the second instalment of Rs. 4 lakh would be provided for the construction. Key hand-over The Chief Minister would formally hand over keys of 276 flats built in Karode (128) and Beemapally (20) in Thiruvananthapuram and Ponnani (128) in Malappuram, and 308 individual houses in various districts, all constructed under the Punargeham scheme, on Thursday, September 16. Mr. Cherian said another 36 flats being constructed at QSS Colony in Kollam would be formally launched in December.  The decisions have been made to convince more coastal families to avail themselves of the scheme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/punargeham-scheme-norms-relaxed/article36465477.ece
15 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Transman wins battle for modified certificates||A 27-year-old transman’s battle for getting his degree certificates reissued by including his adopted identity details has brought a landmark victory for the LGBTQ+ community. Thrissur native P.R. Raghav’s struggle to obtain modified academic certificates turned out to be an indicator of the systemic inertia that affected the section in a State that takes pride in being the first to adopt a transgender policy. It has, however, prompted the Higher Education Department to direct universities and higher education institutions to reissue degrees, mark lists and other documents incorporating the new identity of transgender people. The documents will have to be reissued with the changed name “without mentioning that it is a reissued certificate,” the order stated, adding that the statutes should be amended, if necessary. Mr. Raghav had to run from pillar to post to alter his name and gender in his certificates after undergoing sex reassignment surgery (SRS) three years ago. He passed BCom (Honours) from the University of Calicut in 2015 and completed MBA from Mahatma Gandhi University two years later. After SRS in April 2018, Mr. Raghav legally changed his name and gender through publicising them in the Kerala Gazette. Subsequently, he approached the universities for getting the certificates reissued and applied for necessary changes in official documents, including passport, PAN card, driving licence, Aadhaar card and a Transgender Identity card. While he managed to receive the corrected documents from Mahatma Gandhi University, the University of Calicut turned down his request. It cited his degree being issued before the surgery and the Gazette notification as the reason. The university had only initiated steps to formulate a transgender policy then. Lost opportunities “I had no trouble in modifying my other documents. In fact, I was issued a passport within 10 days of application. However, the reluctance of the university and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in reissuing certificates had put paid to several job opportunities, including those at Infopark in Kochi, owing to mismatching credentials,” says Mr. Raghav, who works in a Bengaluru branch of an Australian bank. He moved the Kerala High Court early 2020, but the case was pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/transman-wins-battle-for-modified-certificates/article36465862.ece
15 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. to stand with settlers, not encroachers: Minister||The State government will always stand with settlers, not encroachers, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil has said. If those who had got title deeds for their land thought they could encroach on some government land too, it would not be allowed, he said. The Minister was speaking after inaugurating the district-level title deed distribution programme at the Nedumangad municipal town hall on Tuesday. Lots of applications for title deeds had been received at the taluk offices in the district. Procedures for issuing title deeds to those eligible would be simplified legally. The district-level programme was held right after the State-level inauguration of the title deed distribution by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Minister gave away title deeds to 20 people in Nedumangad taluk at the function. D.K. Murali, MLA, presided over the function. People’s representatives and District Collector Navjot Khosa were present. Minister for Transport Antony Raju who inaugurated the taluk-level distribution of title deeds said the deeds were a right of the people. It was a matter of pride for the government that it could distribute so many title deeds in such a short duration. Thirty-five people in the taluk were given title deeds. Steps would be taken to issue title deeds to all eligible people who were yet to get title deeds, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-stand-with-settlers-not-encroachers-minister/article36466066.ece
15 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Start-up develops saliva test to gauge risk||Leveraging Kerala’s start-up ecosystem, two former heads of leading Central government institutions here have partnered to launch a technology-driven, genome-based wellness enterprise that uses saliva to predict a person’s genetic disposition to critical diseases and prevent it through precision medicine. Incubated at the Integrated start-up Complex (ISC) of the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) in Kochi, SAGENOME has already rolled out a ‘Home Saliva Collection Kit’ at the national level besides offering multiple genome-based tests. Software The company is developing a proprietary software using Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) to analyse data for higher accuracy. Set up by M. Ayyappan, former CMD of HLL Lifecare Limited (HLL), and M. Radhakrishna Pillai, former Director of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB), SAGENOME is powered by its platform OhMyGene , which leverages Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) of DNA and its application to identify diseases and their prevention, using just a little saliva. The company has plans to create its laboratory in a one-acre site at Life Sciences Park. “The saliva collected by using the kit allows analysing thousands of variations in the human genome. It sets the ground for personalised healthcare by identifying patterns within genetic data sets so that computer models can make predictions about an individual’s odds of developing a disease. It will thus help in suggesting suitable medicinal interventions and changes in lifestyles,” Dr. Pillai said. Genetic info The OhMyGene platform provides genetic information associated with cancer, cardiovascular and neurological diseases, reproductive health and infertility management, pharmacogenomics, and pro-active health management. SAGENOME is also developing innovative methods for early cancer detection using an easily collected ‘liquid biopsy’ from a blood sample that may be over 100 times more sensitive in detection and monitoring of many tumours.  SAGENOME is developing innovative methods for early cancer detection using an easily collected ‘liquid biopsy’ from a blood sample.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/saliva-test-to-detect-disease-risk/article36465923.ece
15 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Land, house for all in 5 years: Pinarayi||All landless will be ensured land and house within five years, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating online the State-level distribution of 13,500 title deeds as part of the 100-day action plan of the LDF government on Tuesday. All Scheduled Caste families in the State would be included in this and ensured houses. Five lakh families would be given houses within five years. Steps for this would be taken under various projects, including the LIFE Mission, he said. Land for all, documents for all lands, and smart services were the government’s policy, and steps were being taken to achieve this. A special project would be formed to settle cases involving legal proceedings with the Land Board. Excess land and illegally acquired land would be identified and necessary steps taken. A special land bank would be prepared to transfer land to the landless. A digital survey would be held for this. Digital survey An amount of Rs. 339 crore had been earmarked under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative for digital survey of all land in the State. This was expected to be completed in four years. Following the survey, a good chunk of land would come under government control. The Chief Minister said the government did not see encroachers and settlers as the same. Ensuring eligible benefits to various sections of the people should be the slogan of new Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-house-for-all-in-5-years-pinarayi/article36465897.ece
15 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Ontu Nilluva’ narrates success stories from tribal heartlands||Cheruvayal Raman has been feted for his contributions to conservation of traditional varieties of rice. A tribal farmer near Mananthavady in Wayanad district, the septuagenarian has succeeded in protecting genetic diversity of rice by conserving nearly 50 varieties. However, not many know that he was not even 10 when he started helping his uncle, also named Raman, in the fields and understanding the five varieties of rice they had been cultivating traditionally. Fascinating glimpses into the life of Cheruvayal Raman were provided by Prajitha C., a young woman of Thondernad panchayat, Wayanad, at a dissemination workshop titled ‘Ontu Nilluva (‘to stay together’ in the Adiya tribal language) held in the capital city on Tuesday. Ms. Prajitha is one among the six young women from the Paniya, Adiya and Kattunayika tribal communities who presented the oral history of some of the enterprising tribespeople of Wayanad. In all, 20 young tribal women have documented 13 tribespeople by interacting with them at length as part of a leadership programme. Those documented include women who started a protest against mushrooming of resorts in Wayanad, who took part in the struggle for land, who was witness to the Muthanga protest, engaged in an agitation seeking higher wages, one who has helped deliver generations of babies and so on. ‘Ontu Nilluva’ is one of the activities taken up as part of the Tribal Education Methodology project, an innovative pilot research project aimed at making an intervention in mainstream education that the State government has undertaken in partnership with the University of Lincoln, the U.K. Theatre and art were some of the tools used to integrate tribal culture with mainstream school curriculum as part of the project, launched in September 2019. Sreenath Nair of the University of Lincoln, the principal investigator of the project, says it is imperative that school curriculum includes space for tribal art and culture and expression of their collective self so that they remain rooted even as they become receptive to modern education. Mr. Nair says discussions are on with the government for continuing the project beyond the pilot. Embodied knowledge creation and dissemination is what interests him. An exhibition of artworks by the tribal youth and presentation of indigenous cultural forms and theatre presentation were held as part of Ontu Nilluva. The Tribal Education Methodology project is being implemented through the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council with collaborative funding from the Art and Humanities Research Council of the U.K. and Global Challenges Research Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ontu-nilluva-narrates-success-stories-from-tribal-heartlands/article36465928.ece
15 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Longer inter-dosage interval may offer better immunity||COVID-19 vaccination with an inter-dosage interval of 10-14 weeks elicits a stronger immune response than when the vaccine is delivered at an interval of 4-6 weeks, a study done amongst a closely followed patient cohort in Kochi has reported. The difference in immune response, when the interval between shots is extended, is more than three-fold. The longer the gap between the two shots, the higher the levels of anti-spike protein antibody response produced. This essentially means that two doses of vaccine delivered at a longer interval is likely to give stronger and longer-lasting immunity against COVID-19, says Padmanabha Shenoy, a clinical immunologist and rheumatologist at Kochi, who led the study. The study to measure the immune response was conducted recently in a group of 213 patients, from amongst a cohort of 1,500 patients with autoimmune rheumatic diseases, who were vaccinated and regularly followed up. The patients, in their 50s, were grouped into those who took Covishield vaccine at a gap of 4-6 weeks (102) and those who received the same but at a dosage interval of 10-12 weeks (111). The anti-spike antibody levels were measured in both groups a month after the second dose. The antibody levels were found to be 255 in the first group, while it was 879 in the second group. The data are important as there are not many studies measuring the immune response derived from Covishield. The results from a study at the University of Birmingham with Pfizer vaccine had similar data, says Dr. Shenoy.  While a longer interval between doses gives longer individual protection, one also stands the risk of contracting COVID infection in between this long gap. “The study answers the question, what is the ideal inter-dosage interval when it comes to vaccination using Covishield. An interval of 8-10 weeks between the doses will be ideal and a gap less than that might not give the individual adequate protection against COVID-19,” Dr. Shenoy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/longer-inter-dosage-interval-may-offer-better-immunity/article36465895.ece
15 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Toll collection illegal: Satheesan||Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan has demanded the State government’s intervention to prevent the ‘illegal’ toll collection along the NH-66 bypass stretch from Kazhakuttom to Karode. Inaugurating a demonstration organised by United Democratic Front (UDF) at the Thiruvallam toll plaza on Tuesday, Mr. Satheesan accused the State government of being hand-in-glove with the Centre in exploiting the public. “While the Central government has been looting the common man through fuel and LPG sales, the State has refrained from foregoing its share and alleviating the woes of the public. The State government has adopted a similar anti-people stance in the toll collection issue,” he alleged. 30th day of protest The demonstration also marked the 30th day of agitation being undertaken by the Congress at the toll plaza. Mr. Satheesan claimed that the governments and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) were not within their powers to levy toll for an incomplete project. Steps must also be adopted to permit free travel for those who resided nearby. UDF district chairman P.K. Venugopal presided over the meeting. M. Vincent, MLA, and District Congress Committee president Palode Ravi also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toll-collection-illegal/article36465933.ece
15 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District clocks 1,627 cases||The district recorded 1,627 COVID-19 cases and 1,421 recoveries as the number of active cases rose to 16,490 on Tuesday. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 13.3%. As many as 43,268 people were undergoing quarantine in the district. District Collector Navjot Khosa said arrangements had been adopted to administer the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine to all undergraduate and postgraduate students, college teachers, and other employees within a week. According to her, 50% of the vaccine stock would be kept for spot registration. The beneficiaries must produce identity cards issued by the colleges. Vaccine could also be got through online registration, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-clocks-1627-cases/article36466068.ece
15 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||15,876 cases, TPR at 15.12%||The intensity of COVID-19 transmission in the State seems to be coming down, as reflected in the declining trend in new cases and hospitalisations Kerala logged 15,876 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 1,05,005 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 15.12%. The State’s active case pool has been steadily declining for the past few days and on Tuesday it went below the two lakh mark for the first time after the case graph began rising in mid-July. On Tuesday, the number of patients in the active case pool dipped to 1,98,865, with the State reporting much more recoveries than new cases. The number of persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day was 25,654. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 22,779 with the State adding 129 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the list on Tuesday All districts reported less than 2,000 cases on Tuesday. Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases at 1,936, followed by Ernakulam 1,893, Thiruvananthapuram 1,627, Palakkad 1,591, Malappuram 1,523, Kollam 1,373, Alappuzha 1,118, Kozhikode 1,117, Kannur 1,099, Kottayam 1,043, Pathanamthitta 632, Idukki 367, Wayanad 296 and Kasaragod 261 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15876-cases-tpr-at-1512/article36465902.ece
15 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM: schools to be made centres of excellence||All schools in the State will be made centres of excellence. This will benefit the families of the underprivileged, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said He was speaking after inaugurating online 92 school buildings, 48 higher secondary laboratories, and three higher secondary libraries, and laying the foundation stone for 107 school buildings here on Tuesday. The Chief Minister said State schools should be able to compete with the best. Hence, the government had tried to improve infrastructure and raise academic standards. During the previous Left Democratic Front government, construction activities to the tune of Rs. 4,000 crore had been taken up in the education sector alone. When schools reopen this year, students would not see the structures when last they had seen it. Pandemic effects Mr. Vijayan said as per a UNESCO study, the COVID-19 pandemic had affected the education of 126 crore children globally, and 32 crore in the country. As many as 130 crore children in the 3-13 age group did not have Internet connectivity. In South Asia that included India, this number was 45 crore. In the State, there were problems with availability of equipment and connectivity. However, equipment was made available with support from various quarters. Steps were also taken to ensure connectivity. Digital classes were held for students, and examinations too were held and results declared. The problems with digital education were also looked into. With focus on interactive classes and communication between students and teachers now, digital equipment should be ensured for all students. Mr. Vijayan said Rs. 214 crore had been spent for new school buildings. Fifty-eight buildings were built using Plan fund, MLA fund, SSK fund and other funds. An amount of Rs. 224 crore had been allocated for completing work on the 107 school buildings, he said.  Steps have been taken to ensure connectivity to schoolstudents during the pandemic. Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-schools-to-be-centres-of-excellence-pinarayi/article36465848.ece
15 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cinemas will be reopened soon: Minister||Culture Minister Saji Cherian has said that cinema theatres are likely to be reopened soon in the State. Speaking to mediapersons here on Tuesday, he said the government had withdrawn several COVID-19-induced curbs of late and would soon take a call on resuming activities in closed spaces such as cinemas and auditoriums. He added that the government was going ahead with its decision to conduct the International Film Festival of Kerala. However, the schedule and its mode was yet to be finalised, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cinemas-will-be-reopened-soon-minister/article36465898.ece
15 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LSGIs to play mitigating role||Local self-government institutions (LSGIs) are set to have a bigger role in mitigating man-animal conflicts in the State. A meeting chaired by Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan and attended by Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran here on Tuesday decided to entrust the maintenance of solar fences, elephant-proof trenches and hanging solar fences to grama, block and district panchayats and municipalities. The State had 2,348 km of solar fencing, 511 km of elephant-proof trench, 9.7 km of hanging solar fencing, 66 km of elephant-proof wall, 32 km of crash guard rope and 10 km of rail fencing to prevent animals from venturing into human inhabited areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lsgis-to-play-mitigating-role/article36465899.ece
15 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Social welfare services to be given at doorstep||A meeting of the city Corporation council on Tuesday decided to implement doorstep delivery of the State government’s social welfare services and schemes in all wards. Committees will be formed at the ward and Corporation level for this purpose. The Mayor will head an advisory committee. In the first phase, five services will be available for those who are bed-ridden, are old, or are facing other difficulties. Delivery of medicines, mustering, application for funds from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund, Life Certificate, and Welfare pension application, will be the services to be provided initially. With the team of volunteers, those willing to be part of the efforts will be included in the network. Kudumbashree volunteers, anganwadi workers, palliative care workers, ASHA workers, Janamaithri police, and senior citizens’ groups will be part of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/social-welfare-services-to-be-given-at-doorstep/article36466070.ece
15 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dance fete from Sept. 23 to 29||The Vyloppilli Samskrithi Bhavan will organise the Chilanka Classical Dance Festival from September 23 to 29. Culture Minister and Samskrithi Bhavan chairman Saji Cherian will inaugurate the festival. Samskrithi Bhavan vice chairman Vinod Vaisakhi and secretary in-charge V. Karthikeyan Nair will speak. The festival will showcase classical forms including Mohiniyattam, Nangiarkoothu, Bharatanatyam, Kuchipudi and Kathak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dance-fete-from-sept-23-to-29/article36466069.ece
15 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Drive to provide title deeds soon||Fulfilling the land reformation mission in the State is the main goal of the second Pinarayi government, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. He was addressing the Pattaya Mela organised at Thrissur Town Hall on Tuesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan virtually inaugurated the State-level distribution of title deeds. While 13,514 title deeds in 77 taluks were given away in the entire State, 3,575 of them were distributed in Thrissur district. Of this, 270 were for forest lands. Mr. Rajan said the main objective of the government to distribute land for all landless people in the State has becoming a reality though the Pattaya Mela. “A special drive will be organised to find a quick solution for the more than 1 lakh pending petitions at land tribunals and taluk land boards. A special system will be set up for this. The objective is to solve all petitions within two years,” the Minister said.   Thandaper project Along with giving away title deeds, providing land for the landless was also important, he said. “We will clear encroachments and illegal possessions of land and distribute them to the landless,” he said, adding that the Unique Thandaper Project was meant for this purpose. The project would help find out whether anyone held surplus land, he said. Digital system “All village offices will become smart. The objective is to introduce digital system in village offices. People can download the necessary certificates on their smartphones,” said Mr. Rajan. A joint team of the Revenue Department and the Forest Department will conduct examination in case of title deeds for forest lands. All eligible high-range farmers will receive title deeds, he said. Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan and Higher Education Minster R. Bindu were the chief guests during the event. Dream come true The day proved to be a dream come true for many fed up with running from pillar to post for title deeds for years. One among them, Rosy Chacko, who received a title deed from Mr. Rajan could not hide her tears. The 70-year-old from Mayiladum Para, Peechi, received it for the land where her thatched house is built. Likewise, ending a 20-year wait, Omana, who resides at the Povanchira Tribal Colony, received the title deed for 17 cents of land close to her house. The 57-year-old, a daily wage worker who lost her husband eight years ago, had been living with her two daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-to-provide-title-deeds-soon/article36466021.ece
15 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Twin brothers consume medicine in overdose||One of the twin brothers who consumed medicine in overdose died at Thrissur Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. The condition of the other was said to be critical. The deceased was identified as Stephin (32), son of Jose Arakkal of Choolissery. His twin brother, Stojen, is struggling for his life. According to the police, both of them were found unconscious in their house at Choolissery on Monday evening. Though the duo was rushed to the hospital, Stephin could not be saved. Anxiety Earlier, three members of the family, including the twin brothers, were tested positive for COVID-19. It is reported that the brothers were facing anxiety due to their medical condition. The duo worked as technicians for sound systems in vehicles.  (Suicide prevention helpline — DISHA — 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drug-overdose-one-dies/article36465922.ece
15 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Body of medical student who drowned recovered||The body of one of the two medical students who drowned in the Bharathapuzha was recovered at Vaniyamkulam on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Mathew Abraham (22), son of Baby Parayil of Chelakkara. The body was found near the check-dam at Vazhalipadam. The body was found trapped in a bush by a four member civil defence team that came from Thiruvegappura. After a postmortem examination, the body was buried at St. Mary’s Ferona Church graveyard at Chelakkara. Mathew Abraham and Goutham Krishna (24) of Karoor in Ambalapuzha, both fourth-year students of P.K. Das Medical College, Vaniyamkulam, were caught in the undercurrent near the check-dam at Mayannur on Sunday. Though the police and the fire and rescue forces launched a search operation, the duo could not be found earlier. Seven students, including the two, were part of a team that visited the check-dam.   (with input from Palakkad bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-of-medical-student-recovered/article36465845.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making way for development||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-way-for-development/article36465854.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A dream come true||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-dream-come-true/article36465885.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||New boat jetty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-boat-jetty/article36465931.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For rejuvenating Ashtamudi||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-rejuvenating-ashtamudi/article36465921.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Arch of beauty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arch-of-beauty/article36466019.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back in business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-in-business/article36465901.ece
15 September 2021||AMBAJIPETA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to unveil 5-year plan to revive coconut farming in Konaseema||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Tuesday directed scientists and horticulture authorities to prepare a five-year plan to revive coconut farming in the Konaseema region of the district, finding timely solutions to the existing challenges, including the white fly disease. Mr. Kannababu, Social Welfare Minister Pinipe Viswaroop, Horticulture Department Commissioner S.S. Sreedhar, scientists of the Horticultural Research Station (HRS-Ambajipeta) and farmers celebrated the closing ceremony of Coconut Year 2020-21 on the HRS campus here. Mr. Kannababu told the gathering that the State government would unveil the five-year plan as early as possible. The scientists and officials would prepare a plan for intercrops to be grown in coconut orchards. Mr. Kannababu announced that the Department of Horticulture would take up a field survey across the State to identify suitable locations to be mapped for coconut cultivation. The total area under coconut cultivation in the State was more than 1.5 lakh hectares, of which more than 54,000 hectares was in the Konaseema region comprising 16 mandals. Dr. Y.S.R. Horticulture University Vice-Chancellor T. Janaki Ram, HRS principal scientist Bhagavan and other scientists said they would come out with a permanent solution to the white fly disease and strive to encourage inter-crops in coconut orchards. The HRS recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI-Kasargod) to revive coconut cultivation in the Konaseema region. Collector Ch. Hari Kiran said a three-member committee had been constituted to study the impact of onshore oil exploration operations on the coconut orchards in the Konaseema region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-unveil-5-year-plan-to-revive-coconut-farming-in-konaseema/article36466034.ece
15 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relief for educational institute buses till Sept.30||The number of school or institutional buses running in the Anantapur district has come down from 1,309 in 2019 to 1,205 in 2021, and according to the recovery agents for various prominent financial institutions lending money for the purchase of these buses on equated monthly instalments, close to 500 vehicles are likely to be seized due to non-payment for a very long time during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Department of Transport has given an exemption to all institutional buses from paying quarterly taxes till September 30 and the Road Transport Authority staff are not checking for fitness/insurance of the buses. Many of the “budget private schools” have surrendered their vehicles to the financiers. The parents of the children travelling by school buses are sceptical about the safety of their wards as the vehicles do not possess a valid fitness certificate. “The government is considering doing away with the compulsion of getting fitness certificate just within 20 to 25 days as it was humanly impossible for the RTA staff to qualitatively assess the fitness of all buses. It is not clear as to when and how this process will be done after September 30,” said Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Siva Rama Prasad. It may become a continuous process so that, as per stipulation, each MVI or RTO checks 10 vehicles thoroughly per day. While the State government has stipulated running of classes on alternate days for Classes 6 and 8; and 7 and 9, many of the private schools are running classes with full attendance on all days for all classes and the stipulation of only 50% occupancy in classrooms or buses is being openly flouted, the parents in Anantapur complain. Anantapur tops the State in RTC occupancy rate Meanwhile, the Anantapur region of APSRTC is leading the State in occupancy ratio with 71.91% as of Monday and it had stood at the top at 69.46% by August end, despite the figure being much below when compared to last year(80.16%). The region is operating 800 schedules daily with a fleet of 650 buses (out of 670) of its own and 155 hired buses. Out of the 160 services that it used to run to different destinations in Karnataka, it has resumed 120, while 6 out of 8 services to Chennai have been resumed as well. All the 16 services to Hyderabad too have been restored and the earnings have been slowly picking up with demand rising during Sravana Masam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relief-for-educational-institute-buses-till-sept30/article36465993.ece
15 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI launches padayatra||The Communist Party of India on Tuesday launched a padayatra seeking immediate stalling of the proposed sale of government stake in the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (RINL) and gave a call to the people to participate in the culmination of the agitation in Visakhapatnam on September 25. Party State secretary K. Ramakrishna, who launched the padayatra here, said the padayatras would be held in all districts every day to create awareness among the people as to what they were losing. “Thirty-two persons had sacrificed their lives to achieve ‘Visakha Ukku’ and the Centre instead of helping in setting up a second plant at Kadapa, was ready to sell the existing one brought with much struggle,” said Mr. Ramakrishna. On the concluding day, the padayatra would be held in Visakhapatnam and the party cadre and people would march towards the steel plant asking the Centre and State to take action to stall the proposed sale of the steel plant, the CPI leader said. He urged people to oppose the policies of the Narendra Modi government to sell assets of the country like Gangavaram Port, Krishnapatnam Port, and bringing in three laws that were against the interests of the farmers. Five hundred farmers’ associations and unions had given a call for Bharat Bandh on September 27, which should be made a grand success, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-takes-out-rally-against-proposed-vsp-sale/article36465992.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka HC upholds new land acquisition law||The High Court of Karnataka has upheld the Constitutional validity of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Karnataka Amendment) Act, 2019, which makes easier the process of acquisition of land for specified projects by exempting application of certain provisions of the main Act of 2013. The 2019 amendments made by the Karnataka legislature are neither arbitrary nor violative of the Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the High Court held. A Division Bench comprising Justice Alok Aradhe and Justice Hemant Chandangoudar passed the order while allowing appeals filed by S. Jalaja, the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board and others questioning an interim order passed by a judge in 2017. The Karnataka Amendment Act, 2019, grants exemption from application of chapters 1 and 2 of the main Act of 2013 that mandates conduct of preliminary investigation for determination of social impact and public purpose, appraisal of social impact assessment by an expert group and special provision to safeguard food security as part of land acquisition process. However, the Bench noted that despite exemption, the KIADB in 2016 had resolved to determine the amount of compensation for the land which may be acquired under the KIAD Act, 1966, as per the Schedule-1 of the main Act of 2013. “Therefore, the grievance of the owners of the land in so far as it pertains to payment of lesser compensation under 1966 Act does not survive,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-hc-upholds-new-land-acquisition-law/article36465468.ece
15 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed as car hits two-wheeler on E-City flyover||Two persons were killed after they fell from the Electronics City flyover on Tuesday night while a few others sustained injuries when a speeding car knocked down a two-wheeler. According to the Electronics City traffic police, the accident occurred around 9.15 p.m. near the layby in Singasandra. The car, heading towards Hosur, is suspected to have hit a Tamil Nadu registration two-wheeler, also heading in the same direction, before ramming on to the side wall of the flyover. A woman and a man on a two-wheeler were tossed in the air and crashed on the road around 30 feet below the flyover. The identity of the deceased persons is yet to be ascertained by the police. The driver of the car has been identified as 23-year-old Nitesh. The impact of the accident was so high that the bodies were left in a bad state. The freak accident left motorists and passers-by in shock. Both traffic and law and order police rushed to the spot to clear the crowd and make way for the movement of the vehicles. At the time of going to press, the police were conducting a spot inspection to ascertain the cause of the accident. The driver of the car is missing. “Probably, he/she was injured and escaped from the spot to get treatment,” a police officer said. Traffic on the busy Hosur road, on the flyover and below, was disrupted for sometime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-as-car-hits-two-wheeler-on-e-city-flyover/article36465502.ece
15 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two tribal youths electrocuted in reserve forest area||Two tribal youths were electrocuted after coming into contact with a live electric wire snare laid by poachers in the reserve forest area near Madaram village in Mulakalapally mandal in the wee hours of Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Payam John Babu, 24, and Durga Rao, 32, of Mogarallaguppa tribal village in the same mandal. Police suspect that the duo were on a hunting spree when they accidentally stepped on the live wire trap set up by some miscreants for poaching wild animals in the Madaram forest area. Police reportedly seized torchlights and some other belongings of the duo at the incident site. The incident exposed the clandestine activities of poachers in the interior forest areas of the district. Woman electrocuted In Khammam, a woman farm worker Venkataramana, 45, died of electric shock in an agricultural field at Vengannapeta village in Thallada mandal on Tuesday. Venkataramana accidentally stepped over a snapped live electric wire in the partially waterlogged paddy field while carrying out agricultural work on Tuesday afternoon. She was electrocuted on the spot. In another incident, a tribal boy Bukya Mahendar, 10, was electrocuted at a Ganesh pandal set up by local youths in Tekulapalli mandal headquarters town on Tuesday evening after coming in contact with a live wire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-tribal-youths-electrocuted-in-reserve-forest-area/article36465478.ece
15 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fishermen being misled on G.O.’||Member of Parliament Mopidevi Venkataramana Rao has flayed Opposition parties for misleading fishermen by propagating false information on G.O. 217 regarding the open auction of fish tanks and said the State government has issued orders only to free fishermen from middlemen and capitalists to improve their living standards. Speaking to reporters at the party central office here on Tuesday, the MP said that fishermen societies exist only on paper and only a nominal amount is being given to the society members, and added that the State government will be implementing G.O. 217 to ensure Rs. 15,000 revenue to each member. He said the TDP and BJP are creating confusion over the G.O. only for their political interests but not for the betterment of fishermen. The MP said that only 27 fish tanks in Nellore district would be called for open auction as a pilot project and 30% of revenue earned via auction will be credited to the concerned fishermen society. The State government will look into extending the project to other districts after analysing the results in Nellore district, he said. “Opposition parties are misleading fishermen by stating that the G.O. would be implemented across the State. I assure you all that it is confined to Nellore district at present,” the MP said, and questioned the silence of a section of fishermen community leaders when TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu made comments against them when he was Chief Minister. “Mr. Naidu had given Rs. 2,000 as financial relief to the fishermen during the fishing ban and increased it to Rs. 4,000 prior to the 2019 elections. The arrears have not been released till now. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy increased the financial relief during the ban period from Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 10,000 after coming to power and the subsidy on diesel has been increased from Rs. 6 to Rs. 9 and the subsidised amount for 3,000 litres of diesel for mechanised boats would be credited into fishermen accounts immediately once they buy the fuel,” the MP said. He added that the State government has given power tariff subsidy of Rs. 700 crore per year benefiting 60,000 fishermen. The MP said the State government has sanctioned construction of four fishing harbours in the first phase and the works were also started, and added that land was also allocated for setting up the A.P. Marine and Fisheries University in West Godavari district. “While the State government has been implementing various welfare programmes for the welfare of fishermen, Opposition parties have resorted to mudslinging to further their vested interests,” he said.  While the State government is implementing various welfare programmes for the welfare of fishermen, opposition parties have resorted to mudslinging to further their vested interests Mopidevi Venkataramana Rao Member of Parliament||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fishermen-being-misled-on-go/article36465514.ece
15 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allot 50% beds in health hub hospitals to Aarogyasri patients: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to ensure that 50% of the beds in the hospitals being set up in the health hubs are allotted to patients seeking treatment under the Aarogyasri scheme. Chairing a review meeting on the coronavirus pandemic situation in the State on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the benefits of the Aarogyasri scheme were better than that of health insurance schemes. The hospitals that allotted more beds to Aarogyasri patients would get a priority in the upcoming health hubs. “One of the members in every hospital board in the health hubs should be a government official or a representative. Focus should be on establishing hospitals that provided essential services such as organ transplantation in the health hubs and priority should be given to the hospitals that run on a non-profit basis. People should not go to other states for treatment,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Chief Minister gave nod to appointment of special officers in hospitals—from CHCs to teaching hospitals—for maintenance of the premises, saying that they would be held responsible for management of building services, facility and biomedical waste. He asked the officials to focus on the designs of newly constructed teaching hospitals to ensure that they were in line with the best practices. “Services offered in government hospitals should be on par with that of their corporate counterparts. There should be a strong monitoring on maintenance of hospitals. Services should not be interrupted due to lack of staff,” he said, adding that action should be taken on the staff who are on leave beyond the stipulated days. Family doctor concept The officials briefed the Chief Minister on the details regarding the family doctor concept. Policies have been made to ensure medical services at least two times a month in each village secretariat through ‘104’ services. The family doctors concept will be implemented in 258 mandals on November 15 and it will be extended to across the State by January 26, 2022, the officials said. The Chief Minister asked them to prepare SOPs for village clinics and ensure availability of two doctors in each PHC so that one is available in PHC while the other can be engaged in through ‘104’ services. Deputy Chief Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Medical and Health Principal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal, 104 Call Centre in-charge A. Babu, Health Commissioner K. Bhaskar, Arogyasri CEO V. Vinay Chand, APMSIDC Vice-Chairman and MD Muralidhar Reddy, Industries Director J.V.N. Subramaniam and other officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allot-50-beds-in-health-hub-hospitals-to-aarogyasri-patients-cm/article36466009.ece
15 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||44-year-old woman from State scales Kilimanjaro||Kuragayala Sarada (44), hailing from Bapatla, has conquered Mount Kilimanjaro — the tallest mountain in the African continent and the highest free-standing mountain in the world. While Ms. Sarada’s feat is extraordinary, it is all the more unique as she could be the first Indian vegan woman to make it to the top of the summit. Mount Kilimanjaro is part of the Seven Summits of the world. The Seven Summits are the highest mountains on each of the seven continents of Earth: Mt. Everest (Asia), Mt Aconcagua (South America), Mt Denali (North America), Mt Kilimanjaro (Africa), Mt Elbrus (Europe and Russia), the Vinson Massif (Antarctica) and the Carstensz Pyramid (Indonesia). “The whole trek was an exciting experience. I got to learn a great deal about the culture and people here. This trek wouldn't have been successful without everyone who helped me back home and here,” said Ms. Sarada. The mountaineer is keen on promoting veganism. “I decided to become a vegan once I understood the torture that animals are subjected to in the dairy, meat, leather and wool industries. But there are things other than the pain and suffering of an animal that pushed me to stick to a vegan diet. Veganism aids in a better environment. It helps in reducing carbon emissions, better land and water management, and helps attain a rich biodiversity,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/44-year-old-woman-from-state-scales-kilimanjaro/article36465516.ece
15 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State gets nod for additional borrowing up to Rs. 2,655 cr.||Cash-strapped Andhra Pradesh is among the 11 States in the country that have been given permission for additional open market borrowing of Rs. 15,721 crore. The State has been given the nod for additional borrowing up to Rs. 2,655 crore. The additional open market borrowing permission granted is equivalent to 0.25% of their Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Additional financial resources thus made available would help the States in pushing their capital expenditure further, said a PIB release. The incentive is given for these States after achieving the target set by the Ministry of Finance for the capital expenditure in the first quarter of 2021-22. The other States are Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. Out of the net borrowing ceiling (NBC) of 4% of GSDP for the States for 2021-22, 0.50% of GSDP was earmarked for incremental capital expenditure to be incurred by the States during 2021-22. The target for incremental capital expenditure for each State to qualify for this incremental borrowing was fixed by the Department of Expenditure. To become eligible for incremental borrowing, States are required to achieve at least 15% of the target set for 2021-22 by the end of first quarter of 2021-22, 45% by the end of second quarter, 70% by the end of third quarter and 100% by March 31, 2022. The next review of capital expenditure of States woud be undertaken by the Department of Expenditure in December 2021. In this round, capital expenditure achieved by the States till September 30, 2021 would be assessed. Third review woud be done in March 2022 on the basis of capital expenditure incurred by the State during the first three quarters of the year 2021-22. The capital expenditure-linked borrowing ceiling of 0.50% of GDP woud be allowed to those States who achieve actual capital expenditure of at least 45% of the target by September 30, 2021 or 70% of the target by December 31, 2021. There would be a final review of actual capital expenditure by the States in June 2022. Any shortfall/deficiency in actual capital expenditure for the year 2021-22 by the State in comparison with the targeted capital expenditure for the year 2021-22, would be adjusted from the borrowing ceiling of the State for the year 2022-23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-gets-nod-for-additional-borrowing-up-to-rs-2655-cr/article36466010.ece
15 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||AI, machine learning will change the way we live: SRM Pro V-C||Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) will change the way we live, and virtual cloud-enabled seamless data connectivity would usher in a digital revolution by 2040, said D. Narayana Rao, Pro-Vice Chancellor of SRM University. A senior scientist in the field of Atmospheric Science Research and Radar Technology and former Director, National Atmospheric Research Laboratory, Dr. Narayana Rao said that just as the world has seen revolutionary changes between 2000 and 2020, current technologies would become obsolete by the year 2040. “AI and MI are some of the future technologies that are going to shape our lives in the next two decades,” Dr. Narayana Rao said during the celebrations of Engineers Day on September 15, held to mark the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya. “Data and information will be available virtually as air. ‘Everything on the go’ will take on a literal meaning and the word ‘connect’ will be meaningless for most of our gadgets. Data will just move seamlessly whether you are in an elevator, car or an aeroplane,” he said. “AI and ML will make us believe that the world revolves around us. As we talk, discuss, act, AI will surround us with actions and suggestions and actionable inputs at a wink. AI will resemble Real Intelligence (RI). Driverless and automated intelligent cars will move around by themselves and self-park. People’s job profiles will change. They will need to work less and most routine and hazardous work will be carried out by robots. Typing on gadgets will be redundant and will be replaced by voice commands, gestures and even thought controls. Natural Language Processing (NLP) will remove the language barriers in trade and travel. NLP will do the translation of spoken language and will ensure a global world,” Dr. Narayana Rao said. “Space tourism will turn from fantasy into a reality. Holiday tours to Switzerland, Bali, and Seychelles will be replaced by tours to Venus, Mars and the moon,” he said. “When our country became independent, India was the poorest of the poor countries with a literacy rate of just around 12% and a life expectancy of 32 years. Today, in 70 years, India has become one of the top five economies in the world. What made this remarkable transformation possible was the application of science and technology in building the nation,” Dr. Narayana Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ai-machine-learning-will-change-the-way-we-live/article36466046.ece
15 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 28 lakh people vaccinated||Over 28.63 lakh people in the 18-44 age group were vaccinated in a three-day special drive from September 11 in the State. Each district on an average vaccinated 2.5 lakh people at the ward secretariats as part of the drive. Publicity for the programme through phone calls, group messages and other means by officials, doctors, nurses, ASHA workers, ANMs and volunteers helped draw many people to the vaccine centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-28-lakh-people-vaccinated/article36466002.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spillway discharge to resume at Srisailam||Heavy rains in the catchment areas of Upper Krishna Basin in Maharashtra and Karnataka are set to bring in another bout of heavy flood to Srisailam with the possibility of authorities lifting the crest gates to resume the spillway discharge at the inter-State project in a couple of days. As of 8 p.m. on Tuesday, the storage of Srisailam reservoir has crossed 202.50 tmcft against its capacity of 215.8 tmcft as the inflow was at over 1.05 lakh cusecs. At Jurala, the inflow was 93,000 cusecs and outflow was at over 1.07 lakh cusecs with a rising trend. “Considering heavy to very heavy rainfall in the upstream catchment areas, the outflow from Almatti dam to Krishna river was increased to 80,000 cusecs on Monday night and at Narayanapur dam it was increased to about one lakh cusecs. Further, it was increased to 1.2 lakh cusecs after 5 p.m. on Tuesday and at the same time Narayanpur it was increased to 1.21 lakh cusecs,” flood monitoring officials at Jurala said. An advisory issued by the Central Water Commission (CWC) stated that water level in Krishna Basin rivers such as Yerala, Nira, Bhima and others was forecast to rise for the next few days following heavy rains in their catchment areas for the last few days. During the 48-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, Mahabaleshwar recorded 21.3 cm rain followed by 13.2 cm in Agumbe and 18.2 cm in Koyna. The rainfall in Mahabaleshwar and Koyna was expected to increase flood to Almatti and Narayanpur dams and the rain in Agumbe is likely to bring more flood to Tungabhadra. Coupled with flood from Bhima sub-basin, the inflow to Jurala is expected to be in the range of about 2 lakh cusecs by Wednesday evening. The flood monitoring officials said discharge of flood at Narayanpur would go beyond 1.5 lakh cusecs by the wee hours of Wednesday. In the Godavari Basin, the inflow to Sriramsagar was over 31,200 cusecs and discharge to river was nearly 26,000 cusecs as at 8 p.m. on Tuesday. With the Upper Godavari Basin in the Nashik is likely to get more flood to Sriramsagar over the next few days as most of the projects and barrages in the upstream are full. Singur, Nizamsagar, Mid Manair, Lower Manair and Kaddam projects were getting moderate inflows up to 2,500 cusecs with all of the except Mid Manair having near full reservoir level storage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spillway-discharge-to-resume-at-srisailam/article36465824.ece
15 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||138 drivers using fake stickers counselled||East Godavari Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu on Tuesday said that 138 drivers were found using fake stickers of police, defence forces and press on their vehicles to evade police checks in the district. The East Godavari police conducted a two-day raid on the vehicles to prevent usage of fake stickers across the district.  All the violators were counselled on Tuesday and warned of action in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/138-drivers-using-fake-stickers-counselled/article36466032.ece
15 September 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enrica Lexie: new plea for compensation||Mary Margeret Anthony Pillai, the mother of a 14-year-old child fisherman who took his life after the Enrica Lexie fishermen killing case, has moved the Kerala High Court seeking compensation for her son. The petitioner submitted that her son was on board the fishing vessel St. Antony on February 15, 2012 along with 11 other fishermen when the Italian marines on board Enrica Lexie shot down Ajeesh Pink and Jelastin. The petitioner submitted that Ajeesh Pink, who was hit by a bullet, fell upon the boy, who was illegally taken on board the fishing vessel. After the incident, the boat owner transferred the child victim to another fishing boat before reaching the shore. He was not provided any counselling or medical support by the owner of the fishing vessel or the government agencies, she submitted. The boy did not recover from the mental shock and physical devastation caused by the incident and died by suicide in July 2019. She submitted that the Italian marines were aware of the fact that there was a child fisherman in the fishing boat. She submitted that the owner of the fishing vessel in which the child was taken as a child labour never disclosed about the presence of a child victim and the investigation officers intentionally left out his name to protect the interests of the Italian Marines. The court will consider the case after two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enrica-lexie-new-plea-for-compensation/article36465469.ece
15 September 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Similarities in Kozhikode, Mangaluru accidents’||Raising some concern about aviation safety, glaring similarities have been found between the Air India Express B737-800 aircraft crash at the Calicut International Airport on August 7, 2020 and the Air India Express accident at Mangaluru International Airport on May 22, 2010. In its final investigation report, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) which probed the accident said all the actionable recommendations of the Court of Inquiry (CoI) in the Mangaluru incident had been implemented. “However, the investigation team observed that some salient recommendations have not been wholly addressed,” it said. In the last 10 years, the Air India Express has had two major accidents and a number of non-fatal accidents or serious incidents. ‘Unstabilised approach’ Most of the accidents were a result of continuation of ‘unstabilised approach’ and total disregard to the repeated calls from the First Officer to ‘Go Around’, both being a serious breach of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). This had resulted in long landings in which the aircraft was unable to stop on the runway and terminated in excursion, the report said. The probable cause of the Calicut Airport accident was the non-adherence to SOP by the Pilot Flying (PF) who had continued an ‘unstabilised approach’ and landed beyond the touchdown zone, half way down the runway, in spite of ‘go around’ call by Pilot Monitoring (PM). The accident killed 21 people, including both pilots, and seriously injured 75 passengers. In the case of the Air India Express crash in Mangaluru, the pilot failed to discontinue an ‘un-stabilised approach’ and had persisted with the landing despite three calls from the First Officer to ‘go around’ and a number of warnings from Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning Systems. The crash claimed 158 lives. Regarding Crew Resource Management (CRM), the AAIB observed that training assertiveness for First Officers had not yielded any qualitative results. The ‘steep cockpit authority gradient’ continues to be managed poorly. Besides, Type Rating Instructor and Designated Examiners were not rostered as observers for CRM monitoring on flights as recommended by the CoI, it said. Further, the CRM training of Air India Express was weak. Thus senior Captains of the company do not encourage a working climate in the cockpit where a junior pilot is confident enough to raise concerns, question decisions and also offer solutions. Crew scheduling On crew scheduling, it said that adequate crew were not based permanently to undertake unhindered operations at all bases. A case in point was the Calicut airport where only one Captain was posted against 26 First Officers, in spite of the maximum number of flights of Air India Express operating out of the base. Thus the PF was rostered for a scheduled flight for the following day. Any diversion of Air India Express flight would have placed the PF in Flight Duty Time Limitation and he would not have been available to operate the next day’s flight. The PF was aware that there were no additional Captains at that base, other than himself to operate that flight. Hence, the PF created a misplaced motivation for himself (to be available for next day’s flight) and did not divert even after the wiper of the aircraft was found unserviceable during the first approach and pressed on to land during the second approach (as another ‘missed approach’ would have left him with no option but to divert), the AAIB report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/similarities-in-kozhikode-mangaluru-accidents/article36465464.ece
15 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power generation begins on A.P. side of Srisailam||Power generation began on the Right Power House (Andhra Pradesh side) of the Srisailam Dam on Tuesday morning, following good inflows from the Tungabhadra and the Jurala projects. The dam was receiving 1,05,200 cusecs of water at 3 p.m., while the outflow was put at 66,840 cusecs with A.P. Power House utilising 27,568 cusecs and Telangana 31,784 cusecs of water. The A.P. Engineer-in-Chief (Irrigation) has written a letter to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), seeking permission to start power generation by utilising the excess water that would begin to flow into the dam through spillway, with the storage reaching 201.58 tmcft against the dam’s capacity of 215.8 tmcft. The water level now stands at 882 feet against the maximum of 885 feet. The brimming Tungabhadra Dam is discharging 5,140 cusecs into Sunkesula, which is discharging 23,753 cusecs into Srisailam Dam. Another 85,693 cusecs from the Jurala project is being received at Srisailam Dam. With the good rain in catchment areas , more inflows are expected into the Srisailam Dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-side-of-srisailam-dam-begins-work/article36465467.ece
15 September 2021||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oscar Fernandes led an unblemished life: D.K. Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar described former Union Minister Oscar Fernandes as a person who led an unblemished life grooming hundreds of party leaders. Speaking to presspersons on Tuesday after paying homage to the departed leader at Udupi, Mr. Shivakumar said Mr. Fernandes utilised the opportunities for the benefit of the public and did not have even a single blemish in his political career spanning over five decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oscar-fernandes-led-an-unblemished-life-dk-shivakumar/article36465471.ece
15 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll touches 2,000 as 2 more succumb to virus||The number of active coronavirus cases in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh crossed the 5,000-mark as fresh cases outnumbered recoveries by 92 in the last 24 hours. The toll crawled to 2,000 as one person in both SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts died of the virus in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Tuesday. Prakasam district has logged 1,073 casualties so far, while SPSR Nellore district 1,027, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The cumulative tally crossed the 2.78 lakh-mark as there was a slight increase in the daily tally from the previous day. As many as 294 persons in the region, including 184 in SPSR Nellore, tested positive for COVID while the previous day’s figure was 255. Recovery rate at 97.43% As many as 105 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 97 in Prakasam recovered from the disease during the period. The number of active cases stood at 2,537 in SPSR Nellore district and 2,487 in Prakasam district. The recovery rate stood at 97.43% in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-touches-2000-as-2-more-succumb-to-virus/article36465996.ece
15 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held for property offences in Markapur||Prakasam police achieved a breakthrough in a series of copper wire theft cases in Markapur division with the arrest of three offenders at Hanuman Junction Kunta at Peddaraveedu, near Markapur, on Tuesday. The three persons--Chinna Khashim Vali(24), Sd Khader Vali(40) and Aitam Raju (24)--were arrested in a house break-in incident that took place last month. The trio had decamped with Rs. 80,000 cash and also gold ornaments weighing 250 grams. During investigation, it was found that they were the ones who had been stealing copper wires from transformers in rural areas in Markapur division for the last six months. During this period, they had made away with 136 kg of wires stolen from transformers located in farms in Peddaraveedu, Markapur Rural and Ardhaveedu mandals, the Markapur rural police said. The SP patted the Markapur division personnel for swiftly detecting the property offences and recovery of the stolen property, including Rs. 50,000 cash, copper wires worth over Rs. 1 lakh and ornaments worth more than 1.90 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-for-property-offences-in-markapur/article36465994.ece
15 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to make ‘Bharat Bandh’ a success||Left parties on Tuesday announced their support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 27, called by Samyukta Kisan Morcha and backed by labour unions, to protest against the ‘anti-people’ policies of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. Communist Party of India(CPI) Prakasam district secretary M.L.Narayana and his CPI(Marxist) counterpart P. Anjaneyulu told the media here that it was unfortunate that the Centre had not conceded to the demand for repeal of the three farm laws and the new labour code that infringed upon the rights of workers. All sections of people should come together to oppose the “corporate-friendly” policies of the Bharatiya Janata Party government that is all out to sell public sector enterprises, they said. The leaders added that the skyrocketing prices of all essential commodities in the wake of the heavy dose of taxes imposed on petrol, diesel and cooking gas made lives of the common people miserable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-make-bharat-bandh-a-success/article36465995.ece
15 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another Cong. leader resigns in Kerala||Former Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) organising secretary K.P. Anil Kumar has switched his political allegiance to the Communist Party India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] after launching a withering attack on the national and State leadership of the organisation he had served for decades. Mr. Anil Kumar’s defection to the CPI(M) on Tuesday is being viewed as a fallout of the simmering factional dispute in the Congress in the State over the appointment of District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents. The high profile desertion seemed to plunge the flailing Congress into yet another quandary. The threat of more defections loomed large even as the party struggled to regain its footing after the shocking defeat in the 2021 Assembly election. On September 3, KPCC secretary P.S. Prasanth had defected to the CPI(M). Political drama In a highly charged interaction with presspersons before he changed sides, Mr. Anil Kumar launched a powerful broadside against All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal and KPCC president K. Sudhakaran. “Mr. Venugopal had exacerbated inner-party divisions by sidelining other leaders and choosing his favourites for party and electoral posts. Mr. Sudhakaran often parleyed with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh [RSS] and captured the KPCC like the Taliban conquered Kabul,” he said. Mr. Anil Kumar pointedly refused to draw a bead on Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan. “More in Kozhikode on Wednesday,” he said. Mr. Satheesan reacted to Mr. Anil Kumar’s defection rather tamely. He said the CPI(M), which has found an ally in the Social Democratic Party of India, was no paradigm of secularism as portrayed by Mr. Anil Kumar. Midway through the press conference, the Congress expelled Mr. Anil Kumar, who termed the dismissal superfluous and belated since he had already quit the party. Entry into CPI(M) Minutes later, Mr. Anil Kumar was at the AKG Centre where three Polit Bureau members — Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, S. Ramachandran Pillai and M.A. Baby — welcomed him. Mr. Balakrishnan said Mr. Anil Kumar had left the Congress in protest against the KPCC leadership’s soft-Hindutva line. He had set no pre-condition for working with the CPI(M). More leaders would desert the “disintegrating” Congress, he said. Mr. Sudhakaran, working president P.T. Thomas and Shafi Parambil called Mr. Anil Kumar an embittered leader resentful at not being named Kozhikode DCC president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-cong-leader-resigns-in-kerala/article36465473.ece
15 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Public parks, beaches open in Kerala||Lockdown-weary citizens made a beeline for parks and beaches after the Kerala government opened the outdoor facilities to the public on Tuesday. In April, the administration declared public spaces off-limits for citizens to prevent gatherings after the Delta virus-driven second COVID-19 wave swamped the State. The administration had allowed government offices, quasi-government offices, public sector undertakings, companies, autonomous bodies and commissions to work from Monday to Friday with total attendance. It also restored Saturdays as working days “wherever applicable”. The return of people to public spaces is widely viewed as a precursor to the reopening of swimming pools, stadiums, gymnasiums, shopping malls and cinemas in the State. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said he hoped children too would soon return to campuses, after nearly 18 months. An official said COVID-19 hospitalisations had plateaued. New infections showed a downward trend. After reporting more than or close to 30,000 COVID-19 cases daily during the first week of September, the State reported 15,876 cases on Tuesday, which took the total caseload to 44,06,365. However, the government anticipated a potential third wave of infections. Restricted lockdowns The government has restricted lockdowns to neighbourhoods showing a weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) above eight. The government might institute a mobile phone-based e-health passport system for citizens seeking to access public facilities. Proof of vaccination or a recent RT-PCR negative test result would suffice.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/public-parks-beaches-open-in-kerala/article36465475.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress bats for ‘local quota’ in TTD board||The Congress has demanded nomination of local people in the coveted Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Trust Board, names for which are expected any time. Addressing the media, party’s spokesperson D. Rambhupal Reddy said Tirupati locals should have a quota and the people of Rayalaseema at large should get priority in the trust board. He was particular that people from Telangana should not get a berth this time, in view of the ‘hostile’ situation prevailing between the two States on issues pertaining to sharing of river water. “I earnestly make this request to the State government on behalf of the people of Rayalaseema, the region which will become a desert due to the atrocious attitude of the upper riparian State of Telangana,” Mr. Reddy said. Mr. Reddy said the previous board accommodated seven members from the neighbouring State, which, he alleged, was keen on picking up quarrels. Referring to the G.O. No.405 issued in 2019 that pegged the quota on members from the various States on nomination to the TTD Board, he felt the ratio was skewed, expressing surprise on how Telangana could get seven against A.P.’s eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-bats-for-local-quota-in-ttd-board/article36465998.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders seized on Chittoor-Nellore border||Personnel of the Red Sanders Anti Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) nabbed two persons and seized 30 red sanders logs from their possession on Tuesday. Based on a tip-off, the personnel conducted vehicular check on the Puthalapattu-Naidupeta highway on Monday night and the duo was caught in the early hours of Tuesday near Chembadi village in Pellakuru mandal of SPSR Nellore district. Paluru Babu (29) and R. Manikantan (30) were allegedly moving in a suspicious manner and reportedly tried to flee on sighting the police, when they were nabbed. Upon questioning, they reportedly spilled the beans and led them to the nearby red sanders dump, from where the police seized the 30 logs weighing 399 kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-seized-on-chittoor-nellore-border/article36465999.ece
15 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 dead as truck falls into valley||A truck carrying quarry stones slipped off the Bhakarapet ghat road and fell into a deep valley on Monday night. The Chandragiri police rushed to the spot on being alerted by the motorists. The rescue operation lasted the entire night and the police retrieved the body of the driver, whose identity could not be ascertained. The truck was proceeding from Rayachoti to Gudur when it overturned and slid into the valley. The body was sent to Ruia hospital for postmortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1-dead-as-truck-falls-into-valley/article36466000.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP’s ‘rythu kosam’ protest demands fair deal for farmers||The TDP on Tuesday kicked off a State-wide protest with a slogan ‘Rythu Kosam Telugu Desam’ and demanded that the YSRCP government withdraw its ‘anti-farmer’ policies. The party leaders and cadre took out protest rallies and submitted memoranda to officials in Nandyal, Kurnool, Hindupur, Anantapur and Kadapa parliamentary constituencies. They raised slogans and displayed placards in protest against the Jagan Mohan Reddy’s “misrule” and the Chief Minister’s ‘indifference’ to the rising debts and problems of farmers in the State. At some places, the protesters went in bullock carts and submitted representations to the local officials. The party intends to continue ‘Rythu Kosam’ protests till September 18. The ‘protesters’ displayed different crops to convey to the authorities that lack of government support had hit the farmers very hard. Agricultural activity had come to a halt as the government had withdrawn all subsidies with an ulterior plan to ruin the farm sector, they added. In the Pattikonda segment, the TDP leaders and cadre went in a rally to the MRO’s office and submitted a memorandum on the farmers’ problems. In Kurnool parliamentary constituency, party leader Somisetti Venkateswarlu and others led the protest. Alur Assembly segment party in charge Kotla Sujathamma led a rally that culminated in a dharna at the Ambedkar statue. MLC K.E. Prabhakar organised a farmers’ rally from the old bus stand to Tahsildar office in Dhone. They said the government had failed to provide irrigation water to farmers under the KC Canal ayacut at Chennur village in Kamalapuram segment. As a result, the farmers announced a crop holiday in 1,200 acres in protest against the government’s indifference. Senior leader Mallela Linga Reddy, along with other party leaders, submitted a representation to the local Tahsildar. Telugu Rythu State leader Marreddy Srinivasa Reddy took part in a protest rally from Orvakal mandal headquarters in Panyam Assembly segment, led by party Nandyal parliamentary segment president Gowru Venkata Reddy and former MLA Gowru Charita Reddy. In Mantrayalam, party incharge Tikka Reddy went in a bullock cart rally and submitted a memorandum to the MRO. Compensation for crop loss In Banaganapalle constituency, former MLA B.C. Janardhan Reddy and other leaders took part in a rally. They demanded compensation for the farmers who suffered crop loss. Protests were also held in Yemmiganur and Singanamala Assembly segments. In Kodumur, party incharge Akepogu Prabhakar and others submitted a memorandum to the MRO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdps-rythu-kosam-protest-demands-fair-deal-for-farmers/article36466085.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna’s COVID-19 mortality rate over 2.2% in past month||Krishna district continues to witness more COVID deaths than any other district compared to the number of infections reported. Since the first wave, the district reported the highest mortality rate and the same trend continues even now after about 550 days. During the past fortnight, the State reported 162 deaths and 37, which was nearly one-fourth of them, were from Krishna district. Similarly, in the past month, 388 deaths were reported in the State and 90 of them were from Krishna alone. All through the pandemic, the mortality rate of the district was higher than 1% and in the past month, and past fortnight it was 2.26% (3,988 infections) and 2.02% (1,831 infections) respectively. The mortality rate in Krishna was 1.17% with 1,153 deaths so far. Krishna was the only district with more than 1% mortality rate. Meanwhile, Vizianagaram reported no death for a long time, according to State's COVID bulletins. The last death in Vizianagaram was reported on July 30. In the past month, Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur reported only 15 deaths. Also, the toll crossed 14,000 recently and of the last 1,000 deaths reported more than half were from Chittoor (216), Krishna (195) and Prakasam (130) districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishnas-covid-19-mortality-rate-over-22-in-past-month/article36466080.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Night curfew extended till September 30||The State government has extended the night curfew imposed to check the spread of coronavirus infection till September 30. The decision was taken at a review meeting of the Health Department chaired by Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday. The officials informed the Chief Minister that the State’s daily positivity rate stood at 2.23%, against the weekly positivity rate of 2.31%. The recovery rate was steady at 98.6 % and 10,541 secretariats have reported zero cases. They said that 2,699 patients were being treated in hospitals and 854 of them in COVID Care Centres. At present, 91.66 % of the COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in government hospitals were covered by Arogyasri and 71.04 % of the patients in private hospitals were covered under the scheme, they said, adding that 21 fever surveys had been completed. Oxygen pipeline As part of the preparedness for the possible third wave of the pandemic, 20,964 oxygen concentrators and 27,311 D-type oxygen cylinders have been made available and oxygen pipeline works have been completed in 108 hospitals. Oxygen generation plants at 140 hospitals with more than 50 beds would be ready by October, the officials said, adding that 50,39,318 people had been administered with the COVID-19 vaccine. Of them, 1,33,30,206 had received the first dose and 1,08,54,556 people received both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/night-curfew-extended-till-september-30/article36466014.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID sleuths grill former APSFL officials in fibernet ‘scam’||Former member of the governing council, e-Governance Authority, Vemuri Hari Krishna Prasad and former vice-chairman and managing director of Infrastructure Corporation of AP (INCAP) K. Sambasiva Rao, appeared before CID sleuths here on Tuesday. The Crime Investigation Department (CID) officials, who registered a case on 16 persons for the alleged irregularities in AP Fibernet on September 9 served notices to the former officials of Andhra Pradesh State Fibernet Limited (APSFL) asking them to appear before the investigation officers. Mr. Hari Krishna Prasad, who appeared before the CID officials, said the investigation officers did not question him. He said that the allegations were false. The CID Police registered cases against the suspects on the charges of criminal breach of trust, criminal intimidation, Section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and forgery among others. It was alleged that the suspects, including a few government officers, colluded with Tera Software Private Limited and Himachal Futuristic Communications and other firms and awarded contracts in violation of norms. Investigation officials are probing into the alleged irregularities in the tenders, worth about Rs. 321 crore. The CID personnel questioned the suspects on their links with the private firms, allotment of tenders and payment of bills. Mr. Hari Krishna Prasad later told mediapersons that the allegation of a scam in APFSL was false and that no irregularities had taken place in AP Fibernet. “As my name was mentioned in the FIR, I came to present my version. I will cooperate with the CID officers in the investigation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cid-sleuths-grill-former-apsfl-officials-in-ap-fibernet-scam/article36465466.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 1,125 cases in a day||The State reported nine more COVID deaths and 1,125 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative toll increased to  14,019 and the tally reached 20,31,974. The active cases came down to 14,412, with 1,356 recoveries in the past day and the total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 20,03,543 and 98.60%. The daily test positivity rate of the 49,568 tests conducted was 2.27% . Krishna district again reported the highest toll of three deaths in the past day. West Godavari district reported two deaths while East Godavari, Guntur, Nellore and Prakasam reported one death each. Chittoor reported 210 infections. It was followed by Nellore (184), Krishna (164), West Godavari (161), Prakasam (110), Guntur (81), East Godavari (62), Visakhapatnam (54), Kadapa (48), Srikakulam (27), Anantapur (16), Vizianagaram (7) and Kurnool (1). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,88,029), Chittoor (2,41,006), West Godavari (1,76,067), Guntur (1,74,160), Anantapur (1,57,413), Visakhapatnam (1,55,876), Nellore (1,42,843), Prakasam (1,35,256), Kurnool (1,23,944), Srikakulam (1,22,465), Krishna (1,15,587), Kadapa (1,13,815) and Vizianagaram (82,618).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-1125-cases-in-a-day/article36466005.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||92.85% students qualify pharmacy, agriculture CET-2021||Education Minister A. Suresh on Tuesday said a total of 72,488 (92.85%) students, seeking admission in agricultural and pharmacy courses, have qualified in the Common Entrance Test (EAPCET-2021). Speaking after releasing the results for agriculture and pharmacy streams at a press conference, the Minister said the AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) conducted the entrance test on September 3, 6 and 7 in five sessions at 84 centres. A total of 83,820 candidates registered for the exam and 78,066 took the test. Students could download their rank cards from Wednesday (September 15), he said. Like in the engineering stream, boys outshone girls by securing eight of the top 10 ranks. Chandam Vishnu Vivek of Korukonda in East Godavari district bagged the first rank. Rangu Srinivasa Karthikeya from Anantapur district came second, Bollineni Vishwas Rao of Warangal district in Telangana secured the third rank, Gajjala Samehana Reddy from Ranga Reddy of Telangana bagged the fourth rank and Kasa Lahari of Pragathi Nagar in Telangana came fifth. Kasindula Chaitanya Krishna of Guntur district, Nuthalapati Divya, also from Guntur district, Kalyanam Rahul Siddharth of Siddipet in Telangana, Thadisina Sai Reddy of Nalgonda district in Telangana and Gadde Vidip of Guntur district secured the sixth to 10th ranks respectively. Declaration of EAPCET results in seven days was a noteworthy achievement, the Minister said. He explained that since the exam was spread across five sessions with a different question paper for each session, a normalisation policy was adopted to adjust values measured on different scales to a notionally common scale. The exams were conducted in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol and with concerted efforts by all the departments concerned, he said. Special Chief Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Satish Chandra, AP State Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Chairman Justice V. Eeswaraiah, Chairperson of Telugu and Sanskrit Akademi N. Lakshmi Parvathi, APSCHE Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy, Vice-Chairman K. Rammohan Rao, Secretary B. Sudheer Prem Kumar and CETs Special Officer M. Sudheer Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9285-students-qualify-pharmacy-agriculture-cet-2021/article36466013.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attacks on CPI(M) offices in Tripura denounced||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member B.V. Raghavulu on Tuesday condemned the attacks on the party offices in Tripura and attributed it to the ‘fear of defeat among BJP leaders who could sense the brewing dissatisfaction among people against the Modi government at the Centre’. Speaking at a public meeting here, the senior leader said there were clear signs of people’s disapproval of the government policies and the BJP was headed for a defeat in the next elections. He said the CPI(M) was successful in obstructing the ‘communal politics’ of the BJP in Tripura. Unable to digest it, the party ‘goons’ went on an attacking spree and targeted the party offices, its leaders and cadres, he alleged, adding that such violent acts would not stop CPI(M) from taking on the ‘communal forces in the country’. In the garb of privatisation and monetisation, the BJP government was handing over national wealth such as the railways, roads, gas pipelines, BSNL, oil companies, electricity sector, airports, ports, warehouses and stadiums to corporate bodies at throwaway prices, he said. Mr. Modi’s ‘misrule’ had crippled the country’s economy and the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic had worsened the situation. While other nations were gradually limping back to normalcy in the post-COVID situation, India made no progress, he alleged. He accused the Modi government of total failure in terms of controlling the spread of coronavirus and cited the case of China where 69% of the population had received two doses of the vaccine, against mere 17% in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/attacks-on-cpim-offices-in-tripura-denounced/article36466084.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway panel inspects Gudur, Nellore stations||Members of the Passengers Services Committee (PSC) constituted by the Railway Board inspected Nellore and Gudur railway stations on Tuesday. Committee chairman Ramesh Chandra Ratn, members Shivaraj K. Gandge, Pranab Baruah, Dugyala Pradeep Kumar, Babita Parmar and Gangadhar Talupula inspected the stations and enquired about the facilities on platforms. Additional Divisional Railway Manager (ADRM-Infrastructure) D. Srinivasa Rao, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager P. Bhaskar Reddy, Senior Divisional Engineer (South) N. Bhanu Suryaprakash and other officers accompanied the PSC. The Committee interacted with the passengers and asked the officers about the water vending machines and inspected the functioning of surveillance cameras, visited waiting halls, checked the food quality in canteens on platforms and gave suggestions to officers on improving hygienie at the stations. Mr. Ramesh Chandra Ratn presented Rs. 10,000 cash prize to the staff of Nellore railway station for good maintenance. Railway officers S. Muni Reddy and R. Viswanath Reddy acompanied the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railway-panel-inspects-gudur-nellore-stations/article36465513.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical equipment worth Rs. 22 lakh donated||Dr. Lal Path Labs Foundation and Mantra4Change together donated medical equipment worth Rs. 22 lakh to the Krishna district administration here on Tuesday. Foundation representatives handed over the equipment to District Collector J. Nivas at the latter's camp office. The medical equipment donated included 550 medical grade pulse oximeters, 500 oxygen flow meters, 2,000 PPE kits, 5,000 N-95 masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medical-equipment-worth-rs-22-lakh-donated/article36466081.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Address sanitation issues, officials told||District Collector J. Nivas has said that over 6,400 complaints were received from the public on the hygiene and sanitation mobile applications in the district against mosquito breeding spots. Chairing a review meeting with senior officials of Health, Municipal, Panchayat and other departments here on Tuesday, Mr. Nivas said that some of the 6,417 issues raised had been addressed. Of them, 552 were from Vijayawada Urban, 274 were from Vijayawada Rural areas. He asked officials to stay alert during the next 45 days and ensure no dengue and malaria cases were reported in the district. He said every Friday should be observed as a dry day with a focus on cleaning water bodies serving as breeding grounds for mosquitoes. He asked officials to focus on places where more dengue and malaria cases were being reported and take up anti-larvae operations. At least 1,000 malaria tests should be conducted in a malaria sub-unit, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/address-sanitation-issues-officials-told/article36466089.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP writes to NHRC, DGP on ‘illegal arrest’||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu on Tuesday wrote letters to the National Human Rights Commission and the DGP D. Gautam Sawang, protesting the ‘illegal arrest and police torture’ of party members. Mr. Atchchannaidu alleged that a section of police in connivance with YSRCP leaders, were harassing the public and Opposition party cadres in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-writes-to-nhrc-dgp-on-illegal-arrest/article36466079.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Longer loop line at Navabpalem commissioned||South Central Railway (SCR) has commissioned a longer loop line, the second longest in the zone, at Navabpalem railway station in West Godavari district. The new loop line on Grand Trunk route of Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam section, will help to accommodate long haul goods trains and enhance train operations in the zone, railway officials said in a press release. The Ministry of Railways had sanctionedlonger loops at six stations in Vijayawada division at Bikkavolu, Elamanchili, Navabpalem, in Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam section and Nidubrolu, Ammanabrolu and Bitragunta in Vijayawada-Chennai section, of which two had been completed so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/longer-loop-line-at-navabpalem-commissioned/article36465512.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||General duty doctors give strike call||General Duty Medical Officers in the district are likely to go on strike from Wednesday as they served strike notice to officials demanding release of pending salaries. The doctors alleged that they were not paid salaries for the past five months and the hike as promised was also not given. They decided to boycott duties from Tuesday midnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-to-go-on-strike/article36466042.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Test for Mahila Police to get into Police Dept.||About 15,000 Women Protection Secretaries working in village and ward secretariats across the State who have completed their probation period will appear for a test for joining in the Police Department. The test, scheduled on September 22 and 23, will be conducted for 100 marks – 25 for project work and 75 for multiple choice questions. On successful completion of the test, the Mahila Police will be absorbed into the department. They have already been given project work by the police officers of various ranks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/test-for-mahila-police-to-get-into-police-dept/article36466078.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officials crack the whip on unauthorised use of stickers||The crackdown on motorists for unauthorised use of stickers on their vehicles such as police, press, MLA and others, has been intensified by the police and on a daily basis about 80 to 100 cases are being booked. The drive began on September 10. On September 10 and 11, the traffic police teams have caught 191 persons driving two-wheelers and four-wheelers who were found using stickers in an unauthorised manner. Among the total cases, 72 persons were caught using police stickers, while 81 persons were found to have pasted ‘Press’ stickers. As many as 24 persons were caught having MLA stickers on their cars illegally, while four were found using MP stickers. “People claim that their relative works in the Police Department or is a media personnel when caught. An MPP who is known to an MLA has pasted MLA sticker on his four-wheeler,”said Inspector (Traffic) Ch. Shanmukha Rao from Dwaraka sub- division, who is part of the task force team. He also said that a few were caught using defence stickers because their relative works in the Defence sector somewhere in northern States. The police also intercepted a vehicle on which the driver painted ‘AP Secretariat’ which was also found to be unauthorised after verification,” adding that such misuse of stickers is a serious traffic violation. On Saturday afternoon, the traffic police intercepted a four-wheeler at Maddilapalem Junction which had a sticker of RTO (Regional Transport Office). Police found that there was no officer in the vehicle, but it was only a driver. When asked for proofs for verification, the traffic police found that the car did not belong to any officer, but a staff working in the Transport Department. Moreover, the staff works in East Godavari district, and not Visakhapatnam district. A senior traffic police official from the city said that generally people use these stickers to avoid vehicle checks and some miscreants do this to skip charges at toll gates and parking lots. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said that police would verify asking some identity/proof in case they find any such stickers. Such stickers should be used only by relevant persons and only on official duties. Misuse of such stickers is a traffic violation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-officials-crack-the-whip-on-unauthorised-use-of-stickers/article36466092.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restoration of Maha Stupa dome at Thotlakonda complete||The work on scientific restoration of the dome of the Maha Stupa, at the Buddhist heritage site at Thotlakonda, which was partially damaged following heavy rains during 2019, has been finally completed. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao visited the 2,000-year-old heritage site, on Tuesday. He formally inaugurated the tourist amenities centre, which was built in the past, but refurbished recently. The centre, located outside the main heritage site, has washrooms for men and women. The Minister said that the revenue of the Tourism Department has declined due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and efforts were being made to increase it by attracting more tourists. Meditation centre A meditation centre would also be established at Thotlakonda soon. Buses would be operated to the hilltop in the mornings and evenings and the Tourism Department would soon launch an app for the convenience of tourists. He said that RK Beach in the city was attracting the maximum number of tourists during the weekends and development of amenities at other beaches and tourist places was planned to prevent crowding of tourists at a single place. The Buddhist heritage sites at Thotlakonda, Bavikonda and Pavuralakonda and the rare geological formations ‘Erramatti Dibbalu’ (red sand dunes) would be developed jointly by the Tourism and the Archaeology Departments to attract more domestic and foreign tourists. Star hotels, to match international standards, would be set up in Visakhapatnam and Tirupati soon and the new Tourism Policy would be implemented by Dasara, the Minister said. Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari and VMRDA Chairperson Akkaramani Vijaya Nirmala spoke. VMRDA Commissioner Venkata Ramana Reddy said that a park and other infrastructure facilities would be developed at Thotlakonda. Buddhist monk Dhammananda Banteji expressed happiness on the renovation of the Maha Stupa. Deputy Director of the State Archaeological Department P. Suresh, Assistant Director Seera Venkata Rao, Assistant Director Engineering E. Bhaskar Nayak, Technical Assistant K. Narasimha Naidu, Tourism Department Executive Director Mallu Reddy and Regional Director K. Ramana and, Corporators Daulapalli Edukondala Rao(4th Ward), M. Laxmi Priyanka(6th Ward) and L.Appa Rao (8th Ward) were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restoration-of-maha-stupa-dome-at-thotlakonda-complete/article36466096.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 35 lakh people receive at least one dose in district||Vaccination programme has been going on at a brisk pace in the Visakhapatnam district. As many as 35,72,867 people have received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine in the district. Out of them, 9.99 lakh people had completed two doses, according to the statistics in COWIN Dashboard. Of the total vaccinated include 17. 36 lakh people between the age group of 18 and 44 years, 12.52 lakh between 45 and 60 years, and 5.84 lakh people above 60 years of age. As many as 157 vaccination centres, including 137 government-owned, are being used to administer vaccine to the people. Madhurawada Primary Health Centre (PHC) stands first with the record of administering 99,817 doses. The administration has been organising mega vaccination drives every week to speed up the campaign. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna and other higher officials have been coordinating the drives. According to sources in the Health Department, around 79,000 people were administered first or second dose vaccine at various PHCs and other health centres in the district in the special drive organised on Monday. On Tuesday, around 54,000 people were given the jab. 54 new cases The district reported 54 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, ending Tuesday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,386. No death was reported in the last 24 hours. The death toll stands at 1,079. As many as 69 persons recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. This takes the total number of recoveries to 1,54,229.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-35-lakh-people-receive-at-least-one-dose-in-district/article36466094.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist leader Dubashi Shankar arrested||Maoist leader and Special Zonal Committee member of Andhra-Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC) Dubashi Shankar alias Mahender alias Arun was arrested by the Odisha Police in Koraput district on Monday. According to the Odisha Police, acting on credible intelligence inputs that a group of Maoists were moving in the forest area of Petaguda and Noaro village under Boipariguda police station limits, a joint operation was launched by the DVF, the SOG and the BSF on Sunday night. Shankar was apprehended during a search and cordon operation in the early hours of Monday. The police recovered one Insas rifle, 10 rounds of ammunition, a mobile phone, a radio, an ear phone, an Amazon kindle device, Rs. 35,500 in cash among other articles from his possession. However, sources said Shankar had come out of the forest for treatment when he was nabbed. Shankar, a resident of Medak district in Telangana had joined the Indrapuriyal area committee of Maoist group in Telegana in 1987. He worked in Medak till 2004 before being promoted to the rank of SZCM. He was later moved to the AOBSZC and he was inducted into the State Military Commission in 2010. He is suspected to be involved in two cases reported in Koraput district, 18 cases in Malkangiri district (Odisha), 32 cases in Visakhapatnam district on Andhra Pradesh and 24 cases in Telangana. He was allegedly involved in exchange of fire in Damajodi in 2009 in which 10 CISF personnel were killed, Govindpalli landmine blast in 2010 in which 11 police personnel died and Janiguda ambush in 2012 that left four BSF personnel dead, including one Commandant. Shankar was allegedly involved in the exchange of fire reported at Teegalametta in Visakhapatnam district, in which six Maoists were killed by AP Greyhounds on June 16 and the exchange of fire in Pebbampalli on July 21. The arrest of Shankar is seen as a big blow to the Maoists operating out of the AOB (Andhra-Odisha Border) region. This was the fourth major blow to the Maoists in this year. In April, Muttannagari Jalandhar Reddy alias Krishna, a SZCM surrendered, followed by the surrender of Chikkudu Chinna Rao alias Sudheer, a divisional committee member, in August. Six Maoists including top leaders were killed at Teegalametta on June 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-leader-dubashi-shankar-arrested/article36466016.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hindi Week concludes||Hindi Week celebrations, observed by various government offices, public sector units (PSUs) and educational institutions, concluded on Tuesday. RINL-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) has bagged the ‘Rajbhasha Keerti Puraskar’ first prize for effective implementation of the Official Language for the year 2020-21. D.K. Mohanty, D(C) & D (P) Additional Charge, RINL, received the award from Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai, in the presence of Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Tuesday. TOLIC (Town Official Language Implementation Committee) - Undertaking, Visakhapatnam, under the aegis of the RINL also bagged ‘Rajbhasha Keerthi Puraskar’ – First Prize for the year 2020-21. The RINL-VSP had also received ‘Rajbhasha Keerthi Puraskar – First Prize’ for effective implementation of Hindi for the year 2019-20. Chief General Manager (HR) & Administration, RINL, G. Gandhi, received the award. ‘Sugandh’, the in-house magazine of the RINL-VSP, bagged ‘Rajbhasha Keerthi Puraskar – First Prize’ for the year 2018-19. GM (Rajbhasha) & Administration in charge, RINL, Lalan Kumar, received the award and a Certificate of Recognition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hindi-week-concludes/article36466093.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two minor girls allegedly raped||Two minor girls, from different families in the same locality, were allegedly raped by their neighbours at a village under the Atchutapuram police station limits in the Visakhapatnam district. Though the incident occurred on Sunday, it came to light after the family members of the girls lodged a complaint with the police on Monday night. According to Sub-Inspector of Atchutapuram police station, M. Upendra, both the girls are aged about nine years. According to the complaints given by the family members, when the two girls were playing near their houses, a 50-year-old man and his son aged around 27 years from the same locality and known to the families, sweet-talked the girls and took them to a secluded place, where they allegedly raped them. Based on the complaints,the Atchurapuram police have registered cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Mr. Upendra said that a manhunt has been launched for the accused. ‘Incident shameful’ Responding to the incident, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) General Secretary, Nara Lokesh alleged that the State government has completely failed to protect women. He also termed the incident as shameful. Mr. Lokesh also attributed the increase in such crimes to the failure of the government in punishing the criminals involved in crime against women. He said that the YSR Congress Party government should stop using police force for their political purposes and use them to catch criminals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-minor-girls-sexually-assaulted/article36466088.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||795 kg ganja seized at two places, 3 persons held||The district police have seized around 795 kg of ganja worth around Rs. 80 lakh at two places in Visakhapatnam district. In one case, the police arrested a person while he was allegedly transporting around 540 kg ganja in a van, at Kasimkota area on Tuesday morning. According to Kasimkota Sub-Inspector Suresh Kumar, the accused had procured the ganja from the interior areas of the Agency and was allegedly transporting it to Tamil Nadu. In order to escape from police checks, the accused had covered the ganja bags with loads of cattle feed. Based on credible information, Kasimkota police intercepted the vehicle near the Gobburu Junction. In another case, K.D Peta police arrested two persons while they were reportedly transporting about 255 kg of ganja in a vehicle on Monday night. Police said that the accused were allegedly trying to transport the ganja to Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/795-kg-ganja-seized-at-two-places-3-persons-held/article36466100.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU will prepare for NAAC accreditation: V-C||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy has announced that the varsity would prepare for the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation for 2024. In this direction, every faculty member should strive hard to enhance their research outputs, he said. He said that every faculty member should apply for research projects and intellectual property rights for their findings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-will-prepare-for-naac-accreditation-v-c/article36466101.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gumma Area Committee member surrenders||Sonal Madvi alias Kiran, a member of Gumma Area Committee of the banned CPI (Maoist), surrendered before Rajesh Pandit, DIG (South Western Range), Koraput in Odisha on Tuesday. A native of Jarrapalli in Chhattisgarh, Kiran joined the group in 2O12 and was inducted into the Pamedu Area Committee in Chhattisgarh. He was allegedly invloved in five attacks on security forces. He was present during the exchange of fire reported in Ramaguda in October 2016, in which 31 Maoists were killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gumma-area-committee-member-surrenders/article36466017.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl students from GVMC schools to be taught about ‘good touch and bad touch’||Girl students from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) schools will learn about ‘good touch and bad touch’ through special sessions under the name ‘The Touch’ very soon. City-based NGO, New Hope Foundation(NHF), will take up these classes once in a week right from first class students. The initiative was launched at NMC High School, P&T Colony, on Monday. Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari has asked the organisers to take up the classes in other corporation schools as well. Education Officer of GVMC Srinivas said that the Mayor has launched the programme in the school and released the poster. NHF founder-member M. Malleswari said that the main aim is to prevent crimes against girls, especially of smaller ages. Despite efforts by the government and police, some girl children continue to be on the receiving end of sexual abuse, molestation and other crimes. The recent rape and murder of six-year-old girl in Hyderabad is an example, she said. Ms. Malleswari said that unlike the older people, children do not have Disha app to reach out to police and may be not aware of such crimes to inform parents. “We plan to conduct sessions on Friday or Saturday every week for an hour by dividing the classes. We will explain to the students about what is a good touch and bad touch. The classes will be taken up from Classes I to X,” she said. She said that in the first phase, they would conduct sessions in 27 GVMC schools in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-students-from-gvmc-schools-to-be-taught-about-good-touch-and-bad-touch/article36466098.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Timings of two trains to change||The timings of Bhubaneswar-Secunderabad Visakha special express and Rayagada-Guntur special have been changed at some of the stations over the jurisdiction of East Coast Railway (E Co R), with effect from September 17. 07015 Bhubaneswar-Secunderabad Visakha Special from Bhubaneswar will arrive at Tilaru at 1:17 p.m. and will leave at 1:19 p.m., Srikakulam Road at 1:35p.m./1:37p.m., Ponduru at 1:50/1:52 p.m., Chipurupalli at 2:10 p.m./2:12 p.m., Vizianagaram at 2:40/2:45 p.m., Kottavalasa at 3:13 p.m./3:15 p.m. and will arrive at Simhachalam North at 3:28 p.m. and leave at 3:30 p.m. towards Secunderabad, instead of the earlier scheduled timings. Similarly, 07244 Rayagada-Guntur Special from Rayagada will run with revised timings between Rayagada and Vizianagaram stations. This train will leave Rayagada at 3:30 p.m. instead of 2:50 p.m. and arrive at Vizianagaram at 5:55 p.m. and will leave at 6 p.m., instead of earlier scheduled timings. This train will run with revised timings at Parvatipuram Town, Parvatipuram, Sitanagaram, Bobbili, Donkinavalasa, Komatipalli and Gajapatinagaram stations between Rayagada and Vizianagaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/timings-of-two-trains-to-change/article36466041.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Breathing exercises helpful after COVID’||Breathing, chest wall mobility and graded exercises were helpful in many cases to improve the endurance, particularly to get over the post-COVID complications, said physiotherapist of M.S. Ramaiah Medical College P.T. Sundar here on Tuesday. He participated in a panel discussion on ‘Understanding and managing symptoms of long COVID’ organised by the GITAM School of Physiotherapy. Health coach Varsha Koppikar stressed the need for balanced diet, including good amount of protein.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/breathing-exercises-helpful-after-covid/article36466099.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||UGC bans GITAM from offering online courses||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has banned the GITAM deemed to be University from offering online courses for one year as it has reportedly not adhered to the UGC regulations pertaining to online and Open and Distance Learning (ODL) courses. UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain noted in a public notice that the GITAM was admitting students in violation of provisions of the previous and current regulations. The UGC took a serious view of the violations and decided to debar GITAM from offering ODL and online courses. The university was asked not to admit any students into the above courses during the said period. The general public have been advised not to take admission into these courses, offered by GITAM, for 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ugc-bans-gitam-from-offering-online-courses/article36466090.ece
15 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Radhashtami’ celebrated with fervour||Tulasi arati, followed by kirtan, Sandhya arati and a special session on ‘Radhashtami’ by Niskinchana Bhakta Dasa, president of Hare Krishna Movement, Visakhapatnam, marked Sri Radhashtami celebrations at Sri Nitai Gauranga Mandhiram, behind NRI Hospital at Seethammadara on Tuesday evening. It celebrated on the eighth day of the bright fortnight (shuklapakshaashtami) in the month of Bhadrapadham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/radhashtami-celebrated-with-fervour/article36466097.ece
15 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||North Andhra region needs special package: BJP leader||BJP former State treasurer Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju urged Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu to use his good offices to ensure a special package for the speedy development of North Andhra region. Along with party senior leaders, he met the Vice-President in New Delhi and submitted a report explaining the backwardness of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Releasing a press note here, Mr. Sanyasi Raju said that Mr. Venkaiah Naidu was instrumental in establishing many industries and educational institutions in Andhra Pradesh as a Minister, and hoped that his word would be considered seriously by the Union Ministers and senior officials of the government. “As per the reports of Niti Aayog, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam are among the most backward districts in the country. Their speedy development is possible only when the Central government announces an exclusive package,” said Mr. Sanyasi Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/north-andhra-region-needs-special-package-bjp-leader/article36466036.ece
15 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to conduct fever survey in all areas||Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy directed Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation officials to conduct a door-to-door fever survey and create awareness on the importance of good health in the backdrop of COVID-19. He inaugurated a medical camp organised by Integrated Rural People Welfare Association (IRPWA) near Balaji Junction on Tuesday. Queens NRI Hospital Managing Director D. Ramesh Kumar urged people to approach doctors immediately if they are suffering from fever. Pushpagiri Eye Hospital Chief Operating Officer Ch. Rajeswara Rao, IRPWA president P.K. Prakasha Rao said that medical camps would help the poor and elderly to get medical aid at their doorstep. Mr. Prakasha Rao said that 350 patients were tested and provided medicines at the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-conduct-fever-survey-in-all-areas/article36466040.ece
15 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Give pensions to artistes, Lok Satta urges govt.||Lok Satta Party State executive president Bhisetti Babji on Tuesday urged the State government to provide pension and financial benefits to Harikatha, Burrakatha and drama artistes as they were left without a source of income for the last two years due to COVID-19. On behalf of Vizianagaram Youth Foundation and Hands organisations, Mr. Babji distributed rice and essential commodities to 40 artistes. He congratulated the foundation president Shaik Iltamash and secretary N. Eswara Rao known as Ambulance Shiva for their philanthropic activities. Hands Organisation founder S. Manoj Kumar was present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/give-pensions-to-artistes-lok-satta-urges-govt/article36466038.ece
15 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP demands white paper on development of N. Andhra||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao on Tuesday demanded that the YSRCP government release a white paper pertaining to the development of north Andhra, accusing it of neglecting the region. Taking part in a roundtable organised by BJP North Andhra Development Committee chairman and MLA Gadde Baburao here, Mr. Narasimha Rao claimed that developmental activities were being taken up in the region with the funds provided by the Centre only. “The YSRCP leaders are busy in land grabbing while the development of backward Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts has been put on the back burner.The BJP will send a note on the development of the region to the Centre,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-demands-white-paper-on-development-of-n-andhra/article36466011.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New day, fresh start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-day-fresh-start/article36466087.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Circle of life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/circle-of-life/article36465480.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Niloufer Hospital nearing full capacity||The 1400-bed Niloufer Hospital here is almost 90% full with children suffering from viral fevers, bronchitis, pneumonia, dengue, and other illnesses or diseases getting admitted at the State-run tertiary care facility. Doctors said every monsoon, the hospital sees almost 100% bed occupancy. They, however, point out that many who do not have severe infections or diseases are also referred to the hospital dedicated for children. “Children from faraway districts are also referred to our hospital. We admit everyone who comes here even after reaching full capacity. But some private hospitals refer children even if they do not have a serious form of infection. Besides, anxious parents rush their child to hospital when the platelets count drop below 1 lakh, suspecting dengue,” says a paediatrician at the hospital. Some of the little patients admitted for high fever are discharged in a day or two after their temperature comes down. A senior doctor says, apart from seasonal diseases including dengue, the incidence of bronchitis and pneumonia in children increases during monsoon. Given the apprehension regarding children being the worst hit in an impending third wave of COVID-19 pandemic, a separate 400-bed facility was recently added to the hospital. “Only one floor of the new facility is used for COVID patients. The remaining three are filled with children suffering from respiratory issues, and almost all the beds are occupied,” adds the senior doctor. The doctors opine if private hospitals refer the non-severe patients to a nearby District or Area Hospital, only critical cases can be attended at Niloufer Hospital. “When someone travels from Nizamabad or other districts to our hospital in Hyderabad with their child, we cannot send them away even though the patient’s condition is not so severe. We admit them and treat them. But if only severe cases are admitted, we can allot more time to each patient,” the senior doctor avers. As part of the preparations for the possible third wave, paediatric wards were established in some of District and Area Hospitals. In Hyderabad, apart from Niloufer Hospital, paediatricians are posted in District Hospital in King Koti, and a few of the Area Hospitals.  Some private hospitals refer children to us even if they do not have a serious form of infection. A paediatrician, Niloufer Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/niloufer-hospital-nearing-full-capacity/article36465800.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR slams Bandi Sanjay for claim on Central funds||Industries and IT Minister and TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao has faulted State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar for his claims on funds released by the Central government to Telangana. He accused Mr. Sanjay of spreading lies on funds released to the State by the Centre and said that the Centre was in fact “diverting the State’s contribution to the tax pool to BJP-ruled States like Uttar Pradesh”. “Taxpayers’ money is being diverted from Telangana to other States,” he said. He asserted that he was prepared to quit his ministerial post if Mr. Sanjay’s claims were true. “I am prepared to resign as a Minister if Mr. Sanjay can prove his claims. He should substantiate his charges with proofs or else quit from his post,” KTR said. Mr. Rama Rao was addressing a public meeting in Jogulamba Gadwal district on Tuesday, after participating in a series of functions marking the launch of several developmental works in the district being taken up at a cost of Rs. 104 crore. Several Ministers and senior officials toured the district in the recent past to assess the development there and plan works accordingly. He recalled the spree of initiatives such as Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima, Kalyana Lakshmi and KCR Kits, launched by the State government and said that these schemes instilled confidence in people. “The BJP leaders are making tall claims about development by their government, but none of the innovative schemes launched by the government are in operation in BJP-ruled States,” he added. The TRS working president also took potshots at Telangana Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy claiming that the man who was caught red-handed with money bags was criticising the government committed to the welfare of all sections. “Congress has a reputation of denying power to the farm sector and is solely responsible for the backwardness of the erstwhile Mahabubnagar district,” he said. “The steps initiated by the TRS government have ensured that the drought-prone district is fast returning to normalcy and there is reverse migration. Congress is a party without future. But some leaders are under the impression that criticising CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao will enhance their public acceptability,” he said. He took objections to the charges made by former Minister and BJP leader D.K. Aruna against the government. He advised her to instead work for inclusion of Valmiki Boyas in Scheduled Tribes. “The government has forwarded a unanimous resolution passed by the Legislature in this regard and Ms. Aruna should take up the matter with the Central government if she is indeed committed to the development of the community and the district.” KTR also advised farmers to go for alternative crops rather than paddy cultivation as the Food Corporation of India refused to procure it. Farmers should also express their protests against the Centre from different forums, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-slams-bandi-sanjay-for-claim-on-central-funds/article36465830.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seats in core engg. courses down, computer science sees a surge||Core engineering branches saw a decline in number of seats in engineering colleges this year compared to last year with several colleges preferring to cut down the seats in favour of new and specialised courses in the computer science stream. Several colleges reduced their seats even for a top course like electronics and communication engineering (ECE) that used to find favour with toppers five or six years ago. The seats have been reduced from 13,397 to 12,582 this year. A similar trend was noted in other core branches like mechanical engineering, civil engineering and electrical engineering with even top colleges seeking permission for seat reduction in those branches. In the electrical and electronics engineering (EEE) course, seats went down to 6,366 from 6,907 last year. Civil engineering also suffered with 5,766 seats available this year compared to 6,378 last year. Mechanical engineering, once considered a preferred branch for toppers, saw seats being slashed to 5,355 now from 5,980 seats last year. Computer branches On the other hand, computer science engineering (CSE), which has been the first choice of students for the past five years, saw an increase in seats with the colleges seeking additional numbers to accommodate the growing demand. The number increased to 16,801 this year from 16,681 last year. Information Technology (INF) branch, which is considered equivalent to CSE, also saw a slight enhancement in numbers from 4,650 last year to 4,713 this year. Interestingly, niche courses within the CSE stream like Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Data Science and Cyber Security also saw reduction in seats this year, but the numbers were still high compared to other core branches. For example, CSE (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning) has 5,037 seats compared to 5,310 last year; CSE (Data Science) seats were reduced from 3,213 last year to 3,003 this year; CSE (Cyber Security) saw reduction from 1,806 seats to 1,630 seats and CSE (IoT) also has lesser seats at 1,029 from 1,281 last time. B.Tech in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, however, saw a good rise from 168 seats to 420 this year while mining engineering also registered an upsurge to 388 seats from 328 last year. Chemical engineering with 246 seats and aeronautical engineering with 210 seats stayed stable with no change in numbers. Overall, this year, 66,290 seats are on offer in all branches of engineering compared to 69,116 seats last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seats-in-core-engg-courses-down-computer-science-sees-a-surge/article36465810.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Khairatabad idol immersion, a challenge||GHMC has found itself in a tight spot with regard to immersion of the mammoth Ganesh idol from Khairatabad, following the Telangana High Court’s refusal to allow immersion in Hussainsagar. While the government has reportedly appealed to the Supreme Court for revision of the High Court’s directions not to immerse the idols made of plaster of Paris (PoP) in the city’s lakes, authorities are clueless about the outcome of the appeal. One apprehension is that the apex court may not pay heed to the government’s request, as any direction in favour of immersion in Hussainsagar could have ramifications across the country, even in cities where the governments could successfully replace clay idols with PoP. As per the information received up to Tuesday evening, the special leave petition by the GHMC Commissioner is yet to be admitted by the Supreme Court. As the customary ninth day, when majority of the idols will be immersed is only four days away, the government has not made public any alternative arrangements. Based on the High Court’s directions, the baby pond created near the Sanjeevaiah Park on the Necklace Road should be the immersion site for all idols arriving at Hussainsagar. The baby pond, however, is 60 feet in width and only 15 to 20 feet in depth, and it could be a herculean task to drown the 40-foot standing ‘Panchamukha Ganapati’ of Khairatabad in it. “The idol wouldn’t be drowned completely in the proper lake. How can we ensure immersion in baby pond?” questions an official throwing up his hands in despair. The HC order allows for an escape clause though, by prohibiting the immersion only in city lakes. The ban is not applicable to lakes outside the city within the purview of HMDA. However, not many are enthused by the gap in the judgement, as it could prove to be an onerous task. For one, the procession needs to avoid all routes of the Hyderabad Metro Rail, to prevent collision of the idol with the stations. “It will be a long distance for the procession to reach any lake outside the city. We are waiting for directions from the apex court, based on which a decision will be taken,” said Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, whom the Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samiti representatives met on Tuesday. The Samiti members, however, are unfazed. They are adamant that the immersion would be carried out from the regular spot in the lake like every year. “The immersion will happen at the same place as last year. High Court directions are to the respondents in the contempt case, not to us. We will go ahead with the immersion, and have requested the government to make arrangements for the same,” said Bhagavanth Rao, General Secretary of the Samiti, when contacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khairatabad-idol-immersion-turns-a-challenge/article36465816.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sanjay blames KCR for farmer suicides in State||Telangana BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao own up responsibility for the suicide of five farmers and also apologise to the farming community for causing them distress due to his directive to go for crops other than paddy in the next season. “Mr. Rao has caused so much heartburn to the scared farmers with this latest directive that they are resorting to the extreme step. Why is he reluctant to implement the Centre’s farm insurance programme to help the farmers in distress? People should question the TRS leaders about this,” he said, during a public meeting in Medak on the 18th day of ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ on Tuesday. The plight of the farmers in the district and throughout his tour has caused much anguish to him, he claimed and charged the government of being apathetic to the various problems being faced by them. “The Chief Minister did not even bother to meet the Union Minister of State for Agriculture Sobha Karandjale when she wanted to discuss farmers’ issues, how can they say she praised the government?” he asked. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured to help Telangana State, Mr. Rao has been carrying a disinformation campaign against the Centre, he alleged and claimed that the government has no idea about what to do with the bumper harvests due to the copious rains. His ongoing programme was an effort to understand the people’s woes, he said. Later, addressing a press conference, Mr. Sanjay Kumar criticised Mr. Rao for not commemorating the ‘Sakala Januma Samme’ taken up during the agitation for separate State when people from all walks of life joined the protest. “He did not utter a single word about the mass strike on the 10th anniversary. The contribution of employees and others towards the success of the agitation has been forgotten even as the first family had benefited the most,” he claimed. The government has stopped issuing job notifications, recruitments, promotions or transfers with the the promised pay hike also kept on the back burner. Particularly raising the TSRTC plight, he charged the government of having utilised hundreds of crores belonging to the corporation and trying to sell off the properties. The BJP chief said he was ready to resign from his post if Mr. Rao too did the same for having failed to fulfil any of the election eve promises to the people. Senior BJP leaders Babu Mohan, M. Raghunandan Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sanjay-blames-kcr-for-farmer-suicides-in-state/article36465827.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Small spike in coronavirus cases in Greater Hyderabad||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) region recorded a small spike in COVID-19 cases. Usually, around 75-80 cases are recorded in the municipal corporation limits, which also contributes the maximum number of cases to the State’s infection tally almost every day. On Tuesday, however, 96 new infections were detected. GHMC region includes Hyderabad, and some parts of Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri. Of all the districts, the highest number of people with coronavirus are detected in urban localities. On the whole, Telangana recorded 336 new cases of coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the total to 6,62,202. While 76,481 samples were put to test, results of 2,015 were awaited. One more COVID patient died. With this, the death toll has reached 3,898. Besides the 96 cases in GHMC region, the new 336 infections included 24 each from Warangal Urban and Rangareddy, 23 from Nalgonda, 21 from Karimnagar and 20 from Khammam. The State had a total of 5,282 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/small-spike-in-covid-cases-in-ghmc-region/article36465802.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rajbhasha Kirti Puraskar for Bharat Dynamics CMD||Union Home Minister Amit Shah presented the Rajbhasha Kirti Puraskar (first place) to the chairman and managing director of Bharat Dynamics Limited and TOLIC chairman Commodore Siddharth Mishra (retired) for the best implementation of Official Language among member organisations of Town Official Language Implementation Committee of PSUs (TOLIC), Hyderabad, for 2019-20 under Region ‘C’. The Rajbhasha Kirti Puraskar, consisting of Rajbhasha Kirti Shield, was presented on Tuesday on the occasion of Hindi Diwas at a glittering ceremony held at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi. The TOLIC, Hyderabad, under the chairmanship of CMD-BDL has been bestowed with Rajbhasha Award at National Level for the fourth time for the best implementation of Official Language among member organisations comprising public sector undertakings in Hyderabad and Secunderabad. Hindi fortnight Hindi Pakhwada (Hindi fortnight) was celebrated at the Food Corporation of India, Regional Office, Hyderabad. The fortnight-long celebrations, which commenced on September 1, concluded on Tuesday at the HACA Bhavan campus of FCI here to coincide with the Rashtriya Hindi Diwas celebrated every year on this day. Panel meet at SCR Zonal Official Language Implementation Committee meeting was organised through video conference at South Central Railway (SCR) headquarters on Tuesday as part of Hindi Diwas celebration. The meeting was presided over SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya. All the principal heads of departments and officials of Divisions and Eorkshops participated in this meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rajbhasha-kirti-puraskar-for-bharat-dynamics-cmd/article36465804.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Options explored to recover HMRL: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said on Tuesday that the government was exploring options to help Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR), which incurred losses after the COVID pandemic. KCR gave this assurance to Metro Rail authorities who called on him at Pragati Bhavan on Tuesday to discuss the financial situation of the corporation and seek the government’s help. HMRL officials spoke about the financial loss and interest burden that was accumulating due to losses incurred on account of the pandemic and sought the government to come to the rescue of the corporation. The Chief Minister lauded the HMRL for being recognised as a safe mass transport facility in a short period of time and said that the corporation too, suffered like various other sectors due to COVID. “There is an imminent need for Metro services for a fast growing city like Hyderabad and steps should be taken to expand the network in the coming days,” he said. “It was unfortunate that HMRL plunged into losses due to the pandemic and was forced to bear the interest burden on account of the losses incurred. The government would take all necessary measures to ensure that the corporation’s financial situation returned to normalcy. Accordingly, steps would be taken to explore ways that would benefit the HMRL and the government would examine the possible steps that could revive the corporation’s financial situation,” he added. There was need to think about innovative ways in the difficult times. The government at the same time would also focus on expanding the network to uncovered areas keeping in view the needs of the people. It was therefore decided to constitute a high-power committee to discuss about the modalities to examine the situation and suggest steps to revive the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/options-explored-to-recover-metro-rail/article36465833.ece
15 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM can’t betray farmers on paddy: Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party leader and MLA Bhatti Vikramarka found fault with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao asking farmers to refrain from paddy cultivation after boasting about his government’s commitment to farmers and said it has made the farmers apprehensive. He said it was not proper on the part of the CM “to send a veiled threat to farmers” saying the government would not buy paddy in the Kharif season and asked him to issue a clarification as farmers were agitated. “If the Central government has refused to buy paddy, KCR cannot leave farmers in the lurch and instead, should come to their rescue by improving the marketing structure.” He said governments in combined Andhra Pradesh never instilled such fears among the farmers, but helped them when they were in distress. Paddy cultivation has increased due to projects taken up by the Congress government in the combined State. Misrepresented Stating that the views expressed by him at the Chief Minister’s review meeting on Dalit Bandhu were misrepresented by the Chief Minister’s Office, he said as the representative of the Congress he had demanded its implementation in all the constituencies and sought the government’s plan on it. “The Chief Minister’s PR office seems to have thought it was also the PR wing of the Congress Legislature Party and misrepresented the facts.” He said Congress has several doubts on the implementation of the scheme and also the sincerity. “We have asked them how do they wish to cover 17 lakh Dalit families and how much money would be allocated every year. Similarly, we wanted it to be implemented for Scheduled Tribes and economically backward people in other castes,” he said. Mr. Vikramarka said he had also sought clarification on whether the amount could be used for two or three different businesses or just one. “Will it be a one-time payment was another doubt. To clear these doubts, the party also demanded that the Assembly session be convened for a serious discussion. Congress also demanded that Ambedkar’s statue should be installed at the same place in Punjagutta from where it was removed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-cant-betray-farmers-on-paddy-bhatti/article36465834.ece
15 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No drug culture in State: TRS||Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) refuted the allegations of growing drug culture in Telangana and said that Congress should check the situation in Punjab, ruled by it, before making baseless allegations. At a press conference here on Tuesday, Armoor MLA Jeevan Reddy and MLC Mallesham condemned the allegations made by TPCC president Revanth Reddy during his visit to console the rape victim’s family in Singareni Colony. Mr. Jeevan Reddy said that the rape and murder of the six-year-old was unfortunate and the government was committed to catch the accused and punish him. “For every issue, the Chief Minister need not visit and on his directions, the District Collector was helping the family,” he said. Alleging that Mr. Revanth Reddy was used to blackmailing people, he said that even the police were not spared by him. “While KCR and KTR are brand ambassadors of development, Revanth is the ambassador for blackmailing,” he charged. “Law and order in Telangana is the best in the country,” he claimed, while refuting the charges that the police were arresting protesters and not criminals. Mr. Jeevan Reddy also took a dig at TS BJP president Bandi Sanjay claiming that his walkathon was a ‘flop’ and “people from other districts were being brought to give an impression that he received public support”. He challenged both Revanth and Sanjay for an open debate on development in TS compared to other States. He asked Mr. Sanjay to get additional funds for Telangana from the Centre rather than “spewing venom on the State”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-drug-culture-in-state-trs/article36465836.ece
15 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BITS-Pilani students bag big pre-placement offers||A surge in hiring in the IT segment owing to increased demand in networking, cyber security, cloud connectivity and data science spaces saw robust pre-placement offers (PPOs) and internships for students of Birla Institute of Technological Sciences (BITS) Pilani, Hyderabad and Goa campuses this year. Hirings The pre-placement season for 2021 hiring began this month and the three BITS campuses received PPOs from companies such as Microsoft, DE Shaw, Google, Uber, Cisco, Adobe, Salesforce, Amazon, ServiceNow, Oracle and Flipkart in the IT segment, all of which hired aggressively, according to Balasubramanian Gurumurthy, chief placement officer, BITS Pilani. General industry trend is likely to be on similar lines with the IT industry looking to hire aggressively this year despite the pandemic. Chipset makers such as Qualcomm, NVIDIA, Micron and Western Digital were also on a hiring spree while the FMCG sector saw Hindustan Unilever and Mondelez hiring interns from campus, with Exxon Mobil and Honeywell also making offers for core mechanical and chemical profiles. Summer internship A total of 497 students were able to secure the opportunity for a summer internship at various companies, of which 357 students (71.83%) secured a full-time offer from their companies. In the 2021 hiring season, 409 students secured summer internships and 287 secured PPOs. The average salary also saw a 6.2% growth at Rs. 28.99 lakh per annum versus Rs. 26.29 lakh the previous year in terms of summer internship PPO. Companies hosted There is also a massive increase in the number of companies hosted, with 87 companies as opposed to 46 last year — an increase of 89.13% in the same time frame. Correspondingly, the number of students placed has also seen a huge increase by 65.25% (975 for 2022 as compared to 590 for 2021) so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bits-pilani-students-bag-big-pre-placement-offers/article36465808.ece
15 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||International Mathematics Conference at Stanley from today||Stanley College of Engineering and Technology for Women is organising an international conference on “Applied Mathematics, Modelling and Simulation in Engineering (AMSE-2021)” on September 15 and 16 wherein delegates from various countries including Singapore are participating. Yue Yean Feng, Asia Pacific Leader, IBM Global University Programmes, Singapore, Xinguo Yu of Central China Normal University and Dac Nhuong Le of Haiphong University, Vietnam, will be the guests of honour for the two-day international confernece, according to K. Krishna Rao, Secretary of the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/global-meet-on-mathematics/article36465822.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||28 baby ponds built||GHMC has constructed a total of 28 baby ponds within various lakes which had served as immersion sites across the city, for immersion of idols and offerings during festivities such as Ganesh Chathurthi, Dasara, and Bathukamma. The measure is intended to protect the lake from pollution by plaster of Paris and synthetic colours used in the making of the idols. Cities such as Bengaluru have initiated the concept of baby ponds, which is also mentioned in the Central Pollution Control Board guidelines for idol immersion. Idols and offerings in the form of garlands and foliage immersed into these ponds are immediately taken out, to be sent off to the landfill in Jawaharnagar. The ponds are cleaned and sprayed so as to prevent mosquito breeding. Authorities claim that the ponds are drained post immersion and filled with fresh water. from the lake. However, in most cases, it does not happen, and the polluted water ends up in the lake eventually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/28-baby-ponds-constructed/article36465817.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Housewife ends life||A 23-year-old homemaker committed suicide, Narsingi police said on Tuesday. The victim was identified as Revathi. She hailed from Naskal village in Vikarabad district. According to the police, the victim fell in love with Rahul. They got married seven months ago. They were unable to find employment in Pargi. This led them to move to Narsingi area around a month ago. “Rahul works in Patancheru. He left for work in the morning. Later, he called the victim on her phone several times, but she did not answer. He felt that something was wrong so he asked his acquaintance Ramesh to check. The victim was found hanging in her house,” Narsingi Sub-inspector of Police Balram said. He added that the police spoke to the victim’s parents who told them that Rahul did not allow the victim to visit them. “We booked a case under 174 of the CrPC,” he said.  (Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/housewife-ends-life/article36466048.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Food-grade plastic recycling facility commissioned||Plastic recycling and waste management firm Srichakra Polyplast on Tuesday said it has commissioned an upgraded food-grade plastic recycling facility and a new polyolefins recycling unit, near Hyderabad, with an investment of over $10 million. While the upgraded facility is the first of its kind in the country to produce food-grade quality recycled polyethylene terephthalate (PET) pellets, the polyolefins recycling facility will produce deodorised bottle-to-bottle grade quality polyolefin pellets. The company said with the investment recycling capabilities had been strengthened, thus enabling supply of highest grade recycled plastic to customers in India as well as Europe and the U.S. Founded in 2010, the company makes PET and olefin flakes and granules from plastic waste. It is a major supplier to the packaging industry. CEO and co-founder Ravindra Venkata said Srichakra is focused on using leading-edge technology to create reliable, high-quality materials that help brand owners reduce use of virgin plastic. On the back of technology sourced from Starlinger, a leading technology provider for high quality plastic recycling globally, the company said it is poised to become the largest solid state polymerised (SSP) PET processor in the country. “The technology we have commissioned for operation today not only enables us to produce food-grade quality recycled plastic for customers, but also gives locally-sourced plastic a new life, preventing it from entering the environment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/food-grade-plastic-recycling-unit-commissioned/article36465805.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Promoting veganism on Kilimanjaro||A team of five climbed Africa’s highest mountain peak, Kilimanjaro, a few days ago to propagate the concept of veganism. City-based journalist Sarada and her team reached the 19,340-foot mountain peak on September 10, informed a press release. She turned vegan after learning about the torture that bovine animals undergo for the sake of milk and its by-products, meat, leather and wool. Veganism aids in a better environment since it helps in reducing carbon emissions, ensures better land and water management. “I urge everyone to turn vegan. It isn’t that difficult. One need not quit everything at once. One step at a time can make a big difference,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/promoting-veganism-on-kilimanjaro-peak/article36465807.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 10-lakh reward announced||Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Tuesday announced a reward of Rs. 10 lakh for information leading to arrest of Pallakonda Raju, who is accused of raping and murdering a six-year-old girl. Police released his photograph and said that he was 30 years old. They also released a description and pointed out that both his hands had tattoos which read ‘Mounika’. He is about 5 feet 9 inches tall, has long hair which is tied at the back with a rubber band. He is habituated to sleeping on pavements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-10-lakh-reward-announced/article36465819.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet meet tomorrow, call on monsoon session likely||The State Cabinet is scheduled to meet under the chairmanship of CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday. The CM has convened the meeting to discuss various issues, including convening of the monsoon session of the Legislature. The Legislature, which was adjourned in March last week after the passage of the Appropriation Bill marking the conclusion of the budget session, should be convened within six months before September last week. The Cabinet is likely to discuss issues that could be raised by the Opposition during the monsoon session. Mr. Rao is expected to guide the Ministers about effectively replying to Opposition charges to ensure that a proper message about the government’s commitment to the welfare of the State goes to people. The Cabinet is expected to discuss modalities related to Dalit Bandhu. The CM had conducted a preparatory meeting for officials and elected representatives on Monday. Guidelines pertaining to the selection of beneficiaries, units proposed to be established by them and procedures that should be adopted by the administration for sanction of funds to beneficiaries are expected to figure in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cabinet-meet-tomorrow-call-on-monsoon-session-likely/article36465831.ece
15 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Varsity ranking due to research scope’||SR University, Warangal, has been placed at the 134th rank in the engineering category at the all India level in the National Institutional Ranking Framework rankings. Chancellor A Varada Reddy said their effort to upskill the students for enhancing employment opportunities paid off. Vice-Chancellor GRC Reddy said the SR Innovation Exchange facilitated research opportunities to students and faculty. This resulted in over 50 patents and 2,000 research articles helping the institution get a good rank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/varsitys-good-rank-is-due-to-research-scope/article36465811.ece
15 September 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 2/3 Biometric token to ease journey general passengers||A biometric token system for hassle-free seat distribution for general ticket holders was launched at Secunderabad railway station by Inspector General cum Principal Chief Security Commissioner, Railway Protection Force, G. Easwar Rao on Tuesday. The machine records passenger information such as name, train number, finger print and photograph, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-23-biometric-token-to-ease-journey-general-passengers/article36465813.ece
15 September 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Award for NMDC||Mining major NMDC was presented with the Rajbhasha Keerthi Puraskar at the Rajbhasha Diwas Samaroh in New Delhi on Tuesday. The company in a release said it secured the third prize in the category of Undertakings situated in “C” region for 2019-20. Ministers of State for Home Nishith Pramanik and Ajay Kumar Mishra presented the award, which was received by Executive Director (Corporate Affairs) Shiva Shanmuganathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/award-for-nmdc/article36465821.ece
15 September 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three pubs seized||Hyderabad district administration, in conjunction with the Panjagutta police, on Tuesday seized three pubs operating near the Begumpet Metro Station, police said. According to the Panjagutta police inspector M Niranjan Reddy, the pubs that were seized are Lisbon Restrobar, High Fi, and Purple Hazee. Police said that they were allegedly creating nuisance and indulging in obscenity. “There were around 15 cases booked under Sections 294 and 370 of the IPC (Indian Penal Code), for nuisance and obscenity. A letter was written to the Special Executive Magistrate and the in the presence of revenue officials, we have seized the property,” Mr Reddy said, adding that the pubs were tenants of the Country Club, which was not connected to the case. The pubs are situated in Khairtabad mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-pubs-near-metro-station-seized/article36465818.ece
15 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ORR displaced to get plots||HMDA will conduct a draw of lots on Wednesday to allot plots for the displaced families that had lost their land to the construction of Outer Ring Road (ORR). A statement from the HMDA informed that a total of 17 families will be allotted plots through a draw of lots to be held at the office of the Hyderabad Growth Corridor Limited at Nanakramguda. Of the 160 affected families, 133 have already been allotted plots. Of the remaining, 17 families will be given the same on Wednesday. The plots to be allotted are in Srinagar village of Maheshwaram mandal in Ranga Reddy district, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/orr-displaced-to-get-plots/article36465828.ece
15 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man gets life imprisonment for murdering colleague||A local court awarded life imprisonment to a 33-year-old man for murdering his colleague. Mukunda Randhari from Binjilli in Odisha, who was a centering worker at a construction site at Budda Nagar, murdered his colleague Jayaram, also from Odisha. According to the police, the duo’s employer P. Sudhakar had given Jayaram Rs. 14,000 to meet his needs due to the lockdown, even as he instructed him to give Mukunda his share of money. However, the victim used the entire amount for his needs. This enraged Mukunda who picked up a fight with the victim and hit him on his head with an iron rod on May 8, 2020. Jayaram was moved to OGH but died the next day. XIII ADJ Court Judge M. Srinivasa Charry sentenced Mukunda to life and imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-gets-life-imprisonment-for-murdering-colleague/article36465837.ece
15 September 2021||KADAPA,TELANGANA||Kadapa woman rescued in Delhi||The ‘Disha’ mobile app has once again come to the rescue of a woman in distress, this time in the national capital of New Delhi. Aspiring to be a teacher, the middle-aged woman Meenakshi (name changed) boarded a train alone from Vijayawada to New Delhi on September 10 for writing a qualification test. She reportedly befriended a couple on the train, who upon reaching the destination hired an autorickshaw for her. However, she later found that the couple allegedly had a nexus with the driver and handpicked the cab, ostensibly with a malafide intention to rob her. “Sensing trouble, she rang up her New Delhi-based friend and connected the driver, who too found his ‘coded’ conversation strange and alerted her to alight the vehicle. It was then she snatched back her mobile phone, got down from the vehicle and pressed the SOS button on the Disha app,” Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan told the media on Tuesday. Responding to the SOS, a police official in the Deputy Superintendent cadre contacted Meenakshi and guided her to reach the examination centre with the help of a Delhi-based NGO ‘Mission Mukthi Foundation’. The woman finally boarded the Swarna Jayanti Express at H. Nizamuddin station, reached Vijayawada and finally to her home district of Kadapa on Monday night. While she thanked the police department for the ‘timely help’, Mr. Anburajan dubbed the Disha app a ‘lethal weapon’ in the hands of those in distress and appealed to women to download it on their mobiles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/disha-app-to-the-rescue-of-kadapa-woman-in-delhi/article36465997.ece
15 September 2021||CHENNAI,||HC revokes order on insurance policy for new motor vehicles||The Madras High Court has withdrawn an order passed by it last month directing the State government to ensure that all new motor vehicles get bumper-to-bumper insurance cover along with coverage for driver, owner, passengers and third parties for a period of five years. Justice S. Vaidyanathan withdrew his order after Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA), General Insurance Council (GIC) and Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) said it might not be logistically and economically feasible for effective implementation in the present legal dispensation. The court was told that its direction would have unintended impact, causing severe repercussions on the society and therefore it must be withdrawn in the interest of policyholders, automobile industry and the public at large. It was brought to the notice of the court that the issue of long-term third-party insurance coverage had been mandated by the Supreme Court as early as September 2018 and IRDAI had been periodically monitoring the changing scenario from time to time and hence there was no need for issuance of such directions. Counsel M.B. Raghavan, V. Arun Kumar and N. Vijayaraghavan representing Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority, General Insurance Council and Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers respectively told the court that the anxiety expressed by the court with respect to protective coverage to uninsured innocent victims, such as gratuitous occupants in a private car and pillion riders would be duly taken care. “Considering the overall submissions... this court feels that the direction issued by this court may not be conducive and suitable for implementation in the current situation. Therefore, the said direction in paragraph is hereby withdrawn for the present,” the judge wrote. He also said: “This court hopes and trusts that law makers will look into this aspect and examine the need for suitable amendment in the Motor Vehicles Act relating to wide coverage of vehicles so as to protect the innocent victims. In view of withdrawal of the direction regarding bumper-to-bumper policy, the circular dated August 31, 2021 issued by the Joint Transport Commissioner, Chennai also stands cancelled.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-revokes-order-on-insurance-policy-for-new-motor-vehicles/article36465620.ece
15 September 2021||Geneva,||Envoy urges UN to probe Taliban abuses||An Afghan Ambassador appointed by the Kabul government that collapsed last month called on Tuesday for the UN to immediately launch an investigation into alleged abuses by the new Taliban authorities. Speaking before the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, Nasir Ahmad Andisha stressed the need for international scrutiny of alleged violations since the Taliban takeover on August 15, particularly those concerning the rights of women and girls. “Today, the world cannot and should not be silent as millions fear for their life and human rights, and humanitarian crises are unfolding in the country,” Mr. Andisha said. He urged the UN’s top rights body to “immediately dispatch a fact-finding mission to investigate and document abuse of human rights,” including in Panjshir Valley, the last pocket of resistance to the Taliban’s rapid takeover as U.S. troops withdrew. Mr. Andisha, who was appointed by former President Ashraf Ghani’s administration, remains the country’s representative to the UN in Geneva since the new authorities have not yet requested a change. He had appealed during a special council session on Afghanistan on August 24 for the UN’s top rights body to establish an international fact-finding mission to investigate alleged violations, and voiced disappointment when it failed to do so. UN rights chief Michelle Bachelet and the EU have also urged the council to establish a mechanism for monitoring and documenting rights abuses in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/envoy-urges-un-to-probe-taliban-abuses/article36465408.ece
15 September 2021||London,||Britain delays full post-Brexit border checks from EU||Britain on Tuesday said it would push back its implementation of full post-Brexit borders checks on goods from the European Union, as the pandemic, red tape and new immigration rules fuel supply problems. Plans to introduce full controls in areas such as the import of food and animal products had been due from next month but would now start from January next year under a “pragmatic new timetable”, Downing Street said. Britain will still introduce full customs declarations and controls on January 1, 2022, as planned. Certification and physical checks on food and animal goods designed to protect against diseases, pests and contaminants — due to be introduced on January 1 — will now be introduced in July 2022. Requirements for Safety and Security declarations will be also be pushed back to July. “We want businesses to focus on their recovery from the pandemic rather than have to deal with new requirements at the border, which is why we’ve set out a pragmatic new timetable for introducing full border controls,” said Minister David Frost. “Businesses will now have more time to prepare for these controls which will be phased in throughout 2022. The pandemic and the effects of leaving the EU single market have left Britain short of truck drivers, causing supply problems, particularly in the food and drink sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/britain-delays-full-post-brexit-border-checks-from-eu/article36465418.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Sri Lanka slams ‘external initiatives’ at HRC||Sri Lanka on Tuesday said it rejects “any external initiatives” established by UN mechanisms, envisaged in the resolution adopted by the Human Rights Council in March, claiming that domestic processes are “vigorously addressing” questions of accountability and justice lingering from the civil war years. The March 2021 UN resolution on Sri Lanka, adopted with 22 of the 47 member-states of Council backing it, underscored the “persistent lack of accountability of domestic mechanisms”, and decided to strengthen the capacity of the Office of the High Commissioner to “collect, consolidate, analyse, and preserve” information and evidence and to develop strategies for future accountability processes for gross violations of human rights and international humanitarian law in Sri Lanka. Delivering a statement a day after the UN Human Rights Chief’s oral update on Sri Lanka, in which she sought “close attention” on, and “concrete actions” from Sri Lanka, Foreign Minister G.L. Peiris said external initiatives “will polarise our society”. “The Council must adhere to its founding principles. External initiatives embarked upon without the cooperation of the country concerned cannot achieve their stated goals, and will be subject to politicisation,” he noted, adding that Sri Lanka is “committed to achieving tangible progress on the entire range of issues” relating to accountability, reconciliation, human rights, peace and sustainable development. Govt. initiatives The Minister further outlined initiatives taken by the Rajapaksa administration, in regard to enforced disappearances, reparations, reconciliation efforts and institutional reform. Survivors of the country’s 30-year-long civil war have repeatedly stated that the existing domestic mechanisms are yet to inspire faith, or deliver on past promises on truth, accountability and justice. Minister Peiris also pointed to a Cabinet sub-committee tasked with evaluation and possible reform of the country’s anti-terrorism law, widely criticised as “draconian”. In her oral update on Monday, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet sought “an immediate moratorium” on the use of the Act, and “a clear timeline” for its comprehensive review or repeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-slams-external-initiatives-at-hrc/article36465410.ece
15 September 2021||Long Beach,||Biden makes push for California Governor||California Democratic Governor Gavin Newsom ended his campaign to retain his job in a recall election with a final push from President Joe Biden, who warned that the outcome of the contest could shape the country’s direction on the pandemic, reproductive rights and the battle to slow climate change. The Democrat who defeated Republican President Donald Trump less than a year ago said that the issues that defined the 2020 race had been resurrected in California, with potentially disastrous results if Newsom is removed in the election that ends Tuesday. Speaking to hundreds of supporters during a rally in the Long Beach, Mr. Biden referred to the leading Republican candidate Larry Elder as “the clone of Donald Trump.” “Can you imagine him being Governor of this State?” Mr. Biden asked, as the crowd responded with shouts of “No, no!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-makes-push-for-california-governor/article36465411.ece
15 September 2021||Singapore,||Chinese FM in Singapore in pushback against U.S.||China’s Foreign Minister held talks with Singaporean leader Lee Hsien Loong on Tuesday during a Southeast Asian tour seen as a pushback against Washington’s efforts to reassert its influence in the region. In recent weeks, both U.S. Vice-President Kamala Harris and Pentagon chief Lloyd Austin have visited the city-state and strongly criticised Beijing’s growing aggression in Asia. The trips were part of efforts by the new U.S. administration to reset relations in the region after the turbulent Donald Trump era, and build a bulwark against China’s rising might. Foreign Minister Wang Yi had also had stops in Vietnam and Cambodia on his trip — both countries visited by senior U.S. officials in recent months. On Tuesday, he held talks with Singaporean PM Lee, who said the pair had a “productive and candid discussion on global and regional developments”. Southeast Asia is an important battleground for influence for the world’s two biggest economies at a time when Beijing is challenging U.S.’ political sway and naval dominance in the region. Singapore, which has strong security ties with U.S. and vibrant economic ties with Beijing, has said countries should not be made to choose between China and the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-fm-in-singapore-in-pushback-against-us/article36465412.ece
15 September 2021||Hong Kong,||HK national security law to cover more offences||Hong Kong will create a host of new national security offences, a senior official confirmed on Tuesday, building on a law Beijing imposed last year that has criminalised much dissent and transformed the city. Chris Tang, a former police chief promoted to security secretary this year, said officials had started working on local legislation that would define new crimes under the security law. “We hope to complete it within the next term of legislature and we will consult with the public,” Mr. Tang told the pro-Beijing Ta Kung Pao newspaper in a front-page report published on Tuesday. In a separate interview with Sing Tao Daily , another pro-Beijing media outlet, Mr. Tang said officials were studying ongoing national security trials to guide their new legislation. “We didn’t pay much attention to espionage activities in the past and now we are studying whether we need to regulate that,” Tang said. China imposed a sweeping national security law on Hong Kong last year in response to huge and often violent democracy protests. The law targets any act deemed subversion, secession, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces. It has been overwhelmingly deployed against people expressing certain political views and has remoulded the once freewheeling city in China’s own authoritarian image. Article 23 The new security law will be directed by Article 23 of Hong Kong’s mini-constitution, Mr. Tang confirmed. Article 23 calls for Hong Kong to pass its own national security legislation after the 1997 handover to China. An attempt to do so in 2003 sparked huge protests and concerns that Hong Kong would lose its unique freedoms. The legislation was shelved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hk-national-security-law-to-cover-more-offences/article36465413.ece
15 September 2021||Copenhagen,||Talks begin to form Norway coalition govt.||A day after winning Norway’s general election, left-wing parties on Tuesday kicked off thorny talks to form a government replacing the centre-right in power for eight years. Jonas Gahr Store, who is set to become the next Prime Minister, is expected to try to build a three-party coalition with his Labour Party, the Centre Party and Socialist Left. The trio won an absolute majority with 89 of 169 seats in Parliament, unseating a centre-right coalition headed by Conservative Prime Minister Erna Solberg. But the path to form a government was not simple for Store. “Our Plan A is still the same,” he told reporters on Tuesday. “It’s a majority government with the Centre and Socialist Left parties.” The 61-year-old multimillionaire, who campaigned against social inequalities, said he had had initial contacts with the leaders of the two parties on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/talks-begin-to-form-norway-coalition-govt/article36465493.ece
15 September 2021||Kabul,||Taliban thank world for aid, urge U.S. to show ‘heart’||The Taliban on Tuesday thanked the world for pledging hundreds of millions of dollars in emergency aid to Afghanistan, and urged the U.S. to show “heart” to the impoverished country. A donor conference in Geneva on Monday saw countries promise a total of $1.2 billion in aid for Afghanistan. Amir Khan Muttaqi, the regime’s acting Foreign Minister, told a press conference the Taliban would spend donor money wisely and use it to alleviate poverty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-thank-world-for-aid-urge-us-to-show-heart/article36465416.ece
15 September 2021||Damascus,||‘Foreign troops presence in Syria illegal’||Russian President Vladimir Putin criticised the presence of foreign troops in Syria, saying they are there against the will of the Syrian government and are blocking the consolidation of the war-torn country, the Kremlin said on Tuesday. Mr. Putin was referring to hundreds of U.S. troops stationed in eastern Syria and working with Kurdish-led fighters in battling the Islamic State group, as well as Turkish forces in northern Syria. Speaking during a rare meeting in Moscow on Monday night with his Syrian counterpart Bashar Assad, he said the presence of the foreigners is illegal because they don’t have permission to be there from the UN or Syria’s government. Russia joined Syria’s 10-year conflict in September 2015, when the Syrian military appeared close to collapse, and has since helped in tipping the balance of power in favour of Mr. Assad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/foreign-troops-presence-in-syria-illegal/article36465415.ece
15 September 2021||London,||Indian-origin Sahota out of Booker race||The 2021 Booker Prize shortlist, unveiled in London on Tuesday, includes six finalists, with an equal male-female author split. Indian-origin British novelist Sunjeev Sahota, who had made to the longlist with his China Room , missed out in the final running. Sri Lankan Tamil author Anuk Arudpragasam made the cut with A Passage North ; South African author Damon Galgut for The Promise ; Americans Patricia Lockdwood for No One is Talking About this , Richard Powers for Bewilderment , and Maggie Shipstead for Great Circle ; and British-Somali author Nadifa Mohamed The Fortune M en .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indian-origin-sahota-out-of-booker-race/article36465494.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Afghanistan — the shape of things to come||The new Taliban regime and its mentors in Pakistan require considerable luck to govern Afghanistan successfully. This will not be as easy as their rapid military victories. The regime has defined itself narrowly, and its embrace of extremist personalities does not inspire confidence with either the Afghan people or the international community. Afghanistan is a diverse, independence-loving country, proud of its inheritance and sovereignty. Its spirit has always been republican. Efforts to control it from the outside have failed invariably. The Pakistan connection Pakistan nurtured and shaped the Taliban. It has been no surprise, therefore, that the Pakistan Army’s logistics and advice aided the Taliban’s march to Kabul. Pakistan’s special forces, attack helicopters, and drones were crucial in tipping the balance against the National Resistance Front in Panjshir. The head of the Pakistan Army’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed, visited Kabul in the full glare of publicity to underline Pakistan’s ownership of the Taliban’s ascent in Afghanistan, inviting spontaneous protests across Afghanistan. Lt. Gen. Hameed achieved two out of his three objectives: to ensure that the newly formed Taliban government included proxies of Pakistan, including four members of the Haqqani Network that is close to the ISI, and that Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, the Taliban’s most benign face and former front-runner for the job of head of government, did not get that position (amid rumours on social media of his death, he has released an audio statement saying that he is alive). While Lt. Gen. Hameed may have achieved Pakistan’s goal of keeping Mullah Baradar out of policy-making in Afghanistan, by sidelining him and promoting the interests of the Haqqani Network, the resulting all-male and Pushtun-dominated Taliban government will make it harder for Pakistan to solicit international recognition and assistance for the fledgling government. In fact, the Taliban government is a veritable who’s who of terrorism. Many of its members feature on the terrorist list of the United Nations 1267 Sanctions Committee and the European Union’s list of terrorists subject to restrictive measures. The detention centre of the United States, in Guantanamo Bay, created a sense of solidarity amongst the Taliban leaders incarcerated there, four of whom are now in senior positions within the Taliban cabinet. The new Interior Minister, Khalifa Sirajuddin Haqqani, head of the Haqqani Network, has an unrevoked Rewards For Justice Program, United States Department of State bounty of $10 million on him, while his uncle, the Refugee and Repatriation Minister, Khalil-ur-Rahman Haqqani, earlier nominated as Kabul’s security chief, has a bounty of $5 million. The Haqqani Network was responsible for the bombing of the Indian Embassy in Kabul in July 2008, killing India’s Defence Attaché and its Political Counsellor. Unresolved factionalism The Taliban’s politics are characterised by intense factionalism and a lack of consensus. The Taliban spokesperson, Zabihullah Mujahid, describes the Taliban government as an interim one, perhaps to signal hope for a more accommodative regime in the future. This is unlikely, as indeed are any concessions for the participation of women in governance or the restitution of human rights. Mujahid spoke of protecting the rights of minorities and the underprivileged. Yet, there is not a single woman or a Hazara in the Taliban cabinet, which is packed with hardliners. The intense partisan rivalries and manoeuvring for the division of spoils were visible from the manner that the forces of different Taliban factions raced to occupy important vantage points in Kabul. The respective heads of the Taliban’s military commissions in eastern and western Afghanistan, Qayyum Zakir and Sadr Ibrahim, occupied the defence and interior ministries. They were quickly named the acting defence and interior ministers. This has since been overturned. The new defence minister is Maulawi Yaqoob, the son of the Taliban’s former Ameer-ul-Momineen, Mullah Omer. Khalifa Siraj as the new interior minister has oversight over the appointment of governors. Mullah Baradar has been neutralised by appointing two other Kandaharis: Mullah Mohammad Hassan Akhund as head of government, and Amir Khan Muttaqi as foreign minister. The existential situation In his first statement after being named Afghanistan’s new Ameer-ul-Momineen, Mullah Haibatullah Akhundzada made a qualified commitment to upholding international laws — only those “not in conflict with Islamic law and the country’s national values”. While the Taliban will continue to repeat their assurances about disallowing the use of its territory against the security interests of any other nation, they are unlikely to sever their ties with al Qaeda and other terrorist organisations. Afghanistan will remain riddled with crisis. An immediate challenge for the Taliban will be reining in their younger commanders and fighters, with the danger that disgruntled elements amongst them might join hands with the Islamic State Khorasan (IS-K) or Daesh. Since all the Islamist terrorist organisations are ideologically and organisationally enmeshed with one another, another problem would be controlling other terrorist groups converging towards Afghanistan as their haven. There has already been a noticeable spurt in Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (or the Pakistan Taliban) attacks in Pakistan. There will be sporadic uprisings and violent repression in Afghanistan. Given the make-up of the leadership of the Taliban and their ideological moorings, they are likely to continue political and military consolidation, unmindful that over time this could trigger external support for the resistance. Should there be fragmentation within its ranks, the Taliban regime will be tested sooner. Another challenge for the Taliban regime is the simmering resentment against it. Leader of the National Resistance Front of Afghanistan Ahmad Massoud’s recent appeal to all Afghans to resist the imposition of “a servile and subjugated future” and rise in support of the defence of the Afghan republic resulted in demonstrations in several cities, with mainly women in the lead. Even though these dissipated in the face of the harsh repression that followed, the anti-Pakistan and pro-republican sentiment expressed vociferously in the protests put the Taliban regime on the back foot. Afghanistan faces frozen reserves, the absence of banking services and liquidity, rising prices of food, medicines, and other essentials, currency depreciation, unemployment, and the collapse of services and construction. There is no money for public finance or administration — no prospect of salaries for government workers — as 80% of Afghanistan’s last approved annual budget of $5.5 billion was funded by external aid. New Delhi’s response Given the uncertainties, India’s game plan will have to evolve as the situation unfolds, which is not a call for strategic restraint or masterly inactivity. For the present, India must abstain from granting recognition to the Taliban regime. India should hold it accountable to its publicly stated commitments concerning the right of Afghans and foreign nationals to leave Afghanistan in a safe, secure, and orderly way, and that Afghan territory will not be used to threaten or attack any country, encapsulated in the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2593 (UNSCR 2593), adopted during India’s presidency of the Council. UNSCR 2593 also reaffirmed the importance of upholding human rights and encouraged all parties to seek an inclusive negotiated settlement. The logical step flowing from this would be for India to restitute granting student and medical visas and temporary visas for those fearing persecution. Resuming its humanitarian and development assistance will have to await an enabling atmosphere allowing the Indian Embassy in Kabul and its consulates to function securely. Jayant Prasad was India’s Ambassador to Afghanistan from 2008 to 2010||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/afghanistan-the-shape-of-things-to-come/article36465396.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Should children be given COVID-19 jabs?||With schools shutting down and restrictions being placed on movement, children have suffered a lot over the last one and a half years. There is a lot of debate now on administering COVID-19 vaccines to children in the context of schools reopening in India. As practising scientists and concerned parents, we have followed scientific literature on these topics. Any medical intervention, specifically for children, should involve a careful risk-benefit analysis. What is the risk of children being affected by COVID-19? Is the risk of the vaccine guaranteed to be lower than this? Are trials designed to uncover rare risks? What about long-term risks? We seek to explore these questions. Comparing risks The risk of severe outcomes due to COVID-19 in children is very rare, and chance of death is extremely low (about two in a million). Even children who were severely affected were found to have chronic conditions. These facts have not changed even with the Delta variant. Numbers may not make much sense since we are emotional about children. So, to understand the risk, consider the following comparisons. For a child, the likelihood of succumbing to COVID-19 is about the same as being hit by lightning. For those aged below 25, the risk of traffic accidents or even suicide is about 10 times higher than death due to COVID-19. Even the risk of long-lasting COVID-19 symptoms is very rare in children. Now, let’s compare this with the risk posed by vaccines. While the risk of the current COVID-19 vaccines is certainly low, it is not nil. This is relevant since the risk of severe COVID-19 is low in children. Both serious adverse effects and vaccine-related deaths in adults have been reported all over the world, including in India. Based on a risk-benefit analysis, Australia, the U.K., and many European countries have not recommended AstraZeneca (Covishield) for children. The only vaccines in use for 12+ are the Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna vaccines, and these too put children at risk of myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle). A recent study from the U.S. reported a one in 6,000 risk of cardiac adverse event risk from the Pfizer vaccine for boys aged 12-15; similar numbers have been reported from Israel and Canada too. That such findings are coming after having vaccinated millions of children is worrying. Long-term safety not assured Aside from the short-term effects, there is the question of long-term safety too. All the current COVID-19 vaccines being rolled out have only limited short-term safety data; clinical trials will go on till 2023. It may take a few years to start seeing long-term effects. Further, the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines use a new gene-based technology (mRNA) different from prior vaccine technology. The long-term safety of this new technology itself is unknown. These aspects have to be juxtaposed with the low risk children face from COVID-19: there is/was no COVID-19-related medical emergency for children. An aspect underlining the significance of the issue of long-term safety is that all the COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers have been granted zero liability. An AstraZeneca senior executive explained why pharmaceutical companies have requested zero liability: “This is a unique situation where we as a company simply cannot take the risk if in…four years the vaccine is showing side effects.” The importance of long-term safety is further stressed by the fact that the past history of ‘emergency vaccines’ is not all rosy. The swine flu vaccine, Pandemrix, was rolled out in response to the 2010 pandemic. It was later withdrawn when it was found that around one in every 55,000 jabs led to narcolepsy (a chronic sleep disorder) in children. Dengvaxia, a vaccine against dengue, was withdrawn in 2017 after 19 children (1 in 44,000) died of possible antibody-dependent enhancement. A crucial aspect to consider in the context of safety is the size of the current vaccine trials. It is pertinent to note that some of the risks for adults did not show up during the adult trials (for example, given the trial size of 32,449 for AstraZeneca, blood clots as a result of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which is a one in 50,000 chance, could not be detected). In India, the current trial sizes for children are just 525 for Covaxin and 1,000 for ZyCoV-D. These are abysmally low and insufficient to catch even, say, a one in 1,000 side-effect risk. This is extremely concerning. Even though children and young adults are not at high risk from severe COVID-19 (unlike adults), some countries like France and Germany have allowed all those above 12 years of age to be vaccinated in the hope that this will prevent community transmission and lead to herd immunity via vaccination. However recent data are increasingly showing this to be scientifically wrong as the current vaccines neither prevent infection nor transmission. This is evidenced by high case counts even in highly vaccinated countries such as Israel and Iceland. Furthermore, it is morally wrong to put children at risk (without assured long-term vaccine safety) to protect adults, especially when those adults anyway have access to a COVID-19 vaccine that is effective against hospitalisation/deaths. Indeed, the U.K. decided “not to recommend the vaccine to all healthy children” given the lack of clear benefits for them. Since the risk of severe COVID-19 is low in children, the medical benefit of COVID-19 vaccination for children is questionable, and the lack of studies on long-term safety as well as small trial sizes are concerning. COVID-19 vaccines for children may be warranted in exceptional cases, such as for those with other co-morbidities who are at higher risk from COVID-19. In any event, parents have the best interests of their children in mind. Given that vaccinations are an irreversible medical procedure, parents should do due diligence before vaccinating their children: examine all available evidence, ask pertinent questions to experts and then make an informed choice. Vaccination should also not be mandated; parental choice is critical. Time to open schools There has been recent talk of tying school reopening to children’s COVID-19 vaccines. There is no scientific basis to this as schools were opened safely in most other countries, often before vaccine trials were under way. Further, sero-surveys show that a large percentage of children have already been exposed to COVID-19: we just did not notice it since severe COVID-19 is very rare in children. And it is not that vaccines are readily available in India (Covaxin and ZyCoV-D are still under trials). Uptake among those who wish to take it will take many months. How long can we keep schools shut? The vast majority of parents who want to send their children to school should have the option to do so. We have the ignoble distinction of being one of the few countries which have not yet fully opened schools, while over 175 countries have opened schools with safety protocols prioritising children’s education and safeguarding their country’s future. Kameswari Chebrolu and Bhaskaran Raman are faculty in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at IIT Bombay. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/should-children-be-given-covid-19-jabs/article36465406.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Behind the great Indian Internet shutdown||On January 10, 2020, the Supreme Court of India held that access to information via the Internet is a fundamental right under the Indian Constitution. This was in the case of Anuradha Bhasin vs Union of India , where the top court also ruled that any restriction on Internet access by the Government must be temporary, limited in scope, lawful, necessary and proportionate. The Court reiterated that the Government’s orders restricting Internet access are subject to review by Courts. The expectation was that this decision would limit the instances of Internet suspension to only those exceptional situations where there is a public emergency or a threat to public safety — the legislatively mandated prerequisites for restricting Internet access. Unfortunately, these promises have remained unfulfilled. The year following the decision, India saw more instances of Internet shutdown than the year preceding it. India’s Internet restrictions also accounted for more than 70% of the total loss to the global economy in 2020, and India remains infamous as the Internet shutdown capital of the world. Recent restrictions As we write this, the Government of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) has restricted access to mobile data in the Valley of Kashmir. A few days ago, all Internet services had been shut down. These restrictions have been issued in the wake of the death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani. Similar restrictions have been ordered by the government of Haryana in five different districts following farmers’ protests that were organised there. While in these instances, the governments have published the orders restricting access, such publication remains an exception and not the rule despite the decision in Anuradha Bhasin (the Haryana orders are on social media but have not been uploaded on government websites). According to an Internet shutdown tracker maintained by the Software Freedom Law Centre, in July and August, the government of J&K suspended Internet services on five separate occasions — in the districts of Baramulla, Pulwama and Shopian. The suspension orders for these instances have still not been uploaded on the government’s websites. Even in May 2021, the government of J&K suspended Internet services on three occasions in these districts. In these instances, the orders were only published sometime in June 2021 after a significant delay. Although the J&K government is the most irreverent about Internet restriction, they are not the only culprits. Compliance with Anuradha Bhasin remains low in other parts of India as well. Erodes trust The importance of the publication of Internet suspension orders cannot be understated. Those aggrieved with the restriction cannot approach a court of law to question an order’s legality in the absence of the order. At best, if they do, the court may direct the Government to produce the order, but this will allow the Government to delay production of the order until after the restriction has subsided. This enables the Government to get away with illegal restrictions. This non-publication of orders also undermines public confidence in the Government. The Internet is a necessity in this day and age, and restrictions without publicly disclosed reasons create a trust deficit. There is also a deficit because the Union Government has also not done enough to give statutory recognition to the directions in Anuradha Bhasin . In 2020, it amended the Telecom Suspension Rules, 2017 to limit Internet suspension orders to a maximum of 15 days. However, the amendment did not include an obligation on the Government to publish orders nor did it include the Supreme Court’s direction to undertake periodic review of these orders. Lack of awareness As a result, the governmental non-compliance with the law is difficult to comprehend. One has to study the decision of the Supreme Court as opposed to simply looking at the rules to understand the obligations on the Government. The experience with Section 66A of the Information Technology Act has shown that if Supreme Court decisions are not statutorily recognised, the officials enforce the law incorrectly simply because of a lack of awareness. As an example, the State of Meghalaya in reply to an RTI application stated that it was not even aware of the judgment in Anuradha Bhasin even though eight months had passed since the Supreme Court’s pronouncement. Wide-ranging impact However, Internet suspension also remains a problem independent of non-compliance with the directions of the Supreme Court. In 2020, the Indian economy suffered losses to the tune of $2.8 billion due to 129 separate instances of Internet suspension, which affected 10.3 million individuals. The Internet is a source of information, entertainment, health care, education, livelihood and a platform for the members of Indian society to interact with each other and the world at large. The harm — economic, psychological, social, and journalistic — caused by such suspensions outweighs any speculative benefits. Internet suspensions ought to be imposed in times of emergency and not to stifle the democratic exercise of the right to protest. In those times, the Internet is a necessity to seek help. Moreover, it is also a tool to verify rumours, and enables individuals and the Government to disseminate the truth. On September 2, the government of J&K restricted access to any form of communication on the ground that the ‘provocative material on social media’ could misguide the general public and result in a law and order situation. A similar reason was stated to justify the Internet suspension in Karnal, Haryana. However, the Government will do well to recognise that offline rumours can also ‘misguide the public’, but the individuals will not have access to the Internet to determine the veracity of those rumours independently. Internet restrictions are often justified on the ground that they are limited to mobile data services. These contentions also miss the point. According to a 2019 Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) report on Indian Telecom Services Performance Indicators, mobile device users (dongle and phone) constituted 97.02% of total Internet users. Only 3% of users have access to broadband Internet. These numbers are not likely to have changed significantly since then, since broadband Internet continues to be expensive. It follows from this that Internet restrictions also tend to adversely affect those from lower socio-economic backgrounds more. Considering these issues, it is not surprising that the Supreme Court, in Anuradha Bhasin , permitted the Government to restrict Internet access only in limited circumstances. Parliament has also allowed these restrictions only in a public emergency or when there is a threat to public safety. Yet, to much dismay, Internet restrictions are much more common than desirable and cannot be challenged because of a lack of transparency. More faithful compliance with the Supreme Court guidelines on the part of the executive government is needed to rid ourselves of the tag of the “internet shutdown capital” of the world and fulfil Digital India’s potential. Tanmay Singh is the Litigation Counsel at the Internet Freedom Foundation. Anandita Mishra is the Associate Litigation Counsel at the Internet Freedom Foundation. Krishnesh Bapat is a CCG Digital Rights Fellow hosted at the Internet Freedom Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/behind-the-great-indian-internet-shutdown/article36465397.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Partners in the Indo-Pacific||A few days ago, India’s Defence Minister and External Affairs Minister held the inaugural ‘2+2’ talks with their Australian counterparts. Both countries are taking several steps to implement their vision of a peaceful and prosperous Indo-Pacific region. Positive trajectory of relations India and Australia have completed one year of their Comprehensive Strategic Partnership and their bond is deepening. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison elevated their bilateral strategic partnership to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership in June 2020. Their personal connection is providing the political framework and impetus to this partnership. There is a growing convergence of views on geo-strategic and geo-economic issues backed by a robust people-to-people connection. Both countries have stepped up collaborations through institutions and organisations on many issues in bilateral, trilateral, plurilateral and multilateral formats. Further, elevation of their ‘2+2’ Foreign and Defence Secretaries’ Dialogue to the ministerial level emphasises the positive trajectory of their transforming relations. Both countries have an enduring interest in a free, open, inclusive and rule-based Indo-Pacific region. It includes stability and freedom of navigation for all nations in the region. Given their common security challenges and in order to enhance regional security architecture, both countries have intensified bilateral security cooperation. They have also stepped up security dialogue with key partner-countries to deepen coordination in areas where security interests are mutual. The Malabar naval exercise by the Quad (Australia, India, Japan, the U.S.) is a step in this direction. While this signals deeper engagement and cooperation between the Quad countries at the strategic level, at the tactical level, it also allows the navies to develop and enhance advanced warfare tactics. In the Malabar naval exercise of 2021, India was represented by the Indian navy stealth frigate INS Shivalik and anti-submarine warfare corvette INS Kadmatt, while Australia was represented by its Anzac-class frigate HMAS Warramonga. Trading between India and Australia has seen remarkable growth in recent years. Two-way trade between them was valued at $24.4 billion in 2020. The Indian economy is not only one of the largest economies in the world, but it is also going through a tectonic economic transformation. In this endeavour, Australia is a valued partner as both draw their congruence from a rule-based international order, believe in inclusive economic integration in the Indo-Pacific region, and face challenges from a belligerent China. Trade is rapidly growing and encompasses agribusiness, infrastructure, healthcare, energy and mining, education, artificial intelligence, big data and fintech. Both countries are working to build a long-term sustainable economic relation. In a joint communique last month, India’s Commerce and Industry Minister and the Australian Trade Minister announced that an early harvest agreement by December will pave the way for an early conclusion of a bilateral Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement between both countries. But despite the growth in trade, India and Australia need to resolve old issues that pose a barrier to deeper economic integration. India has a high tariff for agriculture and dairy products which makes it difficult for Australian exporters to export these items to India. At the same time, India faces non-tariff barriers and its skilled professionals in the Australian labour market face discrimination. Forging a deep partnership India-Australia relations have deepened in the last few decades owing to the alignment of strategic interests driven by a common value system. Both are vibrant democracies which have respect for international laws and a belief in the equality of all nations irrespective of their size and strength. It is expected that the ‘2+2’ dialogue will provide substance to this partnership. Expected meetings between the two Prime Ministers will further deepen political understanding and open more avenues for collaborations. Beyond bilateralism, both countries are also entering into partnerships with like-minded countries, including Indonesia, Japan and France, in a trilateral framework. The Quad has gained momentum in recent months. The time is ripe for these countries to deliberate on a ‘Quad+’ framework. The geo-political and geo-economic churning in international affairs makes it imperative for India and Australia to forge a partnership guided by principles with a humane approach. Rajeev Ranjan Chaturvedy is Associate Professor at Nalanda University, Rajgir, and Kingshuk Saha is a Bengaluru-based researcher. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/partners-in-the-indo-pacific/article36465401.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Powering ahead in the future||Several things are going right regarding two-wheeler electrification in India. First, the government increased the FAME-II incentives for electric two-wheelers (E2W) to Rs. 15,000/kWh. Second, more States such as Gujarat and Maharashtra have announced State-level electric vehicle incentives as part of their State policies. Third, many startups are launching new electric two-wheeler models. As a result, E2W sales in India are likely to at least double in 2021 compared with 2020 levels. Yet, even if that happens, E2Ws will account for less than a per cent of new two-wheeler sales. This is in part because the industry leaders (Hero MotoCorp, Honda, TVS, Bajaj, Suzuki, Royal Enfield and Yamaha), who account for nearly 99% of all two-wheelers sold in India, offer only two electric models between them, and only in a handful of cities. Overcoming reluctance The most active electric vehicle markets of the world have overcome this reluctance of leading companies to make and sell electric vehicles in two ways. The first is to establish a zero emission vehicles (ZEV) credit programme. This requires manufacturers of vehicles to ensure that either a certain fraction of their sales are ZEVs or that they purchase ZEV credits from manufacturers who have sold more ZEVs than required by the credit programme. There are many possible regulatory approaches by which India could set up such a programme. California and several U.S. States as well as China have used such an approach to stimulate model availability of electric vehicles. The second is by putting in place a fuel efficiency/CO2 emission standard stringent enough that it can best be met by making and selling ZEVs. As the example of the European Union’s passenger car CO2 standards shows, if CO2 standards are sufficiently stringent, mainstream manufacturers introduce electric vehicles in meaningful numbers. In a recent briefing paper, my colleagues argued that India could use such an approach with great effect. If the 2W CO2 standards for FY2025–26 are set at 25gCO2/km (compared with 38gCO2/km in 2020–21), our research shows the cost-effective market share could be as high as 19% for electric motorcycles and 13% for electric scooters, for a 32% electric vehicle share of the total two-wheeler market. Similarly, if the two-wheeler fuel consumption standard were set at or below 20gCO2/km for 2030, that would likely ensure that at least 60% of new two-wheeler sales are electric that year. Conversely, if the 2025–26 standards are lenient, say as high as 30gCO2/km, then it will be cheaper to comply with ICE technology, and the standards will create no incentive in the market for E2Ws. Environment friendly In short, there are two reliable ways to overcome manufacturers’ reluctance to enter wholeheartedly into the electric vehicles market: a mandate requiring them to build and sell electric vehicles, or efficiency standards stringent/ambitious enough to make building and selling electric vehicles the most profitable thing for them to do. We know that the total cost of ownership of E2W is already competitive with petrol two-wheelers thanks to generous State and national incentives, and petrol prices being above Rs. 100/litre. We also know that an E2W purchased today will contribute to an absolute reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. E2W are cost effective on total cost of ownership basis today, and likely to reach upfront cost parity later this decade. E2W will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and will be a cost-effective alternative for manufacturers to do so if tailpipe CO2 standards are set at stringent levels. What we need now is for the Bureau of Energy Efficiency and the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to set 2W fuel consumption standards at 25gCO2/km in 2025 and 20gCO2/km in 2030. Doing so will not only ensure a 30% E2W share in 2025 and a 60% E2W share in 2030, but it will also pave the way for India to transition completely to E2W across all two-wheeler segments by 2035. Anup Bandivadekar is the passenger vehicle programme director and India director at the International Council on Clean Transportation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/powering-ahead-in-the-future/article36465402.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Positive climate||India’s front-line position as third highest emitter of greenhouse gases has sharpened focus on its future policy course to mitigate carbon emissions under the Paris Agreement. It has an irrefutable claim to a big part of the remaining global carbon budget, along with other smaller nations with low historical emissions, but room for manoeuvring has shrunk in a world facing record temperatures and calamitous weather events. There is escalating pressure for India to commit itself to a date when it can achieve net zero — removing as much GHGs as it emits — on the lines of the goal set by the U.S. and the European Union for mid-century, and 2060 by China. Declaring a net zero plan under the Paris pact is a disquieting prospect since it would impose expensive choices, particularly in energy production. That conundrum has been addressed, at least partially, by visiting U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry, with the promise of financing and technology to make renewable energy the core of future development. Specific areas of cooperation to bring down emissions — in the expansion of transport, buildings and industry — and facilitating funding for 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 can advance the India-U.S. Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership. More clarity on the bilateral road map towards emissions reduction may come at the COP26 conference in November. India, meanwhile, needs to get all States to mitigate emissions and help them adapt to climate-linked extreme weather and atmospheric pollution caused by fossil fuels. At the end of 2020, a year marked by COVID-19 and many destructive storms, the Union Environment Ministry declared that the country had achieved 21% of its 33%-35% target to cut emissions intensity of GDP by 2030, and, similarly, was generating 37.9% of the 40% of power from renewables. Though encouraging, the immediate challenge lies in coming up with an adaptation framework to help those at highest risk — the millions living in the path of annual cyclones, including residents of populous coastal cities. Raising the ability of city administrations to handle tens of millions of litres of water regularly dumped in just a few days requires planning, funding and political commitment. Making low-cost insurance available for houses against climate-related losses will raise resilience, and lead to audits, encouraging governments to reduce risks. The Paris Agreement can easily fund much-needed urban retrofitting and boost employment. There is also a health imperative. Heat stress has a severe impact, causing higher mortality among the vulnerable elderly. These are growing problems, but they also represent an opportunity to steer post-COVID-19 policies towards benign, green development. For a low-emissions future, policies must put nature at the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/positive-climate/article36465390.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Cracking the whip||President Joe Biden’s sweeping vaccine mandates, aimed at improving the U.S.’s odds of beating the rampaging Delta variant, represent a bold move in the face of the ongoing “pandemic of the unvaccinated”. On the one hand, his plan is based on leveraging the power of the federal government to impose vaccine mandates wherever its fiscal heft allows, including for workers at health-care organisations receiving public funds, and for federal government employees and contractors. On the other, the White House’s requirement that all companies employing 100 or more people must vaccinate their workforce or obtain COVID-19 negative tests from unvaccinated employees each week represents the willingness to bring the pandemic battle to the doorstep of America Inc. Even as the U.S. has succeeded in vaccinating around 175 million individuals, nearly 75% of those eligible, it still leaves nearly 80 million from that group unprotected. It is primarily patients from this latter group who are causing hospital ICUs in several States to be overrun. Nevertheless, Mr. Biden’s mandates will impact around 100 million people, nearly two-thirds of the American workforce. While some, especially in conservative circles, have decried the vaccine mandates as violative of liberties, there are likely few alternative options for the U.S. at this point. Why then is Mr. Biden’s approval rating for his handling of the pandemic crisis slipping? To an extent it might be explained by the fact that Americans are deeply suspicious of federal government policies of an expansive nature, even in the present context. Relatedly, there is perhaps deepening concern regarding the impact that the vaccine mandates might have on business, large and small. For example, the new “emergency temporary standard” of the U.S. Department of Labor requires large employers to give workers paid leave to get vaccinated; failure to do so may result in “enforcement actions”, potentially including fines up to $14,000 per violation. Similarly, federal government employees are now given 75 days to get vaccinated or risk getting fired. There are discussions in policy circles on invoking the Defense Production Act, a wartime measure, to compel companies to manufacture and accelerate the production of rapid COVID-19 tests. Larger entertainment venues must now ask for proof of vaccination or negative tests of patrons; and fines for passengers violating mask rules on aircraft will now be doubled. These are all measures that will impact, even distort, market behaviour, and potentially hit the bottom lines of corporations, but may be a necessary price to pay to bring the catastrophic march of the Delta variant under some control. Mr. Biden will have to grit his teeth and see the mandates through, not buckle to pressure from irate anti-vaccine campaigners and a fuming Wall Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cracking-the-whip/article36465391.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Two Pak. diplomats shift allegiance||Manila, Sept. 14: Two Pakistani diplomats defected yesterday to the Bangla Desh Government. One of them was the Pakistani Ambassador to the Phillipines Mr. Khurram Panni and the other the 34-year-old Pakistani diplomat in Lagos, Mr. Mohiuddin Ahmed Jaigirdar. Mr. Khurram Panni (49), is the first diplomat of ambassadorial rank to defect to the Bangla Desh cause. He came to Manila as Ambassador last year — and his tenure of duty is not scheduled to end until late next month.Mr. Panni, a native of Bengal, said he would ask the Philippines or India for political asylum “if it comes to that”. He said: “I hope the Bangla Desh Government will be recognised.” Mr. Mohiuddin Ahmed Jaigirdar, Pakistani diplomat in Nigeria, quietly left Lagos last Saturday with his family — wife and three children — and arrived in London where he contacted the Bangla Desh mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/two-pak-diplomats-shift-allegiance/article36465398.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||Council may consider bringing petrol, diesel under GST purview||The GST Council might on Friday consider taxing petrol, diesel and other petroleum products under the single national GST regime, a move that may require huge compromises by both Central and State governments on the revenues they collect by taxing these products. The Council, in its meeting scheduled in Lucknow on Friday, may also consider extending the time for duty relief on COVID-19 essentials, according to sources in the know of the development. GST is being seen as a solution to the problem of near-record high petrol and diesel rates in the country, as it would end the cascading effect of tax on tax (State VAT being levied not just on the cost of production but also on the excise duty charged by the Centre on such output). In June, the Kerala High Court, based on a writ petition, had asked the GST Council to decide on bringing petrol and diesel within the goods and services tax (GST) ambit. The sources said the question of bringing petrol and diesel under GST would be placed before the Council for discussion in light of the court asking the Council to do so. When a national GST subsumed Central taxes such as excise duty and State levies like VAT, five petroleum goods — petrol, diesel, ATF, natural gas and crude oil — were kept out of its purview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/council-may-consider-bringing-petrol-diesel-under-gst-purview/article36465381.ece
15 September 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Banks’ gross NPAs will exceed Rs. 10 lakh crore in March 2022’||With fresh slippages in retail and MSME loans, the gross non-performing assets (GNPAs) of commercial banks are expected to exceed Rs. 10 lakh crore by March 2022, Assocham and Crisil said in a joint report. “NPAs are expected to rise to 8.5-9% by March 2022, driven by slippages in retail, micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) accounts, besides some restructured assets,” the entities said in the report. “The effectiveness of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) will be tested by the potential spike in NPAs as the standstill on initiation of fresh insolvency cases for a year ended in March 2021 and as most of the pandemic-induced policies or measures are unlikely to be continued,” they added. The report also noted that the expected increase in GNPAs of both banks and non-banks would lead to resolutions through various routes, with IBC likely to be the most preferred one. According to the report’s authors, the GNPAs of banks had declined from the peak seen in March 2018 and were lower as of March 2021 vis-à-vis March 2020 on account of supportive measures, including the six-month debt moratorium, emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) loans and restructuring measures.  The effectiveness of the IBC will be tested by the potential spike in NPAs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/banks-gross-npas-will-exceed-rs-10-lakh-crore-in-march-2022/article36465370.ece
15 September 2021||New delhi,||‘Component supply constraints may push up mobile prices’||The festival season this year is likely to see fewer product introductions by smartphone companies, and prices of existing devices could rise by 7-10% as players are grappling with severe shortage of components such as semiconductor chips, according to industry experts. Trends like remote work and study-from-home during the COVID-19 pandemic have led to an explosive growth in semiconductor demand that has placed a huge strain on global supply chains around the world. Freight costs in China have also gone up significantly, putting greater stress on device makers. China accounts for a major chunk of the components supplied for use in electronic goods in the country. According to Counterpoint Research director Tarun Pathak, the situation will continue to impact the mobile phone industry for the next couple of quarters. “The all-important festive season will be impacted in multiple ways like delayed launches, an increase in pricing by 7-10% for existing devices, and fewer offers. However, demand is likely to stay strong,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/component-supply-constraints-may-push-up-mobile-prices/article36465385.ece
15 September 2021||MUMBAI,||India, Singapore to link fast payment systems||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) on Tuesday announced a project to link their respective fast payment systems — Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and PayNow — to facilitate instant, low-cost, cross-border fund transfers. The linkage is targeted to be operationalised by July 2022. “The UPI-PayNow linkage will enable users of each of the two fast-payment systems to make instant, low-cost fund transfers on a reciprocal basis without a need to get onboarded onto the other payment system,” the RBI said in a statement. UPI is India’s mobile-based, ‘fast-payment’ system that facilitates customers to make round-the-clock payments instantly using a virtual payment address created by the customer. PayNow is the fast payment system of Singapore that enables peer-to-peer fund-transfer service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-singapore-to-link-fast-payment-systems/article36465372.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ministry ties up with Jio, ITC, NCDEX on agritech||The Agriculture Ministry signed agreements on Tuesday with Reliance's Jio Platforms, ITC, Cisco, NCDEX e-Markets and Ninjacart to develop agritech solutions using its National Farmers Database, which includes information of 5.5 crore farmers. This is part of an effort to modernise the agriculture sector by infusing new technologies so that farmers can increase their income, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said. The pilot projects including one to monitor soil conditions and another to help on post harvest linkages are part of the Digital Agriculture Mission and will draw on the National Farmers Database. The Centre has asked States to attach land records to the database, to grow it to 8 crore farmers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ministry-ties-up-with-jio-itc-ncdex-on-agritech/article36465378.ece
15 September 2021||new delhi,||‘Hiring outlook most optimistic in 7 years’||India’s job market looks bullish with 44% of companies planning to add more staff in the next three months as corporates gear up to bring workers back after the pandemic, as per a survey. According to the latest ManpowerGroup Employment Outlook Survey, employers reported a net employment outlook of 44% — the most optimistic outlook in seven years. The outlook is derived by subtracting the percentage of employers expecting a decrease in hiring activity from the percentage of employers anticipating an increase in hiring activity. The survey of 3,046 employers indicates many firms are planning to raise their headcounts before the end of the year, expecting pandemic restrictions to ease and demand for products and services to rise. “Corporate India is showing healthy signs of recovery and an overall positive sentiment is gripping the market,” said Sandeep Gulati, Group MD, ManpowerGroup India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hiring-outlook-most-optimistic-in-7-years/article36465382.ece
15 September 2021||mumbai,||Microfinance loans rose 4.2% at June-end: MFIN||The microfinance industry’s gross loan portfolio (GLP) rose 4.2% to Rs. 2,37,369 crore as of June 30 compared with Rs. 2,27,727 crore as of June 30, 2020, according to a report by Microfinance Institutions Network (MFIN). Microfinance loan disbursals during the first quarter of the financial year 2021-22 improved significantly to Rs. 25,503 crore, compared with Rs. 6,186 crore in the year-earlier period. MFIN is an industry association comprising 58 NBFC-MFIs and 39 associates, including banks, small finance banks and NBFCs. As of June 30, the microfinance industry served 5.68 crore unique borrowers, through 10.3 crore loan accounts, the association said. The microfinance active loan accounts decreased by 0.67% during the last 12 months to 10.3 crore as of June 30, it said. MFIN said the gross loan portfolio of NBFC-MFIs stood at Rs. 76,237 crore as of June 30, a 6.9% year-on-year increase. Total equity of the NBFC-MFIs grew 11.9% year-on-year to Rs. 18,660 crore as of June 30, according to MFIN.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/microfinance-loans-rose-42-at-june-end-mfin/article36465383.ece
15 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Laurus Labs to make HIV drug for children||Laurus Labs is developing a generic, fixed-dose combination of paediatric version of darunavir boosted with ritonavir (DRV/r) for use as second- and third-line treatment of HIV. This follows an agreement Unitaid, Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) and the company entered into in June to accelerate the development, commercialisation and registration of a best-in-class second- and third-line HIV treatment, the drugmaker said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/laurus-labs-to-make-hiv-drug-for-children/article36465369.ece
15 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Reliance Infra to be debt-free: Anil Ambani||Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. chairman Anil Ambani on Tuesday said the firm will receive Rs. 7,100 crore from the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) following the recent Supreme Court judgment. The funds would be utilised to repay the debt of Reliance Infrastructure and the company would become debt free, he told shareholders at the annual general meeting. On a standalone basis, the firm had a standalone debt of Rs. 3,808 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-infra-to-be-debt-free-anil-ambani/article36465373.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||Exports rose 46%, imports 52% in August||India’s exports rose by 45.7% to $33.28 billion in August, according to Commerce Ministry data. Imports increased by 51.7% to $47.09 billion, the data showed. The trade deficit widened to $13.81 billion in August, as against $8.2 billion in the same month last year. Cumulative value of exports for the period April-August 2021 expanded by 67.3% to $164.10 billion compared with $98.06 billion in the year-earlier period. Imports during April-August 2021 stood at $219.63 billion as against $121.42 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exports-rose-46-imports-52-in-august/article36465379.ece
15 September 2021||Mumbai,||Stryder Cycle unveils e-bikes||Stryder Cycle Pvt. Ltd., a wholly owned arm of Tata International Ltd., has unveiled Contino ETB 100 and Voltic 1.7 e-bikes at introductory prices of Rs. 37,900 and Rs. 29,995.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/stryder-cycle-unveils-e-bikes/article36465375.ece
15 September 2021||Mumbai,||Tata Capital offers loan against MFs||Tata Capital Ltd. has introduced ‘Loan Against Mutual Funds’ (LAMF), a digital offering to provide loans from Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 2 crore. These loans would be provided against equity and debt schemes across mutual funds, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-capital-offers-loan-against-mfs/article36465376.ece
15 September 2021||Bern,||Young Boys stuns Manchester United||Substitute Jordan Siebatcheu struck with the last kick of the game as Swiss side Young Boys claimed a sensational 2-1 Champions League win over 10-man Manchester United on Tuesday after Cristiano Ronaldo had earlier opened the scoring. USA striker Siebatcheu pounced on Jesse Lingard’s short back-pass to tuck the ball past David de Gea for a 95th-minute winner in front of a delirious crowd at the Wankdorf Stadium. Ronaldo had earlier put United ahead with his third goal in two games since returning to Old Trafford. The turning point However, the match hinged on Aaron Wan-Bissaka’s sending-off late in the first half for a dangerous tackle on Young Boys midfielder Christopher Martins which gave Young Boys hope. The hosts hit back to equalise in the second half through Nicolas Moumi Ngamaleu and Ronaldo was substituted before Siebatcheu got the winner. It is a terrible start for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side in Group F, especially with tougher tests likely to come against Atalanta and Villarreal. United silenced the crowd as it took an early lead, Bruno Fernandes delivering a glorious pass with the outside of his right boot from the left for Ronaldo to steal in behind Ulisses Garcia at the back post and score. But then came the sending-off of Wan-Bissaka in the 35th minute. Solskjaer immediately removed Jadon Sancho to send on a replacement right-back in Diogo Dalot. He then brought on Raphael Varane for the second half in place of Donny van de Beek, who had been given his first start this season. Back five That meant a back five for the second half, with Ronaldo left alone up front, while Young Boys pushed forward looking for an equaliser that came in the 66th minute when Ngamaleu got in front of Varane and prodded home Meschack Elia’s cross from the right to the delight of the home fans. Ronaldo came off in the 72nd minute and right at the end of five added minutes Young Boys won it as Lingard provided the perfect assist for Siebatcheu.   The results: Young Boys 2 (Ngamaleu 66, Siebatcheu 90+5) bt Manchester United 1 (Ronaldo 13); Sevilla 1 (Rakitic 42-pen) drew with Salzburg 1 (Sucic 21-pen) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/young-boys-stuns-manchester-united/article36465504.ece
15 September 2021||WARANGAL,||Triple jumper Arpinder, the man to watch||As triple jumper Arpinder Singh took his warm-up jumps at the Nehru Stadium here for the 60th National Open which begins on Wednesday, his coach P.B. Jaikumar watched him closely. Arpinder, the Asian Games champion, is returning to competition mode after nearly two years following a knee injury. No pressure “It’s good to get back to competition but this time there is no pressure, there are no high expectations because this is a comeback meet,” the 28-year-old, also the 2018 World Cup bronze medallist, told The Hindu here on Tuesday evening. “I had a knee injury while training back home in Punjab last year and now for the last five months, I have been training with Jaikumar in Thiruvananthapuram. This track is new and has a nice bounce.” Aprinder has a personal best of 17.17m which came in 2014, a year when he also won the Commonwealth Games bronze in Glasgow. And here there will be Abdulla Aboobacker, the Services champion and this year’s India No. 1 with 16.79m, and another prominent name Karthik Unnikrishnan to push him. Prime event The triple jump battle could be the prime event at the five-day championships. The long jump, with exciting names like Jeswin Aldrin and Muhammed Anees and Yugant Shekar Singh could also produce fireworks. With billboards and giant screens announcing the event all over the city, Warangal has gone all out to promote the event. But many of the big names are missing here, they are either weary after the long year and the Olympics or are tending to injuries trying to get back stronger for next year, a packed one. A few Olympians, like quartermilers Muhammed Anas, Arokia Rajiv and shot putter Tajinderpal Singh Toor, had even competed in the Services meet in Bhubaneswar a few days ago but chose to stay away from this season-ending meet. However there are many, like Muhammed Ajmal, who are looking at this as a golden opportunity. Ajmal, a 100-200 runner, will be making his national debut in the quartermile here. “This meet offers a good chance, probably a chance to win too,” said Ajmal, who won the Services title with 46.91s recently. The presence of Summy Kaliravan, who was part of the mixed relay team which won the bronze at the under-20 Worlds in Nairobi last month, and Olympian V. Revathy, should also light up the women’s quartermile. But the big name missing will be Priya H. Mohan, the country’s fastest quartermiler this year who was in sparkling action at the U-20 Worlds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/triple-jumper-arpinder-the-man-to-watch/article36465527.ece
15 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Eagleton-The Golf Resort’s future hangs in the balance||The future of the Eagleton - The Golf Resort hangs in the balance after the Government of Karnataka (Revenue Department) erected hoardings on the course stating that the government has taken possession of the encroached land. The development comes after the High Court of Karnataka upheld the decision of the State government to collect around Rs. 982 crore from M/s Chamudreswari Buid Tech Pvt. Ltd., promoter of the Eagleton Golf Course and Resorts, for allowing it to retain 77 acres 19 guntas of encroached government land. It is believed that the government has taken possession of land which houses around nine holes. This would make it virtually impossible for the course to host any tournament. Eagleton - The Golf Resort is a popular course in the city which has hosted several Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) and Women's Golf Association of India (WGAI) events over the years. In 2007, the course hosted the EMAAR-MGF Ladies Masters, a tournament on the prestigious Ladies European Tour (LET).  Anirban Lahiri and Udayan Mane, both of whom represented India in the recent Tokyo Olympics, call Eagleton their “home” course. S. Chikkarangappa, another popular name, started as a ball boy at Eagleton before becoming one of India’s top golfers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eagleton-the-golf-resorts-future-hangs-in-the-balance/article36465522.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Keep the scoreline, share the revenue loss since India pulled out||The suspense over the result of the final Test in Manchester has become as tense as that ahead of the matches actually played. Instead of won, lost or drawn, the result is abandoned, forfeited or rescheduled, each with its own baggage. Officials of the Board of Control for Cricket in India have backed two of these results; the England and Wales Cricket Board initially claimed it should be the third (forfeited), but seems willing to talk of rescheduling. It is now a power game between two boards (and the International Cricket Council), one of which has got used to having its way in most things. It’s a game of inglorious certainty. Delicately balanced One of the finest of recent series was delicately balanced between The Hundred and the IPL, which meant it could not have started earlier or been played later. Test cricket ought to be more than a filler. Cricket boards which bang on about their commitment to Test cricket should walk the talk. It is not difficult to whip up sympathy for the Indian players who were “dead scared” in the words of BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, when their second physio too tested positive. ‘Managed living standards’ (ECB’s term), are psychologically demanding. Also, both the players and the BCCI had the IPL to think about. None of the players tested positive in Manchester. India could have fielded their best team. When the players left for England they knew full well there would be five Tests following the World Test Championship final against New Zealand. But they said they couldn’t carry on, and that was that. Whenever the issue of mental health is raised, officials don’t want to appear uncaring or callous. Especially since it is their scheduling that forces cricketers to play too many matches packed into a season. Something is bound to give, especially in Covid times. These are strange times, and we must allow for strange reactions. The selfish tend to get more selfish, money matters more than usual, and the entitled who have followed rules for months feel like breaking them. Playing a lone “series-completer” later makes little sense. The tension of a developing series is lost, the build-up dissipated, teams change. Since television money is involved, play a one-off by all means, but don’t artificially tag it onto a series which abruptly ended after four Tests. Cricket is played on the field, not in board rooms. One solution might be for the series to be recognised as a 2-1 win for India (they were well placed to win the first Test before rain washed out the final day’s play), and for the two boards to share the loss in revenue. Technically it was India who pulled out. Playing the final Test next year is as ridiculous as deciding to play the fifth day of the first Test then (with India needing 157 to win). It wasn’t contracting Covid-19 that caused the Indian players to panic — they had all tested negative — but the “ fear of contracting” it. ECB pounced on the distinction, and announced India had forfeited the Test. Covid-19 allows a team to withdraw and the match to be abandoned according to the ICC rules. In that case the ECB receives no insurance money (they lose around £30 million). “Fear” allows for insurance. In the end, the series might be decided neither by Joe Root nor Jasprit Bumrah, but by semantics. Perhaps the Indian team should now tour with a lawyer on their support staff. He might have pointed out the legal implication of pulling out because of Covid anxiety. At the very least he could have scrutinised BCCI secretary Jay Shah’s statement: “In lieu of the strong relationship between BCCI and ECB, the BCCI has offered to ECB a rescheduling of the cancelled Test match…” The Freudian slip (“in lieu of” instead of “in view of”) might say more about the current relationship between the two boards, perhaps a bit more than Shah intended to reveal. There are questions to be asked, however. About England’s security lapses that allowed a pitch invasion by ‘Jarvo’ three times, any one of which could have turned nasty. About Ravi Shastri and the Indian players going for a book launch — a super spreader event — without BCCI permission. It will be interesting to see how the board deals with this issue, especially after its secretary had written to the players to avoid areas with crowds. Larger issue There is no direct link between Shastri’s book launch and the cancellation of play; nor can the players be hauled up by the BCCI if their reluctance to play segued neatly into the board’s own hopes of protecting the IPL. But there is a larger issue here. One of discipline and player responsibility. Whatever the final decision, one team will feel badly done by.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/keep-the-scoreline-share-the-revenue-loss-since-india-pulled-out/article36465387.ece
15 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Match fee hike on the cards for domestic cricketers||Having been unable to get the State associations on board to offer central contracts to domestic cricketers, the BCCI is set to substantially hike the match fee, at least for men cricketers. The BCCI apex council is likely to finalise the pay hike during its meeting on Sept. 20. The Hindu understands that the hike will be in excess of 40%. Present slab At the moment, senior men’s domestic cricketers earn Rs. 35,000 per match-day for the Ranji or Vijay Hazare Trophy. For Syed Mushtaq Ali, the board pays Rs. 17,500 per game. While these are the figures for playing members, reserves are paid half. When Sourav Ganguly took charge as the BCCI president in Oct. 2019, one of the major announcements from him was the introduction of central contracts for domestic players through State associations. However, with the States pointing out difficulties in introducing central contracts, the BCCI has decided to do it itself. The apex council is likely to increase the match fee at least to Rs. 50,000 per match-day for First Class and one-dayers, and half of it for the T20s. A BCCI insider stressed that “despite the increased match fee, State associations are welcome to offer central contracts”. The additional match fee will also result in compensating for the reduced number of matches. Till 2019-20, the last Ranji season, each team was assured of at least eight First Class games. With the revised structure, the number of league games has come down to five. The apex council is also likely to finalise the compensation package for a curtailed 2020-21 season due to the pandemic. After consulting the working group for domestic cricket, the BCCI office-bearers are set to propose a 50 to 70% match fee for the suspended Ranji season. Players who featured inthe tournament’s last two seasons are likely to be eligible for this. While the compensation package will also include women, they are keeping their fingers crossed about the match fee hike. They are now being paid Rs. 12,500 per match (one-dayer) and Rs. 6,250 per T20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/match-fee-hike-on-the-cards-for-domestic-cricketers/article36465481.ece
15 September 2021||Brisbane,||India a vastly improved unit: Smriti Mandhana||Opener Smriti Mandhana says the India women’s cricket team has improved “massively” since the World T20 final defeat to Australia last year and will be “extra competitive” during the upcoming series here which also features its first day-night Test outing. Multi-format series India and Australia are set to lock horns in a multi-format series comprising three ODIs, the day-night Test and three T20s, starting on September 21. The Test will be played from September 30 to October 3 in Canberra. The last time the two sides met was at the women’s T20 World Cup final at the MCG last year, when the hosts hammered India by 85 runs to lift the trophy. “The team has grown massively (since the T20 World Cup),” Mandhana told The Scoop podcast. The Indian squad finished its 14-day hard quarantine on Monday. The COVID pandemic had given the girls the chance to reassess their game, identify their shortcomings and come back stronger, Smriti said.  “The whole team has worked on fitness and skills... we are still getting into the rhythm of playing matches continuously. The last five-six months we have been playing and now we are getting back into the match mindset. Hopefully the series goes well for the whole team,” she said. India has arrived in Australia after a multi-format series against England in June and July, while a few players like white-ball skipper Harmanpreet Kaur, teen batting sensation Shafali Verma and Smriti also featured in The Hundred tournament. “We love playing against Australia, because they are one of the best teams in the world and quite competitive,” Smriti said. “When it comes to Australia, you’re a bit more pumped up because the level of competitiveness of the Australian team just rubs off on us and we also start being extra competitive,” she said. Smriti is the only Indian woman to score a century in Australia, a 102 at Blundstone Arena aged 19 in 2016. She also holds the record for the highest T20I score in the country by an Indian woman. Batters’ paradise “Australian wickets have true bounce and I think everyone loves batting in Australia. No one will tell you they don’t like batting in Australia,” she said. The teams will play a warm-up match in Brisbane on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-a-vastly-improved-unit-smriti-mandhana/article36465484.ece
15 September 2021||Colombo,||Malinga hangs up his boots||Sri Lanka pace veteran Lasith Malinga, who terrorised the world’s best batsmen with his toe-crushing yorkers delivered from a low and sling-arm action, announced his retirement from all forms of cricket on Tuesday. The 38-year-old, who was captain of Sri Lanka’s 2014 T20 World Cup winning team, posted a message on his social media account announcing his decision. “Hanging up my T20 shoes and retiring from all forms of cricket! Thankful to all those who supported me in my journey, and looking forward to sharing my experience with young cricketers in the years to come,” Malinga tweeted. Malinga had retired from Test and ODI cricket in January this year but was yet to call it quits from T20Is. “I am looking forward to helping the youngsters and guiding them in the coming years,” he said as he thanked his national team and all the franchises that he has played for, including IPL team Mumbai Indians. “I want to give 100% rest to my T20 shoes. While my shoes will rest, my love for the game will never ask for rest,” a smiling Malinga added in the video.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/malinga-hangs-up-his-boots/article36465488.ece
15 September 2021||Bruges,||Messi set for CL bow with PSG||Lionel Messi came to Paris to win the Champions League again and on Wednesday he is set to finally make his first start for his new club when it kick offs its European campaign in Bruges. In more than a month he has been seen in a PSG jersey for just 24 minutes as a substitute in a Ligue 1 game at Reims. However, PSG coach Mauricio Pochettino is expected to finally unleash him from the start at the Jan Breydel Stadium against Belgian champions Club Brugge in the Group A opener. If Neymar and Kylian Mbappe start too, it will be the first time the superstar attacking trio will have been on the pitch together for the Parisians. PSG will play Abu Dhabi-backed Manchester City — the team that knocked it out in last season’s semifinals — as well as RB Leipzig in a group that could hardly have been tougher, but this is a team built to go all the way. Simone Inzaghi is trying to put Inter Milan’s rocky recent European past behind him as his side prepares for the visit of Real Madrid and an attempt to finally make it to the knockouts. Inter also has the chance to get revenge on two of the sides which denied it a place in the knockout rounds last year, with Madrid and Shakhtar Donetsk again paired with Inter, this time in Group D with minnows Sheriff FC. Inzaghi still has a strong base from which to attack the competition, with Copa America winner Lautaro Martinez in form up front and one of Italy’s Euro 2020 heroes Nicolo Barella shining in midfield. New signings Edin Dzeko, Hakan Calhanoglu and Joaquin Correa have all settled in well but up to now have only faced modest opposition. Madrid leads La Liga and has scored 13 times in four matches, with nine of those strikes coming from red-hot Karim Benzema and Vinicius Junior. Madrid will be without Gareth Bale, Toni Kroos, Dani Ceballos, Marcelo and Ferland Mendy, with Bale reportedly suffering a hamstring injury that could keep him out for some time. AC Milan makes its long-awaited return to the Champions League with a trip to Liverpool.   Wednesday’s fixtures  Besiktas vs Dortmund, Sheriff vs Shaktar Donetsk (10.15 p.m.) Inter Milan vs Real Madrid, Liverpool vs AC Milan, Atletico Madrid vs Porto, Club Brugge vs PSG, Man City vs Leipzig, Sporting vs Ajax (12.30 a.m. Thursday)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-set-for-psg-champions-league-bow-against-brugge/article36465490.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India expects an even outing against Finland||Finland’s hopes rest squarely on the shoulders of 74th-ranked Emil Ruusuvuori for the Davis Cup World Group first round tie against India, to be played on indoor hard courts at the Espoo Metro Areena, on Sept. 17 and 18. Even though India will be missing Sumit Nagal, busy playing a Challenger this week in Poland, coach Zeeshan Ali felt the teams were evenly balanced as the rest of the Finnish singles player do not have a rank in the top-400. “We are missing Sumit as he would have given us more options if we wanted to switch players around. Our second singles player is ranked higher. So, it is pretty even. Doubles will be a very important match and could decide this tie, depending on the first day’s results,” said Zeeshan. After training at the Smash tennis centre in Helsinki, the Indian team practised at the Espoo Arena on Tuesday. Clarity “It is 50-50 as of now. We will have clarity on strategy once we see the players train over the next few sessions,” said captain Rohit Rajpal. “We are doing three sessions of two hours each today. I want to push the players hard on Wednesday also, easing up on Thursday, a day before the tie,” said Zeeshan, quite keen to gauge the speed of the match court. While Prajnesh Gunneswaran (165) and Ramkumar Ramanathan (187) have been busy on the tour, Saketh Myneni has been training in Hyderabad, trying to get back into the circuit. “Prajnesh, Ramkumar and Saketh are all timing the ball well. At this point, all three singles players are ready to play. A lot depends on the speed of the court. I am glad Saketh is here as he has a big game and the experience of playing for India in the past. “Ramkumar is coming off a good tournament in France, where he reached the singles quarterfinals and won the doubles title. He is obviously playing sharp,” observed the coach. Asian Games champions Rohan Bopanna and Divij Sharan give India the edge in doubles as they have played a fair share of matches together. “Our team is in good shape and the players are sharp,” said the skipper.  We are missing Sumit as he would have given us more options if we wanted to switch players around— Zeeshan   We will have clarity on strategy once we see the players train— Rohit Rajpal,captain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/davis-cup-india-expects-an-even-outing-against-finland/article36465492.ece
15 September 2021||London,||Four qualify for Next Gen ATP Finals||Carlos Alcaraz, Jannik Sinner, Felix Auger-Aliassime and Sebastian Korda are the first four players to qualify for the Next Gen ATP Finals in Milan. The innovative 21-and-under tournament is scheduled to be played from November 9-13. The 18-year-old Spaniard, Alcaraz became the youngest US Open quarterfinalist in the Open Era after an inspired run that included a third-round upset of third seed Stefanos Tsitsipas, who triumphed in Milan in 2018. The protege of former World No. 1 Juan Carlos Ferrero, Alcaraz will compete in Milan for the first time. Sinner was just inside the world’s Top 100 when he won the 2019 Intesa Sanpaolo Next Gen ATP Finals. Now the Italian is firmly inside the Top 20 and this year he lifted an ATP 250 trophy in Melbourne and earned ATP 500 honours in Washington. Auger-Aliassime, who first qualified for Milan in 2019, just achieved the best major result of his career at the US Open, where he reached the semifinals. American Korda has booked his place in Milan for the first time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/four-qualify-for-next-gen-atp-finals/article36465969.ece
15 September 2021||VIJAYANAGAR,||Top names in action at the Nationals||In the absence of the boxers who competed in the Olympics, some top names — including Shiva Thapa, Mohammad Hussamuddin, Gaurav Bidhuri, Sanjeet and Deepak Kumar — will be seen in action in the National boxing championships starting at the Inspire Institute of Sports (IIS) here on Wednesday. The gold medal winners of the event, which is returning after a year’s break due to the pandemic, will be selected to represent the country at the World championships in Belgrade from October 24 to November 6. With the World championships around the corner, the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) has increased the weight divisions from 10 to 13 and re-introduced the head guard in order to protect the elite male boxers from getting cuts. “The increase in weight categories will provide opportunities to more boxers to compete. This is a great platform for the youth boxers to make their mark,” said head coach A.C. Kuttappa. Head guard decision High performance Director Santiago Nieva welcomed the decision to reintroduce the head guard. “It is important to protect our boxers. Three of our five boxers in the Olympics got cuts. Around 50 male boxers got cuts in the Olympics, while almost none of the women boxers (who wore head guards) got cuts. The amount of head butts is also a concern. There are too many competitions and the intensity is high,” said Nieva. The gold and silver medallists will join the National camp. The remaining two spots for the camp will be decided from the selection trials, which will take place right after the Nationals, where the two bronze medallists will compete alongside the boxers representing the second team of the top three sides of the last National championships.  The increase in weight categories will provide opportunities to more boxers. This is a great platform for youth boxers to make a mark — A.C. Kuttappa,head coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-names-in-action-at-the-nationals/article36465705.ece
15 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengaluru United tops group||FC Bengaluru United beat Mohammedan Sporting 2-0 to top Group A in the 130th Durand Cup football tournament at the Kalyani Stadium here on Tuesday. Nevertheless, Sporting qualified for the quarterfinals as the second team from Group A. Heading it in After a goalless first half on another rain-affected day, Thokchom James Singh headed in the first goal for Bengaluru in the 64th minute. The match had some thrilling moments as Sporting tried to draw parity. Bengaluru’s Slovenian forward Luka Majcen converted a spot-kick in injury time to seal the fate of the match. The other Group A fixture between Indian Air Force (IAF) and CRPF at the Mohun Bagan ground was called off due to unplayable conditions caused by heavy rain and water-logging. Bengaluru finished with nine points, while Sporting had six. IAF and CRPF managed one point each.  The result: FC Bengaluru United 2 (Thokchom James Singh 64, Luka Majcen 90+5-p) bt Mohammedan Sporting 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-united-tops/article36465523.ece
15 September 2021||Moscow,||Hammer thrower Sedykh passes away||Yuriy Sedykh, a two-time Olympic champion in hammer throw whose world record from 1986 still stands, has passed away. He was 66. The Russian track and field federation said Sedykh died early on Tuesday following a heart attack. “Deeply mourn the loss of Yuriy Sedykh,” World Athletics senior vice-president and pole vault great Sergei Bubka wrote on Twitter. “For me, Yuriy was a friend, a wise mentor.” Sedykh won gold at the 1976 and 1980 Olympics, but missed the 1984 Games because of a Soviet boycott. He claimed silver at the 1988 Seoul Olympics and won a world title in 1991. Sedykh threw a world record 86.74m at the European Championships in Stuttgart, a mark which still stands. At this year’s Tokyo Olympics, all 12 finalists in men’s hammer were born after Sedykh set the record. He made his huge throw at a time when track and field was starting to realise the scale of performance-enhancing drug use. Former Moscow anti-doping laboratory director Grigory Rodchenkov wrote in a book last year that Sedykh was “a huge steroid abuser” who benefited from a Soviet cover-up.   Deeply mourn the loss of Yuriy Sedykh. For me, Yuriy was a friend, a wise mentor— Sergei Bubka   He claimed silver at the 1988 Seoul Olympics and won a world title in 1991 At the Tokyo Olympics, all 12 finalists in men’s hammer were born after Sedykh set the record||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hammer-thrower-sedykh-passes-away/article36465525.ece
15 September 2021||Szcecin (Poland),||Sumit Nagal loses to Travaglia||Eighth seed Stefano Travaglia of Italy beat Sumit Nagal 3-6, 6-1, 6-4 in the first round of the €132,280 Challenger tennis tournament here.  Other results: $25,000 ITF men, Madrid: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Carlos Lopez Montagud (Esp) & Manish Sureshkumar bt Pablo Llamas Ruiz & Bruno Mardones (Esp) 6-3, 6-3; Miguel Damas (Esp) & Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Davide Cortimiglia (Ita) & Enzo Wallart (Fra) 6-2, 7-6(3).   €66,640 Challenger, Rennes: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja bt Kyrian Jacquet & Harold Mayot (Fra) 6-4, 7-5.   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Gabriel Roveri Sidney (Bra) & Fermin Tenti (Arg) bt Tarun Anirudh & Atharva Sharma 6-0, 6-1; Diego Augusto Barreto Sanchez (Esp) & Rishab Agarwal bt SD Prajwal Dev & Nitin Kumar Sinha 6-4, 7-5; Victor Ernaelsteen (Bel) & Louis Tessa (Fra) bt Tobias Franco (Arg) & Karan Singh 6-2, 7-6(5).   $15,000 ITF women, Melilla, Spain: Singles (first round): Maria Jose Zehnder (Arg) bt Sathwika Sama 6-4, 3-6, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Aunchisa Chanta & Chompoothip Jundakate (Tha) bt Arina Solomatina (Rus) & Snehal Mane 6-1, 6-4; Emma van Poppel (Ned) & Jennifer Luikham bt Sonashe Bhatnagar & Niditra Rajmohan 6-2, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-loses-to-travaglia/article36465585.ece
15 September 2021||Liverpool,||Everton blitz sinks Burnley||Everton moved level on points with the Premier League leaders after roaring back from a goal down to beat Burnley 3-1 on Monday. Ben Mee put the visitors deservedly in front at Goodison Park before a three-goal blitz in six minutes just after the hour continued Rafael Benitez’s strong start as Everton boss. Michael Keane’s header against his old club equalised before two of Benitez’s signings — Andros Townsend and Demarai Gray — turned the game around. The Toffees have taken 10 points from their opening four league games under the Spaniard to move alongside local rivals Liverpool, Chelsea and top-of-the-table Manchester United. Everton’s comeback was all the more impressive as it had to cope without Dominic Calvert-Lewin. Benitez confirmed before kick-off the England international is set to be absent until October with a broken toe and a thigh injury. Late winner Sergio Canales scored an 89th-minute winner with a beautiful run from near the midfield to help Real Betis defeat Granada 2-1 and end its winless streak in the Spanish league. Canales left three defenders behind him after picking up the ball near the midfield line, then sent a low shot into the corner to give Betis the win in the Andalucia derby on Monday.   The results: Premier League: Everton 3 (Keane 60, Townsend 65, Gray 66) bt Burnley 1 (Mee 53). La Liga: Getafe 0 lost to Elche 1 (Lucas 69); Granada 1 (Suarez 66) lost to Real Betis 2 (Rodri 45+2, Canales 89).   Serie A: Bologna 1 (Svanberg 79) bt Verona 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/everton-blitz-sinks-burnley/article36465531.ece
15 September 2021||Asuncion,||Extra WC qualifier in Oct. for S. America||South American national teams will again be asked to play an extra round of World Cup qualifiers in the upcoming international window, continental governing body CONMEBOL said on Monday. As in the last window in early September, CONMEBOL will attempt to catch up on lost matches by squeezing in an extra round and teams will play on Thursday October 7, Sunday October 10 and Thursday October 14. In the October break, Brazil will now travel to Venezuela and Colombia before hosting Uruguay. Argentina travels to Paraguay before hosting Uruguay and Peru. The release of players by English clubs could still be an issue if the British health authorities still have South American countries on their red list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/extra-wc-qualifier-in-oct-for-s-america/article36465710.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||Indian boxing coaching staff set for revamp||Indian boxing’s coaching staff could be “completely overhauled” in the next three months depending on how the world championships pan out, a national federation source has said, revealing that there is “dissatisfaction” with the Tokyo Olympics performance. It is reliably learnt that the two High Performance Directors Santiago Nieva (for men) and Raffaele Bergamasco (for women) along with the national head coaches C.A. Kuttappa (men) and Mohammed Ali Qamar (women) are under intense scrutiny. “Nobody (in the federation) is happy with the Olympic performance. So, as was promised, a review is on and it will be a long drawn process, which will take a couple of months. Nothing is changing till the two world championships are done with,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-boxing-coaching-staff-set-for-revamp/article36465970.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||USA leaves India stunned||A young USA, without some of its best players, turned the tables on India 4.5-1.5 in the blitz tie-breaker and set up a final with Russia in the FIDE Online Chess Olympiad on Tuesday. Having rested Viswanathan Anand and P. Harikrishna in the blitz games, India suffered due to uncharacteristic blunders from Vidit Gujrathi and K. Humpy coupled with “lost-on-time” verdicts against B. Adhiban and R. Vaishali. In the first semifinal, Russia expectedly defeated second seed China in two sets. After winning 3.5-2.5 in the first set, Russia took the second 4-2. After India destroyed USA 5-1 in the opening set, the resurgent Americans hit right back to win the second 4-2 to force the blitz tie-breaker. A little earlier, needing only a draw to advance, India had looked on course in the second set after D. Harika and Vaishali held clear advantages to more than offset the signs of worry faced by Viswanathan Anand. Suddenly, the legend blundered on the 33rd move and two moves later suffered his first loss. The win helped Jeffery Xiong avenge the defeat in first set. Soon Harika's second win — she won all three on the day — saw India pull level. However, Vidit lost on the second board, Vaishali lost her advantage and her brother R. Praggnanandhaa lost his grip to crash to an unexpected loss. In the first set, both teams fought tooth and nail before India raced away with the four games to make the result look hopelessly one-sided. Humpy was the first to draw. R. Vaishali and Anand won to put India comfortably ahead. Harikrishna gained from a late error of judgement from Dariusz Swiercz to give India the winning lead. Harika won and Nihal drew. In the end, however, it was USA’s day.  The results: Semifinals: Set I: India bt USA 5-1 (Viswanathan Anand bt Jeffery Xiong; P. Harikrishna bt Dariusz Swiercz; K. Humpy drew with Irina Krush; D. Harika bt Anna Zatonskih; Nihal Sarin drew with Awonder Liang; R. Vaishali bt Thalia Cervantes Landeiro).   Set II: USA bt India 4-2 (Xiong bt Anand; Ray Robson bt Vidit Gujrathi; Irina drew with Humpy; Nazi Paikidze lost to Harika; Liang bt R. Praggnanandhaa; Thalia drew with Vaishali).   Blitz tiebreaker: India lost to USA 1.5-4.5 (Vidit lost to Xiong; B. Adhiban lost to Robson; Humpy lost to Irina; Harika bt Paikidze; Sarin drew with Liang; Vaishali lost to Thalia).   Set I: China lost to Russia 2.5-3.5; Set II: Russia bt China 4-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/usa-hits-back-draws-level-with-india/article36465483.ece
15 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Paartalu to join teammates||Bengaluru FC midfielder Erik Paartalu, who was involved in a disagreement with his club over not being allowed to train, will soon be joining his teammates ahead of the 2021-22 ISL pre-season, Naushad Moosa, BFC’s coach at the Durand Cup, said on Tuesday. “The senior team is on a break. He is training at the Inspire Institute of Sport in Ballari. In a couple of weeks, the senior team will assemble and he [Paartalu] will rejoin us,” Moosa said on the eve of the Cup opener against Kerala Blasters. The Australian was left out of the 29-man squad for the AFC Cup playoff against Maldivian side Club Eagles, which BFC won 1-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paartalu-to-join-teammates/article36465520.ece
15 September 2021||Mumbai,||E-bidding for new IPL teams likely on Oct. 17||The BCCI is planning to have an e-bidding for the two new IPL teams on Oct. 17 and the bids to buy the sides can be made till Oct. 5. “The Board is planning to have the bidding on 17th October and it will be an e-bidding,” said a BCCI source on Tuesday. The BCCI had on Aug. 31 invited bids to own an IPL franchise with “Invitation to Tender” available for purchase till Oct. 5. Among the venues where the teams could be based include Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/e-bidding-for-new-ipl-teams-likely-on-oct-17/article36465485.ece
15 September 2021||COLOMBO,||Bowlers and openers help SA win 3-0||South Africa, helped by some inspired bowling and unbeaten fifties from Quinton de Kock and Reeza Hendricks, swept the T20I series 3-0 against Sri Lanka with a crushing 10-wicket win on Tuesday. Chasing 121 for victory, the visitors romped home in 14.4 overs with de Kock unbeaten on 59 and Hendricks on 56. South African bowlers Bjorn Fortuin and Kagiso Rabada took two wickets each to restrict the hosts to 120 for eight after it had elected to bat. de Kock and Hendricks then put on South Africa's highest T20I partnership — 121 — for any wicket against Sri Lanka.  The scores: Sri Lanka 120/8 in 20 overs (Kusal Perera 39, Bjorn Fortuin 2/21, Kagiso Rabada 2/23) lost to South Africa 121/0 in 14.4 overs (Reeze Hendricks 56 n.o., Quinton de Kock 59 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bowlers-and-openers-help-sa-win-3-0/article36465486.ece
15 September 2021||London,||Ireland draws ODI series||Ireland secured a 1-1 series draw after beating Zimbabwe by seven wickets in a rain-disrupted third One-day International in Belfast on Monday. Electing to field, Ireland bowled out Zimbabwe for 131 in 34 overs, captain Craig Ervine top-scoring with 57. Rain then left Ireland with the task of chasing a revised target of 118 in 32 overs. Ireland eased home with nearly 10 overs to spare with Paul Stirling hitting 43 off 40 balls. But there was disappointment for Brendan Taylor, playing his 284th and final international match, as he was bowled for just seven. Ervine paid tribute to Taylor and admitted he will leave a huge void to fill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ireland-draws-odi-series/article36465706.ece
15 September 2021||Dubai,||Lee joins Mithali on top of ODI rankings||India skipper Mithali Raj was on Tuesday joined at the top by South Africa opener Lizelle Lee, whose unbeaten 91 in the opening match against the West Indies helped her take joint-first position in the latest ICC women’s ODI rankings. While Australia’s Alyssa Healy is in third place, India opener Smriti Mandhana retained her ninth spot. Veteran India pacer Jhulan Goswami and senior spinner Poonam Yadav remained static on fifth and ninth respectively, while Deepti Sharma maintained her fifth spot in the all-rounders’ list. Teen star Shafali Verma held on to her top rank in the T20 rankings with 759 points, ahead of Australian Beth Mooney (744) and India T20 vice-captain Smriti (716).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lee-joins-mithali-on-top-of-odi-rankings/article36465707.ece
15 September 2021||Karachi,||Pakistan to tour Bangladesh||Pakistan on Tuesday announced its national cricket team will tour Bangladesh after a gap of six years to play two Tests and three Twenty20 Internationals in November. “Pakistan will play two World Test Championship matches soon after the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates,” said a Pakistan Cricket Board release. Pakistan last toured Bangladesh in 2015. The T20Is will be staged at Dhaka’s Sher-e-Bangla stadium on November 19, 20 and 22. The two teams will then travel to Chittagong for the first of the two Tests at Zahur Ahmed Chowdhury Stadium from November 26 to 30. The two teams will return to Dhaka to play the final Test, which will start December 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-to-tour-bangladesh/article36465964.ece
15 September 2021||Washington,||Cantlay wins PGA Tour player of the year award||Patrick Cantlay was voted PGA Tour player of the year on the strength of his four victories, including a one-shot advantage at East Lake that made him the FedEx Cup champion. Tuesday's announcement was another big step for Cantlay, a 29-year-old Californian who went from being the No. 1 amateur in the world to being unable to play for some three years because of a career-threatening back injury. Now, he has the Jack Nicklaus Award after a big finish to his best season. Cantlay won four times this season, capped off by the FedEx Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cantlay-wins-pga-tour-player-of-the-year-award/article36465708.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Arumugam does the star turn for Asiatic||P. Arumugam starred for Asiatic CA with a 109 as it beat Avengers Penetron by 209 runs in the KDCA second division league match held recently.  The scores: II div: Central Bank of India 64 in 24.3 overs (Ajay 4/16, E.S. Gokul 3/23) drew with Leo CC 8/0 in 2.4 overs. Note: Match stopped due to rain.   Asiatic Cricket Academy 257/6 in 27 overs (P. Arumugam 109, S. Prasanth 64, M. Anirud 38, Balasubramanian 3/54) bt Avengers Penetron 48 in 16.4 overs (P. Baradwaz 3/23).   Southern Railway Institute (TBM) 127/9 in 30 overs (R. Seshanth 4/45) lost to GE (T&D ) 128/4 in 23.4 overs(M.V. Ponarasu 25, R. Senthil Kumar 32 n.o.).   Fine Star CC 116 in 25.1 overs (Dhanu Satyan 3/22) lost to Garnet CC 117/5 in 28 overs (M. Suba Anand 40, Dhanu Satyan 27 n.o., B. Tamil Selvan 3/15).    Swastik Foundation will conduct the “Bajrangi” open category knockout T20 tournament at Swastik-Gojan Sports Fields (Turf), Redhills on Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays from September 24. For details, contact: 98412 96056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arumugam-does-the-star-turn-for-asiatic/article36465582.ece
15 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||State senior badminton from October 15||Ernakulam will host the State senior badminton championships from October 15 to 18. This was decided at the Kerala Badminton and Shuttle Association’s (KBSA) executive committee meeting held online on Sunday. The junior (September 28 to October 1) and sub-junior (October 11 to 14) state championships were allotted to Thrissur district. All three championships will be held at multiple venues and restricted only to players and technical officials. The tournaments will be held under COVID-19 protocol and participants should produce a COVID negative certificate taken 72 hours prior to their scheduled matches.     Dr. John M. Chacko, the chief patron of the Kerala Basketball Association (KBA), passed away in Indore on Tuesday. He was 68 and is survived by his wife and daughter. Chacko had contributed immensely to promote and develop of the game in Kerala. The KBA has condoled his death.     Tripunithura CC (TCC) defeated Ernakulam CC by seven wickets in a Super League match of the Byju's KCA Club Championships at the SD College ground here on Tuesday. After restricting Ernakulam CC to 157/6 in 20 overs, Tripunithura CC reached the target with more than two overs to spare. In another match, Masters CC (MCC), Thiruvananthapuram, defeated Masters Royals CC, Ernakulam, by five wickets.  The scores: Ernakulam CC 157/6 in 20 overs (P.S. Sirajudheen 40, Bovas M. Justin 38) lost to Tripunithura CC 160/3 in 17.5 overs (Akash Babu 43 n.o., Abdul Basith 34, M.S. Akhil 31 n.o.).   Masters Royal CC 152/8 in 20 overs (Arun Poulouse 40, Sanjay Raj 34) lost to Masters CC 153/5 in 19.3 overs (Rohan Kunnammel 51).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-senior-badminton-from-october-15/article36465838.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: Harrington CA under-14 tournament, Reddy’s Sumangali, Medavakkam, 1 p.m.; Master CC Iron Lady Trophy women's T20 tournament (Stag ground), 8 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article36465581.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI:,||Talwar rallies to beat Bisht||Third seed Aditya Talwar recovered from the brink of defeat to beat lucky-loser Vansh Bisht 1-6, 7-5, 6-3 in the under-18 boys’ pre-quarterfinals of the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament on the clay courts of the Dhyan Chand National Stadium on Tuesday.  In the girls’ event, Sumeira Jaiswal beat Rhea Arora 7-5, 6-3 to set up a quarterfinal against Somya Arya.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): Under-18: Boys: Parag Jain bt Vir Singh Brar 6-3, 6-1; Pratyaksh bt Stevan Ankit Ekka 6-2, 6-1; Abhiraj Mohil bt Akshat Sharma 5-1 (retired); Vedant Mehta bt Harish R 6-2, 6-3; Ananya Gohri bt Devyaan Arora 6-1, 6-4; Aditya Talwar bt Vansh Bisht 1-6, 7-5, 6-3; Harsh Fogaat bt Vaibhav Chaudhary 6-3, 6-3; Namish Sharma bt Sachin Rana 6-1, 6-3.   Girls: Samya Singh Sikand bt Siya Usha Kakkar 6-2, 6-1; Dia Arora bt Stuti Kumar 6-2, 6-3; Sreenidhi Balaji bt Tanishi Aggarwal 6-0, 6-1; Sneha Sundaraneedi bt Mrinalika Swami 6-1, 6-1; Anya Gupta bt Pratishtha Ray 6-3, 6-0; Durganshi bt Samanta Koushikee 7-5, 6-4; Somya Arya bt Janvi Rathee 6-3, 6-0; Sumeira Jaiswal bt Rhea Arora 7-5, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/talwar-rallies-to-beat-bisht/article36465672.ece
15 September 2021||CHIBA,||Asian volley: Japan puts India at bottom of group||Japan defeated India 25-15, 25-15, 25-18 in the Asian men’s volleyball championship here on Tuesday. India’s third successive defeat in Pool A left it last in the four-team group. India will now play in the classification rounds for ninth to 16th places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asian-volley-japan-puts-india-at-bottom-of-group/article36465526.ece
15 September 2021||September 15 2021 09:02 IST,||Sudoku — September 15, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-15-2021/article36466347.ece
15 September 2021||Mumbai,||Don’t cut power connections for drinking, farming purposes: CM||Ministers of all parties on Tuesday slammed the functioning of the Power department over cutting connections in villages, wrong numbers, rising losses and unnecessary expenditure. A review meeting on the functioning of the department was held in the presence of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. A senior Minister said the department’s operations are so bad that the government is set to face backlash and villagers will literally “chase us out” while another Minister commented that “the State budget is unlikely to bring the department and its companies out of financial mess”. Taking note of the strong reactions, Mr. Thackeray directed that power connections for drinking and farming purposes should not be cut in villages, irrespective of the bill arrears. Ministers irked The Ministers were also irked after the department claimed that the usage of agriculture is 31% of the consumption in the State. Interestingly, the department has shown industrial power usage as 38%. “Are we fools? How can power consumption in agriculture be almost equal to the Industry?” a Minister said, on condition of anonymity. Ministers accused the department of presenting false numbers. “The actual usage for agriculture is around 15%. Officials add power wastage to farm section and exaggerate the numbers. Fake power usage also means subsidy is being wasted,” the Minister said. According to sources, Agriculture Minister Dadaji Bhuse of the Shiv Sena, Irrigation Minister Jayant Patil of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan of the Congress and Animal Husbandry Minister Sunil Kedar of the Congress raised serious objections on the functioning of the department, which is held by Nitin Raut of the Congress. The issue of extravagant expenditure on the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities was also raised. “The loan amount on all three companies, MahaGenco, MSEDCL and MahaTransco, is above Rs. 70,000 crore and the department is busy supplying 200 ambulances under CSR. What should be the priority?” a Minister asked. Directions have also been issued to probe the expenditure on the CSR. Disinvestment idea A senior Minister went to the extent of suggesting disinvestment of the loss-making MahaGenco, the power generation company. “The State budget can never prove to be sufficient. The option of disinvestment can also be explored if need be,” he said, according to sources. Mr. Raut said his department was struggling due to non-payment of power bills. “Floods have put the department in a financial mess ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dont-cut-power-connections-for-drinking-farming-purposes-cm/article36465907.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC grants bail to two, refuses two others in Ratan Lal case||“It is egregious and against the principles enshrined in our Constitution to allow an accused to remain languishing behind bars during the pendency of the trial,” the Delhi High Court remarked on Tuesday while granting bail to two persons arrested in connection with the death of head constable Ratan Lal during the north-east Delhi riots last year. Justice Subramonium Prasad reiterated that “bail is the rule and jail is the exception” while granting bail to 22-year-old Shahnawaz and Mohd Ayyub, a businessman who runs a readymade shop near his residence at Chand Bagh here. The court noted that both Mr. Shahnawaz and Mr. Ayyub have been in custody for 17 months now and the veracity of the allegations levelled against the duo can be tested during the trial. The case relates to an FIR registered pursuant to the death of Lal, who was on duty during the riots. As per the police, on February 24, 2020, at about 1 p.m. the protesters had mobilised near Chand Bagh and 25 Futa Road, and were moving towards the Main Wazirabad Road. When the police officers attempted to convince the protesters to not move forward, the crowd snatched tear gas balls and lathis from the police, and started beating them with it. Police stated that ACP Gokalpuri, head constable Lal and DCP Shahdara Amit Kumar were also beaten with sticks and stones, and as a result, they fell down and suffered grievous head injuries. Later, Lal succumbed to injuries. First casualty Lal was among the first reported casualties on February 23 last year when stone pelting began in north-east Delhi, leading to communal riots. His postmortem revealed that he had died of a bullet injury and had suffered multiple injuries to his body. He is survived by his wife and three children. Mr. Shahnawaz, who claimed to be the sole bread earner of a family with aged parents, was arrested on March 29, 2020. The High Court said that there is no electronic evidence which places him at the scene of crime during the time of the alleged incident. The call detail records (CDR) in his case were inconclusive as he is a resident of the area, the court said. In the case of Mr. Ayyub, the court said he has been in custody since his arrest on March 11, 2020. The court said that the video footage in which he is seen does not indicate whether he was part of the unlawful assembly at the scene of crime. “Additionally, merely being one of the organisers of the protest as well as being in touch with others who participated in the protest is also not sufficient enough to justify the contention that the petitioner [Mr. Ayyub] was involved in the pre-planning of the alleged incident,” Justice Prasad said. “This court has already opined that the right to protest and express dissent is a right which occupies a fundamental stature in a democratic polity, and therefore, the fact that the petitioner was part of the protest is not a sufficient ground to refuse bail to him,” the High Court added. Justice Prasad through two other separate judgments rejected the bail plea of two more persons, who were arrested in connection with the murder of Ratan Lal during the riots. Rejecting the bail plea of 22-year-old Sadiq alias Sahil, who claims to be the sole bread earner of a family with aged parents, the court said he was seen on multiple CCTV footages, carrying a danda (stick) with other co-accused. Active involvement “The clinching evidence that tilts this court to prolong the incarceration of the petitioner [Sahil] is his presence in the...video wherein he is clearly identified at the scene of crime, holding a danda in one hand and pelting stones with his other hand at uniformed officials who...are heavily and hopelessly outnumbered,” Justice Prasad said. The High Court opined that the video reveals that Sahil is not merely a curious onlooker. “The fact that he actively participated and pelted stones at the police officials justifies the invocation of Section 149 (unlawful assembly) Indian Penal Code read with Section 302 (murder) IPC in the instant case,” it said. In the case of Irshad Ali, who claims to do stitching work, the court noted that he was seen on multiple CCTV footage, carrying a danda and provoking the crowd. “This court is of the opinion that the footage of the petitioner [Ali] at the scene of crime is quite egregious, and is therefore sufficient to keep the petitioner in custody,” Justice Prasad said, adding that he has perused the video in slow motion and felt that Ali’s presence at the scene of crime cannot be disputed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-grants-bail-to-two-refuses-two-others-in-ratan-lal-case/article36465681.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. told to decide on petition to allow visitors in places of worship||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the AAP government to take a decision on a representation seeking that visitors to religious places be allowed, subject to strict compliance of COVID-19 protocol. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh gave the direction while dealing with a plea by NGO Distress Management Collective. Advocate Robin Raju, appearing for the NGO, contended that despite the reopening of markets, malls, gyms and spas in view of a “significant drop” in cases of COVID-19, the Delhi government continues to prohibit visitors from places of worship. Selective exclusion “This prolonged prohibition on visitors from going to religious places has become a matter of distress for not just religious leaders but to the believers at large,” the plea said. Mr. Raju argued that there was “selective exclusion” of religious places even in the August 30 order of Delhi Disaster Management Authority. “Religious places shall be permitted to open but no visitors will be allowed... My representation [to allow visitors] was sent 40 days ago,” he added. The petition argued that restaurants, bars, cinemas and multiplexes have been allowed to operate up to 50% of their seating capacity. It said that even the Delhi Metro is allowed with 100% seating capacity in coaches. The DDMA has even permitted funeral and marriage-related gatherings with a ceiling of 100 persons. “It is though striking to note that aforesaid circular continues to prohibit visitors from religious places,” the NGO said. The NGO said it was constrained to approach the HC as it had received numerous grievances from both the clergy and laity regarding the issue of prohibition of visitors in religious places, even after unlocking almost all those centres where usually throngs gather. The petition said that an “online worship service will never be able to provide the same experience” as a physical visit and that the continued prohibition on visitors “gives an impression that they [the authorities] see religious places solely as places of worship and not a necessity”. Building maintenance “Most of the religious places in Delhi are in difficulty to even meet its building maintenance and other ancillary expenses due to prolonged absence of visitors. It is also hard to comprehend the selective exclusion of religious places despite opening up of all other crowd gathering spots,” the plea said. Last week, the High Court declined to entertain a petition seeking to declare as illegal the Delhi government’s decision of organising Ganesh Chaturthi from State treasury. In July, the court had asked the Centre to respond to a petition by Delhi Waqf Board to open the Nizamuddin markaz, which has been locked since March 31 last year after several people who attended a religious congregation there contracted COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-told-to-decide-on-petition-to-allow-visitors-in-places-of-worship/article36465696.ece
15 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt. dishonest with aam, Ram, says Sisodia||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is the only one in the country who is running his government on the “principles of Bhagwan Ram” and getting “inspired” by him, said his deputy and AAP leader Manish Sisodia on Tuesday. Focus on election Mr. Sisodia, along with AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh, participated in a Tiranga Sankalp Yatra in Faizabad town of Ayodhya district to target the Yogi Adityanath-led U.P. government. The Yatra was dominated by the theme of Ram Rajya and nationalism, two issues emphasised by the AAP leadership as part of its U.P. campaign for the 2022 Assembly poll. Talking to the reporters before starting the Yatra, which saw a decent crowd, Mr. Sisodia said the Yogi government had failed on all fronts. He also accused the BJP of standing with ‘goondaraj’ and rioters. “The BJP government had been dishonest with both aam (common citizen) and [Lord] Ram,” said Mr. Sisodia. In contrast, he said, Mr. Kejriwal is running his government and carrying out his politics through inspiration from Lord Ram and Ram Rajya. Mr. Sisodia said while the AAP leaders keep Lord Ram “in their hearts” and the party running the government by holding the Constitution in hand, the BJP “keeps muh mein Ram, bagal mein churi ,” referring to a popular Hindi idiom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-govt-dishonest-with-aam-ram-says-sisodia/article36465676.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shop owner held, contractor on the run in building collapse case||A day after a triple-storey building collapsed in north Delhi’s Sabzi Mandi, police have arrested a man, who owned a shop on the ground floor of the building where repair and renovation work was under way, they said. Police said that the accused, identified as Mohak Arora, a resident of Sabzi Mandi, has been arrested under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Sources said that the contractor who was assigned the repair work is absconding and teams are searching him. Missing labourer Locals said that the rescue operation was under way till late night on Monday and the debris was removed on Tuesday. A police officer said that the labourers who were feared to have been trapped under the debris were not found. “It has been informed that the repair work had been completed on Sunday evening and on Monday, there was only one labourer who was inside the shop at the time of the incident. He has not been traced so far,” the officer said. Loss of livelihood The elderly man who was injured — Ramji Das Aneja — was discharged after treatment on Monday evening. Recalling the incident, he told The Hindu that a customer came to his shop and he had just attended him when he noticed that stones were falling from the roof. “He told me to quickly leave the shop as he managed to run outside. I got up from the counter and had just reached the shutter when the building fully collapsed and I got stuck against the wall,” he said. He said that Rs. 80,000 was inside his shop, which is now missing, and he is left without any source of income to feed his widowed daughter-in-law and grandson. “I lost my son to dengue three years ago and my wife to COVID three months ago. This was my only source of income and I don’t know how I’ll survive and feed my daughter-in-law,” he said. On Monday, around 11.30 a.m., the building with two shops on the ground floor and residential accommodations on three floors above it, collapsed leaving two brothers dead. The children – Saumya (12) and Prashant (7) – were crossing the congested lane with their parents when the incident happened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shop-owner-held-contractor-on-the-run-in-building-collapse-case/article36465686.ece
15 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram sees spike in fever, dengue cases||Both the government and the private hospitals have witnessed a sudden spike in cases of viral fever, dengue and typhoid over the past few weeks in the Millennium City. However, incidence of serious cases is less compared to the previous years with patients reporting early because of an increased awareness and fear of pandemic. Physician Kajal Kumud at Civil Hospital, Sector 10, said almost 40% of the OPD patients came with complaint of fever and many had low platelet counts. “Almost every second, the patient that come to us has viral fever these days. There are cases of low platelet counts as well, but not very severe in nature. Unlike the previous years, people are reporting early due to fear of COVID-19,” said Dr. Kumud. She said there were no confirmed cases of dengue so far, but around half-a-dozen patients with low platelet counts were admitted to hospital. Amitabh Parti, director, Internal Medicine at Fortis Hospital, here, said that there was a rise in fever cases with the highest number of them being that of flu. “There has been only 10% rise in the number of dengue cases since the last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gurugram-sees-spike-in-fever-dengue-cases/article36465700.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||MPD 2041: DDA to set up board to consider objections and suggestions||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday chaired a meeting of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) where several key proposals were considered and approved. According to sources, DDA Vice-Chairman Anurag Jain and other members of the authority were also present at the meeting where it was decided to constitute a board of enquiry for hearing and considering objections and suggestions of the public on the draft Master Plan for Delhi- 2041. Permission was granted to relocate the JJ dwellers of three JJ clusters, including GP Block, PitamPura, Kohat Enclave, Pitampura and Golden Park to the built-up EWS flats under the PM Aawas Yojna (PMAY). Similarly, permission was also granted for the allotment of EWS houses constructed at A-14, Kalkaji Extension to eligible JJ dwellers of the Bhoomiheen Camp, Kalkaji Extension under the in-situ Rehabilitation Project. In addition to an amendment in the Policy & Procedure for permission and Regularization of Additions/Alterations of DDA flats, modification in the MPD-2021 with respect to Additional Development Control norms for areas notified under Land Policy was also approved. The proposal for change of land use of land allotted to Ministry of Home Affairs for facilitating construction of Transit Camp for CRPF near New Delhi Railway Station was granted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mpd-2041-dda-to-set-up-board-to-consider-objections-and-suggestions/article36465690.ece
15 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Remarks on protests given a political twist’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said it was unfortunate that the farmers agitating against the Centre’s farm laws had given a political twist to his remarks instead of understanding the pain and misery caused to the people on account of their protests in the State. He said the protests were quite uncalled for, given his government’s continued support to them. Reacting to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s criticism over his remarks, Capt. Amarinder said despite his government’s support, the farmers had misinterpreted his appeal and had, instead, tried to link it with the upcoming Assembly poll in Punjab. He said there was no question of trying to divide the farmers of Punjab and Haryana, all of whom are victims of the apathy of the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in the neighbouring State. “My government has not only supported the farmers’ fight against the farm laws but had even brought in amendment Bills,” he said. Capt. Amarinder added that those Bills had, unfortunately, not been forwarded by the Governor to the President for assent. Pointing out that the farmers’ fight was against the BJP, Capt. Amarinder said inconveniencing the people of Punjab was not justified. He rejected the Morcha’s claims that there was no paralysis of the government in Punjab, pointing out that it was not the “Adanis” or the “Ambanis” whose interests were being hurt but the common people of the State, as well as its economy. “The Adanis’ assets in Punjab were a minuscule 0.8% of their total assets, and the presence of the Reliance Group stood at a nominal 0.1%,” said the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/remarks-on-protests-given-a-political-twist/article36465679.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Submit plan to control air pollution by Sept. 21’||Environment Minister Gopal Rai said all departments concerned have been asked to submit their respective action plans to control air pollution to the environment department by September 21. Next, he said, the government will then prepare a winter action plan based on it to control air pollution. Mr. Rai said the Development Department has been given the responsibility to make an action plan to solve the issue of stubble in Delhi. Winter Action Plan “The Delhi government has started making the winter action plan to tackle the pollution problem. A few days ago, in the meeting with officials of the Environment Department, we identified 10 focus points. To work on these points, we organised a meeting of all the principal agencies in Delhi — all the three Municipal Corporations, NDMC, Cantonment Board, DDA, CPWD, PWD, Traffic Police, Transport Department, Environment Department, Development Department,” the Minister said. He said the government will take action against departments that are negligent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/submit-plan-to-control-air-pollution-by-sept-21/article36465694.ece
15 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Four held for sharing defence secrets||The Odisha police on Tuesday arrested four persons on charges of sharing sensitive information about India’s premier missile testing centre at the Abdul Kalam Island in Balasore district. “We have got intelligence that some some persons are communicating classified defence secrets to foreign agents, appearing to be Pakistani agents, being contacted from various ISD phone numbers and they were getting monetary benefits from them,” the police said. Four persons were charged under Section 120-B/121-A/34 of the IPC read with Section 3, 4 and 5 of the Official Secret Act. “They were causing serious harm to the security, sovereignty and integrity of our nation and further interrogation is going on to unearth more evidences,” the police said. According to the Balasore police, teams were formed and during the raids several incriminating materials were recovered. Himanshu Lal (Inspector General of Police for Eastern Range), said, “The accused were also seduced by women through social media platforms.” According to sources, more persons might be involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/four-held-for-sharing-defence-secrets/article36465678.ece
15 September 2021||Mumbai,||State awaits GST reimbursement worth Rs. 30,000 crore, Uddhav tells NITI Aayog||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday informed the members of NITI Aayog that the State awaited GST reimbursement worth Rs. 30,000 crore from the Centre and the amount would touch Rs. 50,000 crore if not paid on time. “We await GST reimbursement worth Rs. 30,000 crore, which will increase to almost Rs. 50,000 crore in a few months. The increased taxes on petrol and diesel have helped the Central government but no benefit has been extended to the State,” Mr. Thackeray said. He was speaking at a meeting with the NITI Aayog members where all State departments gave a presentation about the existing schemes and planned projects. Mr. Thackeray also urged the members to come up with a solution to the crop insurance complaints by farmers. “The insurance companies involved are minting profits in the Pradhan Mantri Crop Insurance scheme,” he said. Rajiv Kumar, vice-president, NITI Aayog, accepted that similar complaints had been received from different States and the Aayog was seriously considering about bringing reforms which would help farmers. The State also appealed to the NITI Aayog to modify the criteria for awarding aid under the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF). Aayog’s CEO Amitabh Kant praised the State government’s electric vehicle policy while Mr. Kumar said that the work the State did during the pandemic was commendable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/state-awaits-gst-reimbursement-worth-rs-30000-crore-uddhav-tells-niti-aayog/article36465903.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||More kids studying in pvt. schools unlike during Cong. rule: Maken||Congress leader Ajay Maken on Tuesday said since the Aam Aadmi Party came to power, more students have started studying in private schools than Delhi government schools whereas during the end of the Congress rule in the Capital, it was the opposite. The Congress leader was responding to a tweet by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in which the latter shared a news article that said over two lakh students from private schools were seeking admission in government schools. He commented that this was happening for the first time in India. “For the first time in Delhi, in 2019, it happened that more children are studying in private schools than in government ones. Statistics show that 16.47 lakh students were studying in Delhi government schools while 16.61 lakh were studying in private schools,” Mr. Maken said. He said in 2013-14 there were 4.18 lakh more children studying in Delhi government schools than private schools. In a tweet, Mr. Maken asked Mr. Kejriwal to explain how the government was claiming that it had brought about an education revolution when there was a reduction of 1.28 lakh children in government schools from 2013 to 2019 and a rise of 3.04 lakh children in private schools in the same period. A source in the Delhi government said that total enrolment in government schools reached 17.67 lakh for the session 2021-22 as against the 16.28 lakh in 2020-21. Data for total enrolment in private schools for the current session is not available yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-kids-studying-in-pvt-schools-unlike-during-cong-rule-maken/article36465688.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||AAP says councillor had reported illegal construction in north Delhi building||A day after a building collapse killed two minors in Delhi, the Aam Aadmi Party claimed that a party councillor had earlier this month submitted a complaint regarding illegal construction in the structure but the BJP leaders and officials did not take any action. The party shared the complaint dated September 2, which has a purported seal of the office of Deputy Commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC). “A complaint must be filed against BJP’s leaders and officials under IPC Section 302. This must be taken to the fast-track court and the culprits should be hanged to death. The incident has taken place because of the greed and corruption of the BJP leaders,” AAP in-charge of municipal corporations, Durgesh Pathak said. In the letter, councillor Guddi Devi says that she has received complaints from people that illegal construction in the 75-year-old building (number 2,724) in Sabzi Mandi. She also said construction is happening at night after the shutters go down. “Despite complaining multiple times about the illegal construction in ward committee, verbal and written way, the building department has not done any inquiry and it is shameful,” Ms. Devi said. “Councillor Devi wrote a letter to the commissioner and informed the Mayor that people from the RWA have informed her that illegal construction is happening in this area...,” Mr. Pathak said. When asked, the BJP refused to comment on the allegations levelled against the party by Mr. Pathak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-says-councillor-had-reported-illegal-construction-in-north-delhi-building/article36465692.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Come up with provisional rehabilitation scheme: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to frame a provisional scheme for the rehabilitation of residents displaced in the Khori Gaon demolition. A Special Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari clarified that the provisional scheme would be independent of the local body’s housing and rehabilitation plan. “As suggested on earlier occasion, the corporation has in principle agreed to roll-out a provisional scheme independent from scheme in affidavit regarding allotment of premises/houses in lieu of rehabilitation of eligible applicants,” the court noted in this regard. The court did not seem satisfied with the municipal body’s proposal to complete the rehabilitation process by April 2022. It insisted that displaced cannot wait till next year and provisional measures should be taken to provide them shelter. The court said eligible applicants should receive provisional allotment letter within a week of their application. The letter should clearly convey that the allotment was only temporary until the final draw of lots and scrutiny of all the applications. In the previous hearing, the court had made it clear that its primary focus was on the rehabilitation of eligible people who had lost their homes to the demolition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/come-up-with-provisional-rehabilitation-scheme-sc/article36465699.ece
15 September 2021||Navi Mumbai,||FIR filed against three, including teenage girl, for rape of minor last year||The Nerul police, acting on a complaint by a de-addiction centre in Navi Mumbai, have registered an FIR against two boys in their 20s and a 16-year-old girl. Upon noticing that a 15-year-old girl from Nerul, who was brought in by her mother, was not cooperating, the centre informed the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) in Thane. During counselling at the CWC, the girl disclosed about an incident that happened last November. As per her statement to the CWC, she was befriended by a 16-year-old girl who took her to a pond in Juinagar on the pretext of playing and offered her a spiked soft drink. When she felt drowsy, she was taken to a room by her friend where she later fell unconscious. The next day, she found herself nude inside a blanket and saw two boys in the room who then injected her with some drug and raped her. They also gave her money and said that if she stayed in that room, she could earn more money. On the third day, she managed to escape and reached home. Due to repeated injections, she had got addicted to drugs and her mother approached the de-addiction centre. On September 9, the CWC ordered the Nerul police to register an FIR. “The FIR was registered on Sunday under Sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, and the Immoral Trafficking Prevention Act,” senior police inspector Shyam Shinde from Nerul police station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fir-filed-against-three-including-teenage-girl-for-rape-of-minor-last-year/article36465905.ece
15 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Top Maoist leader arrested||A dreaded Maoist, allegedly involved in three separate attacks leading to the death of at least 25 security forces personnel, was arrested from Koraput district in Odisha, the police said on Tuesday. The CPI (Maoist) leader, identified as Dubashi Sankar, special zonal committee member, and carrying a reward of Rs. 20 lakh on his head, was arrested during a joint operation launched by District Voluntary Force, Special Operation Group and Border Security Force from the forest area of Petaguda and Noaro village under Boipariguda of Koraput district on night of September 12. The security forces seized one INSAS rifle, 10 rounds of ammunition, one smart phone, radio and Rs. 35,000 cash from him. Odisha Director General of Police Abhay said it was a huge success as a top Left Wing Extremist of Dubashi Shankar’s calibre has neither been arrested nor neutralised in recent memory. According to the police, Sankar, who joined the Maoist organisation in 1987 in the Indrapuriyal area committee, Telegana, as a party member, had worked in and around Medak district and was involved in a series of naxal incidents. In another incident, Sonal Madvi, an area committee member of the Gumma area committee under the Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee, surrendered before Rajesh Pandit, Deputy Inspector General of Police (South West Range) in Koraput.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/top-maoist-leader-arrested/article36465677.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. not letting reservation benefit reach poor: Bidhuri||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Tuesday alleged that the people of Delhi were not getting the benefit of 10% reservation announced by the Centre meant for the economically challenged belonging to upper castes. Mr. Bidhuri said income certificates of such citizens were deliberately not being issued in Delhi by the AAP government, which had “openly opposed” this reservation. “Now the government deliberately is not giving the benefits to deprive the people of Delhi...,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-not-letting-reservation-benefit-reach-poor-bidhuri/article36465691.ece
15 September 2021||Mumbai,||Bhima-Koregaon: not replying to plea against probe transfer, says State||In an unusual move, the Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that it does not want to reply to a plea filed by two accused in the Bhima-Koregaon caste violence case challenging the transfer of the probe from the Pune Police to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). After public prosecutor Aruna Pai, representing the Maharashtra government, made this submission before a Division Bench , advocates S.B. Talekar and Madhavi Ayyappan, appearing for the accused, expressed shock and urged the court to record the State’s statement. The court was hearing a criminal petition filed by Surendra Gadling and Sudhir Dhawale lodged at the Taloja Central Jail. It challenges the transfer of investigation to the NIA after the chargesheet was submitted and process issued to some of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bhima-koregaon-not-replying-to-plea-against-probe-transfer-says-state/article36465908.ece
15 September 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra logs 3,530 new cases, 52 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 3,530 new COVID-19 cases and 52 deaths, taking the infection tally to 65,04,147 and the toll to 1,38,221, a Health Department official said. The number of daily cases and fatalities witnessed a rise as compared to Monday, when the State had recorded 2,740 cases and 27 fatalities. The official said 3,685 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative recoveries to 63,12,706 and leaving Maharashtra with 49,671 active cases. The State has 2,96,176 people in home quarantine and another 1,875 in institutional quarantine. The official said the COVID-19 recovery rate stood at 97.06%, while the fatality rate was 2.12%. The cumulative number of tests climbed to 5,62,25,304 with 1,37,190 new tests, the lowest in recent weeks, conducted in the last 24 hours, he said. The official said Mumbai witnessed 367 new COVID-19 cases and five deaths, while Pune city reported 185 infections and four fatalities. Among the 49,671 active cases, Pune district has the highest at 13,101.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-logs-3530-new-cases-52-deaths/article36465904.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Specify time to fill up PMLA tribunal’s posts’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to specify the timeline within which it proposes to fill up the posts of chairperson and members of the Appellate Tribunal of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (ATPMLA) in the Capital and make it functional. Justice Rekha Palli, after perusing a status report filed by the Centre, said it is unfortunate that no time frame has been indicated for making the tribunal functional at the earliest. “In the interest of justice, respondents [Centre] are granted two weeks’ time to file the status report clearly stating the time frame within which it proposes to make the tribunal functional,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/specify-time-to-fill-up-pmla-tribunals-posts/article36465697.ece
15 September 2021||New Delhi,||Brief 1||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday met Tokyo Olympics 2020 bronze medallist Bajrang Punia and felicitated him after his victory at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/brief-1/article36465683.ece
15 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Brief 2||In two separate incidents, two undertrial Tihar jail prisoners were injured when they were attacked with sharp objects by fellow inmates, said officials on Tuesday, adding that both the incidents took place in jail number 3. An investigation is under way, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/brief-2/article36465684.ece
