16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lifeline for telcos as govt. offers four-year moratorium on dues||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved several measures to extend a lifeline to the cash-strapped telecom sector, including a redefinition of the much-litigated concept of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) to exclude non-telecom revenue and a four-year moratorium on players’ dues to the government. Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said the government was keen on ensuring that there were more players in the sector and consumers retained choices when asked about the fears of a duopoly emerging with just two major telecom players — Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio. In all, Mr. Vaishnaw announced nine structural reforms and five procedural reforms for the sector, including a fixed calendar for spectrum auctions with an extended tenure of 30 years for future spectrum allocations, and a mechanism to surrender and share spectrum. Foreign direct investment (FDI) in the sector has also been allowed up to 100% under the automatic route, from the existing limit of 49%. Together, these measures would pave the way for largescale investments, including for 5G technology deployment, and generate more jobs, he said. ‘Path-breaking reforms’ Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla termed the changes “path-breaking reforms” that could “unshackle” the industry by addressing its “long-standing” issues, while Vodafone group CEO Nick Read called it a “constructive initiative” after the sector “has struggled for many years”. Experts are, however, not sure the package would be enough to keep their troubled joint venture Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL) afloat as the moratorium on AGR dues, spectrum dues and interest payments would only provide temporary relief with these deferred dues to be payable eventually with interest. The tariff regime still needs a reboot for players to sustain operations, they said, echoing Bharti Airtel top brass. Mr. Read hinted at the need for further measures, seeking the “continued strong support of the Telecom Minister and the Finance Minister” for VIL to continue to contribute to “India’s digital ambitions”. “There was a regime of heavy interest, penalty and interest on penalty on payment of licence fees, spectrum user charges and all kinds of charges, which has been rationalised,” the Minister said, adding that AGR calculations would exclude all non-telecom revenue from now, and penalties had been completely scrapped. The earlier definition of AGR, backed by the Telecom Department and upheld by the Supreme Court in 2019, had made telcos liable to pay Rs. 1.6 lakh crore. Last September, the top court granted players 10 years to pay up, starting April 2021. The change in definition that will reduce the burden on telcos, applies only prospectively, so past dues remain payable. Interest on those dues will now be compounded annually instead of monthly and the Minister said interest would be charged at a ‘reasonable’ rate of MCLR plus 2%. MCLR refers to the lowest lending rate banks are permitted to offer. C||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lifeline-for-telcos-as-govt-offers-four-year-moratorium-on-dues/article36487034.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Cybercrimes against children: Maximum cases in Bengaluru||More than half of the cybercrimes against children as well as cases registered under the Information Technology Act where children are the victims are from Bengaluru. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2020 shows that among the 19 metro cities in the country, Bengaluru has the ignominy of recording the maximum number of cybercrimes against children. Of the total 148 such crimes committed against children registered under the Information Technology Act, more than half of the cases, 54.72%, are registered in Bengaluru. Fifty-nine cases were related to publishing or transmitting material depicting children in sexually explicit acts, while 22 cases pertained to other forms of cybercrime against children. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner [Crime], Bengaluru, attributed the high number of cases to more awareness of IT crimes. He pointed out that more cybercrimes were reported from the city in general. “There are eight police stations in the city that deal with cybercrime cases,” he said, adding that there was a need for greater awareness to be developed among children on the appropriate behaviour in cyberspace. “Youngsters are logging on to various social media platforms and interacting with anonymous people, which makes them victims,” he said. Vasudev Sharma, executive director, Child Rights Trust said accessibility and availability of gadgets without supervision is the reason children are susceptible to predators online.    Child marriages Meanwhile, in the pandemic year, when there was a high number of child marriages being reported to helplines and other agencies, the highest number of cases registered under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act has been recorded in Karnataka. Out of 785 cases that were recorded in all States and Union Territories, 184 were booked in Karnataka. Fr. Antony Sebastian, chairperson, Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said good awareness has lead to higher reporting of child marriages. State government may have stopped many cases after the alerts, but there is a need to develop strategic plans to tackle this evil, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cybercrimes-against-children-maximum-cases-in-bengaluru/article36487062.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Two youth beheaded in separate incidents in nearby districts||Two youth were beheaded in separate incidents in Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts on Tuesday. According to the Chengalpattu district police, Ranjith, 23, a fisherman, who was sleeping on the terrace of his house, was beheaded by an unidentified gang in Kadappakkam, near Maduranthakam. The police said Ranjith’s torso was found by his mother Chellamma early on Wednesday. Preliminary investigation revealed that the assailants had dumped his head in an eucalyptus groove, where the body of a slain history-sheeter ‘Attu’ Ramesh, from Kasimedu, was dumped on September 10. He had murder and attempt to murder cases against him. After being released on conditional bail recently, Ramesh was staying in Kadapakkam, where his rivals hacked him to death. Ramesh’s associates are suspected to have slain Ranjith, but the police added that he was not involved in the case and his killing could be a case of mistaken identity. Superintendent of Police, Chengalpattu, P. Vijaya Kumar said, “We have certain clues and have identified the accused. A special team has been working to trace and nab them.” Murder in Padappai Another similar case was reported from a village near Padappai, in Kancheepuram. On Tuesday, the villagers spotted a human head on the road near a church in Erumaiyur and alerted the Somangalam police station. The police found the torso on the lake bed in Sitheri, near Erumaiyur, on Wednesday. The police identified the deceased as Vetrivel, 23, of Erumaiyur, who was one of the accused in the murder of a college student Abishek last year. Search for accused The police registered a case and they have launched a search for the accused. Kancheepuram SP M. Sudhakar said, “Our initial investigation revealed that the murder was committed due to previous enmity. We have zeroed in on those involved, and two special teams are working to trace them. We will nab them soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-youth-beheaded-in-separate-incidents-in-nearby-districts/article36487605.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||CBI court dismisses plea to cancel bail for Jagan||A local court here on Wednesday dismissed a petition filed by YSRCP rebel MP K. Raghurama Krishna Raju seeking cancellation of bail granted to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in a case of alleged disproportionate assets registered by CBI. The Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases, Hyderabad, B.R. Madhusudan Rao pronounced the verdict after lunch break. The judge also dismissed another petition filed by the MP who sought cancellation of bail granted to YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. The order in both the petitions was announced simultaneously in the court hall. Interestingly, another criminal petition filed by the same MP in Telangana High Court seeking transfer of the two petitions he had filed in CBI Special Court to any other court too, was dismissed. A few hours before the CBI Special Court declared the verdict, Justice K. Lakshman of the High Court dismissed the petition filed by the MP. Mr. Raghurama Krishna Raju, who got elected as MP on YSRCP ticket in 2019, eventually rebelled against the party chief and AP CM Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy due to political differences. On this April 6, he filed the petition in a CBI special court requesting for cancellation of bails granted to Mr. Jagan and seeking the latter’s judicial custody by the court. Accusing Mr. Jagan of misusing the “freedom” secured through the bail granted by the special court, the MP charged that Mr. Reddy “attempted to influence the witnesses (directly or indirectly) or otherwise tried to thwart the courts of justice in any manner”. The MP cited the names of some bureaucrats against whom the CBI registered cases in connection with the disproportionate assets case booked against Mr. Reddy and stated that they were given key positions in the government. Interestingly, CBI which was made the first respondent in the petition, did not take any specific stand on the matter and requested the court to take a decision on merit in the matter. A couple of days before the CBI special court was to pronounce its order in the two petitions filed by the MP, the latter moved the HC by filing a criminal petition. This time, he sought a direction from the HC to transfer the two petitions filed by him to any other court. He also wanted the HC to pass an order staying pronouncement of verdict in the two pleas by the CBI court. However, Justice K. Lakshman, who heard the contentions of the MP’s counsel and respondents, dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-court-dismisses-plea-to-cancel-bail-for-jagan/article36486975.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC gives Centre two weeks to fill all tribunal vacancies||The Supreme Court on Wednesday accused the Central government of “cherry-picking” names for appointments to tribunals groaning under backlogs and left almost defunct by long-pending vacancies. A Special Bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao “held its hand” on initiating contempt proceedings against the government, and allowed the latter two weeks to make appointments to “all the tribunals”. The CJI said, “If the government does not act, we will pass orders.” Pitiable, says CJI The CJI termed the state of tribunals and the thousands of litigants waiting for justice “pitiable”. Cases were adjourned for months. There was no manpower to form Benches. Litigants were made to travel to faraway States where there were at least some tribunal members available to hear cases. The Bench addressed Attorney General K.K. Venugopal about how the government pulled the rug from underneath the hard work of the search-cum-selection committees headed by sitting Supreme Court judges tasked with interviewing and shortlisting suitable candidates for tribunals. The government picked a few names from the final ‘select’ list prepared by the committee and then moved on to appoint a few others from the ‘wait’ list, the CJI said. “I have seen the selection list of National Company Law Tribunal. The selection committee recommended nine judicial members and 10 technical members. The appointment letters indicate cherry-picking of three names from the select list and others from the wait list, ignoring others in the select list. In service law, you cannot go to wait list ignoring the select list. What kind of appointment is this?” the CJI asked the Attorney General. Mr. Venugopal replied, “But doesn’t the government have the power to choose someone?” The CJI retorted, “We are a democratic country working under a rule of law... What is the sanctity of these committees if they cannot guarantee appointments?” Justice Rao joined in saying, “What is the sanctity of the search and selection process if the government has the last word? Selection committees undertake elaborate process to shortlist the names.” Justice Chandrachud highlighted the case of Debt Recovery Tribunals that had become almost non-functional under the weight of their vacancies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-gives-govt-2-weeks-to-fill-all-tribunal-vacancies/article36487030.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||28% jump in filing of cases in 2020: NCRB||There was a 28% increase in the registration of cases in 2020 in the country compared to 2019, primarily owing to the violation of COVID-19 norms. An almost 21-fold jump was recorded in cases of disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant, and over four times in cases involving violations of other State local laws, according to a National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report. Crimes against Scheduled Castes, with a total of 50,291 cases, showed an increase of 9.4%. Simple hurt with 32.9% (16,543) formed the largest chunk, followed by cases under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act with 8.5% (4,273) and cases under criminal intimidation with 7.5% (3,788), the report said. In all, 8,272 cases were instituted for offences against the Scheduled Tribe communities: an increase of 9.3% over 2019. Simple hurt (2,247) accounted for 27.2%, followed by rape with 13.7% (1,137) and assault on women with intent to outrage their modesty with 10.7% (885). The cases of sedition declined from 93 in 2019 to 73 last year, with Manipur reporting 15, Assam 12, Karnataka eight, Uttar Pradesh seven, Haryana six, Delhi five and Kashmir two. A total of 66,01,285 cognisable crimes, comprising more than 42.54 lakh Indian Penal Code (IPC) offences and over 23.46 lakh Special & Local Laws (SLL) crimes, were registered in 2020, the report noted. Effectively, there was a decrease in registration of traditional crime by about two lakh cases. “It shows an increase of 14,45,127 (28.0%) in registration of cases over 2019 (51,56,158 cases). Crime rate registered per lakh population has increased from 385.5 in 2019 to 487.8 in 2020. During 2020, registration of cases under the IPC has increased by 31.9% whereas SLL crimes have increased by 21.6% over 2019.” A major increase was seen in the cases registered under disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant, under Section 188 of the IPC, from 29,469 in 2019 to 6,12,179 cases last year; and under ‘other IPC crimes’ from 2,52,268 to 10,62,399 cases. Under the SLL category, more cases were filed under “Other State Local Acts”, leading to a steep rise from 89,553 to 4,14,589 cases. In 2020, more than 55.84 lakh cases were under investigation and over 34.47 lakh of them were disposed of.. In nearly 26.12 lakh cases, charge sheets were filed, resulting in a charge-sheeting rate of 75.8%, an increase by 12.50% compared to 2019. As the country remained under complete lockdown from March 25 to May 31 last year during the first wave of COVID-19, cases of crime against women, children and senior citizens, theft, burglary, robbery and dacoity declined. Cases of murder showed a marginal increase of 1% to 29,193. Various kinds of disputes were found to be the motive in the majority of murder cases, followed by “personal vendetta or enmity” and “gain”. The “kidnapping and abduction” cases declined by 19.3%. A total of 91,458 kidnapped or abducted persons (22,872 male and 68,867 female) were found alive and recovered, while 281 persons were found dead. There was a 8.30% decline in cases of crime against women. A majority of them were related to “cruelty by husband or his relatives” (30.0%), followed by “assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty” (23.0%), “kidnapping & abduction of women” (16.8%) and “rape” (7.5%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/28-jump-in-registration-of-cases-last-year-ncrb/article36487029.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||City govt. moves SC on ‘powers’ of L-G||The Delhi government has moved the Supreme Court seeking the quashing of four amended sections of the ‘Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Act’ and 13 Rules of the ‘Transaction of Business of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Rules, 1993’. The petition was filed on August 10. It was orally mentioned for early hearing by the AAP government, represented by senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, on September 13 before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana. The Delhi government has contended that the amended Act violates the “basic structure of the Constitution” and that the Centre, through the amendments, has given more power to the Lieutenant-Governor than the elected government of Delhi. In the petition, the Delhi government has challenged the constitutionality of Sections 21, 24, 33, 44 of the GNCTD Act, 1991 and Rules 3, 6A, 10, 14, 15, 19, 22, 23, 25, 47A, 49, 52 and 57 of Transaction of Business of the GNCTD Rules, 1993. On March 15 this year, the Centre introduced the GNCTD Act Amendment Bill in the Lok Sabha, which later received the assent of the President. In July, the Transaction of Business of Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act came into force. The city government has argued that the amendments are an attempt to treat the L-G as the “default administering authority” over Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-govt-moves-sc-on-powers-of-l-g/article36487172.ece
16 September 2021||Tiruchi/,||‘Decision on resuming Classes I to VIII will be based on advice of experts’||A decision on reopening schools for Classes I to VIII will be taken based on the observations made by medical experts and the Department of Public Health at a meeting to be chaired by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to review COVID-19 lockdown measures at the end of this month, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said on Wednesday. “A report by the School Education Department, reflecting the views of the Chief Educational Officers, was submitted today. One section of CEOs was for resuming physical lessons for Classes I to VIII, while another section favoured resuming them for Classes VI to VIII,” the Minister said. PIL petition Meanwhile, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the State government to file a counter in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to stop physical classes in schools, which resumed recently, in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought a response from the State to the petition filed by K. Abdul Vahabudeen of Tirunelveli. The same petitioner earlier filed a petition seeking a direction to the State to continue online classes. He said that since the reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII, COVID-19 cases have been on the rise among students and teachers. Despite this, physical classes were continuing. The government’s instructions to schools on the permissible strength for physical classes were not being followed. Therefore, physical classes should be stopped, the petitioner added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/expert-advice-will-inform-decision-on-classes-i-viii/article36487103.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Wastage of rainwater main reason for scarcity’||Lashing out at the functioning of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and other civic agencies, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India has said that poor coordination between departments and allowing high run-off of rainwater in urban areas was the main reason for the growing scarcity of water. Noting that the State’s water policy was not revised since 2002, the CAG in its “performance audit on management of storm water in Bengaluru urban area” said that urban water run-off was not considered a potential resource despite growing scarcity and demand for water in the city. The report tabled in the Assembly on Wednesday said there was no coordination among different stakeholders for the development of the city which led to discharge of sewage water into storm water drains (SWDs). It said an estimated requirement of water for domestic consumption in the city is about 20.08 tmcft, and about 73% of the city’s water demand can be met out of rain water. About 40% of the buildings under the coverage of Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board had not installed rain water harvesting, though mandatory. Out of 1440 MLD of sewage generated in BBMP areas, about 780 MLD (54%) was discharged into SWDs/waterbodies without treatment, it said. Poor coordination among departments of the BBMP allowed formation of roads without ensuring flow of water into SWDs, hampered maintenance of roads/drains causing repeated floods, the report said. Disappearing lakes Out of 210 lakes under the jurisdiction of BBMP, 66 were yet to be developed. About 18 lakes spread over 255 acres were reported as dried, which carried significant risk of these lakes being vulnerable to encroachments and conversions. Work was under progress in the case of 37 lakes, the report said. About 41 and 51 waterbodies existing in Koramangala and Vrishabhavathi valley, respectively, about a century ago, were reduced to eight and 13 in 2017, the CAG said. Difference in identification of Rajakaluve between BDA and BBMP led to confusion over the demarcation of buffer zone, it said. The report said BBMP had lost financial aid of Rs. 83.59 crore under the JNNURM scheme as works were abandoned due to non-availability of sites and poor maintenance of contract works. It said tenders for 110 SWD works costing Rs. 38.59 crore were invited and got executed by the zonal executive engineers who were not made responsible for SWD works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wastage-of-rainwater-main-reason-for-scarcity/article36487063.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Two vehicular overpass, one underpass planned||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has approved proposals to construct two vehicular overpass and an underpass at three black spots on National Highway 66 between Mangaluru and Kundapur, including KPT Junction here, at an estimated cost of Rs. 95 crore. Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel in a communique here said that NHAI headquarters has approved a proposal from its Mangaluru Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to undertake long-term measures to mitigate woes at KPT Junction. The vehicular overpass at this junction, where Bejai Main Road and Airport Road meet National Highway 66, will be built at an estimated cost of Rs. 34.6 crore. Mr. Kateel said that the overpass will be able to address traffic bottleneck at the busy junction and tenders will be floated for the construction soon. He thanked Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari for sanctioning the project. In Udupi district NHAI Headquarters has also approved proposals from the Project Director of Mangaluru PIU to undertake long-term measures to mitigate traffic woes at Ambalapady Junction and Kallianapura Santhekatte Junction on the national highway in Udupi district. While a vehicular overpass will be built at Santhekatte Junction at an estimated cost of Rs. 27.4 crore, a double-cell vehicular underpass will be built at Ambalapady Junction at an estimated cost of Rs. 27.49 crore. Tenders soon NHAI Mangaluru Project Director Shishu Mohan told The Hindu that NHAI Regional Office will invite tenders soon for the construction of these structures at these places. Receiving bids and their technical and financial evaluation may take about three months and tenders are likely to be awarded by January. Works will be executed with NHAI’s own funds, he said. He sent the proposals to the headquarters on June 24 and July 12 this year, seeking immediate sanction of the projects to mitigate hardship to road users. Asked about NHAI’s plans for Nanthoor Junction in Mangaluru, a major traffic bottleneck, Mr. Mohan said that the work involves land acquisition too. The PIU is working out the modalities and soon some solution will come, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-vehicular-overpass-one-underpass-planned/article36487479.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Welcome, Oreo||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/welcome-oreo/article36487169.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||87.89 is cut-off score for JEE (Advanced)||Students who secured a score of above 87.89 in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main) will be eligible to apply for the entrance test for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology, the National Testing Agency announced on September 15. The Common Rank List cut-off score for general category students is lower than the 90.37 cut-off last year. Among the 44 who achieved a 100 percentile score, seven each were from Telangana and Delhi. Using the tie-breaker rules, 18 students were determined to share the top rank this year, including four from Andhra Pradesh, the highest among the States. Overall, 9.39 lakh students wrote the exam. It was 10.23 lakh last year. This year’s examination was marred by an alleged cheating scandal at a centre in Sonipat,Haryana, where computers were hacked to provide illegal assistance to students who paid up to Rs. 15 lakh. So far, 11 have been arrested, and a CBI probe is on. “On account of using unfair means, a total of 20 candidates have been debarred from appearing in future examinations for a period of three years. Their results have also been withheld,” said an NTA statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8789-is-cut-off-score-for-jee-advanced/article36487032.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. begins probe into kidnap of Afghan Hindu||The government of India is collecting more information about the alleged kidnapping of Afghan Hindu Bansri Lal Arendeh in Kabul. He was noted for his medicine business in Kabul. A source in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the matter was being investigated. “We are aware of these reports. We are ascertaining the facts and getting more information,” an official stated. According to Puneet Singh Chandhoke, who worked closely with Mr. Arendeh and the Sikh community, the abduction took place on Tuesday morning near Mr. Arendeh’s pharmaceuticals shop. “Bansri Lal Arendeh, aged around 50, has been in the business of pharmaceutical products for many years,” he noted. CCTV footage The Taliban intelligence department has also issued an order signed by its director general, calling for urgent action to trace Mr. Arendeh. It also asked for scanning of CCTV footage. Kabul depends on pharmaceutical support from India and a large number of medical tourists from Afghanistan are known to visit Indian hospitals seeking treatment. Kabul has around 200 Sikhs and Hindus, who remain there as flights to evacuate them have not been allowed by the Taliban. Smaller provinces and cities also have an unknown number of Hindus and Sikhs. Kabul and other cities like Jalalabad have witnessed a large number of abductions and executions since the Taliban dislodged the government of President Ashraf Ghani on August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-seeking-info-on-afghan-hindus-kidnap/article36487031.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Incentive boost for auto, drone manufacturers||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved a Rs. 26,058 crore production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to accelerate domestic manufacturing of high-value advanced automotive technology vehicles as well as components and drones.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/incentive-boost-for-auto-drone-manufacturers/article36487035.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Stress busters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stress-busters/article36487218.ece
16 September 2021||Pune,||Charges framed in Dabholkar murder case||Eight years after he was shot by motorcycle-borne assailants while out for a morning stroll in Pune, a special court on Wednesday framed charges against five of the accused in the murder of eminent rationalist Narendra Dabholkar on August 20, 2013. The framing of the charges paves the way for the long-delayed trial in the case which shook Maharashtra. The accused include Virendrasinh Tawde, Sachin Andure, Sharad Kalaskar, Sanjeev Punalekar and Vikram Bhave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/charges-framed-in-dabholkar-murder-case/article36487175.ece
16 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Nod for Rs. 2,255 cr. additional borrowing||The Union Finance Ministry has permitted the State to borrow an additional Rs. 2,255 crore as an incentive for meeting capital expenditure targets for the first quarter of 2021-22. Kerala is among 11 States granted permission by the Department of Expenditure, Finance Ministry, for the additional market borrowing to the tune of Rs. 15,721 crore. To become eligible for incremental borrowing, States should achieve at least 15% of the target by the end of the first quarter, 45% by the end of the second, 70% by the end of the third, and 100% by the end of the fourth on March 31, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nod-for-rs-2255-cr-additional-borrowing/article36487389.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM hints at further easing of curbs||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government will further ease restriction as the pandemic abates and loses its lethality. On Saturday, the administration will evaluate the COVID-19 situation again. He said at a media briefing here on Wednesday that the COVID intensity had come down and in the week from September 8 to 14, new cases had come down by 21% (42,998 cases) in comparison with the previous week. Only 13.7% of the active cases are in hospitals now and of these only 2% requires oxygen support and only 1% requires ICU care. He expressed concern over the fact that even when the State seemed to have come over the worst of the COVID-19 pandemic, there was no let-up in deaths due to COVID-19, especially those which seemed to be happening because of the late presentation in hospitals. This was a serious issue. Care of the elderly Families should take special care that the elderly and those with other comorbidities are ensured treatment in hospitals without delay. Ward-level committees should also be alert to these issues and intervene without delay to ensure that people were hospitalised without delay. Serosurvey The serosurvey to determine the extent of virus exposure in the population, including in children, is now being conducted by the State across districts. The survey will give clear directions as to the policy changes that might be required to manage the pandemic in future, he said. The State has covered 80.17% of those above 18 years in the State with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine while 32.17% have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-hints-at-further-easing-of-curbs/article36487392.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Many opt out of govt.’s COVID-19 relief scheme||Many people across the city, who are eligible for a comp- ensation of Rs. 50,000 and in some cases an extra Rs. 2,500 per month for death of their family member due to COVID, have refused to apply for it, according to officials and a document seen by The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-opt-out-of-govts-covid-19-relief-scheme/article36487174.ece
16 September 2021||Kolkata,||Professor’s long, legal battle far from over||Almost nine-and-a-half years after he was arrested for forwarding a cartoon of West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, a court in Kolkata has discharged Ambikesh Mahapatra under Section 66 A of the Information and Technology Act, 2000, but he cannot heave a sigh of relief as the matter will be still pending before court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/professors-long-legal-battle-far-from-over/article36487430.ece
16 September 2021||Kolkata,||Visva-Bharati students’ rustication set aside||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday set aside the rustication of three Visva-Bharati students who were punished for taking part in a demonstration in January 2020, and came down heavily on “outsiders and political parties” for what it called the misuse of educational institutions. The three students — Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan, of Economics; and Rupa Chakraborty of Hindustani classical music — were expelled on August 23 for three years on grounds of “gross indiscipline and misconduct”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/visva-bharati-students-rustication-set-aside/article36487432.ece
16 September 2021||Mumbai,||Govt. to issue ordinance for OBC quota in bypolls||In the wake of the controversy over the political reservation for the OBCs in local civic bodies, the Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday decided to issue an ordinance to ensure 50% reservation cap is not violated while keeping 27% reservation for the OBCs intact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-issue-ordinance-for-obc-quota-in-bypolls/article36487504.ece
16 September 2021||Pune,||Court frames charges in Dabholkar murder case||Eight years after he was shot by motorcycle-borne assailants in Pune, a special court on Wednesday framed charges against five accused in the murder of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/court-frames-charges-in-dabholkar-murder-case/article36487505.ece
16 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Man held by Delhi Police was under watch: ATS||Jaan Mohammed Ali Sheikh, 47, who was arrested by Delhi Police from Kota railway station while he was on his way to Delhi, has been under watch of the Maharashtra police, as he had had contacts with the Dawood Ibrahim gang, according to the State ATS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-held-by-delhi-police-was-under-watch-ats/article36487506.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Microbiologist tests negative for Nipah||The 25-year-old microbiologist from Karwar, who has been admitted in the Government Wenlock Hospital after he apprehended of being infected with Nipah, has tested negative. His blood, urine and nasal swab samples had been sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, and to the Nipah testing centre in Kozhikode, Kerala. “His test returned negative for Nipah (from NIV Pune),” said District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishore Kumar on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/microbiologist-tests-negative-for-nipah/article36487477.ece
16 September 2021||Srinagar,||Job package exclusive for Kashmiri Pandits: HC||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court has said that the Central government’s special job package is exclusive to the non-migrant Kashmiri-speaking Brahmins or ‘Kashmiri Pandits’ living in the Valley and other Hindus cannot be treated the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/job-package-exclusive-for-kashmiri-pandits-hc/article36487170.ece
16 September 2021||Chandigarh,||Akali Dal, Congress trade charges over farm laws||Leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Congress exchanged sharp words on thefarm laws on Wednesday. After PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu alleged that the laws had been “authored by the Badals”, senior Akali leader Daljeet Cheema alleged that the Congress leader was “trying to fool people by raking up old issues”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akali-dal-congress-trade-charges-over-farm-laws/article36487530.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal bans storage and sale of firecrackers||The Delhi government on Wednesday banned storage, sale and use of all types of firecrackers with immediate effect in the Capital. The decision was taken in view of the rise in pollution levels seen during Deepavali. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said it was essential for the city government to implement the ban in order to save lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-bans-storage-and-sale-of-firecrackers/article36487171.ece
16 September 2021||BENGALURU,||UKP cost goes up||Over the last decade, the estimated cost of completing Upper Krishna Project (UKP) to utilise 130 tmcft of Krishna river water awarded to Karnataka in the Krishna river Water Tribunal 2 has gone up from about Rs. 17,000 crore in 2011-2012 to about Rs. 65,000 crore now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ukp-cost-goes-up/article36487293.ece
16 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Somalapuram station to handle iron ore freight||Divisional Manager of Hubballi Division of South Western Railway Arvind Malkhede has said that the Somalapuram Railway Station will soon be made available for handling iron ore benefiting sponge iron manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/somalapuram-station-to-handle-iron-ore-freight/article36487294.ece
16 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Hubballi flyover project is flawed, say experts||With the authorities going ahead with the flyover project at Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi, experts and concerned citizens who have been seeking a re-look into the project have taken to social media to create awareness on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hubballi-flyover-project-is-flawed-say-experts/article36487296.ece
16 September 2021||Mysuru,||Row over Vivekananda memorial intensifies||Representatives of Viveka Smaraka Samithi, comprising prominent citizens of Mysuru, have called upon activists to drop their protest in front of the Niranjan Mutt where a memorial for Swami Vivekananda is slated to come up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/row-over-vivekananda-memorial-intensifies/article36487512.ece
16 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Terror module accused was under watch: Maharashtra ATS||Jaan Mohammed Ali Sheikh, 47, who was arrested by the Delhi Police from the Kota railway station while he was on his way to Delhi, was under the watch of the Maharashtra police, as he had contacts with the Dawood Ibrahim gang, according to the State Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS). He was among the six accused in a terror module case. No explosives or weapons were brought into Mumbai and both the State and the city were absolutely safe, ATS chief Vineet Agarwal said at a press conference on Wednesday. Sheikh, a resident of Dharavi, had a case registered against him in the Paidhonie police station around 20 years ago for his alleged involvement in a firing incident. “He had connection with the D-gang around 20 years ago, but recently he had fallen to bad times. He was always on our radar like 1,000 other people. The Central agencies shared the information about this operation with the Delhi Police and not with us. Therefore, it is the Delhi Police which can give more information,” Mr. Agarwal stated. “On September 9, the accused planned to travel to Delhi, but his ticket was not getting confirmed. On September 13, he booked a ticket in the waiting list on the Golden Express. He left alone from the Mumbai Central after his ticket was confirmed by evening. He was arrested when the train reached Kota,” he noted. “The Delhi Police had all the information. Our team will be going to Delhi to interrogate him and we will share the information available with us to the Delhi Police and take what is available with them and take the case forward,” he observed. Mr. Agarwal added that he had been in contact with the special cell of the Delhi Police. Earlier in the day, Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil held a meeting with top police officials on the case. The Opposition has alleged that it was a failure of the State police. BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said, “The Delhi Police arresting a terrorist from Mumbai is an indication of failure of the force.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-held-by-delhi-police-was-under-watch-maharashtra-ats/article36486942.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, China avoided open clash over origins of COVID||India and China avoided an open clash at the BRICS summit last week over views on the origins of the COVID-19 virus, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a strong intervention in favour of a “transparent investigation” into the origins of the pandemic, a subject China has been sensitive about. Mr. Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping will meet virtually again this week, as part of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit hosted by Tajikistan, and Mr. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, will travel to Dushanbe on Thursday to attend the conference, with the tensions over the virus debate only adding to the 17-month India-China impasse at the Line of Actual Control. “Today, global governance needs credibility. There must be a transparent investigation into the origins of the virus under the World Health Organization’s framework, and this must receive full cooperation from all countries,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his main speech at the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa summit hosted by India and held virtually on September 9. ‘Credibility of WHO’ “If this is done, it will reduce the questions over WHO’s credibility, and we would be able to prepare better for future pandemics as well,” Mr. Modi said, in the presence of Mr. Xi, in comments not released publicly but The Hindu accessed a copy of. According to officials and diplomats present at the BRICS meeting, Mr. Modi spoke ‘emphatically’ and ‘forcefully’ on the subject, reiterating India’s previous statements calling for China to cooperate with the WHO team which visited the Wuhan Institute of Virology twice, but had complained formally about the lack of free access to facilities and data, leading to an inconclusive report with “four pathways” to the origin of the virus that has left nearly 4.7 million people dead worldwide. Mr. Xi, who spoke directly after Mr. Modi, called on the BRICS countries to “oppose politicisation” in origin tracing. “We need to promote global solidarity against COVID-19, join forces to tackle the pandemic, uphold a science-based approach to tracing its origins, and oppose politicisation and stigmatisation,” he said. “We need to enhance coordination in COVID prevention and control, and boost the research, production and equitable distribution of vaccines as a global public good.” Pushing back against criticism from the U.S. and its allies of China’s failure to prevent the spread of the virus, Beijing has accused the U.S. of “politicising” the WHO inquiry and for pushing the “lab leak” theory. In addition, China has accused the U.S. government of attempting to divert attention from research on viruses in America. In a letter to WHO chief Tedros Ghebreyesus in August, China’s Permanent Representative to the U.N. office in Geneva called for a transparent investigation “with full access” to the laboratories of the U.S. military at Fort Detrick and the University of North Carolina (UNC). Balanced statement With U.S.-China tensions over the issue threatening to spill over into the BRICS sphere, diplomats reportedly worked to frame the joint statement issued after the summit, taking the comments by both leaders into account. According to the statement, all BRICS countries noted “that the cooperation on study of origins of the SARS-CoV-2 is an important aspect of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic”. “We support science-based, inclusive of broad expertise, transparent, and timely processes, free from politicisation or interference, to strengthen international capabilities to better understand the emergence of novel pathogens and to help prevent future pandemics.” External Affairs Ministry officials say as per protocol, only the opening statements of the leaders are released publicly, while the remarks on the origin of the virus, which were part of the “closed door” session, were not, and expressed “surprise” at the decision by some members such as China and Brazil to publicise their speeches. The Chinese Embassy in New Delhi did not respond to a question on Mr. Modi’s intervention and China’s response, and the Brazilian embassy also declined to comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-avoided-open-clash-over-origins-of-covid/article36486958.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sputnik Light gets nod for phase III clinical trial||The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has recommended that the single-dose version of the Sputnik V vaccine — Sputnik Light — be tested in Indians to establish that it generates a similar immune response observed in trials in Russia. The Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, which is licensed to manufacture the vaccine, had presented updated safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data of Sputnik Light phase III clinical trial conducted in Russia, along with the proposal to conduct a Phase III clinical trial here. The subject expert committee of the DCGI has permitted the trial with the condition that the vaccine’s efficacy also be evaluated on the 42nd, 90th and 180th day. “... Interim analysis can be conducted at day 42 as this data was not generated during the Sputnik V trial in India after the first dose, which was stated to be available up to day 21 only,” read the minutes of the meeting made public on Wednesday. A phase III trial normally involves testing the efficacy of the vaccine in thousands. This Sputnik trial, however, is not expected to evaluate efficacy. The two-dose version of the vaccine was approved for ‘emergency use’ by the DCGI in April, though few doses have been available in a landscape dominated by Covishield and, to a smaller extent, Covaxin. The former comprises over 85% of the over 75 crore vaccines administered in India. First component Sputnik Light is the first dose of the original two-dose composition but differs from other two-dose vaccines in that the vector, carrying the spike protein, in the first dose differs from the vector in the second dose. Trials in Russia show a single dose efficacy of 79%. In July, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RFID), the promoters of the vaccine developed at the Gamaleya Research Institute, announced a production tie-up with the Serum Institute of India to produce 300 million doses annually. Earlier, it had entered into similar pacts with Hetero, and Gland Pharma, among others. Only about 31 lakh doses of the first component of the vaccines and 4.5 lakh doses of the second have been available from RFID, Dr. Reddy’s said in a statement in late August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sputnik-light-gets-nod-for-phase-iii-clinical-trial/article36486967.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Fresh start for report on data protection Bill||Nearly 21 months after the Personal Data Protection Bill was referred to a Joint Parliamentary Committee, sources said that work on the report will have to start afresh under the new chairman and BJP MP P.P. Chaudhary. In a meeting held on Wednesday, after a gap of more than nine months, many members argued that the committee should not waste any more time and should finalise the draft report it had agreed on after a year-long deliberation. The Personal Data Protection Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in December 2019 and soon after referred to the Joint Parliamentary Committee, which was then headed by BJP leader Meenakshi Lekhi. The committee got its fifth extension in the monsoon session in July this year and has now been asked to submit the report by the winter session of Parliament that is expected to be called in the third week of November. Ms. Lekhi and four other committee members were inducted into the Council of Ministers in the recent reshuffle, following which Mr. Chaudhary took over as the chairperson. Sources said that Ms. Lekhi had finalised a draft report but did not circulate it to the members. “There is no point going through the motions again. We had a 90-minute debate on this, at the end of which it was decided that the deliberations that we have had so far will be recorded but a fresh draft of the report will be prepared,” one of the members said. The call for a data protection Bill in the country has been growing stronger amid growing threat of data breaches due to a sharp increase in cyber crime. In May this year, two major firms — Air India and Jubilant FoodWorks — witnessed “security incidents” that put consumer data at risk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fresh-start-for-report-on-data-protection-bill/article36486971.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP hopes rest on sugarcane prices||The BJP is looking at an anticipated rise in sugarcane procurement prices, to be announced by the Uttar Pradesh government as early as this week, to give it a much-needed push in the Jat heartland of western Uttar Pradesh. Senior BJP leaders confirmed to The Hindu that a hike in cane prices (State advised price) is expected soon, and will, as hoped by the party, go a long way in assuaging any misgivings farmers in the area especially the dominant Jat community may have with regard to the BJP and farmers’ issues, despite the large ‘mahapanchayat’ held by farmers groups last week. “Western Uttar Pradesh has nothing to do with the farm laws that were passed last year. Here the politics revolves around sugarcane, electricity and stray cattle, and sugarcane dues from mills. Crops here are hardly sold in mandis , we have mostly contractual farming here, and also sales through cooperatives,” said a senior BJP leader from western Uttar Pradesh. “There are two kinds of price regimes for sugarcane, one is the Centrally mandated Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP), which the Union government hiked a couple of Cabinet meetings ago. That, however, does not apply to Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Uttarakhand, where the State Advised Price (SAP) regime exists,” said the source. Currently the price in Uttar Pradesh is Rs. 325 a quintal, whereas in Punjab, the rate is Rs. 360 and in Haryana Rs. 362. “We expect that the price point of Rs. 360 would ease a lot of issues around remunerative prices in the State,” he said. High electricity bills High electricity bills are also an issue in the countryside, with farmers comparing the free power being given in Punjab and cheap power provided in Haryana to make their point. “The thing about the farmers’ protests is not that the farmers here find common cause over the three farm Bills, but the aggrieved feelings among farmers for one reason or the other can lead to solidarity,” said the source. Internal surveys by the BJP have pointed out that the Samajwadi Party (SP) would be its main rival, and its anticipated tie-up with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has also rang the alarm bells. Minority consolidation is, according to the survey, stronger this time around than it was in the 2017 polls. In the 2017 Assembly poll, the BJP won 117 out of the 146 seats in western Uttar Pradesh. “Last time too, there were issues with regard to aggrieved feelings among the Jat voters due to the events in Haryana and questions about Jat reservation, but we managed to persuade voters. We are hopeful we will be successful this time too,” said the source. For the BJP, Jats in the western part and Brahmins in the eastern part are the key demographics who need to be appeased. A hike in sugarcane prices is pointing the way to go.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-hopes-rest-on-sugarcane-prices/article36486953.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||PM launches Sansad TV, calls it voice of the House||Sansad TV, a news channel combining the Lok Sabha TV and the Rajya Sabha  TV, was launched on Wednesday at a function presided over by Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Speaker Om Birla. Calling the Sansad TV the new voice of Parliament, the Prime Minister said this added another important chapter to the parliamentary system. He said Parliament was not only about politics but it was about policy too. Describing India as the mother of democracy, Mr. Modi also said democracy was not only a constitutional structure for the people of India, but spirit as well. Mr. Naidu stressed the need for meaningful debates echoing people’s aspirations in Parliament and legislatures. Loud disruptive noise should not drown the voice of citizens, he said. He said debates should amplify concerns, clarify doubts and deepen shared understanding. He said a single channel for Parliament had become a reality after careful consideration of the recommendations of a committee set up in November 2019. The LSTV, which was the brainchild of former Speaker Somnath Chatterjee, has been functioning for 15 years and the RSTV for 10 years. The new combined channel is expected to bring in synergy and economies of scale, he said. It is significant that Sansad TV’s launch coincided with the International Day of Democracy, he noted. When Parliament is in session, both channels will continue to operate as before bringing in the live telecast. But when it is in recess, only Sansad TV will be telecast.  Sansad TV CEO Ravi Capoor said at least 60 new programmes hosted by the likes of NITI Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant, economists Bibek Debroy and Amitav Sanyal, endocrinologist Ambrish Mithal and former Rajya Sabha MP Karan Singh have been planned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-launches-sansad-tv-calls-it-voice-of-the-house/article36486956.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||1,400 arrested for gambling during Euro championship||An Interpol operation targeting illegal gambling during the 2020 UEFA European Football Championship has led to 1,400 arrests and the seizure of $7.9 million in cash across Asia and Europe. The operation involved enforcement agencies of 28 countries, including India. Computers and mobile phones connected to almost $465 million in bets were also confiscated. The agencies targeted organised crime gangs looking to make money through illegal gambling by accepting bets during Euro 2020. They also indulged in related money laundering activities. “Illegal gambling generates significant profits for organised crime networks and is often closely associated with other crimes such as money laundering and corruption. The operation was coordinated by Interpol’s Financial Crimes and Anti-Corruption units, with support from the Asia-Pacific Expert Group on Organised Crime (APEG) and the Interpol Match Fixing Task Force (IMFTF),” the Interpol said. In India, the Central Bureau of Investigation is the nodal body for Interpol and shares the required information to its counterparts. As part of the operation, the Hong Kong police detained more than 800 suspects, including the alleged kingpin of a bookmaking syndicate, seizing about $2.7 million in cash and records detailing hundreds of millions in bets, making it one of their most successful operations against illegal gambling ever, the Interpol said. “This year’s operation showed a clear shift to online activities, with criminals taking full advantage of financial technology, including the use of international gambling websites and online bank accounts. Additionally, officers saw increased activity in online gaming platforms, forums and social media, where individuals would offer gambling tips or even payment to those willing to open online bank accounts,” the Interpol added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1400-arrested-for-gambling-during-euro-championship/article36486936.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Quarrel is not abetting suicide, says SC||The Supreme Court has held that a person cannot be held guilty of abetting suicide merely because he or she quarrelled with the victim that day. Having a fight which led to suicide does not necessarily translate into instigating suicide, a Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and Aniruddha Bose said in a judgment. Active instigation is an essential ingredient under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) under the Indian Penal Code. ‘Active instigation’ “Abetment by a person is when a person instigates another to do something. Instigation can be inferred where the accused had, by his acts or omission, created such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option except to commit suicide,” Justice Shah wrote. The case concerns a woman who quarrelled with her husband and committed suicide hours later. The man too tried to poison himself after the fight, but survived. “The allegation against the appellant [husband] is that there was a quarrel on the day of occurrence. There is no other material on record which indicates abetment. There is no material on record that the appellant-accused played an active role by an act of instigating the deceased to facilitate the commission of suicide. On the contrary, in the present case, the appellant-accused also tried to commit suicide and consumed pesticide,” the court reasoned. The lower courts had erred in finding the husband guilty of abetment, the top court noted, as it quashed the charges against the man under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quarrel-is-not-abetting-suicide-says-sc/article36487024.ece
16 September 2021||Kolkata,||A professor’s long legal battle over sharing a political cartoon||Almost nine-and-a-half years after he was arrested for forwarding a cartoon of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, a court in Kolkata has discharged Ambikesh Mahapatra under Section 66A of the Information and Technology Act, 2000, but the professor cannot heave a sigh of relief as the matter will be still pending before the court. An order by Subrata Mukherjee, Chief Judicial Magistrate, Alipore, 24 Parganas (South), on Tuesday has scheduled a hearing on November 17, 2021, to ascertain whether any case under Section 500/509 of the IPC or any other law can be made out against Professor Mahapatra or if he can be discharged from the case. Under the IPC, Section 509 pertains to word, gesture or act meant to insult women) and Section 500 to punishment for defamation). Professor Mahapatra pointed out that the Supreme Court in 2015 had passed a landmark decision striking down the draconian Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 but he continued to fight the case involving the charge for six long years. He had forwarded an email containing a cartoon sequence, which made fun of Dinesh Trivedi’s removal as Railway Minister and being replaced by Mukul Roy. “It has been more than nine years that I have been fighting this case for forwarding an innocuous collage or cartoon which was with no evil intention. One of the people charged in the case has already passed away. I do not know how long the case will carry on,” Professor Mahapatra said. The Professor of Chemistry at the city’s premier university said the West Bengal government’s persistence on continuing the cases against him was an “attempt to intimidate and harass him”. Denied compensation Mr. Mahapatra has been denied compensation awarded by the West Bengal Human Rights Commission (WBHRC) in August 2012 and upheld by the Calcutta High Court in March 2015. “The WBHRC had directed disciplinary proceedings against police officers for the manner they acted against me, and the High Court increased the compensation from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 75,000 to account for the legal cost. I am yet to receive the amount from the State government,” he added. Professor Mahapatra has formed a group called “Aakraanta Aamraaa” or “We the sufferers” along with other victims who allegedly suffered “injustice at the hands of the State”. The collective has more than hundred members now who raise their voice against violation of human rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-professors-long-legal-battle-over-sharing-a-political-cartoon/article36486969.ece
16 September 2021||Pune,||Court frames charges in Dabholkar murder||Eight years after he was shot by motorcycle-borne assailants while out for a morning stroll in Pune, a special court on Wednesday finally framed charges against five of the accused in the murder of eminent rationalist Narendra Dabholkar. Dabholkar was shot dead with a 7.65-mm calibre country-made pistol while out for his morning stroll on Omkareshwar Bridge in Pune on August 20, 2013. The framing of the charges paves the way for the long-delayed trial in the case which shook Maharashtra. The accused include ENT specialist Virendrasinh Tawde, a member of the fringe Sanatan Sanstha, who has been referred by probe agencies as the “mastermind”; Sachin Andure and Sharad Kalaskar, who have been named by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as the shooters; Sanatan Sanstha lawyer Sanjeev Punalekar; and another Sanstha member Vikram Bhave. All accused replied in the negative when Additional Sessions Judge S.R. Navandar asked each of them whether they pleaded guilty or not guilty. While four are to be tried for murder, criminal conspiracy, and terrorism under Section 16 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and various provisions of the Arms Act, Punalekar, who is out on bail, will be tried for destruction of evidence. While Tawde appeared for the hearing via video conference from the Yerwada Jail, Andure appeared from the Aurangabad jail and Kalaskar from the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai. Punalekar and Bhave were physically present in the Pune court. The court directed Andure and Kalaskar to be shifted to the Yerwada prison. Significant step, says son Hamid Dabholkar, son of the slain rationalist, said though the framing of the charges had come at a very late date, it constituted an important step in the case. “For many years since the crime, we worried whether the criminals would ever be found and whether they would be brought to trial. The other point is that masterminds still have not been found. So, with the CBI probe being conducted under the supervision of the Bombay High Court, we are hoping that those who plotted the murders of Dr. Dabholkar, Govind Pansare, scholar M.M. Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh will eventually be brought to justice,” he said. The CBI first arrested Tawde in 2016and the chargesheet against him was filed in September 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-frames-charges-in-dabholkar-murder/article36486938.ece
16 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder Singh puts Punjab on high alert||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has ordered high alert in the State following the arrest of four more members of an alleged ISI-backed terrorist module involved in a bid to blow up an oil tanker with an IED tiffin bomb last. Two Pakistan-based terrorists, including an Intelligence Officer, have also been identified and named in the case, in which one person was arrested earlier, Director-General of Police Dinkar Gupta disclosed on Wednesday. Taking a serious note of the increased attempts by terror groups to disturb the State’s peace, Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh has directed the police to be on high alert, particularly in view of schools and educational institutions reopening, and the upcoming festival season and Assembly polls. The Chief Minister has asked the DGP to ensure high level of security, especially in busy places such as markets, as well as at sensitive installations across the State. The DGP identified Pakistan-based International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF ) chief Lakhbir Singh, Qasim, a resident of Pakistan, and Lakhbir Singh Rode alias Baba, a native of village Rode in Punjab’s Moga district, currently based in Pakistan, as being behind the module.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-singh-puts-punjab-on-high-alert/article36486946.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Reshuffle in Lutyens’ Delhi address book soon||After the Cabinet reshuffle and expansion in July and the passing away of some Members of Parliament due to COVID-19 and other reasons over the past year, the address book for Lutyens’ Delhi is set for a re-jig. Not only are some of the government-allotted bungalows for MPs and Ministers seeing new occupants, the houses that had become hubs for political parties over the years are likely to see a changing of guard. Late Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel’s former residence at 23 Mother Teresa Crescent, which had been a hub for Congress leaders and potential allies for decades, is getting ready to welcome new residents soon. The address that had once determined the fate of many a powerful Congress leader and been witness to forging of political alliances stood empty this week, apart from groups of workers taking out plants and bringing in materials to start renovation. The house has been allotted to Minister of State for Communications Devusinh Chauhan, according to Housing and Urban Affairs (HUA) Ministry sources. Following Patel’s death in November 2020, a month after he contracted COVID-19, his family moved out this year. On September 6, his son, Faisal Patel, said in a tweet: “We moved out officially! Will miss 23 mother Teresa crescent- arguably one of the Most powerful addresses in modern mad india! (sic).” Other high-profile addresses that have served as hubs for political parties for decades have been allotted to new residents, but remain occupied by the earlier allottees. Still occupied At 12 Janpath, which had been the residence of Union Minister and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan for over three decades until his death in October 2020, hoardings with images of his son and Lok Sabha MP Chirag Paswan still greet visitors and passersby. Inside, a bust of the late LJP leader has been recently installed by supporters. This is despite the house being allotted to newly inducted Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, a HUA Ministry official said. A source in the Ministry said Paswan’s family, including Mr. Chirag Paswan, were still residing at the address despite being issued a notice of eviction. Former MP and founding leader of the Janata Dal (United) Sharad Yadav’s long-term residence, 7 Tughlak Road, had been allotted to newly inducted Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, who is Mr. Chirag Paswan’s uncle, according to Ministry officials. However, Mr. Yadav told The Hindu on Wednesday that he had not received any notice to leave the house he has lived in since 2000. After Mr. Yadav was disqualified from the Rajya Sabha under the anti-defection law in 2017, he had challenged the disqualification and sought to keep his government-allotted house and salary. The Supreme Court had in 2018 allowed him to keep the house. Citing the matter, Mr. Yadav said: “There is a court case pending. They [HUA Ministry] must have made a clerical error [in allotting the house to Mr. Paras].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reshuffle-in-lutyens-delhi-address-book-soon/article36486961.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC poser on replacement of acting NCLAT chief||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana on Wednesday requested Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal to get instructions from the government and be present when the court takes up a petition on September 16 regarding the exit of Justice A.I.S. Cheema as Acting Chairperson of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). Senior advocate Arvind Datar had orally mentioned the issue before the CJI Bench on September 14. Addressing the Attorney General, Chief Justice Ramana said the case concerned the “premature” replacement of Justice Cheema as Acting Chairperson of the NCLAT days before the end of his tenure on September 20. The CJI said it appeared as if the government department concerned had acted “hurriedly”. “I do not how this is happening…” he observed. Justice M. Venugopal, a former Madras High Court judge, replaced Justice Cheema as Acting Chairperson of the NCLAT with effect from September 11. Justice Venugopal, a judicial member at Chennai Bench of the NCLAT, is the third Acting Chairperson of the Tribunal since the retirement of the regular NCLAT Chairperson, Justice S.J. Mukhopadhaya, in March last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/premature-replacement-of-acting-nclat-chief/article36486943.ece
16 September 2021||Chandigarh,||Akali Dal, Congress trade charges over farm laws||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Congress leaders on September 15 exchanged sharp words on thethree controversial farm laws. After Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu alleged that the Centre’s three farm laws had been “authored by the Badals” of the Akali Dal, senior SAD leader and former Minister Daljeet Cheema alleged that the Congress chief was “trying to fool people by raking up old issues”, and asked him to “muster courage to repeal the amendments made in the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act by the Congress government in 2017”. “Sidhu’s utterances hint that he is keen to play a game of one-upmanship with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and has no intention of doing anything to ensure repeal of the three agriculture Acts. Sidhu has woken up from his slumber and wants to project himself as a sympathiser of the farmers’ cause even though he has done nothing to support this cause in the last one year,” Mr. Cheema said. Mr. Sidhu alleged at a press conference, “The Centre’s farm laws were photostat copies of Badal’s Contract Farming Act 2013 that were enacted during the previous SAD-BJP government led by Parkash Singh Badal.” Speaking about the 2013 Act, Mr. Cheema said “Sidhu seems to have forgotten that his wife was a Chief Parliamentary Secretary in the then government. Sidhu had failed to dig up files and detail the Congress’s response to the Act.” He asked Mr. Sidhu to state if he had ever objected to the 2013 Act as a Minister in the Congress government in 2017 or “even later”. “It is only now, with elections months away, that you [Sidhu] are taking up this issue to cover up your failures,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akali-dal-congress-trade-charges-over-farm-laws/article36486945.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||28% jump in cases registration last year||While Manipur reported 15 cases of sedition, Assam reported 12, Karnataka eight, Uttar Pradesh seven, Haryana six, Delhi five and Kashmir two. A total of 66,01,285 cognisable crimes, comprising more than 42.54 lakh Indian Penal Code (IPC) offences and over 23.46 lakh Special & Local Laws (SLL) crimes, were registered in 2020, the report noted. Effectively, there was a decrease in registration of traditional crime by about two lakh cases. “It shows an increase of 14,45,127 (28.0%) in registration of cases over 2019 (51,56,158 cases). Crime rate registered per lakh population has increased from 385.5 in 2019 to 487.8 in 2020. During 2020, registration of cases under the IPC has increased by 31.9% whereas SLL crimes have increased by 21.6% over 2019.” A major increase was seen in the cases registered under disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant, under Section 188 of the IPC, from 29,469 in 2019 to 6,12,179 cases last year; and under ‘other IPC crimes’ from 2,52,268 to 10,62,399 cases. Under the SLL category, more cases were filed under “Other State Local Acts”, leading to a steep rise from 89,553 to 4,14,589 cases. In 2020, more than 55.84 lakh cases were under investigation and over 34.47 lakh of them were disposed of. In nearly 26.12 lakh cases, charge sheets were filed, resulting in a charge-sheeting rate of 75.8%, an increase by 12.50% compared to 2019. As the country remained under complete lockdown from March 25 to May 31 last year during the first wave of COVID-19, cases of crime against women, children and senior citizens, theft, burglary, robbery and dacoity declined. A total of 10,47,216 cases of offences affecting the human body were registered, which accounted for 24.6% of the total IPC crimes last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/28-jump-in-cases-registration-last-year/article36486947.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||SC gives govt. 2 weeks to fill all tribunal vacancies||“I have seen the selection list of National Company Law Tribunal. The selection committee recommended nine judicial members and 10 technical members. The appointment letters indicate cherry-picking of three names from the select list and others from the wait list, ignoring others in the select list. In service law, you cannot go to wait list ignoring the select list. What kind of appointment is this?” Chief Justice Ramana asked the Attorney General. Mr. Venugopal replied, “But doesn’t the government have the power to choose someone?” The CJI retorted, “We are a democratic country working under a rule of law... What is the sanctity of these committees if they cannot guarantee appointments?” Justice Rao joined in saying, “What is the sanctity of the search and selection process if the government has the last word? Selection committees undertake elaborate process to shortlist the names.” Justice Chandrachud highlighted the case of Debt Recovery Tribunals that had become almost non-functional under the weight of their vacancies. “When a bank decides to recover debt on a house or a factory, the debtor has no remedy. The High Court refuses to hear his case... There is no recourse to justice,” he observed. In one of the tribunals, the selection committee interviewed 534 candidates for judicial members and another 400 for technical members. A list was given. But the government picked a few from the select list and some others from the wait list. Chief Justice Ramana referred to how a Supreme Court judge, who headed a selection committee for a tribunal, travelled across the country to conduct interviews for appointments during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, no appointments were made by the government. “We wasted so much time,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-gives-govt-2-weeks-to-fill-all-tribunal-vacancies/article36486948.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||87.89 is cut-off score for JEE (Advanced)||“On account of using unfair means, a total of 20 candidates have been debarred from appearing in future examinations for a period of three years. Their results have also been withheld,” said an NTA statement. JEE (Main) is used as an entrance test for admission to undergraduate engineering programmes at the National Institutes of Technology, and several other Central, State and private institutions. The top 2.5 lakh-ranked candidates are also eligible to appear for JEE (Advanced), which is the admission test for the Indian Institutes of Technology, and will be held on October 3. Registrations for JEE (Advanced) will open on September 15. For students from the economically weaker sections, the cut-off is a score of 66.22. For those from the Other Backward Classes, it is 68.02; for those in the Scheduled Caste category, it is 46.88; and for those from the Scheduled Tribe communities, it is 34.67.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/8789-is-cut-off-score-for-jee-advanced/article36486949.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Telcos get four-year moratorium on dues||Experts are, however, not sure the package would be enough to keep their troubled joint venture Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL) afloat as the moratorium on AGR dues, spectrum dues and interest payments would only provide temporary relief with these deferred dues to be payable eventually with interest. The tariff regime still needs a reboot for players to sustain operations, they said, echoing Bharti Airtel top brass. Mr. Read hinted at the need for further measures, seeking the “continued strong support of the Telecom Minister and the Finance Minister” for VIL to continue to contribute to “India’s digital ambitions”. “There was a regime of heavy interest, penalty and interest on penalty on payment of licence fees, spectrum user charges and all kinds of charges, which has been rationalised,” the Minister said, adding that AGR calculations would exclude all non-telecom revenue from now, and penalties had been completely scrapped. The earlier definition of AGR, backed by the Telecom Department and upheld by the Supreme Court in 2019, had made telcos liable to pay Rs. 1.6 lakh crore. Last September, the top court granted players 10 years to pay up, starting April 2021. The change in definition that will reduce the burden on telcos, applies only prospectively, so past dues remain payable. Interest on those dues will now be compounded annually instead of monthly and the Minister said interest would be charged at a ‘reasonable’ rate of MCLR plus 2%. MCLR refers to the lowest lending rate banks are permitted to offer. Rating agency ICRA assessed that the moratorium on AGR dues provides an annual cash flow breather of around Rs. 14,000 crore for the industry while the moratorium on spectrum dues gives another Rs. 32,000 crore of annual cash flow relief as a whole. Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh D. Ambani said the measures would enable the industry to achieve the goals of Digital India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-for-moratorium-on-telcos-dues-for-4-years/article36486950.ece
16 September 2021||Pune,||RS bypoll: will Cong. pick ‘experience’ over ‘emotion’?||The demise of sitting Congress Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Satav complications in April this year has left a void in the party leadership at the national level and in Maharashtra. Satav, a member of the All-India Congress Committee (AICC), was considered a mainstay of his party in Vidarbha and Marathwada regions besides being a close aide of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. An able Youth Congress president, Satav was a good orator and as the general secretary in-charge of Gujarat election in 2017, the Congress had put up a spirited fight to emerge a creditable second, winning 77 to the 99 seats of the BJP. With the Rajya Sabha byelection slated for October 4, sympathies lie strongly with his wife Pradnya Satav, who, according to sources, has been lobbying hard for the seat. Yet, a section of the regional and local party leaders feel that the paucity of experienced leaders within Congress ranks in the Upper House will be a critical factor in choosing a candidate. A number of veterans, including former Union Minister Sushilkumar Shinde and Sanjay Nirupam, are said to be eyeing the seat, AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik and former Rajasthan party in-charge Avinash Pandey are among the strongest contenders. Yet another section in the party favours former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan. Mr. Wasnik, too, compares favourably with the other candidates: an important backward community face within the Congress, he has remained active within the Congress’ organisational structure at the national level too, emerging as a dependable organisation man who has the approval of Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-bypoll-will-cong-pick-experience-over-emotion/article36487507.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Power of the Lord’s Nama||The story of Ajamila, narrated in the Bhagavata Purana, conveys a very important message about salvation to all beings struggling under the sway of vasanas in samsara. It highlights the sanctifying power of the Lord’s Nama by which even sinful tendencies are eradicated, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. Ajamila had called out to his son named Narayana at the time of death when he was frightened by the appearance of the Yama dhutas. The purana indicates that this act itself was the result of his faint memory of the brief devotional life in his past. So even when he uttered the Narayana Nama without any idea of its inherent greatness, the effect was felt instantly by the appearance of the Vishnu dhutas. They ordered the Yama dhutas to release him. The Yama dhutas then narrated all the sins of Ajamila. But the Vishnu dhutas replied that no punishment can be inflicted when atonement has already been done. Are they not aware about what constitutes atonement? Srutis and Smritis have laid down the procedures for the conduct of yagas and yagnas, or many vows and observances of worship as a means to absolve one from one’s past sins. These are known as prayaschitta karmas and do not eradicate the sinful tendency. But such is the power of the Lord’s Nama that uttering it even in ignorance burns up all sins and removes sinful tendencies in people. Even if one has committed sins in the course of countless janmas, one has done atonement by uttering the Narayana Nama. It is like fire burning up fuel or medicines curing disease irrespective of one’s knowledge or ignorance concerning their properties. But the object here is not to encourage sin with assurance that it can be absolved easily. Such a light attitude is a great offence and is considered the most despicable of all sins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/power-of-the-lords-nama/article36486962.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article36486940.ece
16 September 2021||Srinagar,||Job package exclusive for Pandits||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court has said the Central government’s special job package was exclusive to the non-migrant Kashmiri-speaking Brahmins or ‘Kashmiri Pandits’ living in the Valley and other Hindus cannot be treated the same. “‘Kashmiri Pandits’ is a separately identifiable community distinct from other Hindus residing in the Valley like Rajputs, Brahmins other than Kashmiri Pandits, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and many others. It is difficult to accept the contention of the petitioners, who are mostly Kshatriyas, Rajputs, Scheduled Caste, non-Kashmiri Brahmins etc., [they] should be treated as ‘Kashmiri Pandits’,” Justice Sanjeev Kumar observed in a judgement on Tuesday. “I found no merit in the petition. The same is dismissed,” he held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/job-package-exclusive-for-pandits/article36486944.ece
16 September 2021||Patna,||Liquor seized in Bihar from ambulance||In dry Bihar, country-made liquor bottles packed in six sacks were seized on September 15 from an ambulance bought with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Rajiv Pratap Rudy’s Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) fund in Saran district. Mr. Rudy had donated several ambulances with his MPLADS fund in 2019 to mukhia s (village heads) of his constituency for serving people under the ‘Sansad Panchayat Ambulance Service’ initiative. The ambulance from which the liquor was seized had been given to the mukhia of Kotwapatti-Rampur, Jai Prakash Singh. An FIR as been lodged against Mr. Singh and two others, police said. Bihar was declared a dry State in April 2016. Driver held The seizure involved 280 litres of country-made liquor from the Shyam chak area under the Bhagwan Bazaar Police Station. Officials warned of stern action under the State’s Prohibition laws. “The driver of the ambulance, Rakesh Rai, has been arrested, and the persons with whom he was in touch have also been identified,” Saran Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar said. “Police should take stern action against all those found guilty in this case,” Mr. Rudy said, thanking the local police for acting promptly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/liquor-seized-from-ambulance-in-bihar/article36486959.ece
16 September 2021||Mumbai,||Rape of minor: HC rejects bail application||The Bombay High Court denied bail to a municipal school teacher charged with sexually harassing and assaulting a minor repeatedly since 2014. Justice P.D. Naik was hearing the bail application filed by Nihal Ahmed Abdul Majid Ansari. On April 13, 2019, Ansari, 56, went to the 16-year-old girl’s school and asked for her school leaving certificate. The school authorities refused to give him the certificate as he was not known to them. A teacher however got suspicious and inquired from the girl about Ansari. The girl told the teacher that Ansari had been molesting and subjecting her to sexual assault since 2014 and had also been showing her adult videos. Following a complaint by the school principal, an FIR was registered against Ansari. He was arrested on April 29, 2019 and his bail was rejected by a special POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act) court on November 7, 2019. Subsequently he moved the High Court. Justice Naik recorded, “The medical evidence supports the prosecution case. The history provided by the victim refers to the overt act attributed to the applicant [Ansari]. The victim was examined and the observations made by the medical officer which are reflected in the examination report indicate that overall finding is consistent with old sexual intercourse/assault.” The court rejected Ansari’s bail and said, “The other observations reflected in the medical report are corroborative to the version of the victim.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rape-of-minor-hc-rejects-bail-application/article36486972.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Indian troops in Russia for SCO exercise||A combined team of 200 Army and Air Force personnel are in Russia to participate in Exercise Peaceful Mission, being held between the member-states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) from September 13 to 25 that also includes Pakistan and China Separately, the 8th edition of the Indian Army Chief’s Conclave, a gathering of the serving and former Chiefs of the Army Staff, is scheduled to be organised in the national capital from September 16 to 18. “The highlight of the three-day event will be the invite extended to former Chiefs of the Nepali Army, who were also Honorary Chiefs of the Indian Army,” the Army said in a statement. The 6th edition of Exercise Peaceful Mission is being hosted by Russia in the Orenburg Region. “The aim of the exercise is to foster close relations between SCO member-states and to enhance the abilities of the military leaders to command multi-national contingents,” the Army stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-troops-in-russia-for-sco-exercise/article36486951.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP a ‘fake Hindu’ party, says Rahul||Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of being a “fake” Hindu party, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the ruling party was acting as a “broker” of the Hindu religion. Addressing a convention of the All India Mahila Congress on its foundation day, Mr. Gandhi urged women party workers to inform people that the Prime Minister was attacking the power of Goddesses Durga, Lakshmi and Saraswati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-a-fake-hindu-party-says-rahul/article36487021.ece
16 September 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata visits gurdwara in Bhabanipur||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday visited Gurdwara Sant Kutiya in the Bhabanipur Assembly seat, from where she is seeking election, and expressed full support to the farmers who are protesting against the Central farm laws. She demanded the withdrawal of the laws. “I am here to take the blessings from you all. I have been here several times to seek blessings and whenever I have free time, I try to visit the gurdwara,” the Trinamool Congress chairperson stated. The Chief Minister, who was seen inside the gurdwara with her head covered by a cloth, also said she was fond of the gurdwara’s halwa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-visits-gurdwara-in-bhabanipur/article36486954.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP resigns||Trinamool Congress MP Arpita Ghosh resigned from the Rajya Sabha, and her resignation has been accepted by Chairman Venkaiah Naidu with effect from October 15. Ms. Ghosh had won the seat from West Bengal in April 2020 and had another five years of tenure left. The TMC was not forthcoming on the reasons for her resignation, though sources said she acted in accordance with the party’s wishes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-rajya-sabha-mp-resigns/article36487023.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Waterways in city, surrounding districts to be cleaned, desilted||Several floodwater channels and waterways that are ridden with vegetation in the city and its neighbouring districts may soon sport a cleaner look. The Water Resources Department (WRD) will start desilting and clearing floating waste from the waterways in a couple of days. Of the total Rs. 11.7 crore sanctioned for various divisions, including Cuddalore, nearly Rs. 7.8 crore worth of works would be implemented in the city and its neighbouring districts as part of the northeast monsoon preparedness work. Officials of the WRD said a total of 42 projects would be taken up to clear debris, vegetation and other obstructions to ensure free flow of floodwater and minimise inundation during the coming monsoon. According to the Government Order issued recently, the WRD has been directed to prevent the dumping of solid waste in waterways and seek the support of other government agencies in this regard. The department has also been asked to chalk out a plan to divert sewage to treatments plants and prevent it from polluting waterways. Measures would be taken to clear and maintain the river mouths of five estuaries at Ennore, Adyar, Muttukadu, Cooum and Pulicat. Equipment would be deployed at the estuaries to drain out floodwater carried by the rivers. Sand bar formation at the Ennore estuary would be cleared using funds from the Kamarajar Port Trust, officials said. The breached portions of the flood banks of Araniar river near Minjur and Ponneri would be strengthened. Earth movers on floats would be used in narrow waterways, like Virugambakkam-Arumbakkam Canal and Otteri Nullah. In Buckingham Canal too, float machines would be used for desilting, an official said. Nearly 180 km of various water channels and surplus courses would be desilted in Tiruvallur district alone. With storage steadily rising in the Red Hills reservoir, residents have demanded that its surplus course be cleared to prevent spillover in surrounding localities. Officials said the surplus course would also be covered in the project to facilitate unobstructed flow of water in places like Amullaivoyal. The causeways across Cooum river in areas such as Omshakthi Nagar and Maduravoyal and the Nandambakkam checkdam at Adyar river would also be cleared of vegetation to avoid water stagnation. A minimum of 50 machines are expected to be engaged in the desilting exercise till the end of the northeast monsoon, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waterways-in-city-surrounding-districts-to-be-cleaned-desilted/article36487106.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2 youth beheaded in separate incidents in nearby districts||Two youth were beheaded in separate incidents in Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts on Tuesday. According to the Chengalpattu district police, Ranjith, 23, a fisherman, who was sleeping on the terrace of his house, was beheaded by an unidentified gang in Kadappakkam, near Maduranthakam. The police said Ranjith’s torso was found by his mother Chellamma early on Wednesday. Preliminary investigation revealed that the assailants had dumped his head in an eucalyptus groove, where the body of a slain history-sheeter ‘Attu’ Ramesh, from Kasimedu, was dumped on September 10. He had murder and attempt to murder cases against him.  After being released on conditional bail recently, Ramesh was staying in Kadapakkam, where his rivals hacked him to death. Ramesh’s associates are suspected to have slain Ranjith, but the police added that he was not involved in the case and his killing could be a case of mistaken identity. Superintendent of Police, Chengalpattu, P. Vijaya Kumar said, “We have certain clues and have identified the accused. A special team has been working to trace and nab them.” Murder in Padappai Another similar case was reported from a village near Padappai, in Kacheepuram. On Tuesday, the villagers spotted a human head on the road near a church in Erumaiyur and alerted the Somangalam police station. The police found the torso on the lake bed in Sitheri, near Erumaiyur, on Wednesday. The police identified the deceased as Vetrivel, 23, of Erumaiyur, who was one of the accused in the murder of a college student Abishek last year. The police registered a case and have launched a search for the accused. Kancheepuram SP M. Sudhakar said, “Our initial investigation revealed that the murder was committed due to previous enmity. We have zeroed in on those involved, and two special teams are working to trace them. We will nab them soon.”  Our initial investigation revealed that the murder was committed due to previous enmity M. Sudhakar Superintendent of Police, Kancheepuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-youth-beheaded-in-separate-incidents-in-nearby-districts/article36487134.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records a marginal rise in cases||Tamil Nadu saw a marginal rise in fresh COVID-19 infections on Wednesday, as 1,658 more people tested positive. Chennai, for the second day in a row, led the table with 226 cases. In Coimbatore, which registered 201 cases on Tuesday, 224 people tested positive on Wednesday. There were 130 cases in Erode and 126 cases in Chengalpattu. While Tiruppur recorded 88 cases, Thanjavur’s daily tally dropped from 119 to 72. There were 67 cases in Tiruvallur, 62 in Salem, 53 in Tiruchi and 51 in Namakkal. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 26,38,668. Twenty-nine persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 35,246. Of the 38 districts, 24 did not report fatalities. Chennai recorded five deaths, while there were four deaths in Coimbatore and three each in Kancheepuram and Nagapattinam. With another 1,542 people being discharged after treatment, the total figure stood at 25,86,786. The State now has 16,636 active cases. Of these, 2,225 people are under treatment in Coimbatore, 1,845 in Chennai, 1,302 in Erode and 1,174 in Chengalpattu. In the last 24 hours, 1,50,740 samples were tested, taking the total count to 4,46,77,820. Another private laboratory — the Central Clinical Laboratory, Karpaga Vinayaga Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre in Chengalpattu — was approved for COVID-19 testing. As many as 2,85,805 people were vaccinated, taking the total coverage in government centres to 3,89,44,605. Among those vaccinated were 1,65,595 people aged 18 to 44 and 82,577 people in the 45-59 age group. The coverage in private centres stood at 23,22,996.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-a-marginal-rise-in-cases/article36487129.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC revokes order on insurance policy for new motor vehicles||The Madras High Court has withdrawn an order passed by it last month directing the State government to ensure that all new motor vehicles get bumper-to-bumper insurance cover along with coverage for driver, owner, passengers and third parties for five years. Justice S. Vaidyanathan withdrew his order after the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA), the General Insurance Council (GIC) and the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) said it might not be logistically and economically feasible for effective implementation in the present legal dispensation. The court was told that its direction would have unintended impact, causing severe repercussions on society and therefore it must be withdrawn in the interest of policyholders, automobile industry and the public at large. It was brought to the notice of the court that the issue of long-term third-party insurance coverage had been mandated by the Supreme Court in September 2018 and the IRDAI had been periodically monitoring the changing scenario from time to time and hence there was no need for issuance of such directions. Counsel M.B. Raghavan, V. Arun Kumar and N. Vijayaraghavan representing the IRDAI, the GIC and the SIAM respectively told the court that the anxiety expressed by the court with respect to protective coverage to uninsured innocent victims, such as occupants in a private car and pillion riders would be duly taken care. “Considering the overall submissions... this court feels that the direction issued by this court may not be conducive and suitable for implementation in the current situation. Therefore, the said direction in paragraph is hereby withdrawn for the present,” the judge wrote. He also said: “This court hopes and trusts that law makers will examine the need for suitable amendment in the Motor Vehicles Act relating to wide coverage of vehicles so as to protect the innocent victims. In view of withdrawal of the direction regarding bumper-to-bumper policy, the circular of August 31, 2021 issued by the Joint Transport Commissioner, Chennai stands cancelled.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-revokes-order-on-insurance-policy-for-new-motor-vehicles/article36487606.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chellappa endowment set up in Madras University||The making of late writer C.S. Chellappa’s novel Vaadivasal into a film has also paved the way for the creation of an endowment in his name in the Tamil Department of the University of Madras. Award-winning director Vetrimaran is making the film with actor Suriya in the lead role. An agreement was signed between Mr. Vetrimaran and Kalachuvadu , the publisher of the novel, and C. Subramanian, the son of Chellappa. “I have just fulfilled the desire of my father to set up an endowment. He wanted to do it in Madurai Kamaraj University since his friend and contributor to Ezhuthu magazine, professor Kanagasabapathy, worked there. Changing circumstances, however, made me set it up in the University of Madras,” said Mr. Subramanian, who has donated Rs. 5 lakh to set up the endowment. The money would be used to organise the Chellappa Memorial Lecture every year. “I am only a tool. It was my cousin Sankarasubramanian, who was also a writer, who wanted to create an endowment. Unfortunately, he died in 2004. Even the amount for the endowment came from the agreement we signed for the making of the film,” he said, acknowledging the help rendered by poet and former English professor Rajagopalan and Y. Manikandan, head of the Department of Tamil Language of the University of Madras. Mr. Manikandan said the cheque had been sent to the Registrar of the University. Mr. Subramanian said he had plans to publish the unpublished manuscripts of his father, besides digitising old issues of Ezhuthu magazine run by Chellappa. It covers 12 years and 119 issues. “The magazines will be published on September 29, the birth day of my father and will be available on Amazon Kindle,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chellappa-endowment-set-up-in-madras-university/article36487114.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A government order that heralded the social justice movement 100 years ago||The social justice movement in Tamil Nadu, which began with the ‘Communal G.O.’, issued 100 years ago, on this day, by the Justice Party government, has come a long way. The government order, and the successive measures that it spawned over the decades, has proved to be a leveller, empowering non-Brahmins and securing the space due to them in administration and politics. The order, issued on September 16, 1921, sought “to increase the proportion of posts held by non-Brahmins,” which also encompassed Indian Christians, Muslims and Adi-Dravidars, in the Provincial Services, including the Madras Secretariat. Before issuing the order, a resolution was moved in the Legislative Council. “This followed in the wake of nearly four years of public education and propaganda on the subject. Prior to this, the Justice Party had demanded that the British constitute communal electorates, so that all communities are represented in the Madras Legislative Council,” said writer V. Geetha. “They also wanted the franchise to be enlarged. In effect, the demand for reservation was posited as a democratic demand. This was not unlike what B.R. Ambedkar had sought for Dalits, in his appearance before the Southborough Committee in 1919,” she said. It was P. Thyagaraja Chetti, who captured the aspirations of the non-Brahmins. “We are nothing but slaves in the hands of the Brahmin hierarchy. Let us educate ourselves, and in due course, we shall have our portion of government service and political power, proportionate to our strength and importance,” late Mythili Sivaraman recalled him as saying in her book Haunted by Fire . Brahmin domination The domination of Brahmins is summed up by N. Ram, former editor-in-chief of The Hindu , in an article in the Economic and Political Weekly in 1979. “The data put together by the Madras government in 1912 showed that at the higher levels of government service, where Indians were employed, Brahmins made up 55% of Deputy Collectors, 83.3% of Sub-Judges, and 72.6% of District Munsifs,” he said in the article Dravidian movement in its pre-Independence phase . The analysis of caste composition among those employed in 1917 in the Revenue and Judicial departments, as tahsildars, deputy tahsildars, English head clerks, sharistadars of district and sub-courts, reinforces the same conclusion. “In higher education itself, a break-up showed that between 1870 and 1918, the proportion of Brahmins among the students enrolled and those granted Bachelor of Arts degrees by the University of Madras was in the range of 67-71%,” he quoted further from government data. As for the proportion of candidates for the Bachelor of Law degree, Brahmins constituted 73.57% in 1919; and for the Licentiate of Teaching degree, the figure was 73.03%. The proportion was appreciably lower only in the medical field. Ms. Geetha said the Communal G.O. proved to be a symbolic document, since the actual power of appointment was in British hands, and in collusion with their upper caste, Brahmin colleagues, they scuttled appointments successfully. “Justice Party leaders were lamenting that the G.O. only existed on paper. Only gradually did the non-Brahmanisation of the services take place, and in fact this picked up speed only in independent India,” she said. In the name of ‘merit’ She also recalled that it was struck down by the courts, leading to the first amendment to the Constitution. “It is significant that in 1921, the objections to the G.O. were made in the name of ‘merit’ — that reservation would lead to a loss of merit. And this argument persists to this day, and we see here how merit is linked to birth,” she added. Impact on composition According to her, the Communal G.O. impacted the composition of the bureaucracy, and not so much the legislature, and this has been a good thing, on the whole, though we all know that Dalits are mostly in the lower levels of the administration and judiciary, and this situation must change. She rejected the argument that it had made way for “identity politics”. “To be represented in a government is a democratic demand, and while it may be advanced on the basis of particular identities, it still relies on the political process, on democratic governance,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-government-order-that-heralded-the-social-justice-movement-100-years-ago/article36487121.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Will reach out to other States on NEET, says Stalin||The DMK government will reach out to all State governments on its stand on abolishing NEET and conducting admissions to medical courses on the basis of Class XII marks, thereby creating a scenario where NEET is completely done away with, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Wednesday. In a video message, Mr. Stalin said he was heartbroken after yet another medical aspirant, T. Soundharya, had died by suicide — the third such death this past week. Mr. Stalin accused the Union government of being “cold-hearted” on the issue of NEET, despite it having many confusions. He said the DMK had held many protests against the exam, which was an injustice being meted out to students, and one that was closing the doors of medical education for many. “You don’t need qualifications for studying. If you study, the qualification will automatically come,” Mr. Stalin said. The Chief Minister said some people had allowed NEET in Tamil Nadu for their selfish interests and even now were engaging in false propaganda that such an unjust system must continue. “It feels like I am being stabbed on my chest with a spear when I hear the news of students dying by suicide due to a feeling that they are unable to pursue medical education or clear NEET,” he said, adding “your life is important and invaluable. Your life is not just important for your family, but to the nation”. Mr. Stalin told students that they had the capacity to become medical professionals and be victorious, and they should have self confidence to achieve anything. He said the government had set up a helpline, ‘104’, to help students receive counselling if they were facing mental stress or pressures due to NEET and qualified professionals were there to help them through it. “I request you again not to lose your valuable life. We will live and fight. We will live and emerge victorious,” he said. On counselling AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam reiterated the need for counselling for candidates who took NEET. He made the suggestion in the light of the death of Soundharya, who took NEET a few days ago. On Tuesday, AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami had suggested the formation of a panel of teachers, educationists and psychologists to instil confidence among aspirants about NEET, and counsel them on the opportunities available for higher studies in the event of not clearing the test. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-reach-out-to-other-states-on-neet-stalin/article36487123.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||52% eligible population has received first dose: Minister||So far, 52% of Tamil Nadu’s eligible population has received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccines, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. The number of people aged over 18 and eligible to get inoculated in the State is 6.06 crore. They have to get both the doses, which will be 12.12 crore in total, he told reporters on Wednesday. “So far, 52% of the eligible population have received the first dose, while the remaining 48% have not taken it,” he said. The overall coverage — both first and second doses — so far stands at 4.09 crore. Before September 12, the day when the mega vaccination camp was held, the percentage of people who had received their first dose was 45%. This increased to 52% following the camps, he added. A mega vaccination camp will next be held on September 19, and not September 17, as the stock of vaccines is around 17 lakh, he said. “We have asked the Union government to give us additional vaccine doses. We will focus on places that faced a shortage of vaccines during the last camp... We are trying to ready a stock of at least 20 lakh doses,” he said. The State has vaccinated 4,33,981 pregnant women, 3,41,837 lactating women, 1,80,142 differently-abled people, 2,223 destitutes and 1,754 people with mental illness. The Minister said COVID-19 cases varied by a margin of 10 to 15 every day. “We have not compromised on the number of samples that is being tested. We continue to test more than 1.5 lakh samples a day. Cases are under control,” he said. He said counselling for admissions to MBBS courses would be held at the State level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/52-eligible-population-has-received-first-dose-minister/article36487126.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Detain temple land encroachers under Goondas Act: HC to State||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department to issue a public notification calling upon encroachers of temple properties spread across the State to voluntarily surrender the lands within a stipulated time, failing which criminal proceedings would be initiated against them, including detention under the Goondas Act. The court also ordered the constitution of a special cell to retrieve the encroached temple properties. Justice S.M. Subramaniam said only officers known for their integrity and devotion to duty should be made part of the special cell, whose phone numbers should be displayed in all temples in the State and on notice boards of HR&CE Department offices so that people interested in protecting temple lands could lodge complaints. He also directed the Director General of Police (DGP) to provide protection to the officials engaged in retrieving the encroached properties. Making it clear that action should be initiated either under the HR&CE Act of 1959 or the criminal laws or the Goondas Act as per the facts of the encroachment concerned, the judge wrote: “The respondents (State government, HR&CE Department and DGP) shall not hesitate to invoke the provisions of the Goondas Act against such professional land grabbers and persons involved in encroachment and illegal activities in respect of the temple properties at large for personal and unjust gains.” The judge said fraudulent and illegal encroachment of temple properties was a crime against the society at large. Misappropriation of temple funds was also undoubtedly an offence, and all such offences must be registered and the offenders prosecuted by the State. “Temple properties are looted by greedy men and a few professional criminals or land-grabbers. Active or passive contribution/collusion by HR&CE Department officials cannot be overruled,” he added. “These lapses, negligence and dereliction of duty on the part of such public officials are also to be viewed seriously and all appropriate actions in this regard are highly warranted…Instances are many where persons entrusted with the duty of managing and safeguarding the properties of temples, deities and Devaswom Boards have usurped and misappropriated such properties by setting up false claims of ownership or tenancy, or adverse possession. Such acts of ‘fences eating the crops’ should also be dealt with sternly,” the court observed. Highlighting the necessity for the government, members or trustees of Boards/Trusts and devotees to be vigilant, the judge said it was the duty of the courts, too, to protect and safeguard the properties of religious and charitable institutions. He also recorded the submissions made by Advocate General (A-G) R. Shunmugasundaram with respect to action taken so far to retrieve temple lands under encroachment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/detain-temple-land-encroachers-under-goondas-act-hc-to-state/article36487143.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Public asked to be wary of e-commerce scams||A woman in the city recently filed a complaint with the Central Crime Branch, claiming she had lost Rs. 30 lakh after investing in an e-commerce portal that purportedly recruited for part-time jobs. On receiving the complaint, the police investigated and found a number of similar messages from others in the city. Following this, Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal constituted a special team to trace those involved in the fraud. The police said people were receiving bulk SMSes from unknown numbers offering part-time jobs at leading e-commerce companies. Upon clicking the link in the text message an app would be downloaded to the user’s mobile phone automatically. The scammer would then give instructions through Whatsapp or Telegram on how to use the app. Upon using the app, the victim will be taken to an online storefront deceptively similar to the respective e-commerce company. They would be instructed to buy and sell products from the site to receive a commission, which will be credited to their account in the app. A senior police official said the user would not get back the money spent on buying the product even after they make a sale, but the app would display notifications as if the money was credited to the user’s account. Mr. Jiwal told The Hindu :  “We received complaints from the public in this regard and have launched an investigation. We are cautioning people about this investment fraud. They should be more careful with persons who send messages on the pretext of part-time jobs.” Cancellation racket Meanwhile, the Cyber Crime Wing of the State Police has issued an alert on another type of fraud. In this method, orders placed on e-commerce sites are cancelled due to various reasons. The fraudster then collects the customers’ details and contacts them, posing as a representative of the e-commerce website. The victim will then be told that the order was cancelled due to technical issues, and that he or she could still get the product if they make the payment. “If the victim accepts the offer, the fraudster will ask them to transfer money through an e-wallet transaction or UPI or through bank transfer to a personal account with a fake name of the e-commerce company. After receiving payment, the fraudster will block the victim’s phone number. No e-commerce site will ask money transfers to any wallet, UPI or bank account,” the alert said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-asked-to-be-wary-of-e-commerce-scams/article36487133.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Advanced paediatric eye care facility inaugurated in city||Sankara Nethralaya has associated with Rainbow Children’s Hospital, Chennai, to provide a specialised, niche and advanced eye care facility with expert diagnosis and treatment. This facility was inaugurated by T.S. Surendran, vice-chairman and director, paediatric ophthalmology, Sankara Nethralaya. The scope of services include retinopathy of prematurity screening and management, including anti-vascular endothelial growth factor therapy, paediatric ophthalmological emergency and outpatient services, refractory errors in children, squint, congenital cataract and tumours of the eye. Donation received Sankara Nethralaya, Chennai, has received a substantial donation from Govinda Visvesvara, a scholar and philanthropist from Atlanta. Dr. Govinda Visvesvara, a native of Bengaluru, made the donation in memory of his parents Govinda Sharma and Rajamma. The donation will go towards supporting the Department of Uvea, started in 1981. The department has the largest number of consultants in any uvea department across the country, and sees around 3,000 uveitis (a form of eye inflammation) cases per year, according to a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advanced-paediatric-eye-care-facility-inaugurated-in-city/article36487136.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK rule will continue permanently in Tamil Nadu, says CM||Declaring that DMK rule would continue permanently in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister M.K.Stalin on Wednesday called upon his party functionaries to create a base for the same. “Soon, we are going to face elections to the rural local bodies in nine districts, and this will be followed by elections to urban local bodies. We have to win them. Local bodies should be in our hands to ensure that government schemes reach every village,” he said, addressing the cadre through a webinar on the occasion of the annual Mupperumvizha, organised by the party. Mr. Stalin said it was the greatest of all achievements that the DMK government had “saved people” from the pandemic. “We will fulfill all our [electoral] promises one by one. The Ministers have made a lot of announcements. It is my duty to review them twice a month for their proper implementation,” he added. Listing out the announcements made by the government in 100 days, he said “above all, we have earned a name as honest and good administrators.” Mr. Stalin said youth in the party should read a lot to know about the history of the party and the Dravidian movement. “They should know the challenges and hardships faced by us. That is why I have turned the practice of presenting books into a movement,” he said. Party seniors were honoured with various awards on the occasion. Misa P. Mathivanan was given the Periyar Award, Theni S. Mookaiah got the Anna Award, Gummidipoondi K. Venu received the Kalaignar award, Vasuki Ramanan received the Pavendar Award and P.M. Mubarak received the Perasiriyar Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-rule-will-continue-permanently-in-tamil-nadu-says-cm/article36487131.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for attacking man in Virugambakkam||Personnel from the Virugambakkam police station on Wednesday apprehended three persons, including a juvenile, who allegedly attacked a man and damaged vehicles using knives. According to the police, Umashankar, 21, of Chitlapakkam, who is a sales representative of Aavin, was unloading milk sachets from a goods carrier on Gandhi Main Road, Virugambakkam. Three youngsters, who came on a high-end bike, attempted to grab the sachets. When Mr. Umashankar resisted, the youth attacked him with a knife and damaged the glass panels of the goods carrier. After scrutinising CCTV camera footage, the police arrested Karthik alias Karthik Raja, 24, and S. Aravind, 22, besides securing their 16-year-old accomplice. The duo was remanded in judicial custody and the juvenile was sent to a special observation home for boys. The adult accused had damaged other vehicles in K.K. Nagar in a similar manner, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-attacking-man-in-virugambakkam/article36487108.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Body of missing boy found, suspect held||The body of K. Dhanasekar, 14, who went missing five days ago, was found floating at a temple pond in a village, near Sholavaram, on Monday. The police said he was found to be murdered by Gopalakrishnan, his mother’s boyfriend, as the boy had informed his father about his mother’s extramarital affair. The victim was from Neduvarambakkam village, near Sholavaram. Gopalakrishnan was arrested on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-missing-boy-found-suspect-held/article36487110.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK’s exit does not cause us loss: AIADMK||The AIADMK’s organisation secretary and former Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar on Wednesday said the departure of the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) from its alliance did not mean “any loss” to his party. “The loss is theirs [PMK],” Mr. Jayakumar told journalists after taking part in an event to mark the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai. Answering questions on the reported observations of the PMK founder S. Ramadoss that the AIADMK did not “honour the alliance dharma ” and did not have a “proper leadership,” Mr. Jayakumar said the PMK had the “authority” to decide on continuing its alliance with the AIADMK, but “we [AIADMK] cannot accept any criticism levelled against our leadership. If this situation continues, we may also have to criticise them [PMK]. We do not know under whose compulsion they have taken the decision,” the former Minister quipped. Pointing out that the difference between the votes polled by the DMK and the AIADMK in the Assembly election was narrow, Mr. Jayakumar said his party’s votebase had not suffered “any erosion”. Meanwhile, the AIADMK co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami has sent a representation to State Election Commissioner V. Palanikumar, listing several areas of concern and calling for measures to ensure that rural local bodies’ elections in nine districts are held in a “free and fair” manner. The conduct of the polls in two phases is “bereft of any reason” and is “unnecessary,” he said, recalling that even the Assembly poll for 234 constituencies was held in a single phase. Observers for the polls should either be those from the Central government service or officers from outside Tamil Nadu, so that “absolute neutrality” is ensured in the conduct of the polls. Mr. Palaniswami called for the installation of CCTV cameras in and out of strong rooms, and the deployment of CRPF or CISF units. Static surveillance teams should be stationed, the former Chief Minister suggested. ‘Not enough time’ Sources in the PMK said its move to exit the alliance need not be seen as a “political decision”, but one taken due to practical difficulties of “not having enough time” to co-ordinate with allies. “The decision doesn’t mean that we are moving away from the AIADMK alliance. We are still a part of NDA. We just have two weeks and it will be near impossible for us to conclude seat-sharing negotiations with our allies,” said party spokesperson K. Balu. He also said that the party cadre were insistent on getting a good chance to contest in these elections. “We still have a cordial relationship with the AIADMK. The decision is primarily related to providing opportunities to our cadre and due to a lack of time,” said Mr. Balu. DMDK founder Vijayakant on Wednesday invited applications from candidates willing to contest in the local body elections. The DMDK was part of the AMMK alliance.  The difference between the votes polled by DMK and AIADMK in the Assembly election was narrow D. Jayakumar Organisation secretary, AIADMK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmks-exit-does-not-cause-us-loss-aiadmk/article36487127.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State Child Protection Academy inaugurated||In a first of its kind initiative for the State, the Tamil Nadu State Child Protection Academy was inaugurated on Wednesday. The Academy is a joint initiative of the Department of Social Defence, the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, UNICEF, and the State Resource Centre, and was set up following a recent announcement in the Assembly. Inaugurating the Academy’s first workshop for Assistant Commissioners and Assistant Inspectors from the Labour Department, S. Valarmathi, Director of Social Defence, said that TNSCPA was set up exclusively to engage with officials across various departments on child protection. “Given the pandemic situation, there are several issues that we have to look at, including child labour, drug addiction and abuse, school dropouts and child marriage. We also need to create more awareness on the field amongst both children and the general public about 1098 ChildLine,” she said, addressing the participants and encouraging them to work in close coordination with the Social Defence Department to ensure better implementation of the government’s child protection measures. The workshop on Wednesday was aimed at ensuring that participants have a better understanding of the Child and Adolescent Labour (P&R) Act, 1986, the State plan of action and the standard operating procedures in place. “Enhancing the capacity of the stakeholders working for child protection in Tamil Nadu across different departments, such as labour and education, will be the focus of these workshops initiated by the Child Protection Academy. It is important that officials working for child protection are aware of the laws as well as schemes of the State government in place and work towards its effective implementation effectively,” said Andrew Sesuraj, State Convenor, Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch, who also conducted sessions during the workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-child-protection-academy-inaugurated/article36487150.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for running brothel under guise of spa||The police arrested three accused, including a woman, for running a brothel under the guise of a spa in Nungambakkam and Aminjikarai. They rescued seven women, who were forced into prostitution. The police raided the premises in Valluvar Kottam and Sajith Towers on E.V.R. Salai. They arrested Vyjayanthi alias Monisha, 30, of Arumbakkam, A. Krishna, 27, of Teynampet and Ashok, 34, of Old Washermenpet. The rescued women were lodged in a government women’s hostel, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-running-brothel-under-guise-of-spa/article36487111.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Virtual duathlon to be held||Apollo Cancer Centre will conduct a virtual duathlon in which participants may walk, run or cycle or use dual mode to complete the marathon. In the Apollo D2D (Dawn to Dusk) Duathlon 2021, participants will complete the 3 km to 125 km marathon at their own pace between October 15 and November 15. They may also choose their location and pace. The aim of the duathlon is to create awareness, support and raise funds for the treatment of childhood cancers. All support raised through Apollo D2D Duathlon 2021 will be given to young cancer patients, identified by Apollo’s team of oncologists. Apollo Hospitals and Neville Endeavours Foundation is organising the event. Registration for the event will be on till October 14. The event was launched by Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Participants may register at https://www.apollo2d.com/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virtual-duathlon-to-be-held/article36487112.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death in Mylapore||Personnel from the Mylapore police station launched an investigation into the murder of a 34-year-old man by a gang on Appu Street, Mylapore, on Tuesday. The police identified the victim as Gopi, a resident of Venkatasamy Street in Mandaveli. He ran an Aavin milk parlour and was also a real estate businessman. At 10 p.m. on Tuesday, Gopi was visiting the milk parlour when a four-member gang on two motorbikes hacked him to death before fleeing. The police said Gopi was a close associate of gangster Sivakumar, who was hacked to death recently by his adversaries. The police said after the death of Sivakumar, Gopi had attempted to kill ‘Kilangu’ Saravanan several times for his role in the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacked-to-death-in-mylapore/article36487107.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2-year-old dies after falling from bike||A two-year-old girl died after falling from a bike driven by her father when he hit a car in Pondy Bazaar on Tuesday. The accident took place when Jayaraman, of Royapettah, took his wife and two children to T. Nagar on the bike. At the Thyagaraya Road-South Boag Road junction, the two-wheeler hit a moving car while turning. In the impact, Sai Danshika fell off the bike and suffered injuries on her head. She was rushed to a private children’s hospital in Nungambakkam, where she was declared brought dead. On information, the Pondy Bazaar traffic investigation police registered a case and sent the body for a post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-year-old-dies-after-falling-from-bike/article36487109.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Golden Jubilee of Naval Air Squadron 561 celebrated||The Indian Naval Air Squadron 561, also known as the Helicopter Training School (HTS), celebrated its Golden Jubilee at INS Rajali, Arakkonam, on Wednesday. Rear Admiral Philipose G. Pynumootil, Flag Officer Naval Aviation, was the chief guest of the event that witnessed participation from many serving and retired alumni of HTS, a press release said. A series of events were organised on the occasion, including a motorcycle expedition from INS Garuda, Kochi, to INS Rajali; a commemorative folio release; and inauguration of Chetak static display.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/golden-jubilee-of-naval-air-squadron-561-celebrated/article36487137.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||V.N. Sudhakaran’s property attached by Benami Prohibition Unit||A bungalow and its surrounding land in Siruthavur, allegedly belonging to V.N. Sudhakaran, former foster son of late Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa, was provisionally attached by the Benami Prohibition Unit. In September 2014, Sudhakaran, a co-accused in the disproportionate assets case against the former Chief Minister, was sentenced to four years of imprisonment along with his aunt V.N. Sasikala and her niece J. Elavarasi. Back then, the prosecution alleged that there was a sudden spurt in the acquisition of assets by them after 1991, when the trio floated several firms. There were no business activities at all with respect to many of the firms while others were only engaged in acquiring assets like land. After the Supreme Court upheld the order of the trial court against them, the Benami Prohibition Unit has been attaching properties allegedly belonging to them under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transaction Act. On Wednesday, the officials of the unit attached 21.2 acres of the property in Siruthavur village, allegedly belonging to Sudhakaran, and stuck notices on the compound wall. The property was worth around Rs. 30 crore, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vn-sudhakarans-property-attached-by-benami-prohibition-unit/article36487135.ece
16 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation continues expenditure trimming exercise||From cancelling contract awarded to a company said to be close to former Minister S.P. Velumani to cancelling tenders, the Coimbatore Corporation under Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara continued its expenditure trimming exercise. In the latest round of the exercise, the Corporation cancelled the contract awarded to KCP Engineer Pvt. Ltd. and three other firms for maintaining street lights in the old city areas of 60 wards as they violated the contractual obligations. The Corporation had awarded the contract worth Rs. 1.10 crore to KCP Engineer Pvt. Ltd. to maintain 16,932 LED street lights and 1,022 control switches in East Zone, contract worth Rs. 86 lakh to R.V.G. Metal Industries to maintain 8,319 lights and 586 switches in West Zone, contract worth Rs. 1.59 crore to R&N Electricals to maintain 14,837 lights and 1,016 switches in North and South Zones and contract worth Rs. 1.05 crore to Sabari Electricals to maintain 12,627 lights and 803 switches in Central Zone. At the end of the three-month observation period ending May 31, 2021 the Corporation found the contractors failed to ensure that 98% of lights glowed. They could ensure only less than 90% lights functioned. They had failed to establish control room, provide grievance redress mechanism, employ sufficient number of workers and failed to attend to the complaints within 48 hours, the Corporation said and added the contractors’ failure tantamount to violation of contractual obligation. Therefore, the civic body had cancelled the maintenance contract given to them. In continuation of the expenditure trimming exercise, the Corporation cancelled tenders worth Rs. 9.92 crore for works proposed in Central Zone, tenders worth Rs. 7.71 crore for works proposed in South Zone, tenders worth Rs. 7.55 crore for works proposed in East Zone and tenders worth Rs. 13.74 crore for works proposed in West Zone. In the last two months the Corporation had similarly cancelled tenders saying to cut down cost it was cancelling the tenders as the contractors had not started work or it had not issued work orders or it was yet to complete a few formalities. In cancelling the tenders the Corporation had also cited the Rs. 120 crore it was yet to pay contractors for works completed. In yet another move to cut down cost, the Corporation had reversed its decision to buy a multi-purpose amphibian vehicle. Sometime towards the end of 2020 the Corporation had floated a tender worth Rs. 7.86 crore to buy the vehicle to clean water bodies under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Though the Central and State governments were to bear 90% cost of the vehicle and it had to pay only Rs. 78 lakh or 10%, the Corporation cancelled the tender saying it felt the machine was unnecessary at this point in time and could not afford the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-continues-expenditure-trimming-exercise/article36487155.ece
16 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Restrictions eased for visitors to Valparai||Restrictions for non-residents of Valparai in visiting the hill station have been eased. According to officials with the Revenue and Forest departments, there is no restriction for people from Tamil Nadu in visiting Valparai and nearby areas. However, people from Kerala will have to carry complete vaccination certificate or COVID-negative report to enter the hill station through the ghat section from Thrissur district. Officials said that people from Tamil Nadu who are non-residents of Valparai had restrictions in accessing the hill station via Aliyar. Staff from the Revenue and Forest Departments used to check whereabouts of the passengers at the Forest Department checkpost at the downhill near Aliyar before allowing them to Valparai. Residents of Valparai and people who visit them were being allowed after verifying their purpose of visit. Now, these restrictions have been eased, they said. “These restrictions helped the district administration in controlling the spread of COVID-19 in Valparai, a major tourist destination near Coimbatore. Now, tourism activities are slowly picking up in Valparai,” said a revenue official. The Forest Department recently opened Monkey Falls on Valparai Road near Aliyar for visitors. Tourists mainly visit Valparai for enjoying the cool weather and sightseeing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restrictions-eased-for-visitors-to-valparai/article36487161.ece
16 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elephant interpretation centre nearing completion in Mettupalayam||The elephant interpretation centre of the Forest Department at Mettupalayam is nearing completion. Forest officials said that the works for the interpretation centre was almost completed. Some of the artworks on the park attached to the centre were under way. The interpretation centre titled ‘Vezham’, is coming up on the Forest Department’s timber depot campus on Kotagiri Road, around 2 km from Mettupalayam town. The centre is packed with installations and paintings on elephants which are easy to grasp for children and adults. References of elephants in literature and photographs of elephants from the region also decorate the interpretation centre. Coimbatore Forest Division has roped in an artist who has worked on similar interpretations centres for the Forest Department in Kerala for a majority of the works, officials said. The artist also made life-size installations of elephants in the park attached to the interpretation centre, they said. A senior official of the Forest Department said that the centre and a tribal interpretation centre coming up at the Anamalai Tiger Reserve are two of the major projects aimed at taking knowledge on wildlife and the rich heritage of forest dwelling tribal communities to the general public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-interpretation-centre-nearing-completion-in-mettupalayam/article36487160.ece
16 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Habitual offender, two minors held for chain-snatching||The Annur police have arrested three persons, including two minors, in connection with the snatching of a five-sovereign gold chain from an elderly woman on September 8. The arrested have been identified as A. Mariswaran (26), a resident of Bharathi Nagar on Selvapuram Road near Periyanaickepalayam, and two minors aged 15 and 17. The police said that three persons went to the grocery shop run by an elderly woman namely Parvathy at Thelungupalayam, near Annur, around 1.30 p.m. on September 8. After buying a few things, the accused snatched the chain of the woman and escaped on a two-wheeler. The Annur police team led by inspector M. Nithya collected visuals from various surveillance cameras in the locality and came up with a list of suspects. The two-wheeler travelled by the three accused were stopped by the police during a vehicle check at Kaikattipudur on Mettupalayam Road on Tuesday. The police took them to the station for questioning after finding similarities with the suspects seen in the CCTV visuals. The police found that the trio was involved in the chain-snatching. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/habitual-offender-two-minors-held-for-chain-snatching/article36487147.ece
16 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Training programme||Coimbatore Productivity Council has announced a training programme on the recent amendments and notifications under EPF and ESI Acts on Saturday. A release said that it will be held from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. The session is aimed at employers and employees of factories, plantations, establishments, hotels, hospitals and educational institutions. Fee per head for online attendance is Rs. 300 and fee for physical attendance of the seminar will be Rs. 350 per head. Those interested shall use the link https://tinyurl.com/ CPC-SEPTEMBER-2021 for registration and contact 99524 04302, 73736 63002 or 82200 00371/2/3/4 for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme/article36487146.ece
16 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. move on BU Syndicate flayed||The Association of University Teachers has expressed reservation over the State Government’s move to include five secretaries of affiliated colleges in the Bharathiar University Syndicate. In a statement, association State president P. Thirunavukkarasu said the move would place the university administration on the hands of the secretaries. The Madras HC, while disposing of the petition filed by the Association of Self-Financing Arts, Science and Management Colleges of Tamil Nadu had directed the university to consider the demand. The Government amending the Bharathiar University Act was against the decision of the university Senate and Syndicate, he said and added that the inclusion of five secretaries tantamount to privatising higher education. It appealed to the Government to reconsider the decision and enact a common Act for all universities, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-move-on-bu-syndicate-flayed/article36487156.ece
16 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Draft list of polling stations released in Dharmapuri||The draft list of polling booths for the five Assembly constituencies was released by the District Collector and District Election Officer S. Dhivyadarshini in the presence of recognised political parties at the Collectorate here. The draft roll has 1,478 polling booths for the five Aassembly constituencies of Palacodde (267 polling booths), Paapireddipatty (314), Pennagaram (292), Dharmapuri (306) , and Harur (299). The draft list was prepared after a verification process that lasted from August 25 to September 10. According to the Collector, any objections to the draft list may be raised with the election section at the Collectorate or at the concerned polling booth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/draft-list-of-polling-stations-released-in-dharmapuri/article36487277.ece
16 September 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Collector appreciates brave firemen||Collector S. Visakan on Wednesday appreciated a team of firemen from Gujiliyamparai fire station for safely rescuing a 75-year-old man who slipped into a 100-foot-deep well recently. The Collector also distributed certificate of appreciation to the team members. The Collector said the team members braved the wild growth, climbed down into the 100-foot-deep well and rescued the elderly man on the night of September 10. Additional Collector C. Dinesh Kumar and District Fire Officer Venkatramanan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-appreciates-brave-firemen/article36487258.ece
16 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Funds crunch hits museum works at Karachikorai||The Forest Department has sought additional funds from the State government to complete the remaining works at the Tribal Eco-Cultural Village – a living museum at Karachikorai in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) here. The Ministry of Environment and Forests, National Tiger Conservation Authority, had in 2013 declared 1.40 lakh hectare of reserved forest land in Sathyamangalam Forest Division as tiger reserve and for various eco-tourism projects including forest safari, and setting up of Bannari Tiger Awareness Centre. To educate the tourists on wildlife-compatible livelihood, it was proposed to develop a model tribal eco-cultural village. The State government, as part of the Tamil Nadu Innovation Initiatives, sanctioned Rs. 7 crore for establishing the museum under the State Innovation Fund for 2018-19. Foundation was laid on December 8, 2018 and the works began on a 20 ha land. The museum features model houses of different tribes, ponds, tribal musical instruments, clothing, antiques, stone and wooden products, a Sanga Ilakkiya studio, outdoor interpretation centre, indoor auditorium, open atrium, tribal shandy, tribal food court, and medicinal plant gardens. Though works were scheduled for completion by December 2019, COVID-19 pandemic delayed the works. A year ago, 90% of the works were completed. Sources in the Forest Department said that additional funds were sought for completing the pending works. Upon completion, the museum is expected to boost tourism at STR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/funds-crunch-hits-museum-works-at-karachikorai/article36487287.ece
16 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sanitation, healthcare are a far cry in this rehabilitation camp for Sri Lankan Tamils||Dwelling units in the size of 10x10 ft, public toilets without water facility, limited access to healthcare and absence of livelihood opportunities continue to mar the lives of 1,000-and-odd families at the rehabilitation camp for Sri Lankan Tamils at Bhavanisagar in the district. A total of 1,055 families comprising 3,152 members have been residing in the camp located near the Bhavanisagar Dam for 30 years now. While many families live in a one-room house, a few continue to live in dilapidated houses hoping for the State government to construct a new one. “We are battling all odds as we are branded refugees here,” said K. Subramani, who resides in a 100 sq.ft. house with his children. While men work as painters and carpenters, a few women work in private companies. Pigs roam freely near the public toilets that do not have overhead water tanks. The residents want new toilet blocks with water facilities. “The toilets have no water connections and the doors are damaged. We feel unsafe while using the toilets,” said Sulochana, a resident. Vijayarani, another resident, sought a primary health centre in the camp, as the nearest government hospital was at Sathyamangalam, which is 15 km away. R. Srikanthan (39), who came from Chettikulam in Vavuniya district in Sri Lanka at the age of 10, said in the absence of citizenship, youths cannot apply for government jobs in the country. He runs a fast food joint and a photo studio in the camp. He is also involved in various welfare works in the camp. “I have been here for 29 years and our main demand is citizenship to lead a normal life,” he said. Many who had left for Australia and Canada are leading a decent life, he said. Medical admission quota N. Natraj, who heads the welfare association in the camp, said that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s recent assistance package has rekindled the hopes of residents. He wanted the medical admission quota that was removed eight years ago to be restored. “Our children are deprived of opportunities. Steps should be taken to ensure government jobs for them,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanitation-healthcare-are-a-far-cry-in-this-rehabilitation-camp-for-sri-lankan-tamils/article36487282.ece
16 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Bhavanisagar dam reduced||With the drop in inflow, the discharge from Bhavanisagar dam into River Bhavani was reduced from 5,114 cusecs on Tuesday to 2,205 cusecs on Wednesday. Following rain in catchment areas, the water level at the dam touched 102 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet on August 30. As per the flood regulation norms, the quantum of water that could be stored in the dam from August to October is 102 feet and hence the entire inflow was discharged. At 8 a.m. Wednesday, the water level stood at 102 feet. The storage was 30.31 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. The inflow was 3,244 cusecs and the discharge was 2,205 cusecs into River Cauvery, 495 cusecs in Kalingarayan Canal and 500 cusecs in Lower Bhavani Project canal. Mettur Dam Meanwhile, the water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur Dam stood at 74.69 feet against the full reservoir level of 120 feet here on Wednesday. Officials of the Public Works Department said that at 8 a.m. the inflow was 9,750 cusecs, while the discharge was 16,000 cusecs into River Cauvery and 650 cusecs into canal. The storage was 36.86 tmc against the capacity of 93.50 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-bhavanisagar-dam-reduced/article36487290.ece
16 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Poster-making contest on blood donation||To create awareness on HIV, blood donation and tuberculosis, a poster-making competition was held for the students of Classes IX to XI at the Government Model Girls Higher Secondary School at Panneerselvam Park here on Monday. The National State AIDS Control Society is creating awareness under the theme, “New India @75, Phase I Campaign’ across the country. Fourteen districts in the State, where HIV is prevalent, were selected for the campaign. A total of 25 schools in 14 districts, including two schools in Erode, were selected and budgets were allotted for the competition. The competition was held in two schools in the district. The winners will be selected at the district-level and then at the State-level. A signature campaign was also held in the school on Monday. Teachers said the campaign was held to mark the 75th anniversary of Independence and youth were engaged to create awareness on HIV/AIDS, TB and voluntary blood donation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poster-making-contest-on-blood-donation/article36487291.ece
16 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Case against Sri Lankan refugee||The police have registered a case against a resident of the Sri Lankan Tamil Rehabilitation Camp at Arachalur here for threatening a government official . In her complaint, S. Baby, Special Revenue Inspector (Refugee Camp), Modakkurichi Taluk, said that she was responsible for monitoring the residents at the camps in Arachalur and Injampalli in the taluk and has to submit reports to the District Collector. At 5 p.m. on Tuesday, she along with Special Tahsildar (Refugees Camp) Maheswari, Q-branch Inspector and other police personnel went to the camp to verify the attendance register. D. Raja alias Joot Justin, an inhabitant of the camp, snatched the register from her and prevented her from executing the duty. He also refused to hand over the office room key to the camp leaders and threatened her, she alleged in the complaint. Based on her complaint, the police registered a case under Sections 353 (criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (i) (criminal intimation) of the Indian Penal Code. It may be noted that over 60 persons in the camp staged a sit-in for over four hours in the morning alleging that the police registered a false case against three youths in the camp. They wanted the case withdrawn and a policeman of the Q Branch CID transferred. Later, the police and revenue officials held talks with them after which the protest was withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-sri-lankan-refugee-for-threatening-govt-official/article36487283.ece
16 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Classes for rescued child workers through Kalvi TV||The district administration has asked students in the Special Training Centres run under the National Child Labour Project to attend classes through Kalvi TV from 11 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. from Monday to Friday. A release from Collector H. Krishnanunni said child workers aged between 8 and 14 were rescued by officials and were admitted to the 15 centres functioning at Talavadi, Bargur and Kadambur hills. As many as 270 students pursued studies at the centres till Class 8 after which they would be admitted to regular schools in their respective areas. Also, school dropouts were admitted to the centres that were run by Non-Governmental Organisations. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, these centres were closed for over one-and-a-half years and the regular activities were halted. The State government recently announced conducting classes through Kalvi TV for these students so that they received their basic training. The release requested project officers, Education Department officials, school teachers, local body representatives, NGOs and parents to ensure that the students watched Kalvi TV during the stipulated time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/classes-for-rescued-child-workers-through-kalvi-tv/article36487276.ece
16 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||One death, 130 new COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district on Wednesday reported 130 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,00,214. A total of 107 persons were discharged after treatment on the day. While there are 1,302 active cases in the district, one person died of the viral disease, raising the toll to 666. Salem district reported 62 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 97,012. While 596 persons were under treatment, 64 persons were discharged on the day. The 51 new cases reported in Namakkal district took the overall tally to to 49,732. While 68 persons were discharged on the day, the district has 622 active cases. Coimbatore district registered a slight increase in the number of new COVID-19 infections on Wednesday when it reported 224 cases against the 201 infections it had on Tuesday. The toll increased to 2,306 after four more persons died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-130-new-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article36487284.ece
16 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Former CM remembered||District Collector H. Krishnanunni garlanded the statue of former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai on his 113th birth anniversary at the Periyar – Anna Memorial hereon Wednesday. Erode Revenue Divisional Officer P. Premalatha and other officials paid floral tributes. Likewise, members of various political parties garlanded the statue of the former CM at Panneerselvam Park in the presence of cadres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-cm-annadurai-remembered/article36487288.ece
16 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Seized liquor bottles destroyed||A total of 4,000 smuggled liquor bottles worth Rs. 10 lakh that were seized by the police were destroyed at Anthiyur here on Wednesday. During the total lockdown in the State, liquor bottles that were smuggled from Karnataka were seized at Vellithiruppur and Ammapettai police station limits and cases were registered. The police dumped all the bottles at Periya Eri in Anthiyur and destroyed them using earthmovers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seized-liquor-bottles-destroyed/article36487292.ece
16 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Power supply disconnected||The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board has disconnected power supply to textile processing units at Vettukattuvalasu, Subramaniyam Nagar and at Surampatti Valasu for discharging untreated effluents into drainage channels. It was found that the effluent treatment plants at two units were not utilised, while the third unit did not have the facility. Collector H. Krishnanunni ordered disconnection of power supply to the units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-supply-disconnected/article36487289.ece
16 September 2021||KARAIKUDI/RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Sanatana forces divide people to implement Manu dharma’||Sanatana forces that wanted to divide people on religious lines to implement Manu dharma had been silencing social activists, Left thinkers and writers, said Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol. Thirumavalavan on Wednesday. He was addressing a human chain protest in Karaikudi, organised by Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front demanding the release of all those who were arrested in connection with Bhima Koregaon case. The MP said the agenda of the Sangh Parivar was to mobilise Hindus, not for their welfare, but against the minorities. It would ensure that the Hindus were divided on caste lines to further its own interest. “The Sangh Parivar was doing this for votes to remain in power so that it can do away with the Constitution and replace it with Manu dharma ,” he charged. Stating that anyone who spoke against it or exposed its agenda was silenced, he listed out several thinkers and writers who were killed. Sixteen social activists and rights activists were arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. “This Act is more draconian than the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act and the Prevention of Terrorism Act as people once arrested under its provisions cannot come out of jail easily,” he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan demanded repeal of the UAPA. He appreciated Samuel Raj, general secretary of the TNUEF, for having organised such a massive protest against Bhima Koregaon arrests across the State. Addressing a similar human chain protest in Ramanathapuram, Tamil Puligal Katchi leader Nagai Thiruvalluvan said as long as the Hindutva politics discriminated against minorities and the oppressed classes, those people would sow the seeds for change of guard at the Centre. He said the Centre should not look at people fighting for democracy and for people’s rights as those being against the government. Appealing to the Centre to release all those jailed in connection with Bhima Koregoan case, he said if the government did not do that the protest from Tamil Nadu would spread across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanatana-forces-divide-people-to-implement-manu-dharma/article36487265.ece
16 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Water level crosses 50 ft in KRP reservoir||The water level in KRP reservoir reached 50.25 feet against its full reservoir level of 52 ft on Wednesday At 8 a.m. Wednesday, the reservoir was holding 1.46 tmc of water. According to an official source, about 80 cusecs is released through the left main canal and 85 cusecs through right main canal. The left and right spring channels carry six cusecs each. The cumulative canal outflow from the dam is 177 cusecs. The inflow into the river steadily increased from 47 ft to 50 ft over the past 10 days accentuated by the rains and forcing the Public Works Department to put precautions in place. Earlier, as the water level crossed 47 ft, a flood alert was issued by the administration for those residing in low-lying areas along River Thenpennai, even as there is no outflow in the river. A flood alert was issued to five districts of Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Cuddalore to manage any potential outflow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-crosses-50-ft-in-krp-reservoir/article36487279.ece
16 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stray dog killings on the rise||Two adult stray dogs and a two-month-old pup were allegedly poisoned to death in Kurinji Street in Gomathipuram on Sunday night. Three other dogs, which also consumed meat reportedly laced with poison, have survived following treatment at Tallakulam veterinary polyclinic, while another dog is still missing. Anna Nagar police police have registered a case. The postmortem examination was done on the three dogs and samples were sent to the forensic laboratory of Madurai Medical College on Wednesday to determine the cause of death. The report would take a week, said Nataraja Kumar, Regional Joint Director (Animal Husbandry). The incident has shaken the residents who took care of community dogs. This is the fourth incident reported from the same area in the last six months. In the previous incidents, a pet dog died after miscreants threw toxic meat into the compound which the animal ate and died. And on two more occasions stray dogs were found suffering convulsions, gasping for breath and clawing the ground in agony. On Sunday evening, Bhagyalakhsmi, a dog feeder in Gomathipuram, saw two boys on a cycle throw a plastic cover containing mutton pieces at the pack of seven dogs. Soon after, the dogs started barking loudly and three died on the spot. Animal activist Mayur Hassija rushed the other three dogs to the vet. Mr. Hassija condemned the incident and said people are scared and ignorant and do not know how to handle stray dogs. Only recently, Collector Aneesh Shekar revived the Madurai chapter of Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals with the appointment of a nodal officer. Cases of animal killings by miscreants have been on the rise, lamented Mr. Hassija. Earlier this year, seven dogs were poisoned at Oomachikulam, four in Railar Nagar, seven in Thalaividhi and three in Krishnapuram. Only now, under pressure from higher authorities, police register FIRs under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. “Earlier, they refused saying they were busy with missing persons cases or were not aware of the law,” he said. “There is a need to sensitise people, get quicker outcome from police enquiries, and make the animal control programme more effective,” he added.  Earlier, police refused to file FIR saying they were busy with missing persons cases or were not aware of the law Mayur Hassija Animal activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stray-dog-killings-on-the-rise/article36487465.ece
16 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door medical assistance scheme launched in Corpn. wards||After being launched across rural areas in the district last month, the Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam scheme, which aims to provide door-to-door medical assistance to those above 45 and others with infirmities, was inaugurated in the Corporation limits on Wednesday. Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy launched the scheme in Ward 25 of the Corporation and Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan initiated it in Ward 82 by distributing medical kits to a few people at their homes. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar and Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan were present. So far, 5,179 people from the district had benefited from the scheme in rural areas. Medical kits were provided to 2,413 people with hypertension, 1,343 people with diabetes and 1,018 with both hypertension and diabetes. Physiotherapy treatments were also given under the scheme. On the first day, medical kits were distributed to about 300 beneficiaries in Kannanenthal and 686 beneficiaries in Simmakkal. Mr. Thiaga Rajan, after flagging off the vehicle that would serve the scheme, said that portion of the medical assistance that was usually provided at PHCs was now made available at people’s doorstep. “In this pandemic time, such an initiative will help people from queuing up at hospitals. To follow up with the medication, people can always reach out to the PHCs once in a month or so.” The scheme is being carried out with the support of healthcare workers, nurses, women health volunteers and physiotherapists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-medical-assistance-scheme-launched-in-corpn-wards/article36487473.ece
16 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai rly. division’s freight earning touches Rs. 100 crore||Freight earning from Madurai railway division has touched Rs. 100 crore in the first five months of 2020-21. A statement said that outward goods traffic was being handled at Thoothukudi, Vadipatti and Manamadurai in Madurai division. Chemical manure and coal from Thoothukudi, tractors from Vadipatti and charcoal from Manamadurai were being transported by rail. Nine lakh tonnes of various goods was transported by 324 goods rakes in the last 5 months till August. A total of 37 rakes of coal were handled in the corresponding period of last year with earnings of Rs. 12 crore. Now, it has been doubled with an earnings of Rs. 24 crore. Similarly, earnings on tractors through New Modified Goods wagons also increased to Rs. 6.4 crore from Rs. 5.4 crore last year. In order to increase the freight performance, Business Development Unit of Madurai division has taken all-out efforts to get new stream of traffic. Due to the constant efforts, a new traffic of de-oiled cake was transported from Thoothukudi Harbour to Raj-Nandagaon of Nagpur division in South East Central Railway and an amount of Rs. 32.5 lakh was fetched on this account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-rly-divisions-freight-earning-touches-rs-100-crore-in-5-months/article36487460.ece
16 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘From 2016 to 2020, 300 murder victims in the State were Dalits’||Between January 2016 and December 2020, around 300 persons who were murdered in Tamil Nadu belonged to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, according to information obtained by Evidence, a non-governmental organisation, through the Right To Information (RTI) Act. However, the reasons for the murders – whether they were committed over caste-related issues or personal enmity – were not available. Speaking to The Hindu   on Tuesday, Evidence’s executive director A. Kathir said the organisation had filed RTI applications in all the 38 districts, but obtained information from only 33 districts. Some officials in Tirunelveli and Tirupur districts refused to share information citing “vague” reasons and if these were added the total number of SC/ST victims could be around 350, Mr. Kathir said. A study of the information based on police stations in the districts indicated that on an average five murders had been reported every month. While Thoothukudi recorded 29 murders, Madurai accounted for 28 and Kallakurichi (bifurcated from Villupuram) 24, Nagapattinam 19 and Coimbatore 17 during the period. The information showed that only in 13 cases had courts convicted the guilty. In at least 30 incidents, the accused were acquitted by courts, 28 cases were pending in police stations and 229 cases were pending in courts at different stages, Mr. Kathir said. The amended SC/ST (Prevention and Atrocities) Act of 2015 stated that from the time chargesheets were framed cases had to be expedited in 60 days. However, a whopping 86% of cases were still pending. According to Mr. Kathir, in general atrocities against the SC/STs rose during the COVID-19 pandemic. While financial assistance and pension were given to the families of the victims, only in very few cases had their families got government jobs, while the order to give cultivable land had not been given at all, the information showed. Mr. Kathir said the Supreme Court had directed the establishment of exclusive courts, judges, premises, other infrastructural facilities and appointment of government advocates for trying SC/ST atrocity cases. However, very few districts had initiated even the first steps towards this directive. Thanking Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for his announcement to form a high-level committee to review crimes against SC/STs, the NGO director said the committee should mandatorily meet twice a year. However, the information revealed that it had only met thrice over the last 30 years in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/from-2016-to-2020-300-murder-victims-in-the-state-were-dalits/article36487471.ece
16 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Human chain formed seeking release of prisoners in Bhima Koregaon case||The arrest of thinkers, social activits and writers in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case is not just a blantant violation of human rights, but a threat to intellectuals who speak against Hindutva forces, said Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan on Wednesday. The MP’s remarks came at a human chain protest demanding release of the arrested persons in Bhima Koregaon case. The human chain started at St. Mary's Church and wound its way to Crime Branch junction. The Centre had demonstrated that it would go to any extent to suppress the voice of opposition. “Our demand is not just the release of 15 people arrested under the Unlawful Acts Prevention Act and denied bail for months. But, it is a protest against stifling of all voices for democratic rights and save them,” the MP said. The protest was organised by Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front. Madurai South MLA M. Boominathan and Front district president, Balasubramanian took part in the human chain that was conducted on International Day of Democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/human-chain-formed-seeking-release-of-prisoners-in-bhima-koregaon-case/article36487462.ece
16 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea challenges RBI’s Positive Pay System||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought response from RBI on a public interest litigation petition that challenged the apex bank’s notification on the implementation of ‘Positive Pay System’. The petitioner said it went against the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought a response from RBI in the petition filed by advocate K. Krishna of Madurai. He said the Positive Pay System involved a process of reconfirming key details of large value cheques. Under the process, the issuer of the cheque submitted electronically through channels such as SMS, mobile application, internet banking or ATM certain minimum details of the cheque such as date, name of the beneficiary/payee, amount to the drawee bank. The details were cross-checked with the presented cheque by the Cheque Truncation System (CTS). Any discrepancy was flagged by CTS to the drawee bank and presenting bank, which would take redress measures. The system would be made compulsory to payments above Rs. 50,000 by all banks. The drawer of the cheque had to inform the bank through electronic means with regard to details of the cheque, prior to at least one day before the presentation of the cheque. Otherwise, the cheque would be returned with the remark ‘will be returned to the presenting bank’ with return reason description ‘Positive Pay details not available’, once the cheque was presented through CTS clearing. The petitioner said that if the Positive Pay System was made compulsory then it would lead to more number of the rebuttal of cheque cases. The reason for the implementation was said to be prevention of fraud but in reality it would lead to more fraud. Many people did not know how the banking and cheque systems worked. Fraudsters could cheat people by issuing the cheques and updating the positive pay system differently. He sought a direction to quash the RBI notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-challenges-rbis-positive-pay-system/article36487463.ece
16 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||TNLSA Member-Secretary directed to assist High Court||Coming across a case of a man from Tirunelveli languishing in prison for over 25 years with no assistance extended to him to file an appeal against conviction by the trial court, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the Member-Secretary of Tamil Nadu Legal Services Authority (TNLSA) to appear before the court. The High Court Bench was hearing the criminal appeal filed against the conviction and sentence imposed on the man by Additional Sessions Judge II, Tirunelveli, in 1996. The trial court sentenced the man to life imprisonment for committing sexual assault and murder. Only in 2018, the appeal against the conviction was filed through legal aid. Appearing for the man through legal aid, advocate R. Alagumani submitted that there were many such convict prisoners languishing in the prison for want of proper legal aid to file an appeal against their conviction. Mr. Alagumani submitted that the court could issue directions to TNLSA to collect details of such convicts and provide legal aid to them. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and J. Nisha Banu directed the Member-Secretary of Tamil Nadu Legal Services Authority to appear before the court through video conferencing on September 17 to assist it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnlsa-member-secretary-directed-to-assist-high-court/article36487469.ece
16 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 5,000 benefited under medical scheme in Madurai district’||About 5,179 people from the district have benefited underMakkalai Thedi Maruthuvamscheme that was launched in the State last month with the aim to provide door-to-door medical assistance to those above 45 years of age and others with infirmities. A press note from the Collectorate said that the scheme was successfully launched and carried out in different villages across Sedapatti block, with the support of 24 trained women health volunteers, a healthcare worker, a nurse and a physiotherapist. As the initiative aims to identify non-communicable diseases among people and help them, medical kits have been provided to 2,413 people with hypertension and 1,343 people with diabetes and 1,018 people with both hypertension and diabetes. Physiotherapy treatments have also been provided to 179 persons. The scheme is planned to be launched across the Corporation limits from Wednesday to reach more beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-5000-benefited-under-medical-scheme-in-madurai-district/article36487470.ece
16 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC for equal distribution of seats among wards of armed forces personnel||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the union government to revisit the priority list category for reservation to wards of armed forces personnel so that there is an equal distribution of seats across all categories in admissions. The Ministry of Defence has passed an order in which the reservation for the wards of armed forces personnel for admissions was prioritised under nine categories - widows / wards of defence personnel killed in action; disabled in action; died while in service; disability attributable to military service; receipt of gallantry awards; wards of ex-servicemen; wives of disabled defence personnel or ex-servicemen; wards of serving personnel; and wives of serving personnel. However, a government order passed by the Health and Family Welfare Department in 2018 had not considered the last three categories, which included the wards of serving personnel, for reservation to MBBS / BDS courses. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran (since retired) and B. Pugalendhi observed that the priority list must be revisited so as to ensure equal distribution of seats. At least 1% of the total seats must be made available to wards of the defence personnel, the court said. The High Court Bench observed that there was no justification in omission of the wards of the serving defence personnel by the State for reservation to MBBS / BDS courses. The judges observed that the scorching sun and freezing cold did not deter the border forces from safeguarding the nation. They are separated from their families for months together and sometimes years together - all in the interest of the nation. Selfless sacrifice When such is the selfless sacrifice made by the serving defence personnel, it was shocking and surprising to note that the State government had omitted the special reservation for wards of serving defence personnel for admission to medical courses, the judges said. The Division Bench disposed of a batch of cases pertaining to the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-for-equal-distribution-of-seats-among-wards-of-armed-forces-personnel/article36487467.ece
16 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Last lap surprises at Keeladi||Unearthing of two new ring wells at Agaram and the completion of digging out a six-layered ring well at Keeladi main site are perhaps the last few surprises of the season as the archaeology staff prepare to wind up the seventh phase of excavation by this month end. The large scale explorations in the cluster of sites, also including Manalur and Konthagai, 12 km southeast of Madurai, is being carried out by the Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology to establish the existence of an urban settlement on the banks of the Vaigai river more than 2,600 years ago. In this round, the excavation at Agaram over two acres has yielded the highest number of ring wells. Four were excavated between February and August and two new ones were unearthed over the weekend. “We are yet to trace it fully for the full dimensions, only the upper portion of ring wells have been exposed so far, “ one of the officers at the site told The HIndu . Of the two ring wells found at Keeladi this season, archaeologists have just completed the tracing of the first one that was exposed in July with a banded rope design in the top ring at a height of 44 cm. The ring well has now been traced up to a depth of 140 cm, with six rings interlocked one below the other. The seventh layer was found broken. While the excavations at Konthagai led to unearthing of skeletal remains and 11 burial and storage urns, at Manalur and Keeladi main, the findings also included weavers tools, beads and bangles made of shell, glass, stone, terracotta and semi-precious stones and potsherds and indicated a flourishing hub of trading activity during the Sangam Age. The excavations in almost all the quadrants at the four sites have reached the bottom layer of natural soil, indicating no further trace of antiquities, said Deputy Director (Archaeology) R Sivanandam. The staff has now begun the documentation of approximately 1,200 artefacts unearthed in this phase. The decision to fill the pits – measuring 15X18 feet and 4.5 metres deep – with soil at Keeladi as was done after the completion of previous rounds, is however, pending. Sources say with an on-site museum coming up soon, the excavated pits with the ring wells attached to the walls, may be kept open for public viewing as an added attraction. The seventh phase of excavations began in Keeladi this February and coincided with the second season at the other three sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/last-lap-surprises-at-keeladi/article36487260.ece
16 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Service tax relief for Madurai Kamaraj University||Bringing relief to Madurai Kamaraj University, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has held that the university cannot be assessed for any service tax for educational services provided by them including affiliation and other services. The court was hearing a petition filed in 2019 by the university challenging an order passed by Joint Commissioner, Office of the Commissioner of GST and Central Excise, that sought service tax from the university from 2013 to 2017. In 1994, the Finance Act was enacted and the concept of service tax was introduced. Only three services were categorised as services to be taxed under the Finance Act. In 2012, an amendment was made to the Finance Act dealing with service tax. Under Clause I of Section 66 D, there was an exemption for educational services. However, in 2016, Clause I was omitted. A notification called Mega Exemption Notification was issued by the Centre. Educational services were again exempted. It continued till 2017 when the GST regime came into effect. The university sought an exemption from the service tax. But, the Joint Commissioner’s claim was that the university’s services towards affiliation and other allied or related services were to be treated as taxable service. Justice R. Suresh Kumar observed that when an educational institution imparted education as part of the curriculum for obtaining qualification, such services were being exempted. It was not limited to the services of imparting education to the students alone, but went beyond. Renting out immovable properties for banks, post offices, canteens and other such allied services of education were included under the purview of educational services. The services provided not only to students, but also faculty and staff. The court set aside the order of the Joint Commissioner and observed that the university could not be assessed for service tax for the educational services provided by them that included the affiliation or other services provided to the students, the faculty and the staff of the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/service-tax-relief-for-madurai-kamaraj-university/article36487464.ece
16 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||424 seized vehicles to be auctioned||The city police will auction 424 seized vehicles, which have not been claimed by their owners, on September 22 and 23. According to a statement, 377 two-wheelers, six three-wheelers, 11 four-wheelers and 30 bicycles were seized under Section 102 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and nationalised after they were not claimed by their owners. The vehicles were kept at the Armed Reserve Ground. The vehicles in “as is” condition will be auctioned and interested buyers should pay an earnest money deposit of Rs. 2,000 per vehicle in cash between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. on September 20 and get receipt. Those who fail to adhere to the timings will not be allowed to participate in the auction. Inspection The auction will be held in the presence of an auction committee appointed by the State government. Prospective buyers can inspect the vehicles at the Armed Reserve Ground between September 19 and 21. Further information can be obtained from Sub-Inspector of Police, Maruthalakhsmi - 94981-79176; SSI Deivendran 94981-79294; Head Constables Manikandan 94981-80494 and Suresh Karthikeyan 94981-79211. Besides, they can call the Madurai City Police Control Room 0452-2336472; 2330070. Those who participate in the auction should produce a copy of their photo-identity card, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/424-seized-vehicles-to-be-auctioned/article36487236.ece
16 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water levels for the day||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 131.00 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,311 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 57.32 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 546 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,850 mcft. Periyar dam 5.4 recorded a rainfall of 5.4 mm and Thekkadi 2 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Wednesday.    Prof. S. Krishnaswamy was elected as president of Madurai district People’s Union for Civil Liberties. According to a press release issued here on Tuesday, Prof. R. Murali and Prof. P. Vijayakumar were elected as vice-presidents, A. John Vincent as secretary, C. Saravanan and V. Swaminathan as assistant secretaries and P. Kanmani as treasurer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-levels-for-the-day/article36487262.ece
16 September 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Intelligent Power Module for fall armyworm demonstrated||Demonstration of Intelligent Power Module for fall armyworm, an invasive pest, under rainfed condition was initiated at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s Cotton Research Station at Veppanthattai in Perambalur district earlier this month. TNAU is operating a scheme, Developing Integrated Pest Management Module for Maize Fall Armyworm and Validation under Areawide Integrated Pest Management (AWIPM), through farmer participatory approach in Tamil Nadu for studying and managing fall armyworm in maize, Dean of Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute, Tiruchi, P. Masilamani, said. “All the researched management methods will be demonstrated at CRS, Veppanthattai for rainfed maize ecosystem. About 60 demonstrations will be conducted at farmer’s field of Perambalur district. The module on fall armyworm management is an integrated one consisting of cultural, chemical and biological methods,” Somasundaram, Associate Professor and Head, CRS, Veppanthattai, said. Maize being one of the important crops of Peramblur district, it is cultivated in an area of 68,473 hectares. Last year, farmers faced difficulties in managing the pest which affects the profit of the farmers and the food grain production. Farmers could now adopt the integrated techniques to manage fall armyworm, Prof. Somasundaram said, emphasising on the benefits of summer ploughing and inter-cropping of black gram for the control of FAW. Sakthivel, Assistant Professor (PBG) informed that demonstration plot is designed on an area of one acre and that dry monsoon sowing is taken up by mechanical seed drill. He also said that demo plot will be used for conducting various training for the extension officials and farmers. Yasotha, Assistant Professor (Entomology) ADAC & RI, Tiruchi, made a presentation on the integrated management of FAW. Use of pheromone traps, border crops, inter crops, botanicals and chemical spraying of Chlorantraniliprole 18.5 SC @ 0.4 ml/lit were thoroughly explained to the gathering of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intelligent-power-module-for-fall-armyworm-demonstrated/article36487219.ece
16 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress begins to take stock of electoral loss in Puducherry||The All India Congress Committee has begun a stocktaking exercise into the party’s poor performance in the Assembly poll and to prepare a roadmap for its rejuvenation in the Union Territory. AICC in-charge for the Union Territory, Dinesh Gundu Rao, who is on a two-day visit to Puducherry, on Wednesday met party office- bearers, including vice-presidents and secretaries at the PCC office. He is also interacting with candidates who contested the Assembly poll and functionaries. According to a PCC functionary, Mr. Rao met the secretaries and vice-presidents on Wednesday. On Thursday, he would meet heads of frontal organisations. He would also meet party workers individually. The Congress had suffered its worst-ever defeat in the election winning only two of the 14 seats it contested. Ahead of the poll, some of the Congress ministers and legislators joined the All India N.R. Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party, leading to the fall of its government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-begins-to-take-stock-of-poll-loss-in-puducherry/article36487138.ece
16 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Australian Consul General meets L-G, CM Rangasamy||Australian Consul General for South India in Chennai Sarah Kirlew called on Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy in separate meetings on Wednesday. Ms. Kirlew’s interaction with the Lt. Governor at the Raj Nivas centred on further building bilateral relations. Strategic partnership The Lt. Governor later tweeted: “Had a productive meeting discussing key focus sectors and upcoming initiatives for 2021. Both India & Australia share comprehensive strategic partnership.” Ms. Kirlew also met the Chief Minister at his chamber in the Assembly. A government press note said the meeting was a courtesy call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/australian-consul-general-meets-l-g-cm-rangasamy/article36487576.ece
16 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Higher learning institutions in U.T. score low in NIRF ranking||The latest National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) results reflect a poor show by higher learning institutions in the Union Territory, and if benchmarked against 2016 rankings, indicate a slide in standards. According to NIRF results, in the overall category, among 84 colleges and one Central University in the Union Territory, only Pondicherry Central University finds a place in the list of 100 top institutions of the country. It has a rank of 87 with a score of 43.10 when compared to top ranker IIT Madras with 86.76. Even among top 100 universities, Pondicherry University occupies 58th rank with a score of 44.36 when several State universities in the country have attained better positions. This represents a slide, as in 2016 the university emerged in a pre-eminent position with 13th rank with 74.44 points. “This is really a cause for concern and the university community as a whole should remedy the situation before the next ranking process commences,” former MP M. Ramadass said. In the category of medical colleges, among 9 medical colleges of the Union Territory, Jipmer ranks 8th with a score of 67.42 whereas top ranked All India Institute of Medical Sciences has a score of 92.07. Mahatma Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute of Puducherry gets 46th rank with 46.08 points. Among the 18 engineering and technology colleges, none, including Pondicherry Engineering College, finds a place in the list of 100 best engineering colleges of the country. This year, Pondicherry Engineering College (PEC) and National Institute of Technology attain the same rank of 144 with an appallingly low score of 35.66 — a far cry from the 49th ranking in 2016. While it is really distressing that PEC, a reputed engineering college, which has provided the nucleus to Pondicherry Technological University is in such a poor predicament, Dr. Ambedkar Law College, which is grooming to be the future law university of the Territory, has not even participated in the ranking process, Mr. Ramadass said. Among the 20 arts and science colleges, only Kanchi Mamunivar Centre for Post Graduate Studies has found a place with 50th rank and a score of 55.01. It is to be noted that 33 colleges of Tamil Nadu have made to the list of 100 top colleges of the country. No institution in the category of dental, management and research of Puducherry could make it to the rank list this year. “The rankings depict a dismal picture of higher education in Puducherry which is acclaimed to be a hub of higher learning,” Mr. Ramadass said. He called for a deep introspection and SWOT analysis by stakeholders to remedy the situation. The need of the hour is the setting up of a State Council for Higher Education. Drawing inspiration from the hallmarks of the New Education Policy can help to draw the roadmap for excellence, equity and high ranking in higher education. He suggested upgrading Kanchi Mamunivar Centre for Post Graduate Studies into a State University, granting of Deemed to be University status to Bharathidasan Government College for Women, attaining permanent status to all colleges of the Union Territory from the UGC and AICTE, to transform the very structure of higher education of the Territory. “The government should quickly realise that investing public money in institutions of poor quality is a futile exercise”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/higher-learning-institutions-in-ut-score-low-in-nirf-ranking/article36487572.ece
16 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry University ranked 8th among Central institutions||Pondicherry University took the 8th spot among the 54 Central universities in India in the National Institutional Ranking Framework 2021 recently released by the Ministry of Education. The university said in a press note that this was an achievement against the backdrop of the pandemic as well as factoring in the increased competition for the ranking compared to the previous years.. Pondicherry University was placed in 58th position with a score of 44.36 under ‘University Category’ and 87th place with a score of 43.10 under ‘Overall Category’ among the 1,657 participating institutions this year in the Ministry of Education–NIRF survey. Steady improvement According to the press note, the university has steadily improved its combined metric score related to research and professional practice including quality of publication, Intellectual Property Rights, research projects and consultancy activities over the years. Good score Besides, the university achieved good score in terms of student’s strength, graduation outcomes, examinations, women diversity and academic and employers’ perception. Vice-Chancellor Gurmeet Singh advised all the stakeholders to continue their persistent efforts to take Pondicherry University to greater heights in the years to come, the press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pondicherry-university-ranked-8th-among-central-institutions/article36487571.ece
16 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||14 police inspectors transferred in U.T.||The Director General of Police on Wednesday issued transfer orders to 14 Inspectors. The list includes an Inspector who was reported for allegedly roughing up a doctor while on security duty in connection with the Vice-President’s visit on Sunday. The inspector, Chennemougassoundaram, has been shifted out of Traffic (East) and posted to the SIGMA security wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-police-inspectors-transferred-in-ut/article36487569.ece
16 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Notice issued for Rajya Sabha election||In an order announcing the election for the Rajya Sabha seat, Assembly Secretary-cum-returning officer R. Mounissamy on Wednesday said an election of a member of the Council of States would be held by the “elected members of the Puducherry Legislative Assembly”. The notice further said nomination papers could be delivered by a candidate or by his proposers to the Returning Officer or to the Assistant Returning Officer at the premises of the Legislative Assembly Secretariat from 11 a.m to 3 p.m on any day other than public holidays till September 22||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/notice-issued-for-rajya-sabha-election/article36487573.ece
16 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||7 held, 2.6 kg ganja seized||The police on Wednesday arrested seven persons and seized 2.6 kg ganja from them at Kuruchikuppam. According to Superintendent of Police (East) Rachna Singh, the arrested six foreign nationals include three women and a local resident. The police also seized seven mobile phones and Rs. 51,120 from them. The operation ‘Vidiyal’ was conducted under the directions of the Director General of Police and the Additional Director General of Police. A case was registered under several sections of NDPS and Passport Act. All the accused have been remanded in judicial custody, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-arrested-26-kg-ganja-seized-in-kuruchikuppam/article36487568.ece
16 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Major trade unions to join bandh against farm laws||All major trade unions in the Union Territory will join the Bharat bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on September 27 to demand repeal of farm laws. A resolution adopted at a meeting of various trade unions sough the support of all sections, especially labourers, traders, fishermen, theatre owners, transport sector workers, youth and students, to make the bandh a success in the Union Territory. CITU, AITUC, INTUC, AICCTU, AIUTUC and NTLF were among the trade unions that participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-trade-unions-to-join-bandh-against-farm-laws/article36487577.ece
16 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||2 COVID deaths reported in U.T.||The Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 124 new cases on Wednesday. Both deaths occurred in Puducherry taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,825. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,436), Karaikal (242), Yanam (105) and Mahe (42). Puducherry accounted for 87 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,345 tests, followed by Karaikal (29), Yanam (4) and Mahe (4). The test positivity rate was 2.32%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.82%. With 80 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 900. Of this, 170 patients were in hospitals and 730 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,25,063 cases against 1,22,338 patients recovered. Of an estimated 17.16 lakh tests, over 14.56 lakh returned negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-covid-deaths-reported-in-ut/article36487574.ece
16 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Bank official charged with swindling Rs. 98 lakh||Ramanathapuram district police have booked an Assistant Manager of a nationalised bank on charges of swindling Rs. 98 lakh from a bank account. Assistant Manager, Washington, of Mandapam branch has been accused of transferring Rs. 49 lakh twice to the bank account of his wife, Michael Rathi in Thoothukudi. “Both the transactions had been done within a few minutes in May,” Deputy Superintendent of Police (District Crime Branch), R. Tirumalai, said. Later, the money was transferred to different accounts from Rathi’s account. However, during the audit, the officials found out the irregularity. Based on a complaint from the Chief Manager of the bank, Viswajithkumar, the DCB has registered a case for criminal breach of trust and cheating. The police said that the accused had misused the identity of another bank employee to stealthily transfer the money. The officials have recovered the money, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-official-charged-with-swindling-rs-98-lakh/article36487267.ece
16 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Partial cancellation of train services||To facilitate engineering works at Somanur yard between Tiruppur and Coimbatore railway stations, the railways have announced partial cancellation of train services. A release from the Salem Railway Division said that Train No. 01013 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus – Coimbatore Special Train, scheduled to leave Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on September 23, 24 and 30 and reach Coimbatore on September 25, 26 and October 2, will be partially cancelled between Erode and Coimbatore. Hence, the train will not run from Erode to Coimbatore on September 25, 26 and October 2. Train No. 01014 Coimbatore – Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Special Train, scheduled to leave Coimbatore on September 25, 26 and October 2, will be partially cancelled between Coimbatore and Erode. The train will leave from Erode at the scheduled time of 10.30 a.m. and reach Lokmanya Tilak Terminus. Train No. 06322 Coimbatore – Nagercoil Special Train, scheduled to leave Coimbatore Junction at 8 a.m. on September 25 and 26 will be partially cancelled between Coimbatore and Tiruppur. The train will leave from Tiruppur at the scheduled time of 8.50 a.m. and run up to Nagercoil. Train No. 06844 Palakkad Town – Tiruchchirappalli Junction Special Train, scheduled to leave Palakkad Town at 6.35 a.m. on September 25 and 26 will be partially cancelled between Palakkad Town and Erode. The train will leave from Erode at the scheduled time of 10.30 a.m. and run up to Tiruchchirappalli Junction, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/partial-cancellation-of-train-services/article36487148.ece
16 September 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Wild elephants destroy crops at Vadakarai||Four wild elephants which strayed into paddy fields and coconut groves near Vadakarai in the district and damaged the crops gave tense moments to farmers on Wednesday. With recurring incidences of wild animal invading fields and farms close to the foothills of the Western Ghats, the farmers are demanding the State government to dig trenches and erect solar-powered electric fences to block the free movement of animals, especially wild boars and elephants. The four elephants which entered farms on Wednesday morning were roaming along the stretch between Vadakarai and Adavinainar dam. Standing paddy crop suffered extensive damage in Ochchanadai area. The elephants also damaged coconut and mango trees in the area, the farmers said. After alerting police and Forest Department officials, the farmers, with the support of public, burst crackers to chase the animals back into the forests. The operation to drive away the farmers succeeded after three hours. Zakhir Hussein, a farmer from Vadakarai, said the elephants had uprooted 15 coconut trees, damaged more than 1,000 banana saplings and paddy raised on two acres of land in the past one month alone. “Though we have alerted the Forest Department, no effort has been taken to solve the problem we are facing from wild elephants, deer and wild boars. Even after announcing that wild boars would be hunted down, the department shows scant respect to our complaints. So we have decided to mobilise the farmers and stage a demonstration at the Collectorate,” Mr. Zakhir Hussein said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephants-destroy-crops/article36487220.ece
16 September 2021||tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||3 killed||Three persons were killed on Wednesday. K. Sadasivan, 19, and his friend M. Suresh Kumar, 24, both hailing from Puliyarai, were going towards Puliyarai on a bike. When they were crossing Kattalaikudiyiruppu, E. Nagalingam, 19, and K. Karthik, 26 were crossing the spot in another bike. As the two-wheelers collided, Sadasivan, Suresh Kumar and Nagalingam were killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-killed/article36487243.ece
16 September 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Three killed as two bikes collide||Three persons were killed when two bikes collided at Kattalaikudiyiruppu near Puliyarai in the district on Wednesday. Police said K. Sadasivan, 19, and his friend M. Suresh Kumar, 24, both hailing from Puliyarai, were going towards Puliyarai on Wednesday evening on a bike. When they were crossing Kattalaikudiyiruppu, E. Nagalingam, 19, and his friend K. Karthik, 26, both from Mela Kadayanallur, were crossing the spot in another bike at high speed. As the two-wheelers collided, Sadasivan, Suresh Kumar and Nagalingam were killed on the spot while Karthik sustained serious injuries. He has been admitted to the Tenkasi Government Hospital. Puliyarai police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-as-two-bikes-collide/article36487266.ece
16 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Temple being relocated||Residents of Irumbuthalai hamlet near Papanasam have chosen structure relocation technology to save their village temple from a possible demolition in case road expansion project is taken up by the authorities. It all began with the villagers forming a committee to renovate the five-decade old Sri Mariamman Temple near the carriageway of the Papanasam-Saliyamangalam Road at Irumbuthalai and perform the consecration. During the discussion, some villagers said that off late the Papanasam-Saliyamangalam Road has become an alternative route to commute between Thanjavur and Kumbakonam since the Papanasam-Rajagiri-Ayyampettai-Thanjavur route witnesses heavy flow of vehicles and has sharp bends and blind turns. Motorists particularly tourist cab operators prefer Papanasam-Saliyamangalam route to commute between Thanjavur and Kumbakonam and expressed apprehension that axe may fall on the temple in case if the government agencies took up road expansion project on this stretch in the near future. Subsequently, it was decided to relocate the sanctum sanctorum of Sri Mariamman and Sri Bhathrakaliamman in the temple precincts to 21 feet away from the existing site since relocation of the structures would be economical instead of demolishing them and raise them at a different place, according to V.Balaji, village panchayat president. Lifting and relocation of Sri Mariamman shrine which commenced three days ago was expected to get completed in about a week and then the relocation of Sri Bhathrakaliamman shrine would be taken up. A private engineering company from Uttar Pradesh has come forward to take up this work by charging Rs. 4 lakhs as fees, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-being-relocated/article36487235.ece
16 September 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Control room for local body elections set up in Theni||Theni district administration has set up a control room to enable people to lodge complaints with regard to malpractice during the rural local body elections to be held on October 6. Theni Collector K.V. Muralidharan said people could call the control room over 0456-254924. Election would be held to fill up nine posts – two posts of panchayat union ward councillors, one post of village panchayat president and six posts of village panchayat ward members. The Collector said nominations could be filed till September 22. While the nomination for the posts of village panchayat ward member could be filed at the respective panchayat offices, the papers for the posts of panchayat union ward councillor and village panchayat president could be filed at the respective panchayat union offices between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Nomination could be withdrawn till 3 p.m. on September 25. The first meeting of the elected ward members, village panchayat president and panchayat union ward councillors would be held on October 20. On that day, these members would assume office at their respective local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-room-for-local-body-elections-set-up-in-theni/article36487269.ece
16 September 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Principal, CEO asked to appear before Lok Adalat||The Permanent Lok Adalat in Theni district on Wednesday directed Velammal High School at Muthudevanpatti not to collect fees from a student, S. Vaibav, till the school administration and District Chief Educational Officer (CEO) filed documents with regard to the fee structure approved for the school before the court. Chairperson of the court A. Mohamed Jiyaputheen and members A. Kumaresan and Pratap Singh directed the school principal or any other officer of the school and CEO to appear before the Lok Adalat on September 29. The school administration has been asked to submit documents regarding the fee structure approved for the school by the State government and the CEO has been directed to submit relevant documents. The father of the student, S. Sivakumaran, had filed a petition before the Permanent Lok Adalat seeking action against the school administration and the CEO after the school had reportedly demanded payment of money over and above the government-prescribed fees for his son. When he took up the issue with the CEO, the officer told him that he would order the school to display in public the fee structure approved for it. However, the school authorities insisted on payment of the fees they had demanded. After taking up the complaint on July 26, the Lok Adalat summoned the school authorities on August 26. An accountant from the school, who appeared before the court without any documents, gave in writing that the school principal would appear during the next hearing on Wednesday. The CEO was also instructed to appear on the same day. However, both the principal and the CEO failed to appear on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/principal-ceo-asked-to-appear-before-lok-adalat/article36487268.ece
16 September 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Moths from FCI godown invade houses giving sleepless nights to residents||Swarms of moths invading houses within a couple of kilometre radius from the Food Corporation of India’s godown complex in Third Mile here, are making the lives of a few thousand residents miserable, especially after dusk. With these insects moving around everywhere, residents, especially children, patients and the senior citizens, living within in Pasumpon Nagar, Asirvatham Nagar, Muthu Nagar, Indra Nagar and Third Mile, all housing over 1,000 houses, have lost their sleep for the past several months. The Food Corporation of India, which established its godown at Third Mile on a few acres of land 40 years ago for storing foodgrains, has now allegedly become a breeding ground for moths as the stored food grains provide conducive environment for breeding. After lying dormant during the day, the moths become active after 5 p.m. and invade the houses on being attracted to the light. Though the residents have converted their houses into airtight chambers, the moths still manage to enter the houses through small gaps. “We can’t eat properly as the moths fall into the plate all of a sudden. Our repeated appeals to the officials have not evoked any response,” said K. S. Arjunan, CPI (M) district secretary having his residence at P and T Colony. “We’ve staged several protests since 2002... but no solution has been provided. AIADMK’s district deputy secretary A. Santhanam, who had submitted a petition to the District Collector last Monday in this connection, said the moths from the foodgrains were invading houses and causing untold problems. “The moths accidentally even fall into the eyes of the residents triggering instant irritation that can be neutralised only with the help of medicines prescribed by the ophthalmologists. So, the Collector should instruct the officials to inspect the godowns and the houses to check this menace,” Mr. Santhanam said. An official attached to the Department of Agriculture said, “Proper and periodic fumigation alone will provide effective solution to this problem.” Following complaints, Collector K. Senthil Raj has assigned the task of inspecting the godown and the affected houses to the Revenue Divisional Officer, Thoothukudi. “Based on the report to be filed by the RDO, appropriate action will be taken,” Dr. Senthil Raj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/moths-from-fci-godown-invade-houses-giving-sleepless-nights-to-residents/article36487612.ece
16 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Poor patronage for B.Ed. programmes||A large-scale revenue generating programme only a decade back for State universities, numerous seats of B.Ed. programmes through distance learning now remain unfilled due to what academics view as rigidity in eligibility norms. Less than half of the sanctioned strength of 500 had been filled in the B.Ed. programme over the last few years, according to senior professors. Until a decade back, B.Ed. programme through correspondence was open to any applicant with a graduation degree. Subsequently, it was restricted to those with a graduation and working experience in schools. The seats started going vacant after the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) specified that only in-service teachers holding a qualification in Diploma in Teacher Education are eligible to pursue B.Ed. through correspondence offered through some of the State universities including Bharathidasan University. According to vice-chancellors of State universities, the number of takers for the B.Ed. programme is going down year after year since most of those with D.T.Ed. qualification have already completed their B.Ed. through correspondence. “A mechanism for vertical mobility for pre-primary teachers to pursue B.Ed. programmes through correspondence will restore patronage for the course. Montessori-trained teachers, for instance, could be facilitated to pursue B.Ed. programmes through correspondence such that the foundation of school education becomes strong,” Vice-Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Open University K. Parthasarthy said. Pilot project Academics cite the State Government's pilot project in progress to offer Montessori type education to pre-school children through Anganwadis to drive home the point that the State universities must be facilitated to offer courses in Montessori education. I. Muthuchamy, Professor and Head, Department of Educational Technology, Bharathidasan University, said there are instances of teacher training institutes in Northern States offering pre-primary education with the endorsement of their respective directorates of school education. It would be ideal if the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) comes forward to recognise Montessori training programmes and lend its support for securing the consent of the NCTE, Prof. Muthuchamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-patronage-for-bed-programmes/article36487221.ece
16 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Imparting education to children in rural areas||Alumni of the Panchayat Union Primary School (PUPS), Thayanur, have come together to conduct Street Schools for the benefit of the children in the village. Around 230 students will benefit from the programme. Efforts were made in June 2020 when, after two months of lockdown, schools were unable to reopen due to COVID-19. Children in the village, many who do not have access to Internet or cable television were left with no way to learn. It was then that alumni led by R. Rajamanickam, who now works with Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Limited (TNPL) decided to teach students. ‘Parents came to us and sought our help in teaching the children. We reached out to housewives, other alumni and created a network within Thayanur where students could go learn,’ Mr. Rajamanickam said. K. Marudhanayagam, Manikandam Block Education Officer had been setting up small street libraries for children amid the pandemic. On learning about Street School, they decided to combine both initiatives and provide the students access to books and education at the same place. ‘For students of Class 1 and 2, online classes cannot be taught. Teachers would hold their hands and trace alphabets and numbers for them to pick it up. This cannot be taught online. For them, the street schools are necessary,’ Mr. Marudhanayagam said. The alumni reached out to an NGO who agreed to provide the students with notebooks, pens and other necessary stationery and also pay the teachers for their service. Each student would be charged an enrolment fee of Rs. 250 per year. The alumni along with donations from employees of TNPL and other well wishers raised Rs. 24,000 and handed it over to the NGO. Now, 10 teachers conduct classes every evening for a total of 230 students. ‘We ensured that each teacher would have only 20 students as it would ensure personal distance and reduce the burden on the teacher,’ Mr. Rajamanickam said. A teacher is available for every half-a-kilometre to a kilometre so that the students need not travel far to learn. The classes are conducted at empty parks, terrace, sheds. Mr. Marudhanayagam added that such initiatives must be taken up by the government. ‘While children from urban and semi-urban localities can access online and video classes, children in villages are suffering and have no touch with any form of learning for nearly two years. The government can support such initiatives,’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imparting-education-to-children-in-rural-areas/article36487229.ece
16 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Koraiyar Falls likely to get basic amenities||Heeding to a plea from an activist, the Tourism Department has requested the Forest Department to send a proposal for providing necessary basic amenities at the Koraiyar Falls, a little known picnic spot on the Pachamalai Hills in Tiruchi district. The department had conveyed this information in response to a petition from Saravanan Natesan, an activist, seeking basic amenities at the falls including safety barricades. “We have requested a proposal with estimates for providing basic amenities such as barricades and changing room. Once the proposal is received, we will take it up with the recommendation of the District Collector. We will consider the proposal depending on the availability of funds for year,” T.Jegatheeswari, Tourist Officer, Tiruchi, said in reply to the petition. The Koraiyar Falls is situated about 40 km away from Thuraiyur and can be reached via Adivaram, Keerambur, Sengattupatti, Moolakadu, Manalodai, Thonur, Chinna Illupur, Periya Illupur and Vanadu Pudur. About 300-400 persons visit the falls situated in Pudur hamlet in Vannadu panchayat in the Pachamalai, it was estimated. Pachaimalai is situated on the Eastern Ghats with dry evergreen and dry deciduous forests located on the north-western border of Tiruchi district. Ms.Jegatheeswari said that since the falls and the approach road is under the control of Forest Department, she has written to the department. “I have already spoken to the Forest Ranger. A joint field inspection will be conducted soon to determine the requirement and we will follow it up,” she said. Mr.Saravanan said the proposal would be materialise soon. Pointing out that a two-long km road from Pudur to Koraiyar Falls was recently laid at a cost of Rs.35 lakhs, Mr.Saravanan said it will also be helpful if steps were taken to develop a rugged terrain leading to the falls for about 200 metres. The pathway should be developed possibly with a small steel bridge to cross over a small stream running across, he said. He sought similar amenities at Mangalam Falls, another verdant spot nearby. The Mangalam Falls is located about 14 km away from Top Sengattupatti, which is accessible by road from Tiruchi via Thuraiyur and Uppilliyapuram. From Top Sengattupattai one has to go via Chinna Pakkalam, Periya Pakkalam and Chinna Mangalam villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koraiyar-falls-likely-to-get-basic-amenities/article36487242.ece
16 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Modern abattoir in Tiruchi remains neglected||The modern abattoir, established adjacent to Gandhi Market about five years ago, lies in disuse. Tiruchi was among the few local bodies in the State to establish a modern abattoir. A sum of Rs. 3.57 crore was spent on establishing the facility. While the Ministry of Food Processing contributed 47% of the total cost, the State government contributed 28%. The Tiruchi Corporation contributed the remaining 28%. It was aimed at ending the practice of slaughtering goats and sheep for meat in open places. The officials had claimed that it would ensure the meat traders follow the guidelines of the Code of Hygienic Practices for Fresh Meat prescribed the World Health Organisation (WHO). The Corporation had to get the mandatory no-objection certificate from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) and the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for establishing the modern facility. It has a facility to slaughter at least 500 sheep and goats a day. More than five years have gone since the state-of-the-art facility was set up at the centrally located place in the city. But it is alleged that except for a few days of the trial run, the abattoir had never been put to use. It is in disuse mode since its establishment. Inquiries revealed that the goats, which were subjected for slaughtering to test the efficiency of the abattoir, got stuck in the equipment. Following this, it was shut for maintenance. With the facility is in disuse for a long, the facility looks like a dilapidated structure. “It is a clear case of wastage of public money. The Corporation has generated not even a single paise from it but also failed to follow the guidelines of WHO in the prevention of slaughtering of animals meant for meat in open places,” rues a mutton trader in Gandhi Market. The board put up on a wall of the facility proclaims that it is a modern slaughtering house. But, the goats, brought by the traders, are slaughtered in the traditional method. The Corporation collects Rs. 50 each for slaughtering and stamping. On weekends about 500 goats are slaughtered and about 150 goats are slaughtered on week days. “We are really pained over the disuse of the facility. Steps should be taken to use the facility,” said another trader on condition of anonymity. Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman said he would study the issue immediately and steps would be taken to use the facility as early as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modern-abattoir-in-tiruchi-remains-neglected/article36487238.ece
16 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Six women achievers get awards||Six women were given the Munnodi Penmani Awards 2021 at the International Women’s Day celebration at the Bharathidasan University (BDU) on Wednesday. Organised by the Department of Women's Studies, the theme of this year’s observation was ‘Women in Leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world.’ M. Selvam, Vice-Chancellor, BDU delivered the presidential address and presented the awards to the six winners - S. Lakshmi Ganesan for her contribution to folk arts, G.S. Vijayalakshmi, an environment activist, M. Rajadarshini, a sportsperson, M. Mumtaj, a social worker, N.K. Hemalatha, a school teacher, Aruna Dinakaran, an academician, and S. Uma Maheswari, a social worker. Three more women who were nominated were also honoured - Saratha Nanbi Arooran for her services to Tamil language, C. Jayabharathi, a young Sahitya Akademi awardee, and S. Sakuntaka Srinivasan, consumer rights activist. Writer A.Jayabharathi alias Manushi, G. Gopinath, Registrar, N. Manimekalai, Chair, Social Sciences, M. Lalli, Member Syndicate were among others who took part in the department celebration held now after being postponed due to the pandemic in March this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-women-achievers-get-awards/article36487226.ece
16 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Surveillance in schools, colleges stepped up||The Health Department has stepped up surveillance in schools and colleges in the wake of sporadic cases of COVID-19 infection among students and teachers. According to informed sources, at least 18 cases were reported in 17 schools and colleges in the district since the reopening of schools for senior grade students and colleges on September 1. Out of 18 patients reported positive for the infections, 14 were school students and 4 were college students. At least one positive case was reported in 13 schools. At a school in Lalgudi two students were tested positive. Most of the schools, where fresh cases of COVID-19 had been reported, were in Tiruchi city. While some of the affected schools in the city were shut for a few days so as to carry out disinfecting measures on their campuses, others continued to function by disinfecting the classrooms, where the affected students studied. As per the arrangement, the Health Department deputes teams to the affected schools to collect swab samples for testing. It also collects samples from those down with fever, cough and cold. Based on the results, the health officials intensify testing, treatment and preventive measures. A senior official of the Health Department said that though fresh cases had been reported among the students here and there, there were no reasons for worry. Except one or two, most of the samples had been turning out to be negative. However, surveillance measures had been stepped up. He said that the schools and colleges had been asked to strictly follow the guidelines on COVID-19 preventive measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surveillance-in-schools-colleges-stepped-up/article36487222.ece
16 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Slight dip in cases||The central region reported a slight dip in COVID-19 cases, while recording an increase in the number of deaths. On Wednesday, 270 people tested positive and nine more patients succumbed to complications arising out of the infection. Three patients died in Nagapattinam, two each died in Mayiladuthurai and Pudukottai while one each succumbed to it in Perambalur and Tiruchi. Thanjavur district, where over 100 cases were being reported over the last few days, recorded a slight dip. On Wednesday, 72 patients reported positive for COVID-19. The other eight districts in the region reported less than 50 fresh cases. Tiruchi registered 53, Tiruvarur, 37 and Nagapattinam, 33. Neighbouring Mayiladuthurai reported a dip with 23 fresh cases reported. Both Pudukottai and Karur districts saw 18 patients each report positive on Wednesday, while Ariyalur reported 11. Perambalur reported five fresh cases, the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slight-dip-in-cases/article36487247.ece
16 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Filing of nominations for rural civic polls begins||As filing of nomination for the rural civic polls to be held in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts in two phases on October 6 and 9 started on Wednesday, 35 candidates, including 34 candidates for village panchayat wards of Tirunelveli district, filed their papers. The remaining lone candidate filed his nomination for the post of village panchayat president. The Returning Officers and the Assistant Returning Officers, who were waiting in the Panchayat Union Offices throughout the day in vain, attributed the sluggish response to it being ‘navami’ on Wednesday, considered to be an inauspicious day. “We expect the filing of good number of nominations before the ensuing ‘Full Moon Day’ on next Monday (September 20),” said an Assistant Returning Officer. Since the election model code of conduct has been clamped in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts, the police and the flying squads have started checking vehicles for movement of arms, unaccounted cash and gifts to lure voters. District Collector V. Vishnu said those who have licensed firearms should surrender the weapons in their police station concerned before September 21 and get the acknowledgement receipt from the Inspector of Police. The weapon will be returned to the owner a week after the declaration of election results. In Tenkasi district, the response was relatively good as 72 nominations including 64 nominations for village panchayat ward members and eight for village panchayat presidents were filed on Wednesday as the exercise started. In Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts, nomination for 48 and 10 vacancies respectively in the rural local bodies commenced on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/filing-of-nominations-for-rural-civic-polls-begins/article36487610.ece
16 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Hindi Diwas’ celebrated||The 2-week-long ‘Hindi Diwas’ was celebrated in the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation’s Regional Office here to promote the language and its usage in the official functioning. Regional PF Commissioner Ganesh Kumar Jani honoured the winners of various competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindi-diwas-celebrated/article36487223.ece
16 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Farmer beheaded in Tirunelveli||In an apparent retaliation to the gruesome murder of a farmhand on Monday night, a farmer was beheaded at Gopalasamudram near here on Wednesday morning. Since the area has witnessed the second beheading within 36 hours, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Tirunevleli Range) Praveen Kumar Abinapu and Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan visited the spot and deployed police personnel in and around Gopalasamudram and also nearby Keezha Seval and Sengulam Colony. The police said an armed gang waylaid and hacked to death farmer A. Mariappan, 32, of Gopalasamudram when he was crossing Sengulam tank around 5.30 a.m. the gang chopped off his left leg and the head. While the trunk and the sliced leg were lying near the irrigation tank, the assailants took the head for about 4 km and placed it at the spot where the farmhand Sankarasubramanian was beheaded. During investigation, the police found that one Manthiram of Gopalasamudram was murdered in November 2013 by a group of people belonging to another caste. Subsequently, the assailants in the case were nabbed. Since the relatives of Manthiram believed that Sankarasubramanian was helping the murderers, he was murdered and his head was placed on top of the grave of Manthiram. In retaliation, Mariappan, an accused in another murder case registered in 2014, has been killed. Mariappan’s head was also placed at the spot where Sankarasubramanian was murdered on Monday night. Munneerpallam police have registered a case in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-beheaded-in-tirunelveli/article36487145.ece
16 September 2021||Tiruppur/Erode,TAMIL NADU||16 students from two Tiruppur schools test positive for COVID-19||Two weeks after the reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII, 16 more students from two schools in Tiruppur district have tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Wednesday. According to officials from the Department of School Education and Health Department, eight boys studying in Class XII at a Corporation Higher Secondary School in Tiruppur Corporation limits tested positive on Tuesday evening. Chief Educational Officer R. Ramesh said that the Corporation school would remain closed for disinfection for three days as a precautionary measure. With this, the number of government school students who have tested positive in Tiruppur district went up to 11. Apart from this, nine government school teachers and the Block Educational Officer of Madathukulam block have also tested positive, according to Mr. Ramesh. Meanwhile, the private higher secondary school in Samalapuram, near Palladam, was closed for disinfection after eight students tested positive for COVID-19. Health Department officials said that a Class XII girl from the school initially tested positive last week, following which swab samples from nearly 1,100 students and faculty members from the school were lifted. As per the test results, seven more students from Classes XI and XII tested positive on Sunday. All these students were asymptomatic and the school would remain closed this week, according to the officials. Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar said that any school in the district reporting more than three COVID-19 cases would be closed for disinfection. Contacts of all those testing positive would be tested. Teacher tests positive A science teacher at the Government Higher Secondary School in Kaniyambadi, Vellore, tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, a fortnight after the reopening of schools and colleges in the State on September 1. This is the first case after the reopening in the district. District Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian immediately directed the health officials to inspect the school. More than a hundred samples from teachers and students in the school were taken for testing, the results of which are expected on Thursday. However, the school continued to function with 550 students in Classes IX to XII attending their routine sessions. “The science teacher informed us about having tested positive on Wednesday. The closure of the school will be based on samples taken from the students and the staff,” K. Munuswamy, Chief Education Officer (CEO), Vellore, told The Hindu . Neighbouring Tiruvannamalai has 38 persons, including 23 students and 13 teachers, who tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-students-from-two-tiruppur-schools-test-positive-for-covid-19/article36487141.ece
16 September 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Insure paddy, farmers told||Paddy to be raised as samba or thaladi during the current rabi season in Tiruvarur district has been notified as eligible for coverage under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY - crop insurance scheme). The crop identified as Paddy-II under PMFBY can be insured by remitting Rs. 488.25 per acre as insurance premium with the Agriculture Insurance Company of India on or before November 15, according to Collector P.Gayathri Krishnan. In a press release, she said Paddy-II crop raised in all villages would be covered under the scheme. Farmers could insure their crop by remitting the premium while at the time of availing the crop loan through Primary Agriculture Cooperative Banks (PACBs) or nationalised banks. If they did not want to avail loan, they could submit necessary documents along with the premium at the banks or by uploading them along with online payment through common service centres. Stating that it was left to the farmers to get their crop insured, she said the insurance compensation, if any, would be calculated based on the average of the district-wise crop-wise harvest data. Meanwhile, enquiries revealed that the samba crop had been raised in about 62,000 hectares in the district, while agriculture officials expected the samba and ‘thaladi coverage in about 1.48 lakh hectares during the season. However, the total area of samba crop was likely to drop below one lakh hectare mark this year since kuruvai crop that had been raised in about 54,000 hectares had reached the harvesting stage. Further, the direct sowing method was adopted in much of the 62,000 hectares where samba crop was raised, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insure-paddy-farmers-told/article36487230.ece
16 September 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Delay in disbursal of insurance relief resented||Delay in disbursement of crop insurance compensation for the year 2020-21 seems to have annoyed the Delta farmers who were upset with the non-extension of crop insurance facility for this year’s ‘kuruvai’ crop. While the Thamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam has passed a resolution condemning the delay in disbursement of crop insurance compensation at its State executive committee meeting held at Tiruvarur on Tuesday, the Tamil Nadu Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association has taken up the issue to the Madras High Court seeking its intervention. Insisting the Central and State governments to initiate necessary steps for early disbursement of compensation to the paddy crop insured by the farmers in the 2020-21 period, the general secretary, TCVS, P.R.Pandian said that demonstrations in front of the Collectorates in the delta Districts would be held on September 30 to press this demand. Meanwhile, in the public interest litigation filed before the Madras High Court, Madurai Bench, the TNTDCFP Association has pointed out that a total of 3,77,123 farmers have insured the paddy crop raised by them during the ‘rabi 2020-21’ season on about 3.12 lakh acres of land in the Thanjavur district alone. The ‘rabi’ paddy crop was severely damaged due to the unforeseen heavy rain during December 2020 and January 2021 period while the earlier crop ‘kuruvai’ cultivated during the ‘kharif 2020-21’ season had met the same fate due to Nivar and Burevi cyclones. Repeated pleas from the association to release the statement of loss of yield calculated by the insurance companies for the ‘rabi’ season and as well as the list of farmers who have been compensated for the loss suffered due to cyclonic storms earlier have failed to yield a positive response from the authorities. Hence the PIL was moved, said the TNTDCFP association secretary, Sundara Vimalanathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-disbursal-of-insurance-relief-resented/article36487231.ece
16 September 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Two officials get jail term for accepting bribe||The Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Tiruvarur, has imposed three years of imprisonment on two government officials found guilty of demanding and accepting bribe to clear the payment for a road contract. T.Shanthakumar of Kizha Kavathukudi near Tiruvarur secured a contract to lay a road in Thirunelikaval Pudur in Tiruvarur block in May 2014. While executing the work, he sought the releasing of funds to the tune of Rs. 8.50 lakhs to blacktop the carriageway. However, the Panchayat Union Assistant Engineer, S.Durai and Superintendent (Works), K.Sivakumar demanded Rs. 40,000 from Shanthakumar to release the fund. Annoyed by the attitude of the officials, Shanthakumar lodged a complaint with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption unit at Nagapattinam. Upon receiving the complaint, the DVAC personnel laid a trap for the officials and arrested them while they accepted the money from the complainant. After hearing the arguments, the Chief Judicial Magistrate, T.Balamurugan on Wednesday declared the charges framed on Durai and Sivakumar have been proved and ordered that each of them should undergo three years of imprisonment and each of them should remit a fine of Rs. 2000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-officials-get-jail-term-for-accepting-bribe/article36487232.ece
16 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Love for elephants changed their life||Three local school children from Devala in the Nilgiris were appointed as Gene Pool Eco Park ambassadors after they raised funds to purchase rice to feed four kumki elephants used in elephant-driving operations in the region. The children, Sandeesh Kumar and Nagulan, studying in Class VIII in Holy Cross School in Devala and Sanjay, a Class VII student from the Government Tribal Residential School in Devala, had heard of the kumki elephants’ presence in the area for the last few weeks. Forest department officials said that the boys along with other locals had already visited the Gene Pool Eco Development Committee during the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations this year when the four kumkis were treated to fruits and vegetables. “The three boys then got together and pooled the pocket money that they had collected and purchased a 25 kg. bag of rice for the elephants,” said a forest official from Nadugani Forest Range. The three boys had brought the rice on Wednesday to hand it over to forest department officials. When District Forest Officer, Gudalur division, Kommu Omkaram heard of the boys’ love for the kumki elephants, he requested forest staff at the eco-development committee to tour the children around the Gene Pool EDC, known for its grasslands and collections of rare flora and a recently established native species aquarium. Forest department officials said that Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, T.V.Manjunatha, who learned of the children’s love for elephants had issued orders that the three children be appointed as honorary ambassadors of the Gene Pool Eco Park in Nadugani. Officials said that as the three children had already shown that they had a tremendous amount of affection and respect for animals, that they would be part of awareness programmes in the future through which the department hoped that they could reach local communities and spread the message of living in peaceful co-existence with wild elephants in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/love-for-elephants-changed-their-life/article36487153.ece
16 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Habitat loss threatens brown palm civets in Western Ghats||Habitat loss and fragmentation are major threats to the rarely-spotted brown palm civet ( Paradoxurus jerdoni ) in the Western Ghats, researchers warn. Brown palm civets, also known as Jerdon’s palm civets, a species endemic to the Western Ghats, occupy a crucial ecological niche as seed dispersers. As they inhabit areas where other large seed dispersers are either non-existent or rare due to human-induced factors, their presence is believed to play a vital role in promoting native rainforest growth in the Western Ghats. In a recent paper, “Phenotypic variations, habitat suitability, and diel activity of the endemic brown palm civets,” published in the journal Geology, Ecology, and Landscapes, the researchers found that in a total suitable area of 21,853 sq.km. in the Western Ghats, the brown palm civet was recorded in four well-defined blocks – in the South from Kalakkad to Anamalai and in the North in the Nilgiris, Bhadra and Sayadri. The study was conducted in collaboration with the Wildlife Institute of India; Sreehari Raman, a small mammal expert and assistant professor from College of Forestry, Kerala Agriculture University; and forest officials from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. The researchers noted that the species was primarily found in the Anamalai, Periyar, Parambikulam, Kalakkad Mundanthurai and Meghamalai Tiger Reserves; Kodaikanal, Munnar forest divisions; and Srivilliputhur. These protected areas accounted for a significant proportion of the brown palm civet’s habitat. The second-most important block was in the Nilgiris, encompassing the Silent Valley and Mukurthi National Parks; Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary; and Mudumalai, Nagarhole, Bandipur and Biligiri Ranganatha Tiger Reserves. Sulekha J. Backer, one of the authors of the paper, said the mapping of the brown palm civet’s habitats showed that their population was extremely fragmented. According to the researcher, the population of the brown palm civet became more sparse and discontinuous north of the Palghat gap. This was primarily due to habitat loss and other anthropogenic threats. Ms. Backer stated, “Further studies need to be done to understand the population status of the species and whether they are in decline in their current habitats.” This may prove difficult as a result of ‘the nocturnal and cryptic nature’ of the species, lead author T.T. Shameer noted. He shared, “Most of the studies so far are mainly sighting records and there was limited information on their population and habitat.” Further improving habitat quality would help in minimising threats for this species, he said. Nonetheless, researchers had recently rediscovered the species in habitats where it was believed that the brown palm civet was locally extinct, such as in Coonoor. R. Sanil Associate Professor, Molecular Biodiversity Lab, Government Arts College in Udhagamandalam, said, “The fact that there were signs of their presence in these habitats is a source of optimism. However, the brown palm civet is dependent on tall, native trees for its survival. Its disappearance from local landscapes could negatively impact native forest regeneration, and allow for exotic, invasive flora to take over these landscapes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/habitat-loss-threatens-brown-palm-civets-in-western-ghats/article36487166.ece
16 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||NEET aspirant found dead in Vellore||The body of a 17-year-old girl, who wrote NEET last Sunday, was found in her house near Katpadi, Vellore district, Wednesday. The police suspect that she took her life as she did not do well in the exam. No suicide note was found. T. Soundharya was living with her parents, the police said. She did her schooling in the village and scored top marks in the Class X and XII board exams. “She seemed depressed for the last two days. A case has been registered,” SP S. Selvakumar said. Being daily wage labourers, Soundharya’s parents left home early on Wednesday. Around 10.30 a.m., when a neighbour called Soundharya, she did not respond. Immediately, her parents and relatives were informed.  ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aspirant-found-dead/article36487122.ece
16 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Teacher tests positive for COVID-19||A science teacher at the Government Higher Secondary School in Kaniyambadi, Vellore, tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, a fortnight after the reopening of schools and colleges in the State. This is the first case since the reopening of schools and colleges in the district. District Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian immediately directed the health officials to inspect the school. More than 100 samples from teachers and students in the school were taken for testing. The results are expected on Thursday. However, the continued to function with around 550 students of Classes IX to XII attending their routine sessions. "The science teacher was absent for two days (Monday and Tuesday). She informed us about having tested positive on Wednesday. The closure of the school will be based on samples taken from the students and the staff. Test results are expected on Thursday,” K. Munuswamy, Chief Education Officer (CEO), Vellore, told The Hindu . In Tiruvannamalai, 38 persons, including 23 students and 13 teachers of schools and colleges, have tested positive following the reopening of the educational institutions. The major affected areas include Chengam, Thandrampattu, Kattam Poondi, Cheyyar, Polur and Arani, with many students from government schools in the district affected by the virus. Ranipet and Tirupattur have also seen cases among teachers and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article36487256.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore registers slight increase in new cases||Coimbatore district registered a slight increase in the number of new COVID-19 infections on Wednesday when it reported 224 cases against the 201 infections it had on Tuesday. The district had 2,225 active cases of the disease and 197 persons recovered on Wednesday. The death toll of the district increased to 2,306 after four more persons died of COVID-19. The district’s test positivity rate stood at 1.7% on Tuesday when 12,095 swab samples were collected and 201 persons tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 88 persons tested positive in Tiruppur district. The district had 934 active cases of the disease on Wednesday and 98 persons recovered. Two more persons from the district died of COVID-19 and the district’s death toll increased to 943. The district’s TPR stood at 1.5 % on Tuesday. In the Nilgiris, 31 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 32,220. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district stood at 196 while 347 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-registers-slight-increase-in-new-cases/article36487163.ece
16 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||NEP is pro-rich: AIDSO||All India Democratic Students Organisation has strongly condemned the National Education Policy (NEP) introduced by the Centre, saying it was pro-rich and aimed at growing Right Wing tendencies among students. “The spirit of the policy is unscientific, anti-secular and anti-democratic. It has enabled State governments to change textbooks indiscriminately. It allows the government to introduce communal elements in history books. We will oppose it strongly,” said Mahantesh Bilur, AIDSO coordinator. The State government has set up a committee to delete a particular portion from textbooks. “This is focused only on deletion of a chapter on emergence of new religions. This is highly condemnable. The ruling BJP feels that the chapter hints that new religions were formed by reformers who found faults with Hinduism. That is a very regressive attitude. We have condemned this publicly. We demand that the government withdraw the committee at once, or else, we will organise Statewide protests,” he said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-is-pro-rich-aidso/article36487310.ece
16 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cash, valuables taken away||The police have registered a case in connection with theft in the house of an ex-service man in Belagavi, that is said to have happened on Tuesday night. The case filed in Mal Maruti Police Station states that thieves made away with cash and valuables worth Rs. 3 lakh from the house of the ex-serviceman, Ashok Kamble. Mr. Kamble and his family were in Solapur at the time. His neighbours noticed that the lock was open and called him. He rushed back to the city and then lodged a complaint with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cash-valuables-taken-away/article36487311.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Maximum cybercrime cases in India registered in city||The IT capital of the country is also a hotbed for cybercrime. For yet another year, Bengaluru tops India in the highest number of cybercrimes registered in 2020. What’s worse is that not a single conviction was recorded during the same period. Data on ‘Crime in India’ for 2020, released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), showed that of the 18,657 cybercrime cases registered in cities across India, Bengaluru accounted for nearly 47% (8,892) of them. Surprisingly though, it’s not Karnataka but Uttar Pradesh that tops the country with the State having the most number of cyber crime cases. When compared to previous years, the number of cases in the city have dropped: in 2019, the city recorded 10,555 cases, while in the previous year, 5253 cases were registered. Interestingly, no one was convicted in 2020 in Karnataka. As per NCRB data, the police disposed of 3,298 cases, but a whopping 22,809 are pending for investigation. Among the cases registered in 2020, the police have filed chargesheets in 2582 cases. The report stated that in the city, committing fraud is the prominent motive for cybercrimes. Among the cases filed, 8,318 were related to frauds. There were also cases in connection with personal revenge (83 cases), causing disrepute (362), sexually explicit content (89), political revenge (5), and others. Among the 19 metropolitan cities in the country, Bengaluru has the second highest number of murder cases, second only to Delhi, and more than Mumbai. As per NCRB data, 179 murder cases (Section 302 of the IPC) were reported in the city and 191 persons lost their lives. Delhi topped the list with 461 cases and 476 victims, while Mumbai recorded 148 cases and 149 victims. Across India, 29,193 cases of murder were registered during 2020, recording a marginal increase of 1% over 2019 (28,915 cases). The city was also in the top three, when it came to deaths owing to negligence relating to road accidents. In 2020, 635 such cases were reported and 674 had lost their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maximum-cybercrime-cases-in-india-registered-in-city/article36487077.ece
16 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Adopt resolution asking Centre to reduce fuel tax: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday demanded that the State Legislative Assembly adopt a resolution urging the Centre to reduce taxes on petroleum products. Participating in a debate in the Assembly on the hardship faced by people due to price rise, Mr. Siddaramaiah also urged the State government to reduce its own levies and cess on petroleum products on the lines of neighbouring Tamil Nadu. “I do not want to specify the amount of cess and levies to be reduced. But ensure that the quantum of reduction is not lesser than what Tamil Nadu has done [Rs. 3 a litre of petrol],” Mr. Siddaramaiah told Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. He maintained that the real price of petrol was just around Rs. 38 a litre, while the Central and State taxes as well as levies had made it costly. “If you agree, I will move a resolution in the House urging the Centre to reduce its taxes on petroleum products. Let us send the resolution to the Centre,” he told the Chief Minister. Expressing concern over increase in prices of petroleum products, particularly diesel, triggering hike in prices of essential items, he said a study had showed that purchasing capacity of people had fallen by 37%. Urging the State to take measures, he said. “If Tamil Nadu can do it, why can’t Karnataka?” Taking exception to the sharp increase in price of LPG cylinders for cooking and also removing the subsidy on them, he said poor people were facing the brunt of price rise in the regime of Prime Minister Narendra Modi while corporates like Ambanis and Adanis were seeing increase in their networth. Ministers J.C. Madhuswamy, R. Ashok, K. Sudhakar, and others questioned the relevance of the debate and blamed the then UPA government for the present hike in fuel prices. Poor management of public sector oil companies and raising funds through oil bonds by the Manmohan Singh-led government were major causes for rise in prices, the BJP Ministers argued. The Chief Minister is set to reply to the debate on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adopt-resolution-asking-centre-to-reduce-fuel-tax-siddaramaiah/article36487091.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Topper balanced studies and leisure||Bengaluru-based Gaurab Das is among the 18 students to have secured the first rank at the all-India level in the Joint Entrance Examinations (Main), 2021, the results of which were announced on Wednesday. As many as 44 students have got an NTA score of 100 and a tie-breaking criterion was used to allot ranks. Although Gaurab has joined Purdue University in the US to pursue Computer Engineering, he decided to fly down to India to appear for his JEE (Advanced) exam. A student of Narayana E-Techno School in Sahakar Nagar, he said writing JEE Advanced was his main goal. “I have been preparing for two years,” he said. He said while the pandemic-induced lockdown helped him study at his own pace, he was disappointed that he could not meet his friends.  “But a lot of time in commuting was saved during the pandemic and I had all the time that I would have otherwise spent in traffic,” he added. His mother said his teachers constantly kept him motivated and even gave regular mock tests so that he was well prepared. She said he spent ample time for studies and leisure and studied with a calm mind. While JEE Main is a gateway for admission to undergraduate engineering programmes at the National Institutes of Technology, and several other institutions, the top 2.5 lakh ranked candidates are also eligible to appear for JEE (Advanced), which is the admission test to bag a seat in the Indian Institutes of Technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/topper-balanced-studies-and-leisure/article36487081.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||REVA University celebrates sixth convocation day||As many as 3,800 students were conferred degrees and 45 meritorious students and toppers from various disciplines awarded gold medals at the 6th Annual Convocation of REVA University, conducted on the campus on Wednesday. Doctorate degrees were also conferred on 31 scholars. Addressing the students, Chairman, National Board of Accreditation, K.K. Aggarwal, congratulated the university for introducing programmes that are sought-after in the job market. He said, “REVA University has introduced subjects like Performing Arts along with a language subject, and this is a right step in the direction of introducing NEP 2020. Multidisciplinary education is the future.”  Chancellor, REVA University, P. Shyama Raju, talked about how the university had carried on academic activities keeping in mind COVID-19 guidelines. Minister for Higher Education, IT and BT, C.N. Ashwath Narayan, greeted the gathering virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reva-university-celebrates-sixth-convocation-day/article36487069.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Most cases against civic bodies for causing deaths were filed in Bengaluru||Of the 53 cases filed against civic bodies for deaths owing to negligence across India, 18 were from Bengaluru alone. In total, 21 cases were filed against civic agencies in Karnataka. Among the 19 metropolitan cities, 21 cases were filed against civic bodies for lapses that resulted in the deaths of citizens. Only one such case was registered in Mumbai and two in Delhi. In 2018, a total of 40 cases were booked against civic bodies and the number rose to 147 in 2019. Prostitution cases The highest number of cases for carrying out prostitution in or in the vicinity of public places was reported from Karnataka in 2020. Of the total 112 cases booked under Section 7 of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 across India, 44 were from Karnataka, followed by Maharashtra with 21 cases. Section 7 of the Act penalises any person who carries on doing prostitution and also books the person with whom such an act is carried out. Geetha M., secretary of Sadhana Mahila Sangha which works towards preventing violence against sex workers, said that the city police were “unecessarily” booking cases against sex workers even though they do not solicit people in public places. Overall, 12,680 crimes were reported against women in 2020, a decrease from 13,828 cases in 2019. As many as 1,398 crimes against persons from Scheduled Castes were registered in Karnataka in 2020, a drop from from 2019 where 1,504 cases were booked. As for Scheduled Tribes, 293 crimes/atrocities were booked in Karnataka in 2020 compared to 327 cases in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-cases-against-civic-bodies-for-causing-deaths-were-filed-in-bengaluru/article36487070.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Accident victims had parked bike in the lay-by of flyover||After a spot visit on Wednesday, senior police officials have recommended that the parapet of the Electronics City flyover be raised by at least two feet. They also recommended putting up reflectors for a 6-km stretch and also accident zone signboards. These recommendations were made in the wake of the deaths of a man and a woman who were thrown off the flyover on Tuesday night when a car knocked down their two-wheeler. The deceased were identified as Preetham Kumar, 30, and his friend Krithika Raman, 28, who hail from Tamil Nadu. They had borrowed a friend’s motorcycle to go on a ride, said a police officer. Around 9.20 p.m., they parked it in the lay-by on the flyover near Singasandra and were standing next to it, when they were hit by the car. The duo were tossed in the air and fell down onto the road around 30 feet below the flyover. According to the police, the car was going at such a high speed that it was left dangling on the edge of the flyover after the impact. The driver of the car has been identified as Nitesh, a 23-year-old engineering student from Bommasandra. He was injured in the accident and was admitted to a private hospital. The police claimed that preliminary inquiries revealed that he was speeding, clocking over 100km per hour. The police are waiting for him to recover before questioning him “We are waiting for the blood samples and FSL reports of Nitesh to determine whether he was under the influence of alcohol or any other toxic substances,” said B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accident-victims-had-parked-bike-in-the-lay-by-of-flyover/article36487074.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Former councillors, citizens call for civic elections||The need for civic elections and councillors representing their wards was the focus of Janaagraha’s 17th #CityPolitics conversation, organised on Wednesday, which is International Day of Democracy. Revolving around the theme of ‘#WhereIsMyCorporator’, the debate saw leaders from different political parties, former councillors, and citizens unanimously demanding that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) elections be held. It’s been one year since the term of the elected council in the BBMP ended. Several participants said that the delay in polls was a violation of the 74th Amendment of the Constitution. C.N. Deepak, general secretary of Karnataka Rashtra Samithi (KRS), pointed to the lack of accountability with the State government taking all decisions pertaining to the BBMP, such as tenders and even constituting a separate authority for SWM. Aam Aadmi Party’s Usha Mohan alleged that the State Election Commission (SEC) had become a puppet in the hands of the ruling party, while former councillor of New Thippasandra Shilpa Abhilash (Congress) claimed that nodal officers appointed by the BBMP rarely addressed local issues. “What does governance mean then when people don’t have rights?” she asked. Former councillor of Doddanekkundi ward Swetha Vijaykumar, who is from BJP, claimed that at the ward level, the pace of development work had slowed down. Not commenting on the delay in holding polls, she said: “When there was an elected body, processes took place smoothly. However, there are issues in issuing death certificates, medical bill reimbursements, while ward committee functioning is affected.” K.V. Yashodha Rajanna from the Janata Dal (Secular) said there was a huge difference in governance when councillors are in place. Former Opposition Leader Abdul Wajid from Congress, who even filed a case on holding polls in the Supreme Court, said the BBMP Act, 2020, had no vision. “The government is citing delimitation as a reason for the delay. I urge Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to hold polls at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-councillors-citizens-call-for-civic-elections/article36487078.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC grants relief to mutt on gomal land issue||The High Court of Karnataka has quashed the government’s order of declaring certain pockets of land, including those used for grazing of cattle by Sri Ramachandrapura Mutt and others, as reserve forest in 2015. The court also directed the government to make, within two months, necessary changes in the revenue records to treat them as ‘gomal land’ as existed earlier, if the status was changed as ‘forest land’ in the records based on the 2015 order passed by the Forest Department. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the order while allowing a petition filed in 2015 by the mutt questioning the Forest Department’s July 2015 order of declaring them as ‘forest land’ by initiating a proceedings under Section 64A of the Karnataka Forest Act, 1963, to reclaim the ‘encroached’ land. The court upheld the mutt’s contention that the government, in 2002-2005, had excluded 60 acres of land, including land used by the mutt for cattle grazing, in survey number 7 of Ramachandrapura village from declaring them as ‘reserve forest’. The court noted that the Government Order issued in 2015 had categorised these pockets as ‘gomal land’ while including the remaining 160 acres in survey numbers 7 and 56 as ‘reserve forest’. “...the subject land shall be retained as the gomal land for the benefit of the cattle of the petitioner — mutt and other agriculturists; if entries in the revenue records are changed, the same shall be restored as they were before,” the court said. The court told the government to consider within six months the application made by the mutt seeking allotment of a part of the gomal land for its goshaala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-grants-relief-to-mutt-on-gomal-land-issue/article36487089.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dogged by delay, UKP cost spirals up to Rs. 65,000 crore||Over the last decade, the estimated cost of completing Upper Krishna Project (UKP) to utilise 130 tmcft of Krishna river water awarded to Karnataka in the Krishna river Water Tribunal 2 has gone up from about Rs. 17,000 crore in 2011-2012 to about Rs. 65,000 crore now. On Wednesday, as the debate on the delay in launching projects saw participation from across the political spectrum in the Legislative Council, Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol informed that though the estimated cost has gone up, nothing much could be done unless the gazette notification on tribunal award is issued by the Centre. “The big jump in the cost was due to the increased cost of compensation in land acquisition post 2013. About 1.34 lakh acres needed to be acquired,” the Minister said. The Krishna tribunal 2 headed by Brijesh Kumar gave its award in December 2010, and about 130 tmcft of water is sought to be used in Alamatti. The UKP 3 envisages increased impounding capacity of Alamatti by raising the dam height from 519 m to 524 m. “We have sought clearance of DPR from the Centre and sought national project status to the project. Joint efforts with Maharashtra is being undertaken to secure the notification,” Mr. Karjol said. Earlier, asking the reason for the government not taking up related works in Alamatti without waiting for the gazette notification, Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil said the completion of the project would address the issue of regional imbalance. Seeking to know why the gazette notification was not possible on the lines of Cauvery and Mahadayi that would be subject to Supreme Court order, Mr. Patil said: “It is now a double engine government (BJP government being at both Centre and State). The State government has to remind Prime Minister Narendra Modi that Karnataka has sent 25 BJP MPs. You should influence Mr. Modi to get the gazette notification,” said Mr. Patil. Congress member R.B Thimmapur raised the issue of differential compensation for the same project in different taluks of Bagalkot district. JD(S) member Thippeswamy reminded the government that a fresh DPR had to be done since the Centre had returned the earlier one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dogged-by-delay-ukp-cost-spirals-up-to-rs-65000-crore/article36487094.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Karnataka’s spending on health, education lesser than others’||The rate of expenditure on education and health to aggregate expenditure of the State during 2019-20 was below its neighbouring States and also below general category States/national average, according to the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India report. While Karnataka’s actual rate of expenditure to aggregate expenditure on education and health during 2019-20 was 4.28% against the general category States’ expenditure of 5.21%, the expenditure of Kerala was 6.59%, Tamil Nadu 5.13%, Andhra Pradesh 4.86%, Telangana 5.14%, Maharashtra 4.34%, and Madhya Pradesh 4.7%. Quality of expenditure “The higher the ratio of these components (health and education) to total expenditure, the quality of expenditure is considered to be better,” the report said. Despite the State resorting to huge market borrowings of Rs. 48,499 crore in 2019-20, the increase in capital expenditure on various developmental works over the previous year (2018-19) was just 1% and the share of capital expenditure to total expenditure was 19%, the report said. The Comptroller and Auditor General report, on State Finance ending March 2020, said that there has been cost and time overrun and the State government has to bear extra burden in terms of servicing of debt and interest liabilities on the borrowings incurred towards implementation of projects. Recovery of loans The report tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday said that the recovery of loans advanced by the State government to various institutions was meagre and was less than 1% of the opening balance of the loans outstanding during 2019-20. A sum of Rs. 4,069 crore was advanced to various institutions in the form of loans during 2019-20 and the recovery of loan was Rs. 203 crore during the year. Gender budget Though the State Budget enhanced its allocation towards gender budgeting every year, the gender budget process lacked overall analysis, gender disaggregated data and monitoring mechanism, the Comptroller and Auditor General report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnatakas-spending-on-health-education-lesser-than-others/article36487098.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minor boy booked for attempt to kill girlfriend||A juvenile attempted to kill his 15-year-old girlfriend at her house by injuring her with a knife. He also injured himself. The incident took place at Jayanagar 7th Block on Monday afternoon. The duo was rescued after the boy called his uncle and narrated the incident. The incident occurred at around 12.30 p.m. According to the police, the boy, who is in Class X, was upset with the girl for talking to other boys. According to the police, the two got into an argument at her house, following which the boy went to the washroom and drank cleaning fluid. The police said that the girl also drank the contents of the bottle. “The boy then injured her with a knife and also inflicted injuries upon himself,” said the police. When they collapsed, the boy panicked and called his uncle, who alerted other family members. They came to the girl’s house and took them both to a private hospital. As it was a medico-legal case, the hospital informed the police who recorded the statement of the victim. Based on her statement, the police booked the accused for assault and attempt to murder as well as under the POCSO Act. Investigation is ongoing, said a police officer.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minor-boy-booked-for-attempt-to-kill-girlfriend/article36487072.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cases on the rise again||After reporting around 600 cases, the lowest in the second wave for two days, Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,116 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,64,083. With 462 cases, Bengaluru Urban saw a rise in the number of new cases, almost double the cases it had been reporting in the last 15 days. With 8 deaths, the toll rose to 37,537. Five of these were from Bengaluru Urban. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 970 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,10,626. The State now has 15,892 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.65%, CFR touched 0.71%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cases-on-the-rise-again/article36487082.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Test students who have symptoms for over 2 days’||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, on Wednesday, stated that schoolchildren with COVID-19 symptoms persisting for more than two days will be tested. This decision was taken following a meeting with senior civic officials and members of the Paediatric Expert Committee and the Technical Expert Committee. In a press release, Mr. Gupta directed all schools to identify nodal officers among their staff, who can coordinate with health officers in primary health centres (PHCs). Students with symptoms persisting for more than two days must be asked not to attend the school. If the information of children is provided to the PHC, health officials will visit their houses to organise testing. The BBMP will soon issue guidelines to hospitals about conducting tests for children with symptoms, Mr. Gupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/test-students-who-have-symptoms-for-over-2-days/article36487084.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Price hike is criminal loot’||Using the phrase used by the late Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee in 1973 against the Indira Gandhi government, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday termed the steep hike in prices of fuel and essential commodities as “criminal loot” by the Central and State governments. Mr. Siddaramaiah recalled Vajpayee’s protest against the seven paisa hike in petrol in 1973 and said then an MP, Vajpayee came to Parliament in a bullock cart and criticised the Congress government led by Indira Gandhi’s decision to hike the price as “criminal loot.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/price-hike-is-criminal-loot/article36487096.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||UG courses: Govt. tweaks order on Kannada||Students from other States and international students who come to Karnataka to pursue undergraduate programmes will now have to only study functional Kannada for one semester. As part of the National Education Policy 2020, students who have not studied Kannada in second year pre-university course have the option of getting an exemption and studying it only for one semester. Other domicile students will have to study Kannada for four semesters besides another language of their choice. The Department of Collegiate Education decided to tweak its order after many international students wrote to colleges seeking withdrawal of their admission as they said they would find it difficult to learn the language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ug-courses-govt-tweaks-order-on-kannada/article36487085.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police come under fire||The police have come under severe criticism after the deaths of two friends on the Electronics City flyover, barely a fortnight after another accident resulting in the death of seven friends.  “Due to unavoidable circumstances and heavy criticism, the traffic police had stopped conducting drives to crack down on motorists driving under the influence of alcohol or speeding,” said B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic), adding that motorists and even a section of the media criticised the traffic police for conducting drink driving checks during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-come-under-fire/article36487079.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: Expedite framing of rules for live streaming||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed its Registrar-General to expedite the process of framing rules for live streaming of the court’s proceedings after noticing that the process of finalisation of the draft rules is before a committee. A Division Bench issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by Dilraj Rohit Sequeira, city-based advocate seeking live streaming of court proceedings based on a direction issued by the apex court to all High Courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-expedite-framing-of-rules-for-live-streaming/article36487088.ece
16 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Disparity in COVID test rates at airport: MLAs||Several MLAs on Wednesday alleged that there was corruption and disparity in the COVID-19 testing being done for travellers at the Bengaluru international airport. Tabling a call-attention notice, Congress member N.A. Haris took exception to airport authorities charging more than Rs. 3,000 for COVID testing. Endorsing his views, nominated member Vinisha Nero alleged that there was corruption with respect to testing at the airport. “The authorities charge Rs. 3,200 to Rs. 3,800 per person based on how much time it would take to get the test results. But if you pay Rs. 1,200, you get results within 15 minutes,” she alleged. Speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri asked Health Minister K. Sudhakar to look into the issue and take action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disparity-in-covid-test-rates-at-airport-mlas/article36487092.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘NIMHANS denying treatment’||Members of the ruling and Opposition in the Legislative Assembly alleged that National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) of Bengaluru and its director have not been responding to emergency medical cases and often deny admission to patients citing non-availability of ventilators. During Zero Hour, Hartal Halappa of the BJP raised the issue of non-availability of ventilators in the hospital for the State’s patients and said the hospital denied admission to a gram panchayat member of Sagar taluk, who suffered brain haemorrhage, on the grounds of non-availability of ventilator. The patient was brought from Sagar to NIMHANS on Wednesday but the hospital denied him treatment, Mr. Halappa said. H.K. Kumaraswamy (JD-S), A.S. Nadahalli (BJP), and several members of ruling and Opposition parties alleged that the director of NIMHANS did not respond to their calls on providing treatment. Huge load Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education K. Sudhakar said NIMHANS has a huge load of patients and patients from all southern States get admitted to the hospital for treatment. Though the State government provides Rs. 80 crore per annum for maintenance and other facilities, the Central government owned the hospital, which is facing a huge burden of patients, he said. Mr. Sudhakar said he had spoken to the NIMHANS director and the patient (GP member) has been shifted to St. John’s Hospital in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nimhans-denying-treatment/article36487095.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stadium murder: Four arrested||The Central Division police on Wednesday arrested a gang of four men, one of whom is a rowdy-sheeter from K.G. Halli, for allegedly murdering a rival on the premises of Bangalore Football Stadium on September 12 .  Three special teams formed to track down the accused gathered the CCTV camera footage and analysed over 100 clips to identify the accused. According to the police, Aravind had assaulted the brother of the prime accused recently, following which the accused decided to kill him. “We are probing to ascertain if more people were involved in the murder,” a senior police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stadium-murder-four-arrested/article36487075.ece
16 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||JD(S) stages protest against rise in prices of essentials||The Hassan taluk unit of Janata Dal (Secular) staged a protest condemning the rise in prices of essential commodities, including petrol and diesel, in Hassan on Wednesday. Hundreds of party workers rode bicycles on the main roads as part of the protest. The cycle jatha began at APMC Yard on B.M.Road and concluded at the Deputy Commissioner’s office, where they raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre and the State. The protesters said that common people had been suffering because of the steep increase in the price of petrol, diesel, LPG and other commodities. “The Narendra Modi-led government had failed to bring down prices. The LPG prices had been going up regularly. The people had been forced to pay higher taxes, though the price of fuel had been low in the international market. The fuel prices had impacted the price of other essential commodities as well. Both the salaried class and those in the unorganised sector had been hit hard,” the protesters said. They submitted a memorandum at the Deputy Commissioner’s office. Party’s Hassan taluk president S. Dyave Gowda, Agile Yogish and others led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-stages-protest-against-rise-in-prices-of-essentials/article36487516.ece
16 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Vaccination drive to cover 75,000 people||Chikkamagaluru district administration has planned a mega COVID-19 vaccination drive in the district on September 17 with an objective to vaccinate 75,000 people on the day. Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh, on Wednesday, said all those who had not yet taken the vaccine should get vaccinated on the day. The Health and Family Welfare Department would set up vaccination booths at community health centres, primary health centres and all other hospitals on the day. The staff members of the department would visit door-to-door to identify those who had not taken the vaccine and spread awareness on the importance of the vaccine to combat the spread of COVID-19. The heads of government departments should ensure all their subordinates were vaccinated. All those aged above 18 years were eligible to get the vaccines, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-drive-to-cover-75000-people/article36487514.ece
16 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||79 fresh cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 79 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. With that, the total number of cases in the district increased to 1,10,420. So far 1,344 have died due to the infection in the district. Among the fresh cases, five were in Alur, 10 in Arkalgud, seven in Arsikere, 10 each in Belur, Channarayapatna and Holenarsipur taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/79-fresh-cases-in-hassan/article36487517.ece
16 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||End elephant menace, growers tell Minister||A delegation of Karnataka Growers’ Federation (KGF), on Wednesday, met Forest Minister Umesh Katti and appealed to him to take steps to end the elephant menace in the coffee-growing areas of Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu districts. The delegation included legislators H.K. Kumaraswamy, K.S. Lingesh, K.G. Bopaiah, A.T. Ramaswamy, and Sunil Subramani, besides office-bearers of the federation. The growers demanded a railway barricade to stop the movement of elephants into the farm areas. A request seeking a grant of Rs. 496 crore for the railway barricade was placed before the Central government earlier. The State government should take it forward and implement it. Similarly, solar fencing should be provided for the growers with subsidies. Further, the federation urged the Minister to enhance the compensation for the families of those who died in elephant attacks to Rs. 25 lakh and provide scientific compensation for the loss of crops due to elephants. H.T. Mohan Kumar, president of KGF, and T.C. Anantha Subbarao, president of Hassan District Planters’ Association, in a press release said that the Minister listened to the demands and assured the delegation that he would visit Sakleshpur after the ongoing legislature session and discuss the issue with growers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/end-elephant-menace-growers-tell-minister/article36487518.ece
16 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||20 years’ RI for rape||A Shivamogga court has convicted a person accused of raping a minor girl and sentenced him to 20 years rigorous imprisonment, besides a penalty of Rs. 50,000. Barkat alias Mohammed Gous Peer of Tipu Nagar in Shivamogga city had raped a nine-year-old on May 11, 2019. Shivamogga Women Police had registered the case under the POCSO Act. The Additional District and Sessions Judge, on Tuesday, pronounced the judgment, according to a press release issued by Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad. On failing to pay the penalty, he would have to serve six months of simple imprisonment. Of the penalty, Rs. 48,000 would be paid to the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20-years-ri-for-rape/article36487523.ece
16 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Hubballi flyover project is flawed, say experts||With the authorities going ahead with the flyover project at Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi, experts and concerned citizens who have been seeking a re-look into the project have taken to social media to create awareness on the issue. Already, Indian Institute of Architects (IIA) and Institute of Urban Designers India (IUDI), along with Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), have raised their concerns particularly with regard to what they term as flaws in the planning of the mega project. They are of the opinion that the flawed plan of the flyover will lead to further traffic chaos in the central business district instead of easing it. Their another argument is that while the flyover will take care of the 10% of vehicular traffic, 90% of motorists, a majority of them local residents and those who come into the city for business and other works, will be forced to undergo hardships as the flyover will add to traffic chaos. IIA has said that it was able to get the Detailed Project Report and drawing from the authorities only after Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad held a meeting on the issue. In his social media post, Vice-Chairman of Karnataka Chapter of Mahesh Hiremath has said: “The major flyover will be of four-lane width of 17.5 m. While the existing road width is 24 m, the proposed road width is 31.5 m for which an additional 7.5 m of land is to be acquired, which means acquisition of 3.75 m on either side of Lamington Road where the ramp starts. In the newly acquired road width of 31.5 m, the centre 17.5 m four-lane, including median, is the flyover. The remaining 7 m on either side is for pedestrian movement, all mixed traffic with BRTS, Bendre and NWKRTC buses having to manoeuvre in 5.5 m road.” Mr. Hiremath feels that the flyover is not required for the city as it will not serve the purpose for which it is being constructed. “Already, work on 70% of the ring road has been completed and when commissioned, long-distance vehicles will not enter the city. What is required is good urban traffic management through development of traffic junctions, pedestrian paths and cycle paths. And, that can be done without constructing the flyover,” he told The Hindu . Another important aspect is the implementation of the master plan for the twin cities, which has been kept pending for decades. “If that is done properly, then we don’t need the flyover,” he said. IIA, IUDI experts have had initial rounds of discussion with the district authorities and they have been incomplete. “The practical problems have to be looked into at the site where the project is being implemented and we have requested the district administration to conduct an inspection. They have promised to conduct it in another week. We will point out the practical problems, it is for the consultants to provide solutions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-flyover-project-is-flawed-say-experts/article36487302.ece
16 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KLEIT in top 300 in NIRF ranking||KLE Institute of Technology (KLEIT), Hubballi, has bagged the NIRF (National Institute Ranking Framework) ranking in the 251-300 band out of 6,000 engineering institutions across the country. It is the only engineering institution from North Karnataka under Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) to achieve the feat. According to a press release issued by principal of the college Basavaraj Anami, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan recently released the sixth edition of the NIRF ranking 2021 through a live webcast in which KLEIT figured in the 251-300 band out of the 6,000 engineering institutions in the country. NIRF issues rankings only up to 300. KLEIT is one among the four engineering colleges in the State affiliated to VTU, Belagavi, that have received NIRF rankings and it is the only one from North Karnataka to do so. Renowned IITs and IISc Bengaluru have found aplace in the top 10. In a span of 12 years of its establishment, KLEIT has made a mark in parameters such as TLR (teaching, learning and resources), RP (research and professional practice), GO (graduation outcomes) and OI (outreach and inclusivity) that are considered the yardsticks for national ranking under NIRF, Prof. Anami has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kleit-in-top-300-in-nirf-ranking/article36487301.ece
16 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Somalapuram Rly. Station soon to handle iron ore freight||Divisional Manager of Hubballi Division of South Western Railway Arvind Malkhede has said that the Somalapuram Railway Station will soon be made available for handling iron ore benefiting sponge iron manufacturers. He disclosed this to representatives of trade and industry bodies during meetings organised by the Business Development Unit (BDU) of Hubballi Division in Ballari, Hosapete region, recently. He said that the railway station will be ready very soon to handle iron ore and industries can make use of the facility. At Ballari, Mr. Malkhede held a meeting with customers such as Karnataka Sponge Iron Manufacturer Association and others on the prospects of loading iron ore and coal to sponge iron plants located in the Ballari-Hosapete area. Inspection Inspection of the railway station was carried out by a divisional team to throw it open for handling freight traffic. Mr. Malkhede inspected Goods Shed facilities at Ballari and sought feedback on increasing rail traffic. Visit During a visit to Kudtini, Mr. Malkhede held interactions with other industry representatives and briefed them about railway freight incentive policy circulars and mini rake loading facility that is being offered to meet the industry requirements. At Tornagal and Hosapete, he assured Jindal Steel Works, BMM Ispat Limited, MSPL, A-One Steel and others of providing the best possible services and requested them to increase rail traffic. He said that officials will also be instructed to lend maximum support to merchants to facilitate the transportation of parcel traffic by rail. Senior Divisional Operations Manager and Convener of BDU Krishna Chaitanya, Divisional Commercial Manager Arvind Herle and others accompanied Mr. Malkede during visits and meetings. The Railways has set up BDU headed by Senior Divisional Operations Manager to serve as a nodal point for speedy operationalisation of any new traffic proposals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/somalapuram-rly-station-soon-to-handle-iron-ore-freight/article36487304.ece
16 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||DSS says NEP encourages privatisation of education||Opposing the National Education Policy 2020, the State Committee of Karnataka State Dalit Sangharsh Samiti (KSDSS) termed it as a policy of privatisation and commercialisation of education. KSDSS State organising convener Arjun Bhadre has is a press release said that the National Education Policy has not mentioned the government school system. It encourages privatisation of education and the government is shirking its responsibility in providing quality education. Mr. Bhadre stated that the NEP has a lot of features that are in conflict with the federal scheme of things as envisaged by the Constitution. Though academics, the teaching community and intellectuals have sent in their observations on the NEP, none of those have been considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dss-says-nep-encourages-privatisation-of-education/article36487298.ece
16 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two-day expo from tomorrow||The Poojya Doddappa Appa College of Engineering, Kalaburagi, will be organising a two-day Start-up Expo, Thinkathon, on the college campus from Friday. Vice-principal of the college S.S. Kalashetty, addressing presspersons here on Wednesday, said that the event is being jointly organised by the college and Manomaya Studio. Dr. Kalashetty said that more than 30 people with new start-up ideas related to information technology, robotics, tourism, food processing unit and over-the-top (OTT) platform have registered their names to take part in the expo. The purpose of the expo is to provide a comprehensive entrepreneurship platform for start-ups. Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani will be inaugurating the expo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-day-expo-from-tomorrow/article36487299.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corpn. proposes to have own vehicles for collection, transportation of solid waste||Mangaluru City Corporation Council in its special meeting on Wednesday proposed to make some logistical changes, including introduction of its own vehicles for collection and transportation of solid waste, in handling solid waste from February next. The changes to be made will not make any difference to citizens when they hand over solid waste or garbage to civic workers. The daily collection of wet waste and weekly collection of dry waste by the corporation will continue as usual. But it will help those having houses in narrow lanes where people complain about solid waste not being lifted daily as garbage collecting vehicles cannot reach such places. And, the council has in its meeting proposed to introduce hand carts or battery operated tricycles in such places to collect waste. The meeting was called to discuss the model of the proposed revised solid waste management plan as the civic body will have to change the existing private agency, Antony Waste Handling Cell Pvt. Ltd., which collects and transports solid waste. It is because the seven-year contract with the corporation will expire on January 31, 2022. At present, the handling of solid waste, comprising purchase of vehicles, their operation and maintenance and human resource required in the collection and transportation of waste have been completely outsourced to the company. The three main features proposed in the revised model are that human resource for handling waste will only be partially outsourced and the civic body will introduce its own vehicles for collecting and transporting waste. In addition, the contract period of the agency to be selected next, will be reduced to five years. Akshay Ranganath, a consultant for Anti Pollution Drive, which has prepared the draft of the revised plan, made a presentation on the revised model in the council. He told the councillors that the civic body will have to purchase 437 vehicles for collecting and transporting garbage and own them. But their maintenance should be outsourced. Drivers, loaders and helpers required should be outsourced. But civic workers will be provided by the corporation. Mayor Premananda Shetty told the council that the model of the revised plan will be sent to the government for approval. He said that a committee will be formed within a week to discuss the model in detail. The committee can suggest further changes to be made in the model. The changes can be incorporated while inviting bids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corpn-proposes-to-have-own-vehicles-for-collection-transportation-of-solid-waste/article36487488.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||25-year-old man from Karwar tests negative for Nipah||A 25-year-oldmicrobiologist from Karwar, who has been admitted in Government Wenlock Hospital here following his apprehensions over Nipah infection, has tested negative for the virus. His blood, urine, and nasal swab samples had been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, and to the Nipah testing centre in Kozhikode. “He is reported negative for Nipah (by NIV Pune),” said Dakshina Kannada District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishore Kumar in a statement on Wednesday. The man worked in a Goa-based company that manufactures testing kits for COVID-19 and Nipah. On September 8, he travelled on his two-wheeler from Goa to his home town, Karwar, when he got drenched in rain. He then had fever and headache. He searched the Internet, then thought he could have caught Nipah infection and approached a hospital in Karwar. He was referred to a private hospital in Udupi and then brought to the Government Wenlock Hospital here on September 11 where he and his father were isolated. Dr. Kumar and District Disease Surveillance Officer K. Jagadeesha wore PPE kits and did his detailed interview. He had no symptoms of the infection and his health parameters were stable. They found he was not exposed to any infection during his work. “As he was too worried of the likely infection, he was subjected to counselling,” Dr. Kumar said, and added that to rule out the infection they took clearance from the State authorities to send his samples for testing to NIV Pune and to the Kozhikode facility. The man has been tested negative for COVID-19, he said. As his father has been tested positive for COVID-19 and is undergoing treatment, the microbiologist is being treated as a primary contact and will remain in institutional quarantine for a week, Dr. Jagadeesha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karwar-man-tests-negative-for-nipah/article36487083.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||A new start to nurturing entrepreneurship||As many as 51 students shortlisted from 530 aspirants with entrepreneurial mindset from different colleges of Mangaluru began their journey towards entrepreneurship to create minimal viable product (MVP) so as to exhibit them to investors. The students on Wednesday attended the Young Entrepreneurs Meet to kick start the Entrepreneurship Mindset Programme of InUnity Mangaluru, supported by CII Industry Academia Panel and Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship, organised by Sahyadri Hub for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SHINE) Foundation. InUnity Mangaluru is a six-month bi-annual event to nurture youngsters with an entrepreneurial spirit to build community-centric solutions under the guidance of industry mentors. The programme serves as a catalyst, enhancing the interaction between educational institutions, industry associations and community stakeholders to develop effective solutions for the community. Students who are selected will be mentored by industry mentors in the next six months to use rapid prototyping tools, design thinking methodology and in-depth understanding of business terminologies to build sustainable businesses or innovative services, processes and products for the region. They will work with stakeholders from various sectors, including healthcare, education, fisheries, agriculture and environment, and be coached by industry experts to create minimal viable products (MVP). In January next, the students will pitch MVP to investors, start-up leaders, incubators and venture capitalists who may fund/support the conversion of the ideas into products, allowing students to launch their own businesses. CII Karnataka chairman and 3M India managing director Ramesh Ramadurai, CII Mangaluru District chairman Jeevan Saldanha and past chairman Prakash Kalbavi, CII’s Industry-Academia convener and Pro Chancellor of Nitte (Deemed to be University) Vishal Hegde, SHINE director Johnson Tellis and others were present. Mr. Saldanha said that the industry thought of encouraging entrepreneurship with a view to expanding the employment potential in the region to provide more jobs. Campus selection should not be the only priority, he said and added if the InUnity model becomes a success, it could be replicated across the country through the CII. Mr. Ramadurai was keen on taking this model to other regions of Karnataka soon, he added. InUnity organiser B. Hithaishy has urged entrepreneurs to join hands with the initiative. The organisers may be contacted on Ph: 9449845968.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-new-start-to-nurturing-entrepreneurship/article36487486.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Coast Guard rescues 11 fishermen||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) on Wednesday rescued 11 fishermen stranded at sea 35 nautical miles off the coast due to strong winds and swell from fishing boat IFB “Sagar Samrat” and ensured that the fishing boat as well as the fishermen reached Malpe Fishing Harbour safely. A release from Coast Guard Karnataka here said that the fishing boat lost propulsion owing to engine failure in rough weather conditions and requested transiting merchant ships for help. The merchant ships in turn requested the Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (MRCC), Mumbai, for assistance. ICG ship Rajdoot sailed from New Mangalore for undertaking search and rescue operation and arrived at stranded boat position at 11 p.m. on Tuesday. Considering inclement weather and various complications, including battery draining, depleting ration/ fresh water, ICGS Rajdoot took the fishing boat under tow along with 11 fishermen in good health condition at 12.20 a.m. on Wednesday. The ship handed over the boat at 5.20 p.m. to another fishing boat, Dhanishka-I arranged for by the fisheries authorities about 5 nautical miles off Malpe coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-guard-rescues-11-fishermen/article36487484.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Make science concepts simple while retaining their essence, says scientist||While making it simple for people to understand science concepts in Kannada, care should be taken that explanation is not too simplistic to remove the essence of those concepts, said Director of DRDO Defence Bio Engineering and Electro Medical Laboratory T.M. Kotresh on Wednesday. In his virtual inaugural address of the three-day Kannada Vijnana Sammelan organised by the Karnataka chapter of the Swadeshi Vijnana Andolana at Mangalore University, Mr. Kotresh said that books on science concepts written in Kannada and local languages should make people understand concepts in a better way. With the new National Education Policy giving preference to teaching in mother tongue, Mr. Kotresh said, more people will be encouraged to come up with books on science concepts in Kannada. A good beginning has been made in the three-day conference wherein nearly 200 research papers on health and other aspects of science have been submitted, he said. Classical musician Vidhyabhushana, who received the Bhimsen Joshi Samskrutika Vijnana Award on the occasion, said that saints of the Bhakti cult through their compositions have conveyed the essence of Vedas in a way that the common man can understand. Head of the Department of Aerospace Engineering, Indian Institute of Science, Gopalan Jagadeesh, and Director of Centre for Incubation Innovation Research and Consultancy Krishna Venkatesh, who received the Sir M Visvesvaraya Sciene Award and the CNR Rao Science Award, respectively, spoke. Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who also addressed the conference virtually, said that the State government will support initiatives of Swadeshi Vijnana Andolana in bringing out science literature in Kannada. Mangalore University Vice-Chancellor P. Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya, Head of Ramakrishna Mutt Mangaluru Jitakamananda and State president of the andolana Ganesh Karnik also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-science-concepts-simple-while-retaining-their-essence-says-scientist/article36487492.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccination drive in city tomorrow||The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) with the district administration will conduct a vaccination drive against COVID-19 in the city on Friday from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. The vaccine will be available in select hospitals, medical colleges, educational institutions and Urban Primary Healthcare Centers. The drive will be conducted in the interest of those working in malls, clothing stores, grocery shops, hotels and restaurants. All the staff members are requested to make the best use of this opportunity and abide by the COVID-19 guidelines. The vaccine will prove to be beneficial in the coming days, Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said in a release on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said the vaccine will be administered in 533 sites across the district on Friday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. The administration aims to administer 1.50 lakh doses on the day, he said at a meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-drive-in-city-tomorrow/article36487495.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Demolition has hurt people: Congress||By demolishing an old temple in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district, the State government has hurt the religious feelings of many people and acted against peoples’ interest, said K. Harish Kumar, president, District Congress, and U.T. Khader, MLC and Mangaluru MLA, here on Wednesday. In separate press conferences, Mr. Kumar and Mr. Khader said the State government had failed to properly follow guidelines laid down in 2009 by the apex court for removal of unauthorised places of worship. Instead of considering regularising the structures or relocating them to other places, it allowed the demolition. While Mr. Kumar held the BJP responsible, Mr. Khader sought the resignation of the Mysuru district in-charge Minister. Claiming that the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government did not allow demolition of any places of worship during its rule till 2015, Mr. Khader said the Congress government respected people’s feelings and did not opt for drastic action. “The present BJP government is known for destructive acts and it favoured the demolition of the temple. After the demolition, it is now blaming officials,” he said. It was sad to see several parts of the temple being dumped by the roadside, Mr. Kumar said. The two legislators said they would raise the issue of demolition on the floor of the house. ‘Govt. enacting drama’ Meanwhile, in Mysuru, Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister, has claimed that the Chief Secretary of the State would not have sent letters to the Deputy Commissioners of the districts to remove religious structures that had come up in public places without the knowledge of the State government. Claiming that the government was aware of the drive, he said that Chief Minister Bommai’s decision to suspend the operation and discuss the matter in the Cabinet was part of the ‘drama enacted by the government’ following public outcry. He said the government should have stopped the drive when the Chief Secretary wrote the letter. “But, they did not do it,” he said while accusing the BJP of practising ‘fake’ Hindutva. The BJP had no respect for Hindu religion and Hindu temples, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged while speaking to reporters in Bengaluru on Wednesday. He said the Congress has no pretensions towards religion. “We respect God. We respect Rama. But, we don’t misuse religion for votes or politics,” he said while accusing the BJP of dishonesty when it comes to religion. “They misuse religion for votes,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah had also tweeted his criticism of the demolition of an old temple in Hullahalli in Nanjangud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demolition-has-hurt-people-congress/article36487312.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kudroli Ganesh felicitated||The Junior Chamber International (JCI) recently felicitated magician Kudroli Ganesh with Kamala Pathra Award in recognition of his service to the art. A release here said that JCI, Lal Bagh, chose Mr. Ganesh for the award for his efforts in getting international recognition for the art of magic of India. JCI Zone XV Chairman Soujanya Hegde presented the award and congratulated Mr. Ganesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kudroli-ganesh-felicitated/article36487482.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Student found dead in pond||A medical student was found drowned in a pond belonging to Varnashi Organic Farms in Kepu village of Bantwal taluk on Tuesday evening. The Vitla Police identified the deceased as Maizy Carole Fernandes, 31, a resident of Prashant Nagar in Mangaluru. She was part of a group that had volunteered to work on the organic farm for a month. She reached the farm two days ago. On Tuesday evening, volunteers assembled for training in swimming and realized Ms. Fernandes was missing. Suspecting that she may have entered the pond, the farmhouse personnel launched a search and found her in the water. She was immediately rushed to the Vitla Community Health Centre and then shifted to a private hospital in Mangaluru where she was declared dead. After a statement from her family members, the Vitla Police registered a case of unnatural death. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-found-dead-in-pond/article36487497.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for murder||The Punjalkatte Police arrested Siddiq, 30, on the charge of murdering his friend Rafiq, 20, and throwing the body in a forest area in Vagga on Sunday. According to the police, the two fought often. Siddiq called Rafiq for a stroll in Karla of Tenkajekaru village on Sunday evening and reportedly stabbed him to death. Following a plaint by Rafiq’s father, the Pujalkatte Police registered a case and arrested Siddiq.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-murder/article36487494.ece
16 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Beary Academy unveils official website||Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy on Tuesday unveiled its new website,https://bearyacademy.kar- nataka.gov.in/, provided by the government. Speaking after unveiling the website, academy president Raheem Uchchila said that the academy had a privately managed website since its inception in 2009. The website was to be renewed every year. He represented to the government soon after taking charge of the academy to provide a uniform website and the government responded positively by providing the new one, Mr. Uchchila said. The new website could be managed by the academy staff themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beary-academy-unveils-official-website/article36487481.ece
16 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tug of war over Vivekananda memorial intensifies||The representatives of Viveka Smaraka Samithi comprising prominent citizens of Mysuru have called upon the activists to drop their protest in front of the Niranjan Mutt where a memorial for Swami Vivekananda is slated for construction. The activists, including various pro-Kannada groups, farmers organisations, and DSS, are protesting since many weeks in their attempt to ‘safeguard’ the NTM School from closure as the school will have to be shut to pave way for the proposed memorial for Swami Vivekananda. The protest intensified on Wednesday with the activists taking out a procession. Former MLC D. Made Gowda said the protest was baseless and described it as a street play (”Beedi Nataka’’) by misguided elements. He threatened to initiate contempt proceedings as the activists were persisting with demonstrations despite the High Court of Karnataka ruling in favour of Sri Ramakrishna Ashram. He said the protests despite the court ruling was a slur on the reputation of Mysuru and an attack on the democratic fabric of the country. Arun Kumar, advocate for Viveka Smaraka and Sri Ramakrishna Ashram, furnished documents and property extracts and said the land was acquired by the government and has been transferred to Sri Ramakrishna Ashram following the due provisions of the law. Mr. Arun Kumar said both the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru and the Commissioner of Police have been apprised of the court ruling but they have turned a blind eye and have allowed the demonstrations to continue. “They are liable for contempt proceedings,” he said. Mr. Made Gowda also alleged that the security staff guarding the property was roughed up and assaulted by the activists and though the issue has been brought to the notice of the DC, no action has been initiated. When questioned as to why a police complaint has not been lodged, Mr. Arun Kumar said the district administration was duty bound to pass on the complaint to the jurisdictional police station. The issue is bogged down in controversy as Sri Ramakrishna Ashram in Mysuru has been vested with the responsibility of constructing the memorial at the place where Swami Vivekananda stayed there for a few days during his visit to Mysuru in 1892. The State government passed an order in 2013 paving way for transfer of property and even the Centre released funds for memorial to mark the 150th birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. But the activists of Maharani NTM School Horata Okkuta and Sri Niranjan Mutt Samrakshana Samithi said they have no objection to the memorial but do not want the school to be shut down and such a move would be antithetical to the philosophy of Swami Vivekananda. Even the Niranjan Mutt has to be safeguarded as it was in existence since 1840, they claimed and hence want the GO transferring the land to Sri Ramakrishna Ashram to be rescinded. ‘Value system’ Swami Muktidananda, President, Sri Ramakrisha Ashram, Mysuru, said here on Wednesday that the proposed memorial for Swami Vivekananda will provide a value system for the youths to help build the society and the nation. “The memorial is not a mere building but a service which will benefit lakhs of students’’. “We have established Seva Mandirs in villages for the comprehensive development of the community and many villages have been adopted. The ashram is engaged in social service and promoting values and yet it was being attacked. The ashram was least interested in acquiring property and had turned down many such requests for establishing university, institutions etc. But in this case the government has come forward to hand over the land to establish a memorial because Swami Vivekananda stayed here’’, said Swami Muktidananda. He regretted that despite furnishing documents including court ruling to establish the legal veracity over the land, it was being contested.  Former MLC Made Gowda says the protest despite the court ruling was a slur on the reputation of Mysuru and an attack on the democratic fabric of the country Activists say they have no objection to the memorial but do not want the school to be shut down||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tug-of-war-over-vivekananda-memorial-intensifies/article36487521.ece
16 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hoteliers want end to night curfew||Hoteliers in Mysuru have questioned the need for continuing the night curfew in Mysuru when all trades, activities and events have been permitted, following sharp drop in COVID-19 cases. Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association President C. Narayana Gowda sought to know the reason for continuing the night curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. which has largely hit restaurants and hotels that are supposed to shut down operations after 9 p.m. even as events, including weddings and other functions, are going on till late in the night. “We had requested for removing the night curfew when the weekend lockdown curbs were withdrawn. Buses, trains and flight services were running normally, and all types of trades and businesses were being operated routinely. Wedding receptions and dinners are going on till midnight,” he said. Mr. Gowda asked “Why hotels, restaurants, clubs and bars and restaurants are being singled out.” Arguing that the night curfew has caused inconvenience to the public, he said the State government can consider withdrawing it since cases have fallen further in Mysuru. He urged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to do so. He also urged Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar to speak to the Chief Minister on the issue The cases in Mysuru have fallen below 50 since the last two days, and the test positivity rate has dropped below 1 per cent. The representatives of various trade associations and business establishments had earlier opposed the extension of weekend lockdown in Mysuru citing reasons of COVID-19 spike in Kerala, and urged the government for withdrawing the clampdown as the traders and business community were hard hit and yet to recover from the losses they suffered due to protracted lockdown. The weekend lockdown, however, was withdrawn in Mysuru when the TPR fell below 2 per cent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hoteliers-want-end-to-night-curfew/article36487520.ece
16 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. enacting drama’||Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister, has claimed that the Chief Secretary would not have sent letters to the Deputy Commissioners of the districts to remove religious structures that had come up in public places without the knowledge of the State government. Claiming that the government was aware of the drive, he said that Chief Minister Bommai’s decision to suspend the operation and discuss the matter in the Cabinet was part of the ‘drama enacted by the government’ following public outcry. He said the government should have stopped the drive when the Chief Secretary wrote the letter. “But, they did not do it,” he said while accusing the BJP of practising ‘fake’ Hindutva. The BJP had no respect for Hindu religion and Hindu temples, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged while speaking to reporters in Bengaluru on Wednesday. He said the Congress has no pretensions towards religion. “We respect God. We respect Rama. But, we don’t misuse religion for votes or politics,” he said while accusing the BJP of dishonesty when it comes to religion. “They misuse religion for votes,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah had also tweeted his criticism of the demolition of an old temple in Hullahalli in Nanjangud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-enacting-drama/article36487309.ece
16 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Theatre fest in honour of B.V. Karanth from Sept. 19||Rangayana is hosting ‘Bharathiya Rangasangeetha-Natakotsava’ on its premises here from September 19 to 26 to mark the birth anniversary of renowned theatre personality B.V. Karanth. The eight-day theatre festival will take place at the newly established B.V. Karanth Ranga Chavadi on Rangayana premises. Rangayana director Addanda C. Cariappa told reporters here on Wednesday that industrialist M. Jagannath Shenoy would inaugurate the festival on September 19, birth anniversary of Karanth, at 5 p.m. On the occasion, a bust of Karanth would be unveiled in the garden of Rangayana. A seminar titled ‘Karanth Rangavalokana’ would be held on the concluding day of the festival. NSD Bengaluru director Veena Sharma Bhoosnurmath, senior actors Sundar Raj, Srinivas Prabhu, and Suresh Anagalli and others would participate. Also, this year, in collaboration with Mysuru Rangayana and the Department of Kannada and Culture, Bharatiya Ranga Sangeetha Dina would be celebrated in all districts, on September 19. Jayaram Patil of B.V. Karanth Ranga Prathistana and Rangayana joint director Mallikarjunaswamy were present. On the occasion, posters of the theatre festival were released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/theatre-fest-in-honour-of-bv-karanth-from-sept-19/article36487522.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Wastage of rainwater in urban areas main reason for growing scarcity, says CAG||Work was under progress in the case of 37 lakes, the report said. About 41 and 51 waterbodies existing in Koramangala and Vrishabhavathi valley, respectively, about a century ago, were reduced to eight and 13 in 2017, the CAG said. Difference in identification of Rajakaluve between BDA and BBMP led to confusion over the demarcation of buffer zone, it said. The report said BBMP had lost financial aid of Rs. 83.59 crore under the JNNURM scheme as works were abandoned due to non-availability of sites and poor maintenance of contract works. Itsaid tenders for 110 SWD works costing Rs. 38.59 crore were invited and got executed by the zonal executive engineers who were not made responsible for SWD works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wastage-of-rainwater-in-urban-areas-main-reason-for-growing-scarcity-says-cag/article36487086.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Last respects||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/last-respects/article36487499.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||It ain’t smart||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-aint-smart/article36487306.ece
16 September 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||I’m victim of political witch-hunt: G. Sudhakaran||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)] leader G. Sudhakaran, after serving as Minister for Public Works and Registration in the previous Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, still hogs the limelight, this time for unusual reasons. H. Salam, MLA, who succeeded Mr. Sudhakaran in the Ambalappuzha Assembly constituency, had alleged that the veteran leader had not cooperated with him properly during the 2021 Assembly polls. The latter recently appeared before a party committee that looked into the complaints about electioneering in the constituency. Now that the committee has submitted its report and news reports suggesting the panel has substantiated some of the charges against Mr. Sudhakaran, political observers feel that chances of disciplinary action against him are highly likely. Not sidelined However, Mr. Sudhakaran strongly believes that he has been the victim of an incessant witch-hunt by “political criminals”, who colluded with a section of the media. In an interview with The Hindu , Mr. Sudhakaran says he does not feel sidelined in the party. A few “ignorant” party members, not leaders, have targeted him on social media, unaware of the facts. “The party candidate who won from Ambalappuzha made some remarks about me at a CPI(M) district committee meeting regarding electioneering. No other member raised any issues against me. It is important to look into the charges and the party was right to appoint the committee,” he says. Terming the charges against him a total surprise, Mr. Sudhakaran says he had recommended P.P. Chitharanjan and H. Salam as party candidates in Alappuzha and Ambalappuzha respectively. Brushing off the allegations of his absence and lack of support to the LDF campaign, he drew parallels between his own electoral battle in Ambalappuzha in 2006 and that of Mr. Salam in 2021. Victory margin “When I contested from Ambalappuzha in 2006, I won by a margin of 11,929 votes. My victory margin crossed 22,000 votes in the third contest in 2016. Mr. Salam’s victory margin of 11,125 votes, in his first election, is not a small thing. He garnered above 61,000 votes, more than the party’s assessment. Most important is that the LDF has won the seat for the fourth time in a row,” says Mr. Sudhakaran, a CPI(M) State committee member. Future plan On the possibility of CPI (M) taking disciplinary action against him based on the inquiry report, Mr. Sudhakaran hopes the party leadership will apply their mind before reaching a conclusion. “I have always towed the party line. If they find any mistake on my part, I am ready to accept it. Whatever be the party’s decision, I will accept it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/im-victim-of-political-witch-hunt-g-sudhakaran/article36487426.ece
16 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Four held on charge of poaching barking deer||Four persons were arrested on Wednesday on the charge of poaching a barking deer in a private plantation at Nedumbala under the Meppadi forest range in the South Wayanad forest division. The accused are Rajan,48, Mohanan,38, Sivakumar, 40, and Gilbert, 40, of Nedumbala near Meppadi in the district. K.C. Pradeepan, forest range officer, Meppadi, said the accused killed and sold the venison of a six-year-old male barking deer (Cervus unicolor), which had been trapped in a plastic net used by farmers for detracting wild animals from entering into a private land. It was suspected that the accused were members of a poaching racket, Mr. Pradeepan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-held-on-charge-of-poaching-barking-deer/article36487385.ece
16 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||UDF claims support of 4 rebels in Thrikkakara||The Congress parliamentary party has decided to meet on September 26 to settle inter-party issues in the wake of the Opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) moving a no-confidence motion against Thrikkakara municipal Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan. Congress party sources said that the first priority was to defeat the no-confidence motion and alleged that the motion was brought on the basis of allegations that had not been proved. Congress party block president Noushad Pallechi said that there was no difference of opinion either in the Congress party or in United Democratic Front (UDF) constituent Muslim League about the immediate objective of defeating the non-confidence motion. He said that the district Congress leadership would take into consideration complaints by UDF councillors at a meeting scheduled on September 26. As of now, there was no difference of opinion, and four Congress party rebels had joined forces with the ruling council to give it a strength of 25 in the 43-member council, he said. The sixteen Congress councillors had announced that they would stay away from the discussions on the no-confidence motion on September 23. Five of the Muslim League councillors announced their decision to stay away from the discussions on Tuesday. The Congress leadership also said that the UDF had been assured of the support from four of the five rebel councillors. The no-confidence motion cannot be considered if there is no quorum in the council and it will be another six months before a similar motion can be brought by the Opposition. While the LDF has the support of 18 councillors, including a rebel, the UDF has a strength of 25. Twenty-two will make up the quorum for taking up any discussion on the motion against the Chairperson. The no-confidence motion has been brought up in the wake of allegations made by the LDF that the Chairperson and the ruling council had paid Rs. 10,000 each to the councillors as a gift ahead of the Onam celebrations. The Chairperson had denied the allegations and the Congress party district leadership, which inquired into the allegations, had given the Chairperson a clean chit on the issue. Congress party leaders had said that the allegations were politically motivated and there was no basis for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-claims-support-of-4-rebels-in-thrikkakara/article36487402.ece
16 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Slight rise in infections among kids no cause for worry, say experts||A slight increase has been detected in the number of children getting infected by coronavirus in Ernakulam even though health experts say there is no cause for concern. An analysis of the number of cases in the last four weeks showed that the percentage of children getting infected went up from 17.45 in the first week to 22.4 in the fourth week. The percentage of children among positive cases was 10.4 in August last year. The corresponding figure in this August 10.7. In January this year, the percentage of children (1 to 18 years) among the infected was 11.58. It went up to 15.07 in May and 18.19 by the end of August. Stating that there is no cause for major concern about the uptick, M. Narayanan, former State president of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP), says that only 43% of the total infected among children in the district during the last two weeks were symptomatic. “That means about 57% had no symptoms. Of the symptomatic, only 1.2% required hospital admission,” he says. Dr. Narayanan says that most of the children getting infected are isolated and not tested as their parents or some adult members may also be infected in the family. “Children are also scared of undergoing swab tests,” he adds. S. Sachidananda Kamath, former national president of IAP, points out that it is natural that the risk of infection will shift to children as adult population would turn immune either through exposure to the virus or vaccination. “There are no major complications reported in about 99% of the children getting infected. However, care must be taken in children with pre-existing co-morbidities,” he says. Explaining that children may exhibit symptoms like diarrhoea and vomiting along with regular symptoms like fever and throat pain, Dr. Kamath advises that the infected children should be given lots of fluids. “They also need plenty of rest,” he says. Lesser complications among the infected children became evident as only one child (below the age of 10 years) is receiving ICU care as on September 13 in the district, as per official estimates. The total number of the infected admitted in ICU is around 322.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slight-rise-in-infections-among-kids-no-cause-for-worry-say-experts/article36487401.ece
16 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, police receive emails threatening Cochin Shipyard||There seems to be no end to the drama involving the Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) with the city police now receiving emails threatening to compromise the security of the public sector behemoth close on the heels of similar emails received by CSL officials in less than a fortnight. Even as the city police were busy trying to track down the source of the emails sent to the CSL threatening to bomb vital installations, the Central and South police stations received similar emails in their official mail ids on Monday and Tuesday. The CSL, where the country’s first Indigenous Aircraft Carrier is being built, has been on high security alert ever since it received the threats. The first of the mails was was received by CSL officials on August 24. The South police registered a case and a thorough security sweep was held in its wake. The content of the threatening email received by the police was similar to the ones received by CSL officials. Though the IP address from which the emails sent to the police and CSL officials was found to be the same, the police are having a tough time as it was reportedly spoofed. The sender, who claims to be under pressure from foreign agents, has demanded bitcoins worth two lakh dollars to spare the CSL. Reportedly, about 20 such mails with the same content have been sent to various email ids since August 24. The police have registered a case under Section 66F of the IT Act for cyber terrorism, which could even attract a probe by the National Investigation Agency, and Section 384 of the IPC for extortion. The police are being assisted by Cyberdome and Cyber Cell of the State police. Though the police have interrogated around eight suspects, the real culprit could not yet be traced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-police-receive-emails-threatening-cochin-shipyard/article36487397.ece
16 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||UDF loses power in Paingottoor||The ruling United Democratic Front (UDF) lost power in Paingottoor grama panchayat in Ernakulam in a no-confidence motion moved by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Wednesday. The UDF, which was ruling the council with a wafer-thin majority of one seat, lost power after Nisar Mohammed, UDF backed-independent, voted in favour of the no-confidence motion. The Congress-led UDF had seven seats in the 13-ward council. Nisar, who was vice-president in the council, had resigned from the post a few days ago, triggering speculation that he may part ways with the UDF. Sissy Jaison, president of the outgoing council, said that she had no idea of the reason behind his decision to switch to the rival camp. Nisar decided to vote against the motion owing to his differences with the Congress even though he was not available for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-loses-power-in-paingottoor/article36487403.ece
16 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Chellanam residents call for a relook at Punargeham||Residents of Chellanam panchayat, one of the regions worst affected by sea erosion in the State, have called on the government to take a second look at the Punargeham project to rehabilitate people living within 50 metres of the high-tide area. They have said that the money being offered by the government for people to relocate is “absolutely inadequate”. “An amount of Rs. 10 lakh to buy a plot and build a house is not enough. However, the government is flaunting the case of a group of people, who are absolutely helpless and have lost their homes already, as having happily subscribed to the Punargeham programme,” said T.A. Dalphin of Pachima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samithy. He said that the families, keys to whose houses would be handed over on Thursday, were utterly helpless. Their houses have been lost or seriously damaged. They had no option but to take the offer from the government. They are not happy with the compensation, but are helpless, he added. President of Twenty-Twenty Chellanam Biju Charles said that the compensation being offered by the government was totally inadequate. Instead, the government must work to protect the coast and ensure the safety of lives and property of people. T.A. Sebastian of Chellanam-Fort Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samithy said that the government must take steps to protect the coast. “The Punargeham programme is a fraud on people. It is cruel and inhuman on the part of the government to implement the programme. The compensation for those who gave up land for the K-Rail project was much higher. Why should there be two standards for compensating people,” he asked. The keys to 15 houses built under the Punargeham project in Ernakulam district will be handed over on Thursday. A total of 308 houses and 303 flat units are ready across the State under the rehabilitation programme for those living in the most vulnerable of the coastal areas. The programme is being implemented under the Fisheries Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chellanam-residents-call-for-a-relook-at-punargeham/article36487394.ece
16 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Second highest chargesheeting rate in State||The State has the second highest chargesheeting rate under the Indian Penal Code as per the Crime in India statistics for 2020 released by the National Crime Records Bureau. At 94.90%, Kerala was only behind Gujarat (97.10%). Tamil Nadu was ranked third with 91.70%. Kerala recorded the lowest incidence of murder with 323 victims in 306 incidents, recording a rate of 0.9 compared to the national rate of 2.20, which is calculated per one lakh population. However, the State seems to have faltered in treating its children and women well. While there were other States with higher number of cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the rate of incidence of 23 in Kerala was way above the national rate of 10.50. The State had 2,209 child victims in 2,163 incidents. Kerala posted a higher rate of incidence of 26.60 in terms of cases reported under various children-related Acts. The State witnessed 2,502 such incidents. When it comes to insulting the modesty of women, there were 442 incidents involving 454 victims, with the rate of 2.40 higher than the national rate of 1.0. Women in the State continue to face cruelty at the hands of husbands or relatives as there were 2,736 such victims though the rate at 14.7 was less than the national rate of 17. Women who had fallen victims to domestic violence stood at 165, the rate of which at 0.9 was much higher than the national rate of 0.1. Kerala had 647 rape victims in 637 incidents. Even as dowry-related incidents continue to rock the State, only three incidents were reported in the State under the Dowry Prohibition Act. The State had 2,416 women assaulted in 2,353 incidents and 1,091 sexually harassed in 1,078 incidents and in both, the rate of incidence at 12.80 and 5.90 was much higher than the national rate of 7.1 and 2.6 respectively. Kerala ranked fourth in cases registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-highest-chargesheeting-rate-in-state/article36487424.ece
16 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Minister to inaugurate projects at medical college||Health Minister Veena George will inaugurate projects worth Rs. 9 crore at the Government Medical College, Ernakulam, on Friday. The projects are part of the initiatives made under the government’s 100-days programme. The family quarters for doctors built at a cost of Rs. 5 crore is among the key projects to be inaugurated by the Minister. The facility has eight apartments in four floors and is spread over 14, 639 sq.ft. The oxygen generator plant set up at a cost of Rs. 92 lakh is the second project. The plant is capable of generating 600 litres of oxygen in a minute. It is among the four oxygen generator plants allotted by the Centre in the State, according to an official release. The renovated pay ward facility will also be inaugurated on the occasion. It was renovated at a budget of Rs. 50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-to-inaugurate-projects-at-medical-college/article36487399.ece
16 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Accused in multiple burglaries nabbed after 22 years||A man, allegedly a serial inter-State burgler, was arrested on Wednesday by the Aluva East police after being on the run for the past 22 years. The arrested man was identified as Kanakaraj, 40, of Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu. He was allegedly behind successive burglaries in shops in Aluva town recently and was planning another when he was nabbed. He was last arrested in 1999 by the Thrissur police in connection with a theft. He was arrested from near the railway station by a special investigation squad. The man had allegedly carried out thefts at a textile unit and an electrical shop. “We have deployed more people for patrolling in Aluva and surrounding areas. The antecedents of the arrested will be probed further,” said District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-in-multiple-burglaries-nabbed-after-22-years/article36487395.ece
16 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Continue vaccinating prisoners: High Court||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has ordered that the administration of COVID-19 vaccine to prisoners and others in central and other jails be continued under the monitoring of the Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services. The directive was passed recently while disposing of a suo motu case initiated on the basis of a letter from a prisoner saying that prisoners were not being administered vaccines. The government pleader had submitted that there were only 4,808 prisoners in the State and that the majority had been given the first dose of vaccination. Moreover, special initiatives had been taken by the State government to vaccinate the prisoners in different age groups. In fact, vaccination was administered to remand prisoners and others periodically. It was going on as a continuing programme. The court recorded the submissions of the government pleader and disposed of the suo motu writ petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/continue-vaccinating-prisoners-high-court/article36487404.ece
16 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,645 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 1,645 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. A total of 1,613 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 25 cases has not been ascertained. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 40 included Thrikkakara (70), Maradu (70), Puthenvelikkara (68), Kumbalanghi (53), Thripunitura (49), and Koovapadi (43). The regions that reported fewer than five cases included Elamkulam, Kaloorkad, Keerampara, Kuttampuzha, Nedumbassery, Panampilly Nagar, Pothanikad, Amballoor, Edakochi, Kadamakudi, Chalikkavattam, Chellanam, and Palarivattom. As many as 28,199 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1645-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article36487396.ece
16 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Testimony of ex-cops: HC seeks law||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to address the issue of police officers deposing against prosecution in criminal cases after their retirement, by making appropriate legislation against such practice. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan, while dealing with an appeal in a counterfeit note case, observed that the government should consider the issue very seriously. The State Police Chief apprehended in his report that there were chances of retired officers giving evidence against the prosecution due to various reasons.  The government could constitute a committee with legal experts to study the issue before going in for legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/testimony-of-ex-cops-hc-seeks-law/article36487409.ece
16 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Demand to provide funds for civic bodies||The civic bodies in the State are heading for an unprecedented financial crisis, which may even disrupt the day-to-day functioning of offices and payment of salaries and other benefits to employees and pensioners, according to the Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff Association. The government owes the civic bodies around Rs. 650 crore. Local bodies are now paying the pension and other benefits from their own funds. The institutions are struggling to meet even the essential expenses, said association president P.I. Jacobson, general secretary M. Vasanthan and State secretary O.V. Jayaraj in a representation to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-to-provide-funds-for-civic-bodies/article36487393.ece
16 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Work on Chungam bridge to begin tomorrow||Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) will begin rebuilding Chungam bridge, one of the oldest in West Kochi, on Friday. Piling works on the bridge will begin on Friday. Those who usually use the Chungam bridge can now use the Pullupalam, said a communication. Electrical cables on the bridge have been relocated already, while works are on to re-establish the water pipelines, the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-chungam-bridge-to-begin-tomorrow/article36487398.ece
16 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ED attaches gold, cash of Swapna, others||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached 30.245 kg of gold worth Rs. 14.82 crore and cash to the tune of Rs. 14.98 lakh in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The gold belonged to 13 accused in the case and the cash to P.S. Sarith and Swapna Suresh, the key accused. The ED initiated an investigation by invoking the Prevention of Money Laundering Act based on a First Information Report filed by the National Investigation Agency before a special court here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-attaches-gold-cash-of-swapna-others/article36487410.ece
16 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Poachers keep foresters on their toes||An average guar (Indian bison) weighs around 1,500 kg and the game meat has a lucrative inter-State market. Since the consumer demand is always high, a single hunting trip can easily fetch anything from Rs. 10 lakh. While a sambar deer requires much less time and effort, monitor lizards guarantee most exorbitant rates. Apart from restaurants and bars, there has been a steady increase in the urban clientele and poaching gangs, which include trained hunters, have started operating in many parts of the State. Along with a range of small mammals, maximum meat yielding species such as gaurs and sambars are targeted for game cuisine. According to officials, the rackets operate out of the vast estates bordering forests. “Ungulates often stray outside deep forest and it’s easy for poachers to identify their regular grazing grounds. With some local support they stay in abandoned buildings and conduct lightning-fast operations. An experienced gang can easily pull off an operation within five to six hours,” says an official. The poachers use everything from traditional snares to guns while hunting patterns and techniques differ from gang to gang. Auctions too “There are some poachers who prefer the less-risky bushmeat and there are some others who always go for large animals. They get prior orders and gangs market the meat through their loyal network. They even conduct auctions through WhatsApp and Telegram depending on the rarity and market value of the meat. They have found some ways to stealthy transport it and despite stringent laws, it reaches customers.” Reportedly, there are gangs that stay inside the forest for long periods of time and return with large hauls. But officials say it is nearly impossible for poachers to camp inside any reserve forest and operate. “We have anti-poaching camp sheds in several interior areas with hardly any road access. Each unit covers a particular area and we also have specific protection plans. We will be able to spot them easily.” The official says the gangs include sharpshooters from other States and they usually hide the firearms in the forest. Criminal background “Most will have some kind of criminal background and we recently arrested a Tamil Nadu resident accused in a murder case. They come from some border villages and focus on game meat and carry out these high-speed operations. Right now, there is an evident dip in wildlife trade involving animal parts, but illegal game hunting continues in several forest divisions,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poachers-keep-foresters-on-their-toes/article36487442.ece
16 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Houses to be handed over today||The handing over of houses completed as part of the Punargeham project will be held at five constituencies of the district on Thursday. Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J.Chinchurani will inaugurate the district-level programme at Chavara. Sujith Vijayan Pillai, MLA, will preside over the function while N.K. Premachandran, MP, will be the chief guest. District panchayat president Sam K. Daniel, Matsyafed Chairman T. Manoharan, and Neendakara grama panchayat president P.R. Rajith will be present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/houses-to-be-handed-over-today/article36487445.ece
16 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,348 new cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 1,348 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,175 recoveries on Wednesday. While 1,339 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include one person from another State and eight health workers. At present, the district has 30,662 persons under observation. A total of 1,406 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 18.3 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1348-new-cases-in-kollam/article36487444.ece
16 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kozhikode Corporation all set to roll out a hygiene protocol||The Kozhikode Corporation has set the ball rolling for implementing a hygiene and green protocol for the city. A special meeting of the corporation council unanimously adopted a draft of the hygiene protocol, Hygieia 21, on Wednesday. Health standing committee chairperson S. Jayasree presented the draft protocol aimed at implementing an action plan in a span of 15 days to three years. The draft of the protocol pertaining to 33 different subjects has been prepared in consultation with experts. It has touched upon issues in all sectors considering the aspects of their specialities and characteristics. It will be rolled out on October 2. The hygiene and green protocol will be implemented in residential areas, commercial establishments, State government offices, and educational institutions in conformity with the existing laws. As such a micro unit with an implementing head will be established in all segments. The participation of all stakeholders will be required to bring about an effect to the protocol, Ms. Jayasree said. The schemes are projects that will be implemented in a time-bound manner on long-term and short-term basis. The objective of the protocol is fundamentally to bring about a hygiene culture in the city rather than penalising citizens, she said. Since development of the city mainly hinged on the tourism sector, Ms. Jayasree said the hygiene protocol was necessary for a clean and green Kozhikode. Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafar Ahamed said the protocol was a model project in connection with the silver jubilee celebrations of the People’s Plan Campaign in the State. Special emphasis will be given to hygiene and sanitation in Scheduled Caste colonies. Leader of the Opposition in the Council K.C. Shobitha demanded that the corporation step up sanitation programmes in SC colonies and sanitary napkin incinerators in offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corporation-all-set-to-roll-out-a-hygiene-protocol/article36487379.ece
16 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Eco-tourism destinations under DTPC back in business||Complying with the COVID-19 protocol, the Kozhikode District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) has reopened a majority of eco-tourism spots under it. With the reopening of the Thusharagiri eco-tourism spot on Wednesday, all major rural tourism centres managed by the DTPC in Kozhikode rural are live and attracting a fair turnout. On the list of beach destinations, only the Vadakara sand bank is open in the district with facilities to effectively control crowd. The other beaches will be reopened only on special orders from the District Collector. According to DTPC officials, crowd control on other beaches will be difficult for administrators owing to their multiple access points. In Vadakara, the number of entrances is limited, making it convenient for guards to manage visitors, they said. In Kozhikode city, the Sarovaram bio park alone is functional. Though there is demand to open Kappad and Kozhikode beaches, it will be considered only at a later stage after reviewing the COVID-19 situation and containment zone regulations. Though the DTPC is back in business, several eco-tourism spots under the Irrigation and Forest departments still remain shut. The Janakikkad eco-tourism spot, Vayalada hills, and Kariyathanpara are a few such locations. DTPC officials said the entry of visitors to tourism spots would be allowed only in accordance with the State government guidelines. Those who have received preventive vaccination or undergone RT-PCR test alone will be granted permission. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 a month ago will be permitted, they added. With the lifting of containment zone regulations, many homestays and tourist homes have resumed operations in rural Kozhikode. Tourism officials said local bodies would monitor safety arrangements in such locations and recommend action in case of violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eco-tourism-destinations-under-dtpc-back-in-business/article36487378.ece
16 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Unscientific use of space triggers fire safety concerns||Illegal extensions and conversion of existing commercial spaces into storage areas are the main reasons for the recurring fire outbreaks in shopping complexes and godowns near S.M. Street in Kozhikode, according to a recent fire audit by the Fire and Rescue Services Department. Wholesalers of plastic and rubber products and cloths are major violators of fire safety norms, and most alterations are made without the knowledge of building owners or without securing permission from the corporation authorities. In some commercial buildings, fire exits and parking slots were found converted into additional storage spaces. A few local traders use such spaces to dump waste too. Shopping centres that were found most vulnerable to fire outbreaks were Oasis complex and Baby Mall, where one comes across a number of small shops with unmanageable storage of goods in limited spaces. “Since the COVID-19 outbreak, many shops had remained closed without maintenance. A few owners did not even bother to check electrical circuits for emergency repairs,” said a Fire Department official. He pointed out that the dumping spots inside the buildings were found to be emerging problem areas. The Kozhikode Town police said smoke detectors and alarms were not functional in several shops. Meanwhile, Revenue officials said stringent action would be recommended under the Disaster Management Act against violators of safety rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unscientific-use-of-space-triggers-fire-safety-concerns/article36487387.ece
16 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Congress disintegrating, says Anilkumar||Former KPCC general secretary K.P. Anilkumar has said that the Congress is in a helpless state with its secular credentials collapsing under the rule of the Sangh Parivar in the country. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, he said the role of the Congress was only that of a mere spectator. Many leaders had tried to save the party from disintegration. However, its national leaders Rahul Gandhi and K.C. Venugopal were doing everything to suppress and expel those who expressed their views, Mr. Anilkumar said. He was speaking after the CPI(M) accorded a reception to him. After deciding to work with the CPI(M), he said his experience now was different from what was familiar until yesterday. Anti-Communism was the hallmark of the Congress. What he had learned was that the Communist party was the worst of political parties. But he received a completely different experience from the leaders and activists of the CPI(M), Mr. Anilkumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-disintegrating-says-anilkumar/article36487382.ece
16 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Former Haritha leaders put IUML in a spot||State leaders of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) found themselves in a spot on Wednesday after former functionaries of Haritha, the women’s wing of its students’ organisation, the Muslim Students Federation (MSF), alleged that they had failed to “imbibe ideas such as gender justice and women’s self-pride”. Mufeeda Thasni and Najma Thabshira, former president and general secretary of Haritha, told the media that though they had met most senior IUML leaders at their home, “justice was denied to them.” Women’s panel moved Ms. Thasni and Ms. Thabshira were among the 10 former Haritha functionaries who had approached the Kerala State Women’s Commission, accusing MSF State president P.K. Navas and two others of making misogynist remarks. The IUML later suspended Mr. Navas and the others. The Haritha State committee was also disbanded after its leaders refused to withdraw their complaint. Also, Ms. Thabshira on Wednesday deposed before a judicial first class magistrate in a case related to the complaint. Misogynist remarks Ms. Thasni said Kabeer Muthuparamba, Malappuram district president, and V.A. Wahab, general secretary, had made misogynist remarks against Haritha members and leaders. Ms. Thasni said that during a working committee meeting, Mr. Navas had alleged that the Haritha leadership was being led by a cyber goonda, who was also writing Facebook posts for them. “If the IUML takes a stand on the issue, some Haritha members and leaders will be forced to commit suicide, as he has their videos and photos with him,” Ms. Thasni said, quoting him. “We gave a five-page letter to the IUML leadership. In a meeting to discuss the issue, the MSF president said since even a prostitute might have her own justifications for doing her job, let Haritha leaders also speak up,” she added. The complaint signed by 10 leaders was submitted to the leadership on June 27. “We approached the Kerala State Women’s Commission 50 days after registering our complaints with the IUML leadership,” she said. Ms. Thabshira said that as girls, they have had to go through certain insufferable remarks and painful experiences. Meanwhile, MSF State vice president P.P. Shaijal, who supported the former Haritha functionaries, was removed from his post after he criticised the way by which the IUML leadership dissolved the Haritha State committee. Earlier, Kasaragod and Wayanad district functionaries of the MSF had resigned in protest against the reconstitution of the State panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-haritha-leaders-put-iuml-in-a-spot/article36487381.ece
16 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Traders’ forum launches new e-commerce platform||The Kerala State Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) has launched its new e-commerce platform, Pepkart, to facilitate online delivery of products with the support of affiliated shops. The Android application available on Google Playstore will compete with other major online delivery portals. KVVES leaders said it would give an opportunity to all affiliated shops to digitise their business and explore the scope of modern marketing opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-forum-launches-new-e-commerce-platform/article36487384.ece
16 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||First dose of vaccination to be over by month-end||The Kozhikode district administration plans to cover all those aged above 18 with at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine by September 30. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy said here on Wednesday that the population to be vaccinated in the district was 25 lakh, of whom 20 lakh had been covered with at least one dose. The remaining five lakh would be vaccinated by the month-end. Booking for online slots would resume on Thursday. As it is based on the allotment from the State government, if the vaccine is not available it would be announced in advance. 1,680 cases Meanwhile, 1,680 fresh cases were reported in the district on Thursday, and 3,368 others recovered from the infection. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) was 17.11% when 10,031 samples were tested. The active caseload dropped to 24,083.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-dose-of-vaccination-to-be-over-by-month-end/article36487383.ece
16 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Prasad Krishna NIT-C Director||Prasad Krishna, Professor at the Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Surathkal, has been appointed as new Director of the NIT, Calicut. It is learnt that President Ram Nath Kovind has given assent to the recommendation by the Ministry of Education. A selection committee appointed by the Ministry had carried out an online interview of those shortlisted in September 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prasad-krishna-nit-c-director/article36487408.ece
16 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Jamaat against blaming Christians||The Kerala Muslim Jamaat has sought to end the controversies raging over a recent statement by Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt on ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotic jihad’. “Raising arguments and counter-arguments over the issue will only help worsen the situation. Arraigning the Christian community over the bishop’s statement is condemnable,” Jamaat leader Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliar has said. A meeting of the Jamaat here on Wednesday observed that the bishop should not have used the Arabic term ‘jihad’ in such places. Religious and political leaders should make interventions to create stronger bonds between communities, Mr. Kanthapuram said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jamaat-against-blaming-christians/article36487411.ece
16 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Drowned medico’s body recovered||The body of Gautam Krishna, 23, a medical student who had gone missing while bathing in the Bharathapuzha on Sunday was recovered on Wednesday. The body of his friend Mathew Abraham, 23, from Chelakkara was recovered on Tuesday. Both were final year MBBS students at P.K. Das Medical College, Vaniyamkulam. They had drowned near Mayannur check-dam in the Bharathapuzha. They were part of a small group who had arrived from the college for sight-seeing. Gautam’s body was retrieved about two kilometres away. He hailed from Karoor, Ambalappuzha,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drowned-medicos-body-recovered/article36487456.ece
16 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Parallel phone exchange unearthed||The police unearthed the State’s third parallel telephone exchange here on Wednesday. It was functioning at an Ayurveda shop on the Mettupalayam street. The police raided the shop at M.A. Tower following information after the busting of parallel exchanges in Thrissur and Kozhikode. The exchange had been functioning for over four years. The investigation team entered the room by breaking open the lock and recovered several electronic equipment and eight mobile SIM cards. The man involved in the parallel exchange in Kozhikode had links with the illegal exchange here. The police said they had intensified the investigation. No terror link Meanwhile, speculations were rife on social media linking an Islamic terror group’s role with the exchange. Some notices recovered from there were portrayed as that of Islamic State (IS) propaganda. The police clarified that neither the IS nor any terror group had any link with the exchange. The notices were that of the Popular Front of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parallel-phone-exchange-unearthed/article36487412.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State registers 17,681 fresh cases, 25,588 recoveries||The State logged 17,681 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 97,070 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 18.21% on the day. The State’s active case pool is coming down steadily and on Wednesday it went down further to 1,90,750 from 1,98,865 on Tuesday. The State has been reporting more recoveries than new cases for many days. The number of persons reported to have recovered from the disease was 25,588. Even when the intensity of disease transmission and hospitalisations has been going down, deaths due to COVID-19 are yet to show any decline. The cumulative case fatality now stands at 22,987 with the State adding 208 recent deaths to the list. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in the State is 2,297. The number of patients requiring ventilator support is 974. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID dipped to 1,718, while the number of patients with moderate or severe COVID in hospitals went down to 28,049. The cumulative case burden of the State stands at 44,24,046 cases. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 2,143, Kottayam 1,702, Kozhikode 1,680, Ernakulam 1,645, Thrissur 1,567, Palakkad 1,558, Malappuram 1,372, Kollam 1,348, Alappuzha 969, Kannur 967, Wayanad 869, Pathanamthitta 821, Idukki 654 and Kasaragod 386 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-registers-17681-fresh-cases-25588-recoveries/article36487422.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Develop foolproof mechanism for online exams, VCs told||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has called upon universities to develop a foolproof system to conduct online examinations. Addressing an online meeting of Vice Chancellors at Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday, he suggested a reliable system built on the foundation of secrecy, objectivity and sanctity and stressed the need to equip the faculty in creating online question banks, conducting online examinations and in online evaluation. “Most of the universities have already developed the examination software capable of handling tabulation, hall ticket generation, preparation of results and issue of mark lists. I feel that online examination features can be easily incorporated into this facility, with in-house technical skill and technical expertise in other universities”, he said. The Governor also asked universities to improve the software for Online Learning Management System and Centralised Admission Process. Upskilling faculty Emphasising the need to address digital and resource gaps, he suggested the upskilling of faculty with ‘online pedagogical techniques’ to render online classes more interactive and engaging, in tune with the Outcome Based Education (OBE) approach. He also reminded the Vice Chancellors of their responsibility to ensure that justice for students with grievances is never caught up in the labyrinth of procedures. Rajan Gurukkal, Vice Chairman, Kerala State Higher Education Council, Vice Chancellors of the Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi, Calicut, Kannur, Sree Sankara universities, Kerala Agricultural University, and Cusat made presentations on the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020 in their universities. The meeting will conclude on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/develop-foolproof-mechanism-for-online-exams-vcs-told/article36487603.ece
16 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB expresses reservations about draft norms for tariff||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has expressed strong reservations about several key proposals in the draft regulations for determining power tariffs published by the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission (KSERC). Some of the proposals are open to misuse and could drag the KSEB into court cases at a later stage, the board noted, presenting its views on the KSERC (Terms and Conditions for Determination of Tariff) Regulations, 2021 at a nine-hour-long public hearing on Wednesday. Objecting to the move to introduce non-uniform retail supply tariffs for consumer categories under different distribution licences, the KSEB said the present system of uniform tariffs is in line with the tariff policy. It was implemented in 2012 after detailed deliberations. Non-uniform retail tariffs would adversely impact the cross-subsidy mechanism and ultimately lead to tariff hike. If at all non-uniform tariffs are adopted, the cross-subsidy content in the tariffs of consumer categories should be kept uniform, the KSEB said. The KSEB has also opposed the draft proposal which says that the commission can allow the licensee (KSEB) to sell surplus electricity to its consumers instead of selling it in the open market or power exchanges. The proposal, according to the KSEB, is fraught with operational and legal issues. Industries hail it Meanwhile, the HT-EHT Industrial Electricity Consumers Association welcomed the proposal for non-uniform retail tariffs and the proposal on surplus sale of power, terming them “'progressive.” Non-uniform tariffs will reflect the true operational and financial efficiencies of distribution licences. Neither the Electricity Act 2003 nor the national tariff policy requires the tariffs to be uniform. In the case of surplus power sales, the association urged the commission to help put together a workable plan for a win-win situation for both consumers and the KSEB. Staff reaction Employees’ organisations in the KSEB, including the KSEB Officers’ Association, KSEB Workers’ Association, the Kerala Electricity Employees Confederation and the Kerala Electricity Officers’ Confederation also objected to several of the proposals saying they appear to promote privatisation.  Move to introduce non-uniform retail supply tariffs under different distribution licences opposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-expresses-reservations-about-draft-norms-for-tariff/article36487416.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3 inmates of mental health centre flee||Three inmates of the Government Mental Health Centre, Peroorkada, in the capital escaped from the facility on Tuesday night. According to the hospital officials, the respective relatives of the three have confirmed that they have have reached their houses. Two of the inmates are from Thiruvananthapuram and the other hails from Pathanamthitta. "The three were recent entrants to the hospital. They escaped last (Tuesday) night around 8.30 p.m after dislodging roof tiles," said an official. The hospital authorities immediately lodged a complaint with the Peroorkada police. However, with the trio safely reaching their houses, the police would not take further action. Their relatives are expected to bring them back to the hospital. According to the hospital authorities, there has been an increase in the number of new admissions post the COVID-19 outbreak last year. Quite a few of them, including the three who escaped, have addiction issues as well. Escape attempts by inmates are common.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-inmates-of-mental-health-centre-flee/article36487604.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A Class I record for public schools||Public schools in the State have set a record in Class I admission. There has been an increase of 28,482 children in Class I in the government and aided sector this year as compared to last year. In 2020-21, 1,05,472 students had joined government schools and 1,71,460 aided schools, taking the total number of admissions in public schools to 2,76,932. In 2021-22, 1,20,706 students joined government schools and 1,84,708 joined aided schools, taking the total class I admission to 3,05,414. At the same time, there was a drop of 6,615 students in the unaided sector. While 44,849 students took admission to Class 1 in unaided schools last year, this year it fell to 38,234 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-students-join-class-i-of-state-schools/article36487447.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Blueprint on for cleaner poultry shops: Minister||An action plan has been approved for the transformation of chicken shops in the State into clean and hygienic facilities and scientific management of poultry waste, said Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan on Wednesday. In order to obtain licence, the shops must ensure clean surroundings as well as scientific waste management, he said. Health certificate Those dealing with poultry should possess a health certificate from a physician certifying that the handlers are free of communicable diseases and are fit to work. The shops should have their own mechanism for disposal of chicken waste, or else associate with a rendering plant in the district or nearby district to ensure the waste is processed, said Mr. Govindan. Rendering plants Chicken waste collected in districts where rendering plants function should be processed in the respective district itself. Guidelines have been issued for the functioning of rendering plants. These could start functioning only with the approval of a district-level committee chaired by the District Collector, said the Minister. This would end the practice of dumping chicken waste indiscriminately on roadsides, premises of vacant houses and waterbodies, the Minister said, adding that there was no option but to prioritise the environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blueprint-on-for-cleaner-poultry-shops-minister/article36487600.ece
16 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU’s first BArch batch records 68.51% pass||The first Bachelor of Architecture (BArch) batch under the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has recorded a pass percentage of 68.51, with 272 qualifying as graduates. The batch, the first semester of which began in September 2016, encompassed 10 semesters of study and work experience. The final-semester examinations was attended by 397 students from eight colleges. Devika S. Rajesh, Sandra Srikanth and Nasneen Najeeb of TKM College of Engineering, Kollam, bagged the top three positions with cumulative grade point averages (CGPA) of 8.87, 8.83 and 8.79 respectively. Government Engineering College, Thrissur, led in terms of both pass percentage (87.5%) and academic performance index (6.79). TKM College of Engineering, Kollam (79.49% and 6.20) and Government Engineering College, Thiruvananthapuram (73.68% and 5.54) occupied the next positions. (The academic performance index is calculated using the average grade and pass percentage of successful students in each college.) A total of 415 students were admitted in the first batch. As many as 194 out of the 272 graduates are female students. Digital certificates Students who have cleared the course will receive their provisional and grade cards digitally with the e-signature of the Controller of Examinations before September 17. The digital certificates can be downloaded from the students’ portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktus-first-barch-batch-records-6851-pass/article36487448.ece
16 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Now, register marriages via videoconferencing||Couples who have got married during the COVID-19 pandemic period and are unable to get it registered at local bodies can now register their marriage through videoconferencing. Pandemic hurdles Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan said here on Wednesday that an order has been issued to this effect. The registration can be done with the special permission of the chief registrar after making clear that they are unable to appear in person in the current scenario. The chief registrar and the registrars at the local body level have to ensure that there are no cases of impersonation during the online registration process. Some couples who had gone abroad during the pandemic without completing the registration formalities have been approaching courts to get it done online. Registrars in various locations have been allowing such registrations based on court orders, the Minister said. Key document Mr. Govindan said that the marriage registration certificate is a pre-requisite for house rentals and other facilities in some countries. The order for online registration has been issued considering these conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-register-marriages-via-videoconferencing/article36487449.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Net connectivity to be ensured in tribal areas||The State Cabinet has initiated administrative steps to ensure Internet connectivity in interior tribal areas to facilitate online education. The Cabinet on Wednesday decided that land, maximum five cents, in possession of government departments, local self-government institutions, or government institutions will be given on lease for setting up telecom towers. The authority for giving the land on lease will be with the head of the institution which is located on the land. The land will be leased for an annual rent of Rs. 5,000. No lump sum or rent will be charged for drawing cables through poles of the Kerala State Electricity Board or those owned by the Local Self-Government or Public Works Departments for providing Net connections. Permissions for setting up towers or drawing cables from Local Self-Government or Public Works officials will be deemed granted after a stipulated period of time. Road digging Permission will be given to dig roads during the monsoon to lay optical fibre cables for ensuring Net connectivity. If permission of the Forest Department is needed, it will be investigated and given within three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/net-connectivity-to-be-ensured-in-tribal-areas/article36487413.ece
16 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New system to address industries’ grievances||A two-tier grievance redressal system for timely addressing of complaints raised by industrial entrepreneurs has come into force in the State. The decision to bring in the system was taken at the first Cabinet meeting of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has signed the Ordinance regarding this. Complaints from industries with a capital investment of up to Rs. 5 crore will be addressed by a district-level committee to be headed by the respective District Collectors. District, State levels The district-level committee has to seek a report within five days of receipt of the complaint. In case the complaint is not addressed within 30 days at the district level, an appeal can be submitted to the State-level committee, which will meet on the first working day of every month. Complaints from industries with a capital investment of more than Rs. 5 crore can be submitted directly to the State-level committee. Officials to be fined The complaints coming before the State-level committee also have to be disposed of within 30 days. A fine amount of Rs. 250 per day, not exceeding a maximum fine of Rs. 10,000, will be imposed on officials who fail to implement the decisions of the committee within 15 days. The committees will come into force within one week. The complaints can be regarding delay or other issues in clearances, certificates, licences, permits or licence renewals for starting, running, renovation of diversification of an industrial unit.  Ordinance on two-tier system gets Governor’s assent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-system-to-address-industries-grievances/article36487414.ece
16 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. slaps Rs. 15,000 fine on waste dumpers||The health wing of the city Corporation imposed a fine of Rs. 15,000 on two persons who had collected waste from a private firm and dumped it on the Museum-RKV Road. According to a Corporation official, Ambili and Anilkumar from Rajaji Nagar had collected large amounts of waste in sacks from the private firm, which is closing down, and dumped it by the roadside early in the morning. The health team, led by health inspector S.S. Minu and junior health inspectors Arunkumar, Muhammed Rafi and Neena, caught the duo while they were dumping waste. The Corporation has contracted various agencies to collect waste from private establishments. The health team has been cracking down on illegal waste collectors who have been collecting waste on their own and dumping it in waterbodies and public spaces. Last week, the team apprehended a three-member group that was dumping waste into the Marappalam canal near the Kuravankonam-Marappalam Road early in the morning. Despite the civic body's steps to stop illegal waste collection, various groups have been collecting waste at a fee from houses and commercial establishments in various localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-slaps-rs-15000-fine-on-waste-dumpers/article36487590.ece
16 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. set to kick-start mobile vaccine drive||The city Corporation is set to start a mobile COVID-19 vaccination drive to ensure that bedridden persons do not miss out on the vaccination. The civic body has rented a mobile vaccination unit from the P.N.Panicker Foundation to carry out vaccination at doorstep for those unable to go out to inoculation centres. Mayor Arya Rajendran will flag off the mobile unit on September 18 at 10 a.m. In the first phase, the vaccination drive will focus on the coastal areas. The Corporation on Wednesday conducted a survey to identify those yet to receive even a single dose of vaccine as part of measures to prioritise vaccination for this category. Survey team A ten-member survey team is being deployed in each of the hundred wards in order to identify those who have received both does, a single dose and those who have not yet received vaccines in the age groups 18-45 years, 45-65 years and above 65 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-set-to-kick-start-mobile-vaccine-drive/article36487592.ece
16 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘COVID-audited’ public spaces project at Vellar||Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Wednesday released the logo of the 'COVID-audited' public spaces project at the Kerala Arts and Crafts Village at Vellar near Kovalam. He said that public places that people can visit without fear or misgivings is a necessity during the pandemic times. The Tourism Department has come out with various initiatives to get tourism going during the pandemic, including in-car dining, biobubble tourism and vaccination destinations, of which 'COVID-audited' public spaces is the latest. Mr. Riyas said that this is a good model that can replicated in other locations as well. The project aims at conducting a COVID Audit throughout the campus to ensure that it is COVID-free and to equip Crafts Village to welcome visitors with precautionary arrangements. Terms and conditions applicable to visitors will be determined as part of this. Conditions will also apply to Craft Village employees. Auditing and security arrangements are being made in accordance with the government's COVID protocols applicable to the tourism sector.  The project aims at conducting a an udit throughout the campus to ensure that it is COVID-free||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-audited-public-spaces-project-at-vellar/article36487593.ece
16 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District logs 2,143 cases||The capital district reported 2,143 new COVID-19 cases and 1,888 recoveries on Wednesday. The active case pool stood at 16,735 and the test positivity rate (TPR) at 17.7%. In all, 43,156 people are in quarantine in the district. District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu has asked people above 18 to get their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination within a week. Dr. Shinu urged the public to contact the nearest health-care facility for the vaccination. Steps have been taken to visit houses to vaccinate bedridden persons. Measures are being taken to vaccinate pregnant women as well, said Dr. Shinu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-logs-2143-cases/article36487595.ece
16 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Talks begin with investors||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has launched the meet-the-investor series of interactions with investors to promote new ventures in the State. Discussions were held on Wednesday with representatives of the Synthite Group, Dhathri and Nitta Gelatin, in which understandings for total investments of Rs. 760 crore have been arrived at. The Synthite Group said it would complete an agroprocessor cluster project of Rs. 215 crore at Pancode in Ernakulam district by June next year. The Nitta Gelatin company announced a Rs. 200-crore project, while Dhathri announced a Rs. 45-crore project for immunity food manufacturing in the first phase and a Rs. 300-crore project for Ayurvedic medicine manufacturing in the second phase. Mr. Rajeeve will be interacting with industrial groups with more than Rs. 100 crore of investments in the monthly meet-the-investor programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talks-begin-with-investors/article36487415.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Venu Rajamony made OSD||The government has decided to appoint retired diplomat Venu Rajamony as Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to coordinate with the Central government and various Indian missions abroad in resolving the issues faced by expatriates from Kerala. Mr. Rajamony, who retired as Indian Ambassador to the Netherlands in 2020, will be appointed on a part-time basis in the rank of Chief Secretary for a period of one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/venu-rajamony-made-osd/article36487417.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM to head panel for farm sector||The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to constitute a subcommittee headed by the Chief Minister to suggest ways to enhance the income of farmers, improve agricultural productivity and streamline crop procurement. It will recommend means to increase the revenue from value addition of crops and other allied activities. Job opportunities Another subcommittee would be set up to prepare a blueprint for generating a minimum of five employment opportunities in each local self-government institution every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-head-panel-for-farm-sector/article36487418.ece
16 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHPURAM,KERALA||Three cases of daytime chain-snatching in district||Three cases of chain-snatching were reported in the capital district on Wednesday. According to the police, a man snatched a gold chain from a 22-year old woman who teaches at a private tuition centre. The incident happened at Mulayara near Vilappilsala in the morning. As per her complaint, the man snatched her chain, mounted a motorcycle parked nearby as a pillion rider and sped away. In a similar case reported at Vellanad, a duo on a motorycle approached a 42-year old ASHA worker who was walking along the road and sped away after the pillion rider snatched her gold chain in the morning. CCTV images In yet another case, which was reported in the city, two men on a motorcycle snatched a gold chain from a 60-year old domestic worker at Udarasiromani Road around 12.30 p.m. The Museum police have gathered the images of the suspects from CCTV cameras in this case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-cases-of-daytime-chain-snatching-in-district/article36487594.ece
16 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Student’s body found in unoccupied house||The body of a Plus One student who went missing six months ago has been found in an uninhabited house in Thalikkulam. Amal Krishna, 17, who had gone to a bank at Vadanappally with his mother, went missing six months ago. His body was found on Tuesday evening at a locked house at Thalikkulam, four kilometres away from Vadanappally. His phone, ATM card, and a few photos were found from the body. His phone number and address were written on the wall of the room. The body was found in the house of an NRI near the Thalikkulam high school, which has been locked for the past 15 years. The house, around 10 kilometres away from Amal Krishna’s house in Engandiyur, had not been cleaned for more than six months. The body was found by a businessman, who had come to check the house with the purpose of launching a hotel. The body was in a decomposed state. Amal, son of Sanoj (an NRI) and Shilpa of Engandiyur, a student of Pavaratty St. Joseph School, went missing from a bank at Vadanappally on March 18. The police suspect that he was a victim of online addiction. They discovered that Amal had withdrawn Rs. 10,000 twice a few weeks before he went missing. Though his mother identified the body, the identity will be confirmed only after a DNA test. The body has been shifted to Thrissur Medical College Hospital for post-mortem examination.  Police suspect Plus One student was addicted to online games Identity will be confirmed only after DNA test||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-of-missing-student-found-in-locked-house/article36487457.ece
16 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||MP promises Rs. 10 cr. to develop Sakthan Market||Cine actor Suresh Gopi, MP, met Thrissur Mayor on Tuesday and conveyed his willingness to develop Sakthan Market. “If the Corporation submits a plan for development, funds will be allotted and work can be launched in November,” he said. During the campaign for the last Assembly elections, Mr. Gopi, the BJP candidate for the Thrissur constituency, had promised to develop the market, whether he won or not. He lost the election to CPI’s P. Balachandran. “Development works worth Rs. 10 crore have been planned in the market with the support of the Centre. Of that, Rs. 1 crore will be from the MP fund. If there are any hurdles to Central assistance, I will raise funds from a trust in my daughter’s name,” he said. New facilities State-of-the-art facilities would be introduced at Sakthan Market. There would be ample parking space, and shops for fish, meat, vegetables and fish. It is planned to finish the work by April 2022. Paper-making units using wastage of plantain trees would be set up at Avinissery and Thiruvananthapuram, the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-promises-rs-10-cr-to-develop-sakthan-market/article36487561.ece
16 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||UDF meet seeks action against district convener||An emergency meeting of the United Democratic Front (UDF) district committee on Wednesday asked the State leadership to take action against front district convener K.R. Girijan for his remark supporting Pala bishop on the ‘narcotic jihad’ issue. The meeting sought removal of Mr. Girijan, who is also Kerala Congress (Jacob) State secretary, from the post. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) had demanded removal of Mr. Girijan. Mr. Girijan did not attend the meeting. A press release by the DCC on Tuesday said there was no need to make an issue about the remark by the Pala bishop, who just expressed his concern. An emergency meeting was convened after the IUML protested against the remark. DCC president Jose Vallur said vested interests influenced the office staff and mailed the statement to presspersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-meet-seeks-action-against-district-convener/article36487563.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hot topic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hot-topic/article36487565.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cycle of life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cycle-of-life/article36487597.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking benefits||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-benefits/article36487599.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Veneration of Vinayak||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veneration-of-vinayak/article36487420.ece
16 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Non-clearance of bills in CFMS holding up funds’||The gap between expenditure and revenue in the Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) is very large. It is Rs. 1.23 per unit of power billed against 40 paise in the APEPDCL. “This difference has led to burdening the consumers for the last six months,” according to Nagaraju, SPDCL Anantapur Circle SE. The Anantapur Circle is yet to realise Rs. 1,828.24 crore from the consumers. The SPDCL had suddenly disconnected power supply to the Anantapur Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) administrative building for about two hours on Tuesday to ensure the corporation paid its monthly dues of Rs. 75 lakh. The Kalyandurg municipal office was functioning without power for the past 10 days. The Puttaparthi municipal office was also without power for the past two days. The situation improved with the intervention of District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan, who had till recently worked as EPDCL Managing Director. The AMC pointed out on Wednesday that the SPDCL too had dues to pay to the civic body. The SPDCL had built a substation in the heart of the city without permission, the AMC alleged. The turn of events is said to be a fallout of the State government not releasing funds despite the AMC uploading all the bills in the Centralised File Movement and Tracking Information System (CFMS). CPI(M) leader V. Rambhupal said the financial crisis in the State was showing up in various ways. Bills recovery in the EPDCL is close to 101%, while it is 80% in the SPDCL. “The free power given to agriculture and the dues in payment of bills pertaining to LT/HT connections in both private and government sectors are added to the true up charges as an additional burden on people,” the CPI(M) said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/non-clearance-of-bills-in-cfms-holding-up-funds/article36487535.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||333 psychiatrists to reach out to NEET-takers for counselling||The Health Department will reach out to nearly 1.12 lakh students who appeared for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for counselling through the State health helpline 104 for those residing in Chennai and the district-level war rooms for students in other parts of the State. A camp to reach out to the students and talk to them for two to three minutes after getting their approval was launched on Wednesday. “We have got the list of students and their contact numbers from the National Testing Agency. We will send the district-wise lists, and 333 psychiatrists working in government medical college hospitals and district headquarters hospitals will reach out to them by phone through the district-level war rooms,” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. He said students who appeared for NEET more than once would be prioritised. With regard to students from Chennai, 40 counsellors would reach out to them through the State health helpline 104. 12-point guideline A 12-point guideline to carry forward the counselling was created and shared with psychiatrists and counsellors, the Minister said. The aim is to cover the 1.12 lakh students in 10 to 15 days, he added. Psychiatrists, psychologists and counsellors of the District Mental Health Programme will be involved. The Minister pointed out that the 108 ambulance network was entering its 13th year of service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/300-psychiatrists-to-reach-out-to-neet-takers/article36487087.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC directive on homestays in Nilgiris||The Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered that no new permission should be granted for homestays in the Nilgiris district without conducting a scientific study on the impact on the fragile ecology of the hill station due to such mushrooming accommodation facilities. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu also directed the authorities concerned to conduct an inspection across the district and ensure that no residential building continues to function as a homestay without having obtained necessary permission. “Though there may not be a law governing the matter, a scheme must be put in place to regulate such homestays since using residential accommodation for commercial purposes, without necessary permission, would by itself be against law,” the first Division Bench pointed out. The court said it had become a fashion for people to spend weekends and holidays in hill stations and such a move had led to numerous residential buildings having been converted into homestays. It pointed out that there were several advertisements on the Internet regarding such home stays. Curb traffic The Bench also directed the district administration to consider curbing vehicular traffic and keeping the upper levels of the hill station free from vehicles using fossil fuels. "At the end of the day, there has to be intent and a desire to protect whatever remains of nature," the Chief Justice wrote. He also remarked that tourists were the biggest polluters and that the toxic fumes from the motor vehicles cause much damage to the ecologically delicate region. He directed the officials to consider arresting the footfalls as well as vehicular traffic right during the coming vacation season. The interim orders were passed on a public interest litigation petition filed by activist 'Elephant' G. Rajendran to restrain the Nilgiris Collector from regularising residential buildings that had been exploited commercially as resorts and short homestay without any licence. The litigant pointed out that Nilgiris district had been a home to numerous illegal activities. He recalled to have filed a writ petition in the High Court in 2007 to prevent illegal mining of blue metal from the hill station and its illegal transportation to Kerala and Karnataka. Pursuant to court orders, the then Collector swung into action and seized several trucks and stopped illegal quarrying. A police inquiry found the existence of as many as 108 illegal quarries in the dense forest, and many people involved in the crime were arrested. Subsequently, he filed cases against buildings constructed without planning permission in Udhagamandalam, and they revealed the existence of 3,461 unauthorised buildings in the hill station. He also filed cases for restoration of elephant corridors. The litigant said that in January, an elephant died of burns in the Nilgiris after some resort employees threw a burning tyre on it to prevent the pachyderm from entering the resort. After the incident, the district administration sealed many resorts that were functioning illegally. However, now, having learnt that the district administration and Masinagudi village panchayat had decided to regularise those resorts, the petitioner urged the court to restrain the officials from resorting to any such move.  At the end of the day, there has to be intent and a desire to protect whatever remains of nature Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-new-permission-should-be-given-for-homestays-in-nilgiris/article36487140.ece
16 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth held on charge of molesting two minors||Residents of a colony in B. Kothakota mandal headquarters, 40 km from Madanapalle, on Tuesday night caught a local youth while he was allegedly molesting two minor girls, and handed him over to the police. Timely arrival of the police from nearby police station prevented the mobs from lynching the accused. According to information, the youth allegedly lured the two girls with eatables and took them to the terrace. As he started allegedly molesting them, one of the siblings climbed down the stairs and informed her grandmother, who was alone at home. When she raised the alarm, neighbours gathered around and caught hold of the accused Anil Kumar. The weeping and distressed siblings tried to express the youth’s acts, when the mob pounced on the accused and tied him up to a tree. As one after the other started thrashing him, the girls’ grandmother, who turned tense and perturbed with the commotion, contacted the police through SOS Disha App, which was downloaded in her mobile by a volunteer a couple of days ago. Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravimanohar Achari said that within four minutes of receiving the call, a police team rushed to the colony from B. Kothakota police station and took the accused into custody, and prevented the possibility of him getting lynched by the mob. In the backdrop of the recent gruesome murder and rape of a child in Telangana, the incident created a flutter in the area. Case registered A case was registered and the accused was sent for remand on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-held-on-charge-of-molesting-two-minors/article36487036.ece
16 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Slight increase in COVID-19 positivity rate in Chittoor||Chittoor district, which has been reporting 200-plus COVID-19 cases for the last three months, witnessed a slight increase in the positivity rate from 3.14% to 3.26% in the last 24 hours. The district saw a total of 2.41 lakh COVID cases, and 1,877 deaths, the highest in the State, since the outbreak of the pandemic. On Wednesday, 201 new COVID cases were reported in the district, with a major chunk of them from the rural areas. The latest figure of active cases in district is 2,130. Collector M. Hari Narayanan sought the medical and paramedical teams working on COVID duties to identify the target age group of 18-plus persons on a war-footing to intensify the vaccination drive. He said that in spite of the preventive steps, some mandals under the limits of 49 primary health centres continue to record a high number of COVID cases. The Collector said that Rs. 43.56 crore was released as funds from the 15th Finance Commission for Chittoor district. The funds would be utilized to strengthen the hospitals, which included setting up of laboratories at primary health centres and sub-centres, increasing the number of regional hospitals to 16, and creating 37 more urban health centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/slight-increase-in-covid-19-positivity-rate-in-chittoor/article36487536.ece
16 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. committed to economic development of women: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said the State government is committed to ensuring the economic development of women and has therefore launched welfare schemes such as Aasara and Cheyutha, which are paving the way for “true empowerment.” Reviewing the progress of the two schemes at his camp office here on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government revived the “zero interest” loans that had been cancelled by the TDP government. He said the government partnered with major companies such as ITC, Reliance and Amul to support women entrepreneurs. Referring to the employment opportunities for sustainable economic advancement of women through these schemes, the Chief Minister said, “Steps should be taken to provide a loan of Rs. 35,000 at 25 paise interest.” ‘Naidu betrayed women’ Recalling that the TDP government had promised to clear outstanding loans but betrayed women later, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the YSRCP government had taken up the responsibility of clearing the bad loans in four instalments. “Had the TDP government cleared the loans in 2014, the burden would have ended there. Since former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had asked women not to repay the loans, but failed to keep his promise, the burden fell on the women. As a resutl, ‘A’ grade groups have fallen into ‘C’ grade,” he said. Directing the authorities to come up with special programmes ahead of the disbursement of the second tranche of Aasara by involving the public representatives, the Chief Minister said the money given under Aasara should be deposited in the unencumbered accounts so that banks cannot deduct the money for unpaid debts. On Cheyutha, the Chief Minister asked the authorities to take measures so that the women did not run into losses. The officials told the Chief Minister that more than 8 lakh DWACRA groups benefited through the Aasara scheme under which the government had given Rs. 6330.58 crore in the first tranche. Officials said social audit of the lists of beneficiaries for the second tranche had been completed. Similarly, through the first instalment of Cheyutha, almost 3 lakh women had set up businesses such as retail shops and cattle rearing. In the second phase, the government was aiming to create job opportunities for 2,21,598 women. This year, the government would enter into MoUs with Reliance’s Ajio, Tanager, Rural Development Centre, Mahindra, Gain and Kalgudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-committed-to-economic-development-of-women-cm/article36487547.ece
16 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Do not seek jobs, provide them’||Engineers should strive to create marvels that last forever, said Chadaram Sivaji, Scientist-G, Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi. Speaking at the Engineer’s Day celebrations at Vignan University, Dr. Sivaji said there were infinite possibilities to do something wrong, and yet all the engineers should strive to find solutions. Dr. Sivaji paid respects to Sir Mokshagundam Visvesvarayya, and stated that India was an agriculture-driven country, but it had also produced world-renowned engineers. He said students should not become job seekers. Instead, they should become job providers, he added. Chairman Lavu Rathaiah, Vice-Chancellor M.Y.S. Prasad, and Registrar M.S. Raghunathan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-seek-jobs-provide-them/article36487037.ece
16 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governing body of TTD constituted||The State government has constituted the governing body of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). According to sources, 25 names have been finalised by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Jupalli Rameshwar of My Home, Parathasarathy Reddy of Hetero Pharma, Muramsetty Ramulu, Vemireddy Prasanth Reddy, Srinivasan of India Cements have been renominated. Malladi Krishna Rao, Pokala Ashok Kumar, Jeevan Reddy from MSN Labs, MLA Gorla Babu Rao, and an MLA from Karnataka Viswanath Reddy have also been nominated, the sources say. Meanwhile, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said that there were no plans to increase the size of the Executive Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-constitutes-governing-body-of-ttd/article36486977.ece
16 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur police seize synthetic drugs||The Guntur Urban Police have seized synthetic drugs smuggled through e-commerce sites and arrested two persons. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the Pedakakani Police Station. The arrested were identified as Bheemineni Bharath and Mudupu Rajasekhar Reddy. Superintendednt of Police Arif Hafeez said the accused had been addicted to drugs, and in May 2021, they had reportedly purchased Tramadol tablets (pain relievers)-25, LSD (laughing drug rappers)-70 and MDMA drug 7 gm (active purpose) online by using a social media app and received them through post. On September 13, they tried to send them to Prem Kumar of Hyderabad through a courier. On information about sale of drugs, the accused were taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-police-seize-synthetic-drugs/article36487038.ece
16 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||APNGOs delegation meets CM||A delegation of the Andhra Non-Gazetted Government Officers Association ( APNGOs) paid a courtesy visit to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the camp office at Tadepalli on Wednesday. APNGOs State president Bandi Srinivasa Rao, State general secretary K.V. Siva Reddy, former president N. Chandrasekhar Reddy, members Ch. Purushottam Naidu, V. Dastagiri Reddy, M. Parameswara Rao, B. Kripavaram, and other leaders were part of the delegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apngos-delegation-meets-cm/article36487545.ece
16 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two students score 100% in POLYCET||Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Wednesday released the results of POLYCET-2021 for admission into polytechnic colleges. Kalluri Roshan Lal of Visakhapatnam and Komarapu Viveka Vardhan from West Godavari district topped in the boys category by securing 120 marks out of 120. The details of rank holders are available on – http://polycetap.nic.in. The details of ranks and marks would be sent through SMS. The dates of web counselling would be announced later, the Minister said. Out of 74,884 students, 64,187 (90.99%) qualified. Of them, 45,163 were boys (93.12%) and 19,024 were girls (96.87%). The qualifying mark has been fixed at 25%, which means candidates have to get a minimum of 30 marks. SC/ST communities are exempted from this norm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-students-score-100-in-polycet/article36487548.ece
16 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hunt on for accused in rape, murder of 6-year-old||Nearly a week after the brutal rape and murder of a six-year-old girl in the city, the Hyderabad police is yet to apprehend the delinquent. Police have now launched a massive manhunt to nab Pallakonda Raju (30). On Tuesday, they announced a reward of Rs. 10 lakh for information leading to his arrest. The minor girl had gone missing on September 9 from her home in Saidabad, and hours later, her semi-naked body wrapped in a bedsheet was recovered from Raju’s house, who was her neighbour. The girl also had several injury marks on her body. The victim’s mother suspected Raju to be the culprit as he was missing from his house. Police suspect that Raju, father of a one-year-old, sexually assaulted the girl and later strangled her to death. Police also released Raju’s photograph and said he was 30 years old. They also gave a description of the accused and pointed out that both his hands had tattoos which read ‘Mounika’. He is about 5-foot-9-inch tall, has long hair which is tied at the back with a rubber band. Widespread outrage The heinous incident has triggered widespread outrage in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the State with various political parties and youth groups staging protests demanding justice for the minor girl. While Labour Minister Ch. Malla Reddy said the suspect will be arrested and “encountered”, the opposition has criticised the State government and police force over the delay in the probe. Various opposition leaders also arraigned Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his son and State’s IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao for not visiting the victim’s family. Mr. Rao on September 12 had also tweeted about Raju’s arrest ‘within hours’. However, the Minister retracted his tweet later on Tuesday and said ‘I was misinformed that he was arrested.’ “The perpetrator is absconding & @hydcitypolice has launched a massive manhunt for him. Let’s all make our best efforts to ensure he’s nabbed & brought to justice quickly,” Mr. Rao Tweeted to clarify. A senior police officer, who is associated with the investigation of the case, told The Hindu that police have no clue about Raju’s movements, as he was not carrying a mobile phone and was barely captured in some CCTV cameras. “He was last seen near Uppal police station, and since then, we virtually have no clue about the suspect,” the officer said, adding that multiple teams, including the sleuths of Task Force, are working round-the-clock to nab Raju. The police have questioned many of his relatives and also detained a person who was last seen with Raju in the Old City area but could not get any information about his whereabouts. “He is a vagabond,” the officer added. He said a meeting with all senior officials in the unit was held on Tuesday, where the decision to release his poster with a cash reward of Rs. 10 lakh was taken. Meanwhile, the newly appointed Manager Director of State-run Road Transport Corporation V.C. Sajjanar said their entire staff have been alerted about Raju, who is “most-wanted accused in the rape and murder case”. “He used to consume alcohol and sleep on pavements and bus stands. The public is hereby requested to share any information about the accused to 9490616366, 9490616627 immediately,” Mr. Sajjanar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hunt-on-for-accused-in-rape-murder-of-6-year-old/article36486978.ece
16 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||We will stand by our cadre, says TDP leader||Responding to the recent attack on party cadre allegedly by the police as ‘dictated’ by the ruling party, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has stated that the party will stand by the cadre in such distressing times. The party took exception to the manner in which a senior police official in the Deputy Superintendent cadre and two Inspectors had allegedly beaten up a TDP leader, Raju Venkatasubba Reddy, apart from framing him and others in false cases. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, the party’s State organising secretary B. Hariprasad hailed TDP State president K. Atchannaidu’s act of flagging the issue with National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). He alleged professional land grabbers had connived with the ruling party leaders and misused the police machinery to muzzle the opposition voice. TDP Kadapa parliamentary constituency in-charge M. Linga Reddywondered how the DSP could interrogate a case pertaining to Railways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/we-will-stand-by-our-cadre-says-tdp-leader/article36487540.ece
16 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four from Telangana held, 110 kg ganja seized||The East Godavari police on Wednesday arrested four persons while they were allegedly transporting 110 kg of ganja reportedly procured in Visakhapatnan Agency, during the vehicle check in Chintoor Agency. According to a press release, the four accused have been identified as S. Raju Naik, V. Sudhakar, V. Rigin and P. Suresh belonging to Telangana. The gang was allegedly found transporting ganja from Visakhapatnam Agency to Telangana. The police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-from-telangana-held-110-kg-ganja-seized/article36487581.ece
16 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Report on BJP’s Kerala poll funds sent to ECI||The Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Kerala, has forwarded to the Election Commission of India (ECI) a police report that the Bharatiya Janata Party disbursed illegal funds to the tune of Rs. 40 crore in various constituencies during the last Assembly election. “The police report was referred to the commission for instructions as the alleged acts relate to an offence under the Representation of the People Act,” said Sanjay Kaul, CEO, here on Wednesday. A report from the State Police Chief in this regard was also forwarded to the ECI, he said. The illegal money trail surfaced after Dharmarajan, whom the police describe as a hawala agent who maintained a close contact with BJP State president K. Surendran and others, and Shamjeer filed a police complaint that Rs. 25 lakh was robbed from their car at Kodakara, near Thrissur, on April 3. However, a police investigation revealed that Rs. 3.5 crore, which was hidden in some secret chambers in the car and meant to be distributed in the State for poll campaigning, was stolen. The money was to be handed over to BJP Alappuzha district secretary Gopalakrishna Kartha. In its chargesheet filed in the robbery case, the police had noted that the illegal sourcing of money from Karnataka and its distribution in Kerala for election purposes were carried out with the knowledge of Mr. Surendran and as per instructions from BJP State coordinating secretary M. Ganesh and State office secretary Gireesan Nair. The police had also reported that Rs. 40 crore, brought to Kerala from Karnataka between March 5, 2021 and April 5, 2021 through hawala racket, was handed over to various BJP leaders in the State. The act of illegal collection and distribution of money for poll purposes constitutes the offence of bribery and is a punishable offence under Section 171 E of the Indian Penal Code and Section 123 (1) of the Representation of the People Act. Those convicted can get a jail term of one year and fine or both.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/report-on-bjps-kerala-poll-funds-sent-to-eci/article36486981.ece
16 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties drum up support for Bharat Bandh||CPI leader K. Ramakrishna and his CPI (M) counterpart B.V. Raghavalu on Wednesday organised separate rallies and public meetings to drum up support for the proposed ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 27 against the controversial farm laws. They sought support of the people for the fight against the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. “The BJP’s policies pertaining to privatisation, monetization, and levying user charges on services will lead to the creation of two categories of citizens in the country, with the ‘haves’ getting access to good roads, clean water, air, and public transport systems while the ‘have nots’ being forced to bear with the bad services,” Mr. Raghavalu told the media here. Selling away shipping companies, ports, PSUs, and power generation, distribution facilities along with warehouses would create a divide in the society, which must be stopped, he said. “The TDP and the YSRCP have reduced to mute spectators to the draconian laws being brought for farm sector. Selling away national assets will hit the people hard. Let Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy raise his voice over the VSP issue and stop handing over Bhavanapadu, Krishnapatnam, and Gangavaram ports to corporate players,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-drum-up-support-for-bharat-bandh/article36487544.ece
16 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||3rd convocation of IIITDM tomorrow||The third convocation of the Indian Institute of Information Technology Design and Manufacturing(IIITDM), Kurnool, will be held on September 17 in virtual mode. Indian Institute of Science Bangalore former director P. Balaram will be the chief guest and deliver the convocation address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3rd-convocation-of-iiitdm-tomorrow/article36487534.ece
16 September 2021||Mysuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong., BJP men clash over Nanjangud temple||Supporters of Congress and BJP clashed with one another at Hucchagani village in Nanjangud following differences over the proposed reconstruction of the old Mahadevamma Temple, which was razed to the ground during a recent drive by the authorities. Two persons were admitted to K.R. Hospital in Mysuru for treatment while another was provided treatment locally, said Superintendent of Mysuru district R. Chetan. An adequate number of police personnel have been deployed in the village and the situation is under control, he added. Though political rivalry existed between the two groups and had surfaced during elections to local bodies earlier, the discussions over the course of action adopted for the reconstruction took a turn for the worse, leading to members of the rival groups attacking each other. Opposition from both political parties It may be mentioned here that Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah as well as BJP MP Pratap Simha had taken exception to the demolition of the temple as part of the drive against unauthorised religious structures following a direction from the Supreme Court.  The temple was situated along the road leading to Nanjangud from H.D. Kote. The residents of the village, who were up in arms against the officials for their action, have now kept the deity in a makeshift shed erected on a plot of land adjacent to the demolished temple and begun offering prayers. A resident of the village had offered 5 guntas of land and the residents urged the State government to construct a new temple on this piece of land. The former MP of Chamarajanagar and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Working President R. Dhruvanarayan visited the village on Wednesday and questioned the BJP government’s ‘double-standards’ on the issue of unauthorised religious structures. “They issue orders to demolish the religious structures and later ask officials to stop the drive,” he said, taking exception to the demolition of the temple without taking the locals into confidence. The demolition has hurt the sentiments of the people, he said. Another protest Meanwhile, former MLA M.K. Somashekar of the Congress, led a group of supporters, who were protesting against the identification of the 101 Ganapathi temple at Agrahara in Mysuru for removal by the district administration as part of the drive against illegal religious structures.  The BJP government issues orders to demolish the religious structures and later asks officials to stop the drive. R. Dhruvanarayan Working president, KPCC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-bjp-men-clash-over-nanjangud-temple/article36486976.ece
16 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||266 new COVID cases in South Coastal A.P.||The number of active cases continued to be high at 5,027 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as the region reported 266 new COVID-19 cases, including 130 in SPSR Nellore district, in the last 24 hours. The toll rose to 2,003 as three persons died due to the pandemic in Prakasam district in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday. SPSR Nellore district registered zero deaths during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. As a result the toll in the district remained unchanged at 1,027 in the district. The cumulative count rose to over 2.78 lakh in the region. As many as 260 persons, including 114 in Prakasam, were declared recovered from the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/266-new-covid-cases-in-south-coastal-ap/article36487539.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC to hear appeal on idol immersion in Hussainsagar||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, is scheduled on Thursday to hear an urgent plea by the Commissioner, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), to stay a September 9 order of the Telangana High Court banning the immersion of Ganesha idols made of plaster-of-Paris (PoP) in the Hussainsagar lake in the city. The High Court had passed the order to prevent the pollution caused to the major water body in the city, especially from synthetic paints on the idols. However, the municipal body has argued that the unexpected ban on the immersion of PoP idols would hit thousands of artisans hard. Besides, arrangements for the celebration were already well under way and the GHMC had taken precautions, including positioning cranes to pull out the idols from the lake within hours of their immersion. The local body sought an exemption from the High Court’s order for this year’s immersion celebrations, due in three days on September 18. It said the High Court order would be fully complied with from next year. “The idols will be removed within 24 hours of immersion. They will be transported to solid waste dumping sites. The GHMC has also created 25 baby ponds and also distributed 50,000 small environment-friendly clay Ganesha idols…” the petition filed through advocate Venkat Reddy said. It said the preparations for the Ganesh Chaturthi festival began in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-to-hear-appeal-on-idol-immersion-in-hussainsagar/article36486997.ece
16 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Include Veligonda in gazette, Centre urged||The Prakasam District Development Review Committee(DDRC) on Wednesday urged the Union Water Resources Ministry to notify the multi-crore Pula Subbaiah Veligonda project in the Central Gazette. Chairing the DDRC meeting here, State Social Welfare Minister P.Viswarup, also Minister In-charge of Prakasam district, allayed the fears of farmers over the omission of the ongoing project in the gazette at the time of issue of notification by the Centre for administration by the Krishna River Management Board. ‘Typographical error’ Farmers could expect Krishna water for their parched lands next year as the work on the project, designed to provide water to 15 lakh people and irrigate about five lakh acres of land, progressed at a brisk pace, he said. State Education Minister A.Suresh said it was only due to some typographical errors that the project, which figured in the State Reorganisation Act, had not been included in the Central Gazette. The State government was taking all necessary remedial steps in this regard, he said, adding that the work on the rehabilitation colonies had been taken up on a war footing and the same would be completed before the release of water from the Nallamallasagar. YSR Congress Party MP from Ongole Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy urged the officials to speedily send the Detailed Project Report(DPR) for the Veligonda project to the Centre and asked the DDRC members to follow up the matter with the Centre. MLC from Graduates constituency Yandapalli Srininvasulu Reddy urged the State government to step up allocation for the project, which had now reached the fag-end. Meanwhile, Energy Minister Balineni Srinvasa Reddy directed the officials to ensure power supply to Jagananna Colonies. He expressed his ire over reports that some erring officials were harassing individuals taking sand for construction of houses at the behest of some private firms. Chirala MLA K. Balarama Krishnamurthy urged the officials to ensure Krishna water from Nagarjunasagar Right Bank canal as large tracts of land in tail-end areas in the district faced water shortage in the district every year. The Ministers directed the health professionals to gear up for the third wave of coronavirus as the members complained of inadequate medical infrastructure in COVID hospitals. Prakasam District Collector Pravin Kumar told the members that land for airport was being identified in Martur by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-urged-to-include-veligonda-project-in-gazette/article36487538.ece
16 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘It’s time all non-BJP parties supported farmers’ stir’||Samyukta Kisan Morcha Andhra Pradesh unit convenor Vadde Sobhanadreeswara Rao on Wednesday demanded that both the ruling YSRCP and the main opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in the State to back the ongoing agitation by the SKM to press for the repeal of the three controversial farm laws and statutory backing for the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime. Disputing the contention that the three farm laws were beneficial to small and marginal farmers, the former Agriculture Minister feared at a meeting convened by SKM Prakasam District Convenor Ch. Ranga Rao that a majority of the farmers who have less than 0.1 hectare of land in the country would be forced to join the ranks of farm workers in the wake of the enactment of the three pieces of ‘corporate-friendly’ legislation which dismantled the well-regulated agricultural markets, giving scope for hoarding and profiteering by big agri-marketing companies. The opposition TDP should also back the Bharat Bandh called on September 27 by the SKM if its president N. Chandrababu Naidu was sincere in espousing the cause of farmers, he said. Accusing the Centre of pursuing ‘crony capitalism’, he said all sections of people should come together to throw the BJP out of power in 2024 as the party-led NDA government had sold away the prime national assets at a throwaway price to a select group of companies and made the lives of common people miserable by imposing a heavy taxes. ‘True-up’ charges “It is unfortunate that the YSRCP government is implementing the electricity reforms mooted by the Centre and burdening the commoners with ‘true-up’ electricity charges at a time when several States had turned down the proposals. Where is the need for metering of farm pumpsets if the government is committed to free power supply to farmers?” he asked. All India Kisan Sabha national Vice-President R.Venkaiah said the farmers’ movement had got strengthened with labourers and other sections of people joining the struggle. “It is time Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took a cue from his Tamil Nadu counterpart M.K.Stalin and ensure adoption of a resolution in the A.P. Assembly against the three farm laws,” said A.P. Agricultural Workers’ Union State general secretary V. Venkateswarlu. Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam State president Y. Kesava Rao reasoned, “There is no rhyme or reason for the parties in the State including the Jana Sena Party to back the BJP which has ditched the people by reneging on the promises made at the time of State bifurcation including Special Category Status.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-time-all-non-bjp-parties-supported-farmers-stir/article36487039.ece
16 September 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Secret love story gets an official stamp||The love affair of Sajita and Rahman, who lived in a tiny room for 11 years without being noticed by anyone, got the blessing of the law on Wednesday when they got married at the sub-registrar office, Nenmara. The couple reaffirmed their bond under the Special Marriage Act with the support of the Purogamana Kala Sahitya Sangham, Kollangode. K. Babu, MLA, felicitated them and offered them support for a happy social life. Apart from Sajita’s father Velayudhan and mother Santha, Sahitya Sangham district joint secretary and Nenmara block panchayat member Santhan Master, Nenmara block panchayat vice president Sreeja Rajeev, and Ayiloor grama panchayat councillor Pushpakaran attended the marriage. Rahman’s parents and relatives stayed away. Brought to light Rahman and Sajita had caused a brouhaha three months ago when it came to light that he had hidden her in his room at Ayiloor, near Nenmara, for nearly 11 years without his family knowing about it. It was found that Sajita had left her house in 2010 and lived secretly with Rahman in his tiny room for 11 years. The room had scanty amenities. Rahman never let any of his family members enter his room, and used to lock the room when he went out. He had converted the window into a secret exit, through which Sajita used to go out at night to freshen up. A few months ago, Rahman and Sajita secretly shifted to a rented house at Vithanassery. The lovers’ secret life came to light when the police found Rahman following a missing complaint filed by his family. Couple’s demand After registering their marriage on Wednesday, Rahman and Sajita demanded that the investigations and other procedures initiated by various agencies, including the State Human Rights Commission, the State Women’s Commission and the State Youth Commission, be dropped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/secret-love-story-gets-an-official-stamp/article36486984.ece
16 September 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RMC to form panel to tackle stray animals||Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation (RMC) Commissioner M. Abhishikth Kishore on Wednesday announced that a special committee would be constituted soon to prevent the movement of stray dogs and cattle on the roads, school zones, and public places in the town. The RMC authorities, non-governmental organisations and veterinary officials on Wednesday have chalked out an action plan, preventing movements of the cattle and pigs on the roads. “The committee will consist of representatives from various NGOs, veterinary officials, and municipal health officials. The committee will recommend the adoption ofi mmediate steps to address the problems being caused due to the cattle and stray dogs in the city,” said Mr. Kishore. The RMC has been receiving nearly 20% of grievances pertaining to disturbances from the cattle, pigs, and stray dogs in recent months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rmc-to-form-panel-to-tackle-stray-animals/article36487582.ece
16 September 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held for attack on lecturer in E. Godavari||Four persons were arrested in connection with the attack on Pulugu Deepak, a lecturer serving in Government Junior College, Sitangaram, in East Godavari district. Rajamahendravaram Urban SP Aiswarya Rastogi on Wednesday said Mr. Deepak was allegedly assaulted by a local group on Tuesday and the apparent reason for the attack was said to be a 'personal matter'. “The victim was physically abused by a group outside the college campus. We have arrested four persons in the case and the investigation is on. The victim did not receive any injuries,” the SP said. Police registered a case under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-held-for-attack-on-lecturer-in-e-godavari/article36487583.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another leader quits Congress||Another Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) general secretary, G. Rathi Kumar, broke ranks with his party on Wednesday and shifted his political allegiance to the CPI(M). The division in the KPCC leadership over the disputed appointment of District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents seemed to be on full display again for the second consecutive day. On Monday, expelled KPCC general secretary K.P. Anil Kumar had joined the CPI(M). CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and other senior leaders feted Mr. Kumar at AKG Centre here. The CPI(M) extended Mr. Kumar the same courtesy it had shown to Mr. Anil Kumar and KPCC secretary P.S. Prasanth. Mr. Prasanth had defected to the CPI(M) on September 3. Seemingly after the fashion of his predecessors, Mr. Kumar rebuked the KPCC leadership for promoting “servile sycophancy” over merit in party appointments. Nevertheless, the Congress appeared unfazed. Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan said a few deserters would not dent the party’s prospects. The Congress had resurged after K. Karunakaran left the party in 2004. However, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan declared that the trickle of leaders deserting the Congress party would soon turn into a tide. He said secular and progressive Congress workers disillusioned with the party’s leadership saw the CPI(M) and not the BJP as a safe harbour. “Today, another KPCC leader agreed to work in cooperation with the CPI(M). We have to see who will come tomorrow. I am sure there will be more,” he said at a press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-leader-quits-congress/article36486987.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Next phase of KPCC reorganisation soon||The KPCC on Wednesday reportedly edged towards the next phase of party reorganisation. Top leaders, including KPCC president K. Sudhakaran, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, Ramesh Chennithala, and Oommen Chandy, had held preliminary discussions to ensure the process was rancour-free. The leaders would nominate new persons for the posts of KPCC and DCC general secretaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/next-phase-of-kpcc-reorganisation-soon/article36486973.ece
16 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bishop had no aim to create disharmony: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that creating enmity between communities was not the purpose of Bishop of Pala Mar Joseph Kallarangatt’s controversial sermon on ‘narcotic jihad.’ The Syro-Malabar diocese has since clarified that the bishop’s aim was to caution believers under his pastoral care about the criminal networks that pushed narcotic drugs to impressionable youth for profit. The bishop delivered the speech from the pulpit to believers. He had not made a public statement. Hence, the government believed there was no legal ground for any case against the prelate, Mr. Vijayan said here on Wednesday. He said ‘narcotic jihad’ was a misnomer for drug abuse and allied criminal activity. The drug mafia was a universal phenomenon. They were powerful than governments in some countries. However, it was incorrect to ascribe drug peddling to any particular religion. The drug mafia did not bear the standard of any faith. Spiritual leaders should be cautious not to let their words be twisted out of context by forces that seek to divide society for political gain. Such forces had lost their relevance in Kerala. The people had relegated them to political insignificance, he said. However, they could use the slightest opportunity to demonise people of a particular minority faith to stoke fear and insecurity in society. The government was committed to protecting the State’s secular and progressive legacy. It would not allow any vested interest to drive a wedge between communities. The government, in conjunction with Opposition parties, would provide a platform for such dialogue. He slammed the purported statement by a spiritual leader that a particular minority community engaged in sorcery to corrupt youth from other religions. The police would prosecute those who promoted divisive rhetoric on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bishop-had-no-aim-to-create-disharmony-cm/article36486988.ece
16 September 2021||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP prompts police officer to salute him||Rajya Sabha member Suresh Gopi, who visited areas in Puthur in Kerala’s Thrissur district, where a whirlwind wreaked havoc recently, was annoyed to see a police officer who neither got down from the jeep nor saluted him. The BJP leader called the officer and said in a friendly tone, “I am an MP, not a Mayor. You can salute me.” Later, the officer saluted him. It become a controversy and a topic of debate on whether the police on duty should salute MPs and MLAs or not. Earlier, Thrissur Mayor M.K. Varghese had complained that the police personnel were not saluting him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-prompts-police-officer-to-salute-him/article36486985.ece
16 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Panchagavya’ products to hit the stalls by December||The ‘Panchagavya’ products coming under the brand of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) will be made available in the market by December. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Wednesday directed the officials concerned to make all arrangements to ensure the products get to the counters by the fixed date. Since the TTD is currently engaged in the process of procuring a license from the Department of AYUSH to make and sell the Panchagavya products, he instructed them to hasten the process and also finalise the product design. As part of the agreement, the TTD is installing the required machinery and will procure the raw materials, while the Coimbatore-based Ashirwad Ayurveda Private Limited will produce floor cleaner, soap, shampoo, tooth powder and Ayurvedic Agarbatis for a period of ten years. Apart from marketing, the TTD will use the products to meet its in-house requirement in the various temples, cottages and guest houses. Animal feed mixing plant A committee formed by the TTD will also visit Gujarat soon for the purchase of Gir breed cows within a month, for which an animal feed mixing plant is being set up at the Tirupati Goshala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panchagavya-products-to-hit-the-stalls-by-dec/article36487541.ece
16 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||General Duty Medical Officers take to the streets demanding salaries||The General Duty Medical Officers (GDMO), inducted temporarily in a special recruitment drive for a period of six months on contract basis to work in COVID hospitals, Government General Hospitals, area hospitals and COVID Care Centres in the State, are on the warpath. Irked by denial of salaries in last five months, they launched an indefinite strike from Wednesday, demanding immediate payment of salary and the pending arrears. The medical officers, drawn from all streams of medicine, were recruited under COVID Instant Orders to control the rapidly spreading virus. “Despite hardships, we performed our duties in COVID hospitals and centres with utmost sincerity amidst a spurt of case load, putting our own health to risk. Some of our families were affected and even a few doctors succumbed to the virus, but we did not step back from our duty,” said Nikhil Teja Reddy, who is working as COVID Duty Medical Officer in the Government General Hospital (GGH) in Vijayawada. A dental surgeon, Dr. Teja Reddy had been in the forefront of the doctors’ protest. Pointing to the fact that the six months of the contract period was almost coming to a close, but they had not received even a single month salary so far, Dr. Teja Reddy said the nearly 1,300 doctors and around 5,000 para-military staff taken in when the pandemic was raging, were let down by the government. “Initially we were given accommodation as a safety measure, which was scrapped later citing budget issues. We are forced to stay with our families, putting their lives at risk, while working in COVID hospitals and centres,” said Sirisha, another GDMO working in GGH, Vijayawada. Sameera, an Ayurvedic doctor working as GDMO under the Krishna District Medical and Health Officer, pointed to the “difficult and harsh conditions we have been working to safeguard the public against the killer virus but our services went unrecognised.” The protesting doctors complained that even during the first wave of the pandemic, they were recruited for the same purpose, but their services were terminated abruptly through a WhatsApp message before the completion of the period that was agreed upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/general-duty-medical-officers-take-to-the-streets-demanding-salaries/article36486989.ece
16 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Intermediate betterment examinations commence||Intermediate Public Advanced Supplementary examinations (September 2021) in theory, both for general and vocational courses, commenced on Wednesday. A statement released by the State Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) said that the second year Intermediate students wrote their exam in Second Language (Paper I) in 1,452 exam centres established with elaborate arrangements as per the COVID-19 protocol. Of the total 5,14,579 students who applied for it, 5,07,932 were absent and only 6,647 of them took the test on Wednesday. Though all students were declared “pass” by the State Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) in view of the pandemic that necessitated lockdown, many of them expressed dissatisfaction over the marks awarded to them. To give a chance to such students, the Board is conducting the advanced supplementary examinations. Wearing of mask was mandatory for students writing the exams and seating arrangement was made as per COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/intermediate-betterment-examinations-commence/article36487042.ece
16 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘DCCBs will be modernised’||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said that the State government is taking the necessary steps to strengthen the District Cooperative Central Banks (DCCBs) and District Cooperative Marketing Societies (DCMSes). At a review meeting on Wednesday, the Minister said that a committee comprising of higher officials would study the DCCBs and DCMSs for overall strengthening and more transparency. The officials from RCS, Marketing, APCOB would be part of the panel, which would work under the guidance of Principal Secretary Marketing and Cooperation. There should be cooperation between the DCMSes and the DCCBs, he said. The Minister said that a lot of corruption took place in many DCCBs during the tenure of teh TDP government. “As the YSRCP government is taking steps to modernise the DCCBs, the corrupt practices from the tenure of the previous government are coming to light. The DCCBs chairmen and DCMS presidents should have a fair knowledge of the functioning of the banks and societies.. They should work with vigour keeping the long-term loans in view and necessary steps must be taken to transfer the bank managers who are working at the same place for more than a year,” he added. Markfed Chairman Nagi Reddy, APCOB Chairman Mallela Jgansi Rani, Principal Secretary Marketing and Cooperation Madhusudan Reddy, Commissioners P.S. Pradyumna, A. Babu were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dccbs-will-be-modernised/article36487621.ece
16 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 more succumb to COVID-19 in State||The State reported 11 more COVID-19 deaths and 1,445 infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,030 and 20,33,419 respectively, while the number of active cases slightly increased to 14,603. The total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 20,04,786 and 98.59%. The daily test positivity rate of the 62,252 tests conducted in the past day was 2.32% and that of the 2.74 crore tests conducted so far was 7.40%. Krishna and Prakasam reported three more deaths each in the past day while West Godavari reported two and Chittoor, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. East Godavari reported 274 new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (201), Krishna (164), Guntur (141), Prakasam (136), West Godavari (131), Kadapa (131), Nellore (130), Visakhapatnam (69), Anantapur (28), Vizianagaram (15), Srikakulam (14) and Kurnool (11). The dsitrict tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,88,303), Chittoor (2,41,207), West Godavari (1,76,198), Guntur (1,74,301), Anantapur (1,57,441), Visakhapatnam (1,55,945), Nellore (1,42,973), Prakasam (1,35,392), Kurnool (1,23,955), Srikakulam (1,22,479), Krishna (1,15,751), Kadapa (1,13,946) and Vizianagaram (82,633).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-state/article36487553.ece
16 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. helps ‘harassed’ workers in Bahrain||Problems faced by Indian migrant workers in Bahrain have been resolved, thanks to the timely intervention of Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the Ministry of External Affairs and the Embassy of India, Bahrain. In a statement on Wednesday, the Andhra Pradesh Non-Resident Telugu Society (APNRTS) said the thousands of Indian migrants working at Nasser S. Al Hajri (NSH) Corporation, an industrial contractor and a sub-contractor of the Bahrain Petroleum Company (BAPCO), who allegedly faced ill-treatment by their employers, comprised a large number of Telugu workers from Srikakulam and other districts of the State. The workers were protesting at the migrant camp of NSH for a week. They reached out to Minister for Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Dairy Development Seediri Appala Raju and APNRTS, which, in turn, apprised the Chief Minister of the problem and sought help from the Embassy of India (EoI), Bahrain, with complete details of the workers with a plea to repatriate them to their home country at the earliest. The Chief Minister, meanwhile, communicated the issue to Union Minister for External Affairs S. Jaishankar, seeking his intervention . He directed the officers at the A.P. Bhavan in New Delhi to coordinate with the Ministry and assist in the repatriation . The Embassy of India, Bahrain, helped in arranging meetings with the management of NSH and representatives of the protesting workers and the conflict was resolved, said the statement. Ravi Shankar Shukla, Consular Officer at the Bahrain Embassy, said 4,000-odd workers had been protesting for a week demanding better food, accommodation and medical facilities. The Embassy took up the issue with the Bahrain Government, whose representatives visited the accommodation camps of the workers and pursued the issue with the NSH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/problems-of-ap-workers-in-bahrain-resolved/article36487026.ece
16 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Power consumption in State has surpassed national average’||Energy Secretary N. Srikant on Wednesday said that the power utilities in Andhra Pradesh had improved its performance in supply of quality and reliable power to all sectors. “Because of this, the average electricity consumption in the State has surpassed the national average,” he said, explaining that A.P.’s power consumption grew by 20.5 % in August this year, which is higher than the national average of 18.6 %. Speaking after paying tributes to eminent engineer and Bharat Ratna awardee Sir Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya to mark the latter’s 161th birth anniversary, Mr. Srikant recalled that the ‘Father of Indian Engineering’ was known for his contribution towards harnessing water resources, and building and consolidation of dams across the country. Emphasising the need to emulate his principles for sustainability of the power sector, he said the increase in demand for energy could be an indication of a rise in economic activity in the State when compared to last year. “This could be a good sign for the development,” he said. In the first fortnight of May, he said, the average energy consumption in the State was 15.37 %, against a growth of 19 % in the national average. “However, in August, our consumption surpassed the national average,” he said. Cost-effective In the last two and half years, the utilities have implemented cost-effective measures in power purchases, improved the infrastructure by erecting power lines, transformers and substations, which in turn helped in reduction of interruptions in power supply, he said. Mr. Srikant said the power purchase arrears and operating costs, which stood at Rs. 12,500 crore at the time of State bifurcation in 2014, reached Rs. 32,000 crore on April 1, 2019. Serious efforts were made to bail out the crisis-ridden power sector and considering the severe financial crisis faced by the DISCOMs, the State government came to their rescue by releasing Rs. 28,166 crore to power companies between 2019 and 2021. “The government focus has always been on consumer-centric policies,” he said. Mr. Srikant said that all-out efforts were being made to strengthen the power sector and achieve operational and economic stability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-consumption-in-state-has-surpassed-national-average/article36487551.ece
16 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online admissions in UG courses to start tomorrow||The government on Wednesday issued orders introducing online admission process for undergraduate courses in Arts, Sciences, Social Sciences, Commerce, Management, Computer Applications and Social Work etc., including Honours, in all faculties in Government Degree Colleges, Government Autonomous Degree Colleges, Private Aided Degree Colleges, Private Unaided Degree Colleges and Private-Autonomous Degree Colleges. In a statement, Secretary, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE), B. Sudheer Prem Kumar said the Council was implementing the admission process through the Online Admission Module for Degree Colleges (OAMDC). Registrations for online admissions can be made throughhttps://oamdc.ap.gov.infrom September 17 under Phase-I. Mr. Sudheer Kumar said notification would be issued on September 16 and students could register their names from September 17 to 22. They would be able to exercise web options from September 23 to 26, and Special Category verification of documents would be done on September 23 and 24. Allotment of seats would be made on September 29, students would have to report at the allotted college on September 30 and October 1 and classes would commence on October 1. The Special Category verification of documents would be held at SRR College in Vijayawada, Dr. V.S. Krishna College in Visakhapatnam and S.V. University in Tirupati, only on September 23 and 24. Candidates who wish to claim reservation under Physically Challenged/CAP/Extra Curricular activities/ NCC/ Games and Sports need to attend certificate verification at the nearest help line centre before exercising options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-admissions-to-start-tomorrow/article36487043.ece
16 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP flays govt. over rising debts of farmers||Telugu Desam Party former MLA Dhulipalla Narendra Kumar has slammed the State government for making “false claims” on growth of the farm sector in the State. The national level reports point out that 93% farmers’ families were stuck in debts in Andhra Pradesh, he pointed out. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Mr. Narendra asserted that the ruling YSRCP betrayed the farmers on all fronts during the past two and half years. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy promised in his election manifesto to pay Rs. 12,500 to every farmer under Rythu Bharosa, but he was giving just Rs. 7,500 after coming to power. This came to Rs. 13,500 along with Rs. 6,000 being given by the Central Government. The national level programmes and funds were being used for the publicity of the Chief Minister, he alleged. The Rythu Bharosa Kendras were only set up with the ulterior motive to give total control to the ruling party leaders. The rates of fertilizer were skyrocketing and the DAP was being available only in the black market. Even the seed was not made available at the RBK centres, he alleged. Andhra Pradesh had fallen far behind Telangana in the purchase of foodgrains. The Telangana government spent Rs. 16,700 crore and purchased 1.40 crore metric tonnes during 2020-21 while Andhra Pradesh spent just Rs. 6,700 crore. During the 2020-21 kharif, the Andhra Pradesh government bought just 15.04 lakh metric tonnes as against 41.06 lakh metric tonnes purchased by Telangana. The maize and jowar purchase centres had only helped the YSRCP leaders to fill their pockets. The Chief Minister was not ensuring a fair deal to farmers as his party leaders and middle men were causing severe losses, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-flays-govt-over-rising-debts-of-farmers/article36487622.ece
16 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notification for AP PGCET-2021 released||The Government has issued notification for conduct of Andhra Pradesh Post Graduate Common Entrance Test (AP PGCET)- 2021 for students seeking admissions in PG courses. Yogi Vemana University will conduct the Common Entrance Test on behalf of the AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE). Students can get their names registered and submit online applications from September 15 and the last date for submitting the online applications is September 30. However, the last date with a late fee of Rs. 200 is October 4 and with a late fee of Rs. 500, it is October 8.The tentative date for commencement of the entrance test is October 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/notification-for-ap-pgcet-2021-released/article36487040.ece
16 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh blames govt. for rising attacks on women||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has alleged that the government’s inefficiency is the reason for the rising attacks on women in the State. He condemned the alleged thrashing of a woman in Nellore despite her plea for help. Moreover, the attack was videographed and circulated in total disrespect for the laws, he said. “The perpetrators of atrocities are rearing their ugly head due to the utter failure of the system,” Mr. Lokesh alleged, and advised Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to ensure that people involved in such acts were not released on bail within days of their arrest. A deterrent punishment would alone put an end to such heinous activities, he added. Referring to the molestation of a girl allegedly by a man and his son in Visakhapatnam district, he blamed the ‘ineffectiveness’ of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-blames-govt-for-rising-attacks-on-women/article36487549.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 nabbed for a spree of property crimes in city||The crime branch of the city police on Wednesday arrested 13 persons and took two juveniles into their custody for their alleged involvement in eight property offences under different police station limits in Visakhapatnam. Addressing a press conference, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) V. Suresh Babu said that out of the eight cases, two were reported from Duvvada, while one each was reported at Gopalapatnam, Parawada, Kancharapalem, MVP, II Town and Airport police station limits. In one case, police arrested two persons named K. Satya venkata Durga Rao (24) of East Godavari district and Ch. Srinu of Gopalapatnam for allegedly breaking into a house at BC Colony in Aganampudi area and decamping with gold, a two-wheeler and other valuables worth Rs. 1.24 lakh. Police recovered all the stolen property. In another case, two persons identified as K. Madhav and K. Pratap were arrested by the Duvvada police for allegedly attempting to commit theft at an ATM at Vadlapudi late on September 14. Parawada police arrested six persons aged between 21 to 40 years for allegedly committing theft of mechanical objects worth Rs. 1.50 lakh from an equipment yard of a pharma company at Pharma City. The stolen property was recovered. Gopalapatnam police arrested a 51-year-old man named Srinivasa Patnaik for allegedly committing theft of an idol of Lord Sri Krishna made of metal worth Rs. 10,000 from a temple at RR Venkatapuram. In two different cases, two juveniles were taken into custody for allegedly gaining entry into houses and committing theft of gold and other valuables at Airport PS limits and Kancharapalem PS limits. The stolen property was partially recovered. B. Mahesh Shankar (20) was arrested by MVP Police for stealing a motorcycle at Peda Waltair, while Ch. Pydiraju (21) was booked by the II Town P\olice for fleeing with cash and a mobile phone from a house at Kobbarithota. ACP (Crime) Ch. Penta Rao, and Inspectors K. Rama Rao and Luther Babu, were present at the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-nabbed-for-a-spree-of-property-crimes-in-city/article36487628.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam has all the trappings to be named as geopark, says expert||The Visakhapatnam district is broadly classified by geologists into two regions – the plain area and the hilly tracts that come under the Eastern Ghats. And they say that the regions that fall under the plain area and the Araku hills have all the trappings to be named as the geopark, as its geological diversity ranges from the present to 1,800 millennia. The potential geological features of Visakhapatnam finds a place in the book brought out by INTACH ‘A monograph on potential Geoparks of India’. Speaking to The Hindu , D. Rajasekhar Reddy, advisor to Geo Heritage Cell of INTACH and former professor of Geology, Andhra University, said geopark region is not limited to one particular site or monument but an entire region that has geological, archaeological and cultural sites and values and Visakhapatnam has plenty. He is also the editor of the book. Right from the beaches that are at least 6,000-year-old to the Erramatti Dibbalu that dates back to 20,000 years and from the 65,000-year-old volcanic ash bed in Araku to Borra Caves that is 160 million-year-old, Visakhapatnam has it all, he said. According to him, Visakhapatnam has all the three components such as geological features, archaeological and cultural features. “Under the geological features, we have the beaches from Gangavaram to Bheemunipatnam, the natural arch at Mangamaripeta beach, the serpentine hood formation at Thotlakonda beach, the Borra Caves, the volcanic ash bed at Araku and the Erramatti Dibbalu,” he said. The Buddhist sites at Thotlakonda, Bavikonda, Pavurallakonda, Bojjannakonda and Lingalukonda are classified as potential archaeological sites and are over 2,000-year-old. Temples such as Simhachalam and Old Cemetery in the Old Town have historical value and the tribal culture, by itself, is a potential subject for cultural study, said Prof. Rajasekhar Reddy. The book has proposed fourteen geoparks from seven States in the country and the idea is to address the stakeholders and the government to take up steps to declare them as geoparks and protect and conserve them for posterity. The State government needs to protect the valuable geological, archaeological, and cultural sites by designating them as geoparks following the guidelines of the UNESCO. The State government should establish the Visakhapatnam Geopark by bringing all important sites, under one integrated Geopark Management Authority (GPMA) and nominate members to it, he said. The management authority should oversee policy making and provide guidelines for proper upkeep of the tourist sites. The GPMA should open an exclusive website for the geopark, oversee the establishment of facilities like tourism information centres, trained guides, signage boards, amenities and facilities for tourists at the sites. The government should identify and promote marketing of the local products based on the native skills as souvenirs of the area that will help improve the economy of the local people. If it is done, then Visakhapatnam will be one of the finest geoparks in the country and thus can be a leader in guiding other States as well as get a chance to be recognised by the UNESCO. This will greatly enhance international tourism and boost up the economy of the region, said Prof. Rajasekhar Reddy. The geopark concept arose in the mid-1990s in European countries as a response to the need to conserve and enhance the value of areas of geological significance in the Earth history. At present, there are 161 UNESCO Global Geoparks in 44 countries. China alone has 41 UNESCO Global Geoparks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-has-all-the-trappings-to-be-named-as-geopark-says-expert/article36487632.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||M. Visvesvaraya’s services recalled on Engineer’s Day||The birth anniversary of Sir Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya was celebrated by various engineering colleges and government organisations in the city on Wednesday. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao garlanded a statue of Sir Visvesvaraya on the occasion of Engineer’s Day. He recalled that the major projects, built under the supervision of Sir Visvesvaraya, were still intact. Apart from his engineering marvels, Sir Visvesvaraya had proved to be an able administrator and had rendered services to the nation for 30 years. A ‘Soil Lab’ was inaugurated at the Head Office of Dredging Corporation of India (DCI) on the occasion of Engineer’s Day. GITAM Deemed to be University Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna, senior faculty and research scholars offered floral tributes to a statue of Sir Visvesvaraya. The Civil Engineering Department conducted a webinar in which Central Public Works Department (CPWD) Chief Engineer P. Bhagat Singh explained about the ongoing Central Vista Project in New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/m-visvesvarayas-services-recalled-on-engineers-day/article36487625.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rationalise village volunteer system, urge rights activists||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) and Samalochana on Wednesday called upon the Andhra Pradesh government to carry out an exercise of rationalisation of the village volunteer system in the Agency areas of the State, here on Wednesday. It must be done in a manner that ensures that one volunteer is positioned for not more than 30 households in the tribal areas, unlike the stipulated 50 households in each village in the plain areas. This is because there are complexities of network coverage and geographical challenges related to travelling across villages in Agency mandals, representatives of the organisations said. G.O. no. 104, issued by the Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department on June 22, 2019, specifies that one village volunteer is positioned for around 50 households. The ratio is being maintained well in the rest of the mandals across the State. However, one volunteer serving 50 households is clearly an uphill task for volunteers in the Fifth Schedule region, given the socio-economic and geographical challenges the area presents, the representatives said. “As a consequence, adivasis are unable to fully and properly access governmental schemes,” said V.S. Krishna, HRF A.P. and TS coordinator. “We looked at data available from 29 tribal mandals across four districts of Andhra Pradesh so as to determine the average number of households mapped for one village volunteer. We found that on an average, each volunteer covers more than 60 households. The number of households served by each volunteer in these 29 mandals ranges from 47.5 households to 78 households,” pointed out B. Chakradhar, convener of Samalochana. “Even though the tribal volunteers undergo a lot of hardship and are serving more households on an average compared to their counterparts in the rest of the State, the honorarium received by them is the same. Also, the Tribal Sub-Plan directs States to invest more in tribal areas in order to achieve similar results as the plain areas,” he said. “Given the difficult terrain in the Agency and the importance of having adequate staff to ensure effective implementation of government schemes and better public service delivery, we demand that rationalisation of volunteer system in the tribal region be done to ensure that one volunteer is positioned for not more than 30 households,” Mr. Krishna and Mr. Chakradhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rationalise-village-volunteer-system-urge-rights-activists/article36487637.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man kills father over property, tries to kill mother||A 50-year-old man allegedly murdered his father by slitting his throat with a knife and also attempted to kill his mother, at Tekkalipalem village under Sabbavaram police station limits in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. Police said the crime was the outcome of a property dispute, adding that the wife and son of the accused helped him commit the shocking acts. The deceased was identified as G. Swamy Naidu, aged around 75 years. According to police, the deceased had a dispute with his son G. Appa Rao. The accused, along with his wife and son, frequently quarrelled with Swamy Naidu on a number of occasions over the possession of an agricultural land. On Wednesday, it is learnt that Swamy Naidu and his wife were working in their farm when they were attacked by Appa Rao. The accused reportedly hacked his father with a sharp-edged weapon, killing him on the spot. Later, Appa Rao with the help of his wife and two sons attempted to kill his mother by choking the elderly woman in the field. When the woman lost consciousness, the accused and his family left the spot presuming her to be dead. After a short while, when villagers checked on her, she was found to be breathing and was rushed to a hospital where she is undergoing treatment. Police have reportedly taken Appa Rao and some of his family into custody after coming to know of the incident. A case has been registered at Sabbavaram police station, and further details are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-kills-father-over-property-tries-to-kill-mother/article36487629.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVL misleading public with false claims, says CPI(M)||Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) State secretariat member Ch. Narsinga Rao alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament G.V.L. Narasimha Rao was cheating people by making false claims. “The BJP is trying to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and is also not allotting a railway zone to Visakhapatnam. No significant steps are being taken for establishment of a railway zone, according Special Category Status (SCS) and setting up of Central University. But Mr. Narasimha Rao who sits in Vizag makes false claims about the railway zone and other assurances which were promised as per A.P. Bifurcation Act. The Rajya Sabha MP should stop doing this,” he said. Addressing a press conference here in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday, Mr. Narasinga Rao said that the BJP has put VSP for sale. Despite protests by associations and people since the last six months, the BJP-led Union Government has no concern at all. The BJP is also trying to privatise HPCL and ONGC, he alleged. The party is also eyeing to shut down Visakhapatnam airport and allot Bhogapuram airport to GMR constructions. The Centre is also not allotting funds for Visakhapatnam Metro Rail project, IIM and Tribal University, he alleged. The CPI(M) leader also said that a public meeting will be held at Convocation Hall, Andhra University on September 16, against the BJP’s anti-public policies. CPI(M) Politburo Member Brinda Karat will attend the meeting, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvl-misleading-public-with-false-claims-cpim/article36487619.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP not singled out in privatisation policy of Centre, says GVL||The privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) is a policy decision of the Centre and it has nothing to do with any individual case or if a PSU is incurring losses or making profits, BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao has said. “The VSP has not been singled out in this regard and the Centre has decided to privatise all manufacturing sectors, except for the four strategic sectors. Moreover, giving away PSUs to private sectors for operating them will only be beneficial to the plants and interests of the people. The interests of the employees will be taken care off,” Mr. Narasimha Rao told the media here on Wednesday. He agreed that the VSP might have some sentiments attached to it, but that had nothing to do with the Centre’s decision, which was applied for all sectors identified for privatisation. Referring to the delay in functioning of the new railway zone with Visakhapatnam as its headquarters, the MP said that he had a meeting with the Chairman of the Railway Board and other authorities concerned and had asked them to speed up the work. He pointed out that the delay was due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic and some financial losses suffered by the Indian Railway due to the pandemic. BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav told the media that a detailed discussion was held with the OSD of the railway zone and the DRM and efforts were on to speed up the process. “We have also discussed about the Rayagada division issue, which is being opposed by many and efforts are on to sort it out,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-not-singled-out-in-privatisation-policy-of-centre-says-gvl/article36487556.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IPC, SLL cases go up in last two years, says NCRB report||The total number of cases booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Special and Local Laws (SLL) in the State has shot up over the last two years, the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) Report -2020 has revealed. Both combined together, the State has recorded a total of 2,38,105 cases when compared to 1,45,751 in 2019 and 1,44,703 in 2018. Of the 2,38,105 cases, 1,88,997 were booked under various sections of the IPC, when compared to 1,19,229 in 2019 and 1,26,635 in 2018. Though, under most of the major crime sections, the State has recorded a marginal drop or increase over the previous year, the steep rise can be majorly attributed to the cases booked under the Section 188 of the IPC ( Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) 72,883 cases were booked when compared to 2,515 last year. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior legal consultant said that these cases were booked against people who did not adhere to a public order such as defying Section 144 of the Cr.PC or any prohibitory orders such as those imposed in the wake of coronavirus pandemic by a public servant such as District Collector or Magistrate. Coming to serious offences such as murder, the State recorded 888 cases under Section 302 (A) of the IPC, 157 cases under culpable homicide not amounting murder and 7,419 cases under death caused by negligence. There was a marginal drop in these crimes when compared to 2019. The State recorded a slight drop in accidents with number of deaths being recorded at 7,176 compared to 8,161 in 2019. But, coming to crimes against women, there was a slight increase with assault cases being 2,543 compared to 2,441 in 2019, sexual harassment being 1,009 to 896, harassment at work place being 70 over 22 and stalking being 957 when compared to 782. Cybercrime Coming to cybercrime, the State stands in the seventh position in the country by recording 1,899 cases in 2020. Uttar Pradesh tops the chart with 11,097 cases, followed by Karnataka with 10,741 and Tamil Nadu with more than 5,000 cases. When compared to the previous year, there is an indication that the crime in this segment is going up with every passing year. In 2018, it was 1,207 which went up to 1,886 in 2019. There was a huge drop in rash driving cases. In 2020, the State recorded 3,757 cases when compared to 20,455 in the previous year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ipc-sll-cases-go-up-in-last-two-years-says-ncrb-report/article36487557.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre has no right to sell away PSUs: Brinda||CPI (M) Polit Bureau Member Brinda Karat has said that the BJP-led Central government has no right to sell the Public Sector Enterprises (PSEs). The Centre, which is supposed to protect the PSEs, is trying to privatise them. Ms. Karat met the workers of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), who have been on a relay hunger strike for the past 215 days at the steel plant arch at Kurmannapalem Junction, on Wednesday. Expressing solidarity with the workers who have been opposing the privatisation of the steel plant tooth and nail, Ms. Karat said that no one had the right to sell the steel plant, which was established after 32 persons had sacrificed their lives. “Why is the government planning strategic sale of the VSP, even as it is making profits?” she asked. Ms. Karat said it was unfortunate that though farmers had been agitating in the streets of Delhi for the past nine months, enduring the risk of contracting COVID-19 infection, the Centre ‘has not even responded properly’ to the struggle. She appealed to the VSP workers to send greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday along with messages asking him ‘not to privatise the steel plant’. The farmers were preparing for a nationwide bandh on September 27, she said and appealed to the people to make it a success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-has-no-right-to-sell-away-psus-brinda/article36487555.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New flight from Vizag to Mumbai launched||SpiceJet has launched a new flight connecting Visakhapatnam with Mumbai. The flight was flagged off virtually by Union Minister of Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia on Wednesday. Flight no. SG-435 Mumbai–Vizag will leave Mumbai at 7.15 a.m. and arrive in Vizag at 9 a.m. on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday. In the return direction, SG-436 will leave Visakhapatnam at 9.50 a.m. and reach Mumbai at 11.45 a.m. on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday. Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar, who flagged off the flight from Visakhapatnam, said that the new service would be useful to the people of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-flight-from-vizag-to-mumbai-launched/article36487626.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City oncologist honoured in Chennai||D. Raghunadha Rao, a noted oncologist and former Director of Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Visakhapatnam, received a citation and a cheque for Rs. 3 lakh from the Dr. MGR Medical University & Cancer Institute (WIA), Chennai, for his contribution towards cancer management and prevention. Delivering a speech in memory of the late Dr. S. Krishnamurthy, founder of the Cancer Institute, Adayar, Dr. Raghunadha Rao spoke about the value systems in cancer care, education, research, public policy and the crucial role played by individuals who struggle against all odds to nurture and shape ethical yet excellent institutions like the Cancer Institute at Adayar. Dr. Sudha Sheshayyan, Vice-Chancellor of Dr. MGR Medical University, Chennai, Prof. Hemantharaj, Executive Vice-Chair of Cancer Institute, Adayar, Prof. Selvalaxmi, Director of Cancer Institute, Adayar, Dr. Ashwathanarayanan, Registrar of Dr. MGR Medical University, Chennai were present on the dais. Staff and students of Cancer Institute, Adayar, and faculty of the university participated. Chair of the Selection Committee, Dr. Pala Rajesh, who is the Vice-President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh (the oldest college of surgeons in the world), participated online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-oncologist-honoured-in-chennai/article36487633.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NCPCR member inspects anganwadis||Taba Rosy, a member of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), New Delhi, inspected several Anganwadi centres and the Nutritional Rehabilitation Centre, here in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday. She interacted with pre-school children at an Anganwadi centre in K.J Peta of Ward 31. In the form of a song and dance, she explained to the children how to clean their hands. Later, she checked the food which was being provided to the children. Ms. Rosy also held discussions with officials from the Integrated Child Development Society (ICDS) over the various initiatives that are being undertaken by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ncpcr-member-inspects-anganwadis/article36487635.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,528 kg ganja seized||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau busted two ganja smuggling rackets and recovered a total of 1,528 kg of the contraband in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The seized ganja is estimated to be worth Rs. 1.5 crore in some States. In the first case, SEB teams from Araku were conducting vehicle checks near Gorapur village in Araku mandal after receiving information about ganja smuggling. After noticing the SEB teams, two unidentified persons abandoned their vehicle and fled from the spot. The SEB teams found 1,128 kg of ganja in the van. The teams have launched a manhunt for the accused. In another case, SEB officials intercepted a vehicle at Narsipatnam and recovered around 400 kg of ganja stuffed in 16 gunny bags. One person has been arrested in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1528-kg-ganja-seized/article36487636.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IGNOU announces MBA admission sans entrance||The Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has announced admissions for MBA for the July 2021 session. This new MBA programme, designed by IGNOU, is approved by the AICTE and is of two years’ duration. The programme is designed by renowned management experts in tune with the latest industry requirements and practices, according to S. Raja Rao, Senior Regional Director, IGNOU Visakhapatnam Centre. The courses are contemporary and designed for both fresh graduates as well as working personnel. Candidates who hold a Bachelor’s Degree, of minimum three years’ duration and with at least 50% marks (45% in case of candidates belonging to reserved categories) are eligible for admission. Admissions can be taken through the web link:https://ignouadmission.samarth.edu.in/ There is no entrance test for admission into the MBA programme. The last date for admission is September 30, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ignou-announces-mba-admission-sans-entrance/article36487623.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man, son nabbed for ‘raping’ minor girls||The Atchutapuram police on Wednesday arrested a father-son duo for allegedly raping two minor girls near Pudimadaka in Visakhapatnam district on September 12. The accused have been identified as M. Bapayya (50) and his son M. Nookaraju (27). Atchutapuram police station Sub-Inspector M. Upendra said that the duo was produced in court and sent to remand. The girls were also sent for medical examination at NTR Hospital in Anakapalle, from where they were referred to the One-Stop Centre at King George Hospital. The two minor girls, both aged nine and from two different families in the same locality, were allegedly raped by the accused who happen to be their neighbours. The incident, which occurred on Sunday, came to light after family members of the girls lodged a complaint with the police on Monday night. According to a statement given by the family members, Bapayya and Nookaraju spotted the girls playing outside and whisked them away to a secluded place, where they allegedly raped them. Police registered cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Meanwhile, Women’s Commission members Jayasri, and women leaders from the ruling YSRCP met the girls at KGH on Wednesday. Ms. Jayasri assured all possible help from the government to the families of the minor girls. She commended the police for swiftly arresting the accused, and assured that stringent action would be initiated against them. She added that Home Minister M. Sucharitha and Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma have taken note of the incident and have ordered strict action against the accused. A team from AIDWA, POW, NIFW and CMS led by AIDWA president Prabhavati and secretary Ramadevi also visited the victims and their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-son-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girls/article36487620.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly man ‘molests’ seven-year-old||A man aged around 70 years allegedly attempted to molest a seven-year-old girl at One Town area in the city. The incident came to light after the girl’s family members lodged a complaint with the police on Wednesday. One Town police said a case has been registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elderly-man-molests-seven-year-old/article36487630.ece
16 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag reports 69 new COVID infections||The district recorded 69 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,455. The death toll also rose to 1,080 after one more person succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. This is the sixth COVID-19 death reported in this month. Meanwhile, as many as 61 persons who were undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered. As on Wednesday, the number of recoveries rose to 1,54,290. The number of active cases in the district stands at 1,085.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-reports-69-new-covid-infections/article36487634.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Courtesy call||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/courtesy-call/article36487559.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taking a chance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/taking-a-chance/article36487639.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic blues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-blues/article36486996.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Working on a solution||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/working-on-a-solution/article36487618.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Learning the ropes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/learning-the-ropes/article36487046.ece
16 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||21 tribal grads to get free coaching for IES||As many as 21 tribal engineering graduates from the district have been selected for a nine-month free coaching for the highly competitive Indian Engineering Services (IES) recruitment exam. The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) in Bhadrachalam selected the 21 young techies from various Agency mandals aspiring to explore bright career prospects in IES, sources in the ITDA said. The techies will undergo the comprehensive coaching at a Hyderabad-based academy. ITDA will bear the coaching and accommodation expenses of the 21 graduates to enable them excel in IES recruitment exam and join the government sector as engineers to serve the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/21-tribal-grads-to-get-free-coaching-for-ies/article36487371.ece
16 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Baby boy dies after quack’s botched ‘treatment’||In a shocking incident, a 45-day-old baby boy of a remote tribal village in Karakagudem mandal died after a botched treatment by a local quack on Tuesday. Sources said that a tribal couple of a migrant tribal family from Aswapurampadu approached a quack for treatment of their ailing child, two days ago. ‘Concoction’ The quack, the self-styled healer, allegedly administered a ‘concoction’ to the boy on the pretext of curing a recurring diarrhoea. He allegedly inflicted an external bite injury on the boy’s stomach making outlandish claims of curing the child’s abdominal pain, sources added. The boy’s health deteriorated after the botched treatment. A field level health functionary got wind of the incident and immediately shifted him along with his parents to the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam in an ambulance on Tuesday. The boy died during the course of treatment at the hospital late on Tuesday afternoon. Hospital deputy superintendent Dr. Ramakrishna told The Hindu that the boy was admitted in a serious condition with breathing difficulty. “Despite the best efforts by a team led by a paediatrician, we could not save him,” he said, adding that the body bore some suspicious bite marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/baby-boy-dies-after-quacks-botched-treatment/article36487372.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,TELANGANA||Assembly plaque restored at Omandurar Estate||The State government on Wednesday restored the 2010 “inauguration plaque” of the Assembly at the new Chief Secretariat building on Omandurar Estate, which was subesquently converted into a multi super-speciality hospital by the AIADMK government in 2011. Sources said the Public Works Department, which is in charge of the building, was directed to check the status of plauqes installed during the DMK regime between 2006 and 2011. PWD officials told The Hindu that the inauguration plaque at the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super-Speciality Hospital, Omandurar Estate, was reinstated following the State government’s directive. “We reinstalled the plaque on the opening of the Assembly and the Secretariat complex as it is a part of history when the then Prime Minister, Manmohan Singh, and Congress leader Sonia Gandhi were present, along with former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi,” an official said. “This has been placed on the same wall, next to the plaque on the inauguration of the multi super-speciality hospital [by then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa].” The Omandurar Estate complex was built with the expertise of a German architectural firm, incorporating elements of the Dravidian style. The Assembly functioned from there for a while after its inauguration. However, when the AIADMK returned to power in 2011, then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa announced the building’s conversion into a multi super-speciality hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/assembly-plaque-restored-at-omandurar-estate/article36487118.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Malabar Group to invest Rs. 750 cr. in State||Malabar Gold and Diamonds will be setting up a gold and diamond jewellery manufacturing unit along with a refinery in TS with an estimated investment of Rs. 750 crore. The investment will create employment for about 2,500 people in the State, Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s office said in a release on Wednesday. The announcement followed a delegation led by Malabar Group Chairman M.P. Ahammed meeting Mr. Rao and senior officials, including Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan, in the city. During the discussions, representatives of the Malabar Group mentioned how availability of quality human resources in the State along with an investment-friendly climate and policies of the government prompted them to invest in Telangana, the Minister’s office said. Welcoming the Group, KTR assured that the Telangana government will provide “complete support to the firm.” Pointing out that there were skilled jewellers in various districts of Telangana, he requested the company heads to consider creating employment for them in their firm. According to sources, the facilities proposed by Malabar Gold and Diamonds will come up at 3.75 acres in Maheshwaram Industrial Park near Hyderabad. The project is expected to take one year to be commissioned and will be offered standard incentives as per the industrial policy. One of the largest retailers of jewellery across the globe with 260 stores, Malabar Gold and Diamonds is the flagship company of Malabar Group, headquartered in Kozhikode. This is the second major investment announcement in Telangana by a group based in Kerala. In July, Kitex Group had announced its decision to set up a Rs. 1,000 crore apparel manufacturing facility at Kakatiya Mega Textile Park in Warangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/malabar-group-to-invest-rs-750-cr-in-state/article36487362.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Drones crucial for immunising country’s large population’||It took the Hepicopter consortium, comprising Marut Drones and Public Health Foundation of India, an approximate two-minute drone sortie to reach a government healthcare facility in Vikarabad, three kilometres away. The drone was equipped with a temperature-controlled modular box, which can carry a payload of vaccines, medicines, and eventually organs, and fly them to remote locations by simply entering coordinates in the system. “The idea for the modular box came in 2015, at a time when the government had not yet warmed up to the idea. But the situation soon changed. In order to understand it, we studied Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in Nalgonda district and even the north eastern States and found many did not have easy access to them. Several States have around 50 PHCs in remote locations. Designing the temperature-controlled modular box entailed weighing essential medicine tablet strips, and we even entered volumes,” said Suresh Munuswamy, head-Technology Innovations and Health Informatics, adding that with the COVID-19 pandemic, vaccinating India’s population would require several million doses. This, he said, is not possible without drones. Thus, a standardised dimension modular temperature controlled box of 20 cm x 20cm x 21 cm was developed. It has two insulation layers — one of foam and the second of chemical face change material. According to Dr Munuswamy, this design would allow more space for the payload as compared to ice-based vaccine carriers. “We have developed a dashboard which records the inventory (of medicines or vaccines) held at the district hospital. Once a request for medicines or vaccines is placed from the PHC through an app, the delivery takes place. The entire flight is tracked and video is streamed. Once the PHC receives the payload, the drone autonomously starts its journey back,” said Prem Kumar Viswalath, founder, Marut Drones, adding that the intention all along has been to cater to all needs of PHCs, which is why it was decided to have a payload of at least 15 kg. While Mr Viswalath says the drone was developed in-house, there was a need to have a system for long-range communications. This led to liaising with Alpha Design Technologies Limited (ADTL), an Adani Defense concern, which is part of the consortium. “Taking ADTL’s help, we were able to have live video streaming of the flight path, and GPS location over long distances. All of this can be viewed at a command centre,” he said. According to Mr Viswalath, Hepicopter consortium drones can fly a distance of 20 km to 40 km. Each drone can make 10 trips each day and deliver up to 5,000 vaccine doses per trip. The Hepicopter consortium has planned flights to Dhannaram Sub Centre, Madgulchittampaly sub-centre, Sidduloor PHC, Mominpet PHC, Nagasamundar PHC, and Bomraspet PHC. Flights will cover a distance between 3 km and 26 km.  The entire flight is tracked and video is streamed. Once the PHC receives the payload, the drone autonomously starts its journey back. Prem Kumar Viswalath, Founder, Marut Drones||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drones-crucial-for-immunising-countrys-large-population/article36487333.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ordinance for immersion sought||The Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samiti has demanded that the State government promulgate an ordinance to circumvent court directions and ensure immersion of Ganesh idols made of plaster of Paris in Hussainsagar. Addressing a press conference, samiti general secretary M. Bhagwant Rao said it was alright if the Special Leave Petition coming up before the Supreme Court on Thursday allowed the immersion. But, if it did not happen, the government should promulgate the ordinance like the Tamil Nadu and Kerala governments over religious evens. The Tamil Nadu government had promulgated the ordinance allowing Jalli Kattu after the Supreme Court banned it in 2014. The Kerala government had also promulgated an ordinance banning entry of women to Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala after the same was permitted by Supreme Court, Mr. Rao recalled. He added that freedom of worship and right to religion were fundamental rights which could not be denied to citizens by courts or governments. The immersion was a traditional event on the days to mark Ananta Chaturdasi every year after the idols were installed. So, the government was duty-bound to promulgate the ordinance in the event of the Supreme Court banning immersion on Thursday. Mr. Rao said there were no laboratory reports on water samples of Hussainsagar before the High Court to substantiate the argument that the immersion of PoP idols contaminated its water. The reports of Pollution Control Board did not vouch for pollution. If the argument that PoP idols polluted water, the immersion should not be allowed in any of the lakes and not just Hussainsagar. The government had not projected a correct picture on immersion to the court, he said. The samiti gave a call for dharna and rasta roko at 50 centres in Hyderabad from 10 AM to 11 AM on Thursday to resent the ban. It organised bike rallies near Ganesh pandals and main thoroughfares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ordinance-for-immersion-sought/article36487335.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Painter gets a second chance at life||A 34-year-old police constable’s heart was transplanted in a young painter at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) here on Wednesday. The donor, N. Veerababu, met with an accident in Gollagudem of Khammam district on Sunday, and was declared brain-dead on Tuesday. Hyderabad Traffic Police created a green channel and facilitated the organ transportation from Yashoda Hospital in Malakpet to NIMS, Punjagutta, in just 12 minutes on Wednesday afternoon. The transplantation was expected to be completed by evening. The last heart transplantation was performed at NIMS in 2018. Significantly, the recipient, a painter in his early 30s, was registered with the State government’s Jeevandan cadaver transplantation programme on Tuesday. It is unusual for a recipient to receive an organ within a day of registering. In-charge of the organ donation programme G. Swarnalatha said that the blood group, size of the heart, age of donors and recipients have to match for the transplant to take place. “There was no waiting list in his particular blood group,” she said. The constable, Veerababu, was on leave and was visiting Khammam. On his return journey on a two-wheeler, he met with an accident involving a bus. He was rushed to a local hospital, and from there, to the corporate hospital in Hyderabad. During treatment, his brain function lowered and doctors declared him brain-dead. Thereafter, his heart was harvested for the transplantation. Heart transplants The heart transplantation taken up at NIMS is the 21st such this year. Altogether, 133 hearts have been transplanted since 2013 when the Jeevandan programme was launched. Of the 133, only one was performed at Gandhi Hospital, and six (including the one on Wednesday) at NIMS. A hundred transplantations were performed at corporate hospitals in Hyderabad, and 26 were sent to other States. Heart transplantations at corporate hospitals can cost around Rs. 20 lakh, which becomes challenging for economically disadvantaged patients in need of the procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-constables-heart-gives-painter-second-chance-at-life/article36487322.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to open vaccination centres at the village level||The State government has decided to open vaccination centres at the village level to administer vaccine against COVID-19 as part of efforts to cover the entire population. The State has an estimated 2.8 crore people aged over 18 years. Around 1.45 crore people have been administered the first dose and another 55 lakh were administered the second dose of the COVID vaccine so far. Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister E. Dayakar Rao said though the coronavirus situation was under control in the State, there was a need for officials at the village and mandal levels to actively take part in the special drive to cover the entire population within a specific time-frame. Accordingly, sarpanches, members of Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency and Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency members and other elected representatives should effectively coordinate with officials to ensure vaccination of the entire population. The Minister on Wednesday conducted a video conference with officials concerned on the preparedness for a special drive to be launched from Thursday for vaccination. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officials attended the video conference from the BRKR Bhavan here. Mr. Dayakar Rao recalled Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s instructions to the Health department to launch special vaccination drive covering at least three lakh people a day. The direction follows the government’s efforts to ensure that the entire population was vaccinated to ensure that there was no scope for spread of the pandemic again. Priority should be on administering vaccine to those who were yet to take the first dose and steps should simultaneously be initiated to provide second dose to those who were given the first dose. Plans should be formulated for opening vaccination centres at the village level and steps should be taken to ensure effective coordination between the officials concerned. The Minister said the government would award those who worked effectively in the successful conduct of the special drive. Mr. Somesh Kumar directed officials to review the progress of the special vaccination drive on a daily basis. Control rooms opened at the State and district levels should continue to gather information and disseminate it to the people from time to time. Adequate publicity should be given to the special drive to ensure that people volunteered to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-open-vaccination-centres-at-the-village-level/article36487328.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heli-borne survey by NGRI to map acquifer in north west||CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) will be using heli-borne geophysical mapping technique to cover about 4 lakh sq km of arid regions north western India to take up high resolution aquifer mapping and management to augment the groundwater resources. The institute has been contracted by the Union Water Resources Ministry to take up the project in two phases — from the foothills of the Himalayas to Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat till the Rann of Kutch, to provide a high resolution 3D image of the sub-surface up to a depth of 500 meters below the ground. It is also developing a new drone in association with other CSIR labs for taking up drone based electro-magnetic system for conducting aeriel geo-mapping with the first prototype instrument ready for testing, said Director V.M. Tiwari on Wednesday. “We are also going to take up drone-based magnetic measurement of the Ladakh region since ground-based geothermal surface measurements is not possible. Whether it is 10 metres or 100 metres, remote sensing will play a big role and we need to strengthen our capacity to tap natural resources in an environmental friendly manner,” he said. Dr. Tiwari was participating in a webinar organised by CSIR on ‘Airborne Geophysics: Fast-tracking exploration of mineral and groundwater resources in India’ as part of the 75 years celebrations of the country’s independence. Successful project The director listed out the several successful projects done using airborne or heli-borne survey like helping Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) complete a 126-km work on 16 tunnels in Rishikesh, check for survivors in the recent Himalayan landslide at the Chamoli region to map the tunnel within 48 hours, helping Atomic Minerals Directorate (AMD) explore for uranium and other minerals, etc. NGRI chief scientist Ajay Manglik traced the evolution of the airborne geophysics which began from a Dakota fixed wing aircraft in the ’70s to heli-borne surveys with spectrometers inside and sensors hanging beneath to check for rock, radioactive elements, oil, gasm bedrocks, faults, acquifers, etc. Mineral exploration AMD additional director R. Mamallan said while the first phase of 1.25 lakh flying km of airborne survey has been completed for minerals exploration, another 1.25 lakh flying km is under way, of which 30,000 km was done and another 90,000 km is to be completed in four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heli-borne-survey-by-ngri-to-map-acquifer-in-north-west/article36487325.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC staff on alert, posters put at bus stands||Staff of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) facilities were put on high alert with Managing Director V.C. Sajjanar issuing instructions to keep an eye for Pallakonda Raju, accused of the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl. Speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday, Mr Sajjanar said that he interacted with officers and staff including executive directors, regional managers, divisional managers, and depot managers, about the accused, and how to monitor the situation. “We have put up posters at bus stands. Since he has no mobile phone and is a vagabond, it is likely he might be at either bus stops or stations,” Mr Sajjanar said. The MD said that the TSRTC’s facilities are equipped with ample number of CCTV cameras as well as adequate security personnel. Further, the large number of staff too will augment security measures. “We have controllers, drivers and conductors there. They will keep a watch on any suspicious persons. I am now at the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station. As of now, not many people are here, and it is easier to monitor movementsIn case the accused shows up, the staff will make sure that police are called and he is handed over to them,” Mr Sajjanar said. Earlier in the day, Mr Sajjanar, unrecognised, took a trip from Gandimaisamma to CBS via Afzalgunj bus. He spoke to the passengers with neither the conductor nor driver coming to know about his identity. Mr Sajjanar reached the MGBS and quietly inspected the facility, even as he interacted with the drivers and conductors here. After the surprise inspection, he spoke to Executive Director (Hyderabad and Karimnagar) Munishekar and other officers and instructed them to improve the cleanliness at the station, especially toilets. He suggested that efforts should be made to encourage group bookings in view of the marriage season. Notices at wine shops Telangana Prohibition and Excise department officials have directed wine shops owners to display at all the shops photograph of Pallakonda Raju. The police have said that the accused is habituated to alcohol. The Excise officials have said that the instructions were issued to the shops on Wednesday. Wine shops owners said that they have received the communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-staff-on-alert-posters-put-at-bus-stands/article36487355.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sanjay seeks white paper on vacant posts||Telangana BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday wrote an open letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao demanding the government to release a white paper on the number of job vacancies. He also wanted Mr. Rao to call for an all-party meeting where the students’ unions can also be invited to discuss the vacancies in government departments and also about the proposed stipends to the unemployed youth. The BJP leader accused the government of not going for recruitment to fill up the existing vacancies and yet sacking the staff, as it has done with the field assistants and nursing staff recently. “A dozen jobs have been given to Mr. Rao’s close family members whereas the unemployed youth are denied even the promised stipend. The delay in implementing the scheme has led to the government owing at least Rs. 1 lakh each to the jobless youth,” he claimed. The party will continue to bring pressure on the government to fulfil these promises through peaceful protests. At a separate meeting in Huzurabad, former Minister Eatala Rajender castigated Finance Minister Harish Rao and said that he seemed to have forgotten all the ‘insults’ and having a ‘short memory’. “I did not aspire to become the Chief Minister, I only wanted to reflect the people’s issues since your uncle KCR does not meet people, public representatives or even the officials and Pragathi Bhavan gates are shut,” he said. The TRS government had showered doles worth Rs. 200 crore and more was in the offing in an effort to defeat him. “My resignation brought forth all these schemes. Dalit Bandhu will need Rs. 2 lakh crore to be given to all Dalits across the State. Is it possible to do so in the next two years? Whom are you trying to fool?” he questioned. Meanwhile, party leaders NVSS Prabhakar and G. Narayana Reddy visited the proposed public meeting site of Amit Shah at Nirmal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sanjay-seeks-white-paper-on-vacant-posts/article36487364.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Activists cry foul over Board for Wildlife nod to roads||The recent decisions by the Telangana State Board for Wildlife (SBWL) clearing several proposals for laying or upgrading of BT roads within the protected areas and areas falling within the tiger reserve may have gone against the guidelines laid by Central wildlife authorities. A total of 24 proposals, all pertaining to BT roads through wildlife areas, were cleared by the Board recently under the Pradhan Mantri Grameen Sadak Yojana involving nearly 150 acres of forest land. Of the total, at least three proposals pertaining to widening or upgradation of the existing roads fall within the core area of the Kawal Tiger Reserve. Of the remaining, a large number of proposals for laying of fresh BT roads and widening or improvement of the existing ones fall into the buffer and corridor areas of Kawal Tiger Reserve, while a few others pertain to Kinnerasani and Pakhal wildlife sanctuaries. Wildlife activists are crying foul about clearance of the proposals that go against the guidelines framed by the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL). A sub-committee was constituted by NBWL eight years ago, with the mandate of framing comprehensive guidelines for construction or repair of roads passing through protected areas in the country. As per the guidelines, status of the existing roads passing through national parks and core critical tiger habitats should remain the same. The roads could be maintained and repaired in the best manner possible in their current form and width. No widening or upgradation should be allowed. In case of sanctuaries and conservation reserves, and eco-sensitive zones of national parks and sanctuaries, culverts and metalling in sections of roads that have become impassable, or ‘all weather roads’ for approach or connectivity to villages within protected areas can be considered for approval in the standing committee of NBWL. The width and status of existing roads should remain same and no upgradation should be allowed, the recommendations say. When sought clarification, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Forest Forces R. Sobha said that the proposals were not for widening of roads, but only for BT roads in the existing right of way, with specified animal passages, underpasses and wildlife mitigation plans. The roads are proposed for habitations with more than 250 population in protected areas, about which NBWL standing committee will take a view and if required, send a Central team to decide, she said, and clarified that no tree felling will be permitted. The agenda copy of the SBWL, however, speaks otherwise. Majority of the proposals therein are for either widening of the existing roads and new roads within protected areas. “Some roads cutting across the wildlife areas are not even needed, but being developed at the behest of politicians representing the region,” alleged an activist pleading anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/activists-cry-foul-over-board-for-wildlife-nod-to-roads/article36487367.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tata Lockheed Martin JV delivers 150th Super Hercules empennage||Tata Lockheed Martin Aerostructures (TLMAL) on Wednesday said it recently delivered the 150th C-130J Super Hercules empennage from its manufacturing facility located in Adibatla, Hyderabad. A joint venture between Tata Advanced Systems and Lockheed Martin Aeronautics, the firm said it exemplifies the ‘Make in India’ goals and remains the single global source of the C-130J empennage assemblies installed on the Super Hercules aircraft produced in Marietta, Georgia, U.S. “Many people, thousands of hours and massive amounts of commitment helped the TLMAL team reach this milestone,” COO Kiran Dambala said. TLMAL employs close to 700 people. The empennage assemblies produced by the firm include the aircraft’s horizontal and vertical stabilizers along with leading edges and tip assemblies. Previously, it also manufactured sets of C-130J centre wing box components and introduced a cutting-edge 4,700 square-meter metal-to-metal bonding facility in May 2018. Participating in a programme organised by TLMAL to mark the delivery milestone, Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao said the aerospace defence sector in Telangana has been witnessing a steady and unprecedented growth in the last five years. Noting that Telangana had recently given wings to a project to deliver medicines and vaccines using drones, the Minister said to support the booming drone industry, there are plans to establish a drone testing corridor in TS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tata-lockheed-martin-jv-delivers-150th-super-hercules-empennage/article36487347.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||324 new coronavirus cases detected||The State recorded 324 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 6,62,526. While 73,323 samples were examined, results of 2,062 were awaited. The new infections included 79 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 24 from Khammam, 22 from Karimnagar, 19 from Nalgonda and 18 from Rangareddy. No case was detected in Mulugu and Jogulamba-Gadwal districts. One more COVID-19 patient died. With this, the death toll has reached 3,899.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/324-new-coronavirus-cases-detected/article36487323.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four caught for wildlife trading||Forest officials on Wednesday apprehended members of a gang for trading in wildlife and confiscated a red sand boa from them. Members of the gang were trying to sell the snake they had caught from the forest of Ghatkesar for the past few days, claiming that the reptile brought. On a tip-off, officials masqueraded as prospective buyers in order to catch the accused red-handed. Unawares, the gang members demanded Rs. 70 lakh for the snake weighing 4.5 kg. After repeated attempts, the gang of four were caught from a home at Nagaram near ECIL. A car, a two-wheeler, and four mobile phones were seized and they were presented in the Medchal court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-caught-for-wildlife-trading/article36487336.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rare procedure done at ESIC hospital||Specialist doctors at ESIC Medical College and Super Speciality Hospital, Sanathnagar, have successfully performed Allogeneic Bone Marrow- Peripheral Stem Cells Transplant on an 18-year-old female patient. The woman was discharged on Wednesday. This is the first such procedure performed in any of the ESIC hospitals across the country. The bone marrow stem cells transplantation procedure involves infusion of healthy blood-forming stem cells from matched donor into a patient to replace diseased or damaged cells in patients. This procedure is used for patients suffering from leukaemia, lymphomas, aplastic anaemia, immune deficiency disorders. Two types There are two types of transplantations: autologous in which a person’s own stem cells are used, and allogeneic in which the cells are taken from a donor. The patient was diagnosed with severe aplastic anaemia with paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria [ PNH ] clone which made this transplant challenging. The peripheral blood stem cells were harvested from completely matched donor who is her sibling. She has recovered from the underlying condition. Dean of the ESIC Medical College, Prof. Srinivas M said their college and hospital is providing comprehensive cancer treatment to ESIC insured persons and beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rare-procedure-done-at-esic-hospital/article36487345.ece
16 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Parliament Committee visits Bharosa centre||Members of Parliament Committee for Women Safety visited the Bharosa Centre of Hyderabad City Police. They interacted with Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar, Additional Commissioner of Police(Crimes & SIT) Shikha Goel, and Additional DCP Sirisha Raghavendra. The committee led by Dr. HeenaVijay Kumar Gavit, were explained the functioning of the Bharosa Centre, Child Friendly Court, Counselling Centres and all the facilities such as Legal Services, Counselling Services, Medical facilities, Child Recreation Room, Victim compensation services for POCSO and rape cases etc, which is under one roof and is perhaps the only place in the country to have such facility. The Committee appreciated and lauded the efforts made by the Hyderabad City Police in this regard, police said. In the last 6 years the Bharosa centre have touched the lives of more than 10,000 victim families including DV cases 7,536, POCSO cases 1,438, rape cases 465, other cases 973, totalling to 10,412.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parliament-committee-visits-bharosa-centre/article36487350.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Unconstitutional statements’ flayed||A delegation from Women and Transgender Organisation Joint Action Committee (WT-JAC) and human rights organisations of Telangana, submitted a memorandum to the Acting Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court M.S. Ramachandra Rao on Wednesday evening, seeking his immediate intervention against statements by political leaders in relation to the sexual assault and murder of a six-year-old girl in Saidabad. Minister for Labour and Employment Ch. Malla Reddy is reported to have called for killing of the accused through “encounter” while MP A. Revanth Reddy has demanded “justice on the lines of the Disha case” in the present case. Expressing grave concern about the statements, the letter signed by V. Sandhya from Progressive Organisation of Women, Syed Bilal from Human Rights Fourm, feminist and social activists K.Sajaya, Devi, Ambika, and Sumitra, called them unconstitutional, which amounted to degradation of faith in the rule of law. Instead of demanding speedy investigation and justice, the public representatives have demanded for an unconstitutional remedy, and them being part of the government, such statements are irresponsible and encourage impunity among the police and lawlessness among the people, the letter said. The delegation requested the acting CJ to punish them for contempt of the due process of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unconstitutional-statements-flayed/article36487351.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||4 held in ganja case||Four youngsters who allegedly sold ganja to college students from their flat in Ameerpet were caught by Telangana Prohibition and Excise department teams in Hyderabad on Tuesday night. They took orders through Instagram, Facebook messenger and other social media apps too. Department’s State Task Force inspector (Hyderabad) B Praveen Kumar said that the accused used to pack ganja into 100-gram sachets and sell at Rs. 1,000 per sachet. They used to reside in a flat in Yellareddyguda, Ameerpet. “They also arranged a room where people used to buy and consume ganja,” Mr Praveen said. The Task Force staff who searched the flat on Tuesday seized five kg of ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/4-held-in-ganja-case/article36487344.ece
16 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TPCC seeks appointment with Amit Shah for probe into TRS ‘corruption’||Telangana Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy has sought an appointment with Union Home Minister Amit Shah to seek an inquiry into the ‘corruption’ of the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) government, and hoped that it would come through during the latter’s visit to Telangana on September 17. “We have all the documents to prove corruption in the TRS government since it came to power and also the corrupt practices of CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao when he was the Union Minister,” he said, and hoped that the Union Minister was serious to inquire into the same allegations also being made by the State BJP leaders. Mr. Reddy said that Union Tourism Minister and Secunderabad MP G. Kishan Reddy and State BJP president Bandi Sanjay have been threatening to send KCR to jail for his corruption. “We will submit all the proofs to the Union Minister if we can get his appointment, at least when he is visiting Telangana,” he said. The appointment was sought by the TPCC team including all MPs and MLAs. He alleged that the government has been suppressing the truth in the drug scandal and not been cooperating with the Central agencies avoiding submission of FIR copies. He wanted to know whether the TRS government was trying to protect someone in the government and demanded the Central government to constitute a SIT with officials of ED, CBI, DRI that investigate issues of drug trafficking. He alleged that the BJP government has been soft on the corruption charges on KCR and inquiries into his role in the Sahara PF case and ESI hospitals’ construction have been pushed into cold storage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tpcc-wants-appointment-with-amit-shah-for-probe-into-trs-corruption/article36487370.ece
16 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘KTR’s misleading tweet shows govt. has no control’||The TRS government has lost control over the administration and it reflected in Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s misleading tweet on the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl in Singareni Colony, Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy claimed. At a press conference here on Wednesday, he said that the Minister tweeted on September 9 that the culprit had been arrested and tagged the Home Minister and the DGP for stern action. “However, he was forced to pull out that tweet on September 14 after I pointed out his false claim. Even after five days of his tweet, the Minister did not realise his false claim and neither did the officials responsible inform him,” he said. He added that the Minister had asked the Home Minister and the DGP to take serious action confirming his arrest but the Police Commissioner issued a notice with Rs. 10 lakh reward for leads to arrest the culprit. “Such is the laxity and irresponsible behaviour on an issue that has touched everyone’s heart,” he said and asked the Minister to divulge the officer’s name who gave him the information. Mr. Reddy also charged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with insensitivity in reviewing the rape and murder of the tribal girl. “He has time to review his activities related to politics or money spinning schemes but not such a serious issue,” he said.  The MA&UD Minister tweeted on September 9 that the rape culprit had been arrested and tagged the Home Minister and the DGP for stern action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktrs-misleading-tweet-shows-govt-has-no-control/article36487368.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Narayana, Chaitanya students excel in JEE mains||Students from Narayana and Chaitanya groups of institutions excelled in the JEE Mains 2021 examination results announced on Wednesday. Narayana and Chaitanya groups claimed that their students performed exceptionally well to secure the top ranks. According to Managing Director of Narayana Group P. Sindhura Narayana, nine students secured ranks below 10 in the open category. Among the six first rankers from the Telugu States, four rankers are from Narayana, she said. The group students – four of them secured first rank followed by fourth, sixth and seventh. The National Testing Agency released the results Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main) 2021. The toppers from Narayana group are: 1st ranks - Gaurab Das, K. Sharanya, M Adarsh Reddy, P Veera Shiva, Rahul Naidu, 2nd rank Venkata Aditya, 4th rank P Sai Lokesh, 6th rank K Puneeth Kumar, 7th Rank B Rohit Reddy. Chaitanya students  Chaitanya group students too rode to success in the JEE-Main results. Its students Karanam Lokesh, D. Venkata Paneesh, Gurmrith Singh, Nandigama Nikhil bagged the first ranks. This apart, in the All-category, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth - a total of 9 ranks in top 10 ranks went to the students of these group. Additionally, 75 ranks in top 100 ranks also went to Chaitanya group students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narayana-chaitanya-students-excel-in-jee-mains/article36487353.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||JVV supports HC ban||Advocate and petitioner to the High Court against immersion of idols made of plaster of Paris in Hussainsagar Mamidi Venumadhav condemned the appeal filed by the State government against the High Court verdict prohibiting immersion of PoP idols. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday organised by Jana Vignana Vedika, Mr.Venumadhav said court orders had been neglected since 2001, every time on the pretext of paucity of time just before immersion. General secretary of Jana Vignana Vedika R.Varaprasad said the organisation had been campaigning for clay idols for the past 20 years. He demanded that the High Court verdict be implemented with regard to Ganesh idol immersion to save Hussainsagar from pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jvv-supports-hc-ban/article36487341.ece
16 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Green channel created||Hyderabad Traffic police on Wednesday created green channels to faciliatate non-stop transportation of two live organs. At 9.52 a.m, Hyderabad and Cyberabad traffic police coordinated and arranged a green channel for transportation of lungs from Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad, to KIMS Hospital, Begumpet. The 36.8-km distance was covered in just 27 minutes. In another case, they facilitated the transport of heart from Yashoda Hospitals in Malakpet to Nizam’s Institute of Medical Science, Punjagutta. The distance between two hospitals is 10.5 km and was covered in 12 minutes. The medical team carried the live organ at 1.44 p.m. from Yashoda and reached NIMS at 1.56 p.m. The efforts of Hyderabad and Cyberabad traffic police were applauded by the management of Yashoda, KIMS, and NIMS. This year, so far, the city traffic police has facilitated organ transport 23 times, Traffic DCP L.S. Chowhan informed.  This year, so far, the traffic police has facilitated organ transport 23 times. L.S. Chowhan, Traffic DCP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-channel-for-transporting-2-organs/article36487327.ece
16 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||DOST date extended||The last date for online registration for undergraduate courses through the Degree Online Services of Telangana (DOST) has been extended from September 15 to 20 and the web options to September 23. DOST Convenor and TSCHE chairman R. Limbadri said seat allotment for Phase-III would be done on September 27 and students have to report to the allotted college is September 30. Students who have confirmed their seats allotted in Phase-I and Phase-II also have to report by September 30. Prof. Limbadri said Web options for intra-college transfer would be open from October 1 to 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dost-date-extended/article36487340.ece
16 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stanley engg. students get 561 placements||Stanley College of Engineering and Technology for Women has secured 561 placements this year so far with the highest pay package of Rs. 14.50 lakh offered to seven students. A statement from the college said that the companies that offered placements include Morgan Stanley, IBM, Dell, ADP, Byju’s, Cognizant, Accenture, Cap Gemini, HCL, Amazon, SAP, Flipkart among others. The campus drive is still on, said the college secretary Krishna Rao. He said the college is accredited by the NBA and has NAAC “A” category. The UGC has accorded Autonomous status to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stanley-engg-students-get-561-placements/article36487352.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sailing coaching camp for NCC cadets begins||EME Sailing Association (EMESA) is conducting a 10-day sailing coaching camp for NCC cadets in association with Laser Class Association of India at the Hussainsagar here. Lt. Gen. T.S.A. Narayanan, AVSM, Commodore, EMESA, and president of Laser Class Association and Kiteboarding Class Association, inaugurated the camp on Wednesday. ‘Make use of facilities’ Lt. Gen. Narayanan appealed to the cadets to make optimum use of the facilities and expertise being offered during the camp under the supervision of chief coach Sub. Maj. B.K. Raut. The chief coach, who is a winner of 22 national and three international medals, expressed optimism that the sailors would enjoy the pleasant weather and also the huge opportunity presented to them. Technical and tactical “We sincerely hope that from this camp many talented youngsters will go places in the world of sailing,” Maj. Raut said. The camp will cover technical and tactical aspects of sailing, which includes sail trimming, tacking, gybing, rigging and sailing tactics etc, he added. “The aim of this coaching camp is to promote the sports of sailing among the youth and train potential sailors,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sailing-coaching-camp-for-ncc-cadets-begins/article36487326.ece
16 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NFT marketplace for digital cricket collectibles opens||Singapore headquartered blockchain-based platform Cricket Foundation has set up a non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace for cricket fans to collect digital media. Announcing CricketCrazy.io, the representatives told the media on Wednesday that over 120 partners from the cricket ecosystem were onboard. The founding partners include V.V.S. Laxman, Parthiv Patel, Wasim Akram, RP Singh, Piyush Chawla, Deep Dasgupta and Veda Krishnamurthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nft-marketplace-for-digital-cricket-collectibles-opens/article36487363.ece
16 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Last Date||The last date for admission to Class V in Social, Tribal, BC and General Welfare Residential Educational Institutions for the provisionally selected candidates in the first list  has been extended from September 15 to 25. The selected candidates are instructed to visit the following websites to view their results, allotted institutions and other admission related queries. www.tswreis.in, www.tresidential.cgg.gov.in, www.tgtwgurukulam. telangana.gov.in, www.mjptbcwreis. telangana.gov.in, and www.tgcet.cgg.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-date/article36487365.ece
16 September 2021||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||Health staff boycott work over pending salaries||Health workers such as sanitation, patient care, security and other frontline staff of Nalgonda district hospital boycotted work on Wednesday demanding pending salaries from contractors. The protest, supported by the All India Trade Union Congress with its medical contract workers’ union, underlined the need for renewal of their contract. They said they were still covered by an expired old contract, and salaries were paid irregularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/health-staff-boycott-work-over-pending-salaries/article36487356.ece
16 September 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Teenmar Mallanna produced in court||Independent leader and digital journalist Teenmar Mallanna was produced before the special judge for prevention of SC/ST atrocities in Nalgonda on Wednesday. He was booked by Addagudur police, earlier this year, for allegedly making statements in the nature of hurting persons from SC/ST. Police escorted him here from Chanchalguda prison, where he is remanded for other alleged violations. For the SC/ST atrocities case, the Nalgonda court remanded him to judicial custody till next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teenmar-mallanna-produced-in-court/article36487357.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Correction||With reference to a report published in these columns on September 15, 2021, with headline “No drug culture in State”, the mug shot of Congress MLC Jeevan Reddy was erroneously carried instead of TRS MLA Jeevan Reddy. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/correction/article36487373.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Court orders separate trials for Hindu, Muslim accused||A Delhi court has ordered separation of trial of five accused, arrested in connection with a north-east Delhi riots case, based on their religion. Citing a 2002 Godhra riots case precedent, Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav, who has been dealing with a majority of Delhi riots cases, split the “Salman murder case” into separate chargesheets for Kuldeep, Deepak Thakur and Deepak Yadav, and Mohd. Furkan and Mohd. Irshad. This, the judge said, was prompted by a “peculiar situation” arising owing to an “assortment of accused persons from different religions purportedly acting under two different conspiracies and unlawful assemblies”. The segregation, he concluded while observing that there was enough material on record to allow framing of charges, would avoid prejudicing the defence of the accused. While the police say CCTV footage from the scene of crime at Shiv Vihar on February 27, 2020, captured the presence of the five accused indulging in riotous activity, all of them had pleaded “not guilty” and claimed trial. The court directed DCP (Crime Branch) Joy N. Tirkey to furnish a complete set of chargesheets in physical form within two weeks while instructing the court staff to treat the existing chargesheet as the one for Kuldeep, Thakur and Yadav. The other one shall be treated as chargesheet for Furkan and Irshad. The victim The case FIR was registered on February 29, 2020 at Karawal Nagar police station after 24-year-old Salman died at the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital a couple of days earlier. The deceased was admitted at the hospital on February 24 after reportedly suffering physical assault earlier in the day at Shiv Vihar during the north-east Delhi riots. During investigation, it came to fore that Salman had sustained a gunshot injury. A firearm projectile was extracted from his head during post-mortem and seized as part of the investigation.  Both Yadav and Thakur were arrested in connection with the FIR on November 5, 2020, and have been in judicial custody since. Police say the duo were seen in two videos carrying sticks and actively participating in the riots. Both say there is “no direct evidence” against them pertaining to the murder and they have not been specifically named in the FIR either. Kuldeep was initially arrested in another case, the Mohd. Anwar murder case, and arrested by the police for Salman’s murder on the basis of his disclosure statement. While the police say he could be clearly seen in CCTV footage amid a riotous mob, Kuldeep claims he has nothing to do with the alleged offence. He has been in judicial custody since March 21 last year. Furkan and Irshad were also arrested in connection with another riots case and charged with the Salman murder on the basis of disclosure statements. The Delhi police say they were captured in CCTV footage from the scene of crime actively participating in the riots. As in the case of the other three, both Furkan and Irshad claim they have been falsely implicated in the case merely on the basis of suspicion and there is no direct evidence against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-orders-separate-trials-for-hindu-muslim-accused/article36487190.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Give status of NIA cases before special courts: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed its registry officials to file a response detailing the status of NIA cases pending before special courts here, along with reason behind delay in any trial. Justice Mukta Gupta, hearing a plea by an accused who has been in custody for eight years in an NIA case under UAPA and seeking day-to-day hearing, granted four weeks time to the officials to file the response. Counsel for the registry, Gaurav Agarwal, stated that as on July 31, total 37 cases pertaining to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) were pending before the two designated courts in the Patiala House Court complex here. He sought time from the court to ascertain if the NIA cases were not being given “precedence” in these special courts. “You need to investigate all this and find out why there is delay. A further reply affidavit be filed by the court giving the stage of trial in all NIA cases in courts specifically designated [under the NIA Act] and reason for delay, if any,” the court ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/give-status-of-nia-cases-before-special-courts-hc/article36487188.ece
16 September 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra to issue ordinance for OBC quota in local body bypolls||In the wake of the controversy over the political reservation for the OBCs in local civic bodies, the Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday decided to issue an ordinance to ensure 50% reservation cap is not violated while keeping 27% reservation for the OBCs intact. The Cabinet cleared the amendment to be introduced in the Maharashtra Grampanchayat Act which will state that while keeping the 27% OBC reservation, it will be ensured that the reservation of all including the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the OBCs will not cross 50% limit. The decision comes two days after the State Election Commission (SEC) announced bypolls to seats that have become vacant following the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down political reservation for the OBCs, which was crossing the 50% mark. Review petition declined The bypolls will be held on October 5. The State government’s review petition had been declined by the apex court. While the all-party meeting has decided to not hold the bypolls until the OBC reservation issues is sorted out, the court last week directed that it was only the SEC which can decide on postponement of the polls. The Opposition BJP on Wednesday held protests throughout the State claiming that the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was acting against the interests of the OBCs. The Congress, which is part of the government, slammed the BJP saying it was the Central government led by the BJP which is responsible for jeopardising the OBC reservation as it did not raise the 50% limit. “The ordinance, however, will not impact the upcoming bypolls, as the programme has already been announced. It will certainly be applicable for the next year’s mini-Assembly polls where a number of municipal corporations and zilla parishads are set to go to polls,” said Hari Narke, a scholar on OBC reservation. He said the State government must immediately start working on other factors of collecting empirical data through OBC census from the State Backward Classes Commission and proving backwardness and representation of the OBCs as per the directions of the apex court. He accepted that the 50% limit might reduce some OBC seats and added that the procedure laid down by the court must be followed as well. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said the State government has finally acted but the action is delayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-to-issue-ordinance-for-obc-quota-in-local-body-bypolls/article36487214.ece
16 September 2021||Mumbai,||Konkan disaster mitigation plan cleared||A special Konkan disaster mitigation programme worth Rs. 3,200 crore was approved by the State Cabinet on Wednesday. The decision to implement the project was taken in the wake of successive natural calamities, including the recent Cyclone Tauktae, which caused large-scale destruction across the region’s coastline. While Rs. 2,000 crore will be spent through the State disaster mitigation fund, the rest will be spent over the next four years through the State funds. A special plan will be prepared for capacity building and preparedness which will also target adequate and comprehensive use of the fund. A special Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) and advisers will be appointed for the effective implementation of the project. “Konkan has been facing a number of natural disasters in the last few years. There is a need to come up with a comprehensive plan to prepare for the calamity and reduce the impact on financial and human cost. This special programme is aimed at doing the same,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/konkan-disaster-mitigation-plan-cleared/article36487213.ece
16 September 2021||Mumbai,||Chargesheet filed against Raj Kundra||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday filed a supplementary chargesheet in a pornographic content case naming jailed businessman Raj Kundra. The nearly 1,500-page chargesheet was against Mr. Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/chargesheet-filed-against-raj-kundra/article36487209.ece
16 September 2021||Navi Mumbai,||3 months after kidnap, M.P. girl rescued from Ghansoli||A 13-year-old girl, who was abducted from Madhya Pradesh around three months ago, was rescued from Ghansoli early this week by Yuva Child Line activists and the Rabale police, along with a police team from that State. The girl and a 24-year-old man, who had kidnapped her, were handed over to the Madhya Pradesh police. Senior police inspector Yogesh Gawade from Rabale police station said a case of kidnapping was registered in Madhya Pradesh. “The police team traced the location here and informed us. We helped them rescue the girl,” he said. In June, the accused had lured the girl, a Class VII student, to accompany him to Navi Mumbai with the promise to marry her. Vijay Kharat, centre coordinator, Yuva Child Line, said, “The Madhya Pradesh police contacted us with information which we traced and informed the Rabale police about it. The accused did odd jobs to survive. The Madhya Pradesh police will further conduct medical tests on her to verify if there was any sexual abuse.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/3-months-after-kidnap-mp-girl-rescued-from-ghansoli/article36487210.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Many opt out of Delhi govt.’s COVID-19 compensation scheme||Many people across the city, who are eligible for a compensation of Rs. 50,000 and in some cases an extra Rs. 2,500 per month for death of their family member due to COVID-19, have refused to apply for it, as per officials and a document seen by The Hindu . Most of the people who have opted out are from affluent families, according to officials. The scheme is available to people irrespective of their economic background. Reasons cited ‘Don’t require any help’, ‘not interested’, ‘all government job employees’, and ‘don’t want to take money’ were some of the reasons cited by people, who did not wish to take the relief, as per the document. A list from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), which has names of people who died due to COVID-19, has been shared by the government with all 11 districts and officials are contacting family members of people on the list to tell them about the scheme. Many people are also directly applying for the scheme after coming to know about it through other means. Some remarks on the document are interesting too. Against the name of a person who had occupied a top government post, the remarks on the document read “warned not to call this number”. An official said that in north Delhi, they have observed that most people rejecting the scheme are from Model Town. “Model Town is the area where people are affluent compared to rest of north Delhi. Here many say they don’t want the scheme. They don’t want to go through the process for Rs. 50,000,” the official said. “Mostly rich people are refusing the scheme. Right now, Rs. 50,000 is not a very big amount. Also, if a person died and the spouse is also not alive, then the compensation has to be divided among the children, so the amount each one gets will be even lesser. Many don’t even talk and are very rude to the staffers who call them over phone,” another official said. Income bar When asked whether the government should have kept an income bar for the scheme, the official said, “If the government kept an income limit for beneficiaries to avail the scheme, then it will add one more document and make the process more difficult.” But people denying to avail the scheme is increasing the load on lower-rank staffers, as the denial has to be given in writing by the family member. “When a person says no, but doesn’t give it in writing and we submit the list, our supervisor sends it back to us. Then we have to check with the same person again and some people get irritated when we call them again,” a lower-rank official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/many-opt-out-of-delhi-govts-covid-19-compensation-scheme/article36487207.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal bans storage and sale of firecrackers during Deepavali||The storage, sale and use of all types of firecrackers is banned with immediate effect in the Capital, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced here Wednesday. The decision was taken in view of the rising pollution levels seen during Deepavali. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said it was essential for the city government to implement the ban in order to save lives. The decision had been taken at this juncture considering two critical factors. These included the pollution situation possibly proving fatal, considering the trend over the previous years, and to prevent traders from indulging in any kind of stocking and sale or purchase preemptively. Last year, a complete ban on firecrackers was imposed late after assessing the seriousness of the situation. This had caused losses to the traders. “It is an appeal to all the traders that this time, in view of the complete ban, please do not stock firecrackers,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the NGT had directed a complete ban on firecrackers during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Rai said, last year, the Delhi government had decided in favour of the complete ban on November 6 which was just before Deepavali. The police had already issued temporary licences for sale of firecrackers and because of this, traders and dealers suffered losses. “To avoid any such situation, we decided that the DPCC, like last year, will issue directions for complete ban on sale, use and storage of firecrackers with immediate effect,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ban-on-firecrackers-in-capital/article36487205.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘New excise policy to help get more revenue’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the Delhi government is likely to earn an additional revenue of Rs. 3,500 crore from the Excise Department during the current financial year as the government has revised the excise policy and plugged leaks in the revenue flow. Under the new excise policy, which was announced earlier this year, the legal age for liquor consumption was reduced to 21 years from 25. Mr. Sisodia said the new policy was needed as Delhi had a large number of excise evaders. “Under the new policy, the biggest change was that the excise duty and VAT, which were usually evaded, were converted into licence fee. Till now the fee was very nominal, like Rs. 8-Rs. 10 lakh, and then there were 250-300% excise duty and VAT. People had many incentives for evading the excise,” the Minister said. Under the new policy, the licence fee has now increased to Rs. 6.5 crore to Rs. 7 crore per shop. The government increased that also by 10% and then started the bidding process for liquor shops, Mr. Sisodia said. “We had estimated that we will receive 200% more revenue. Now, the government will receive Rs. 3,500 crore extra revenue in the next 12 months. This is revolutionary,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/new-excise-policy-to-help-get-more-revenue/article36487208.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||ASHA workers warn of going on indefinite strike||Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) workers, affiliated to the AIUTUC, protested near Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house on Wednesday demanding fixed incentive of Rs. 15,000 a month and social security benefits. The workers said that they will protest again on September 24 and will go on indefinite strike if their demands are not met even after it. ASHAs do not get fixed salaries like government employees and are paid mostly through incentives. An ASHA gets Rs. 100 for distributing tablets to about 200 children at their houses. The workers have been complaining that their incentives are low and it should be increased three times. We have also submitted 10-point demand to the CM, Kavita Yadav, State coordinator of Delhi ASHA Workers’ Association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/asha-workers-warn-of-going-on-indefinite-strike/article36487198.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP for CVC inquiry into DTC’s ‘old buses scam’||The Opposition BJP on Wednesday accused the Delhi government of having perpetrated a scam in the maintenance of older buses on the fleet of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC). A delegation of BJP MLAs, led by the Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, met the Chief Vigilance Commission (CVC) chairman Suresh N. Patel and submitted a memorandum demanding an inquiry into the matter. The CVC chairman has assured the delegation of an inquiry, Mr. Bidhuri said. “The memorandum states that since the Aam Aadmi Party government came to power in Delhi, not a single new bus was purchased in Delhi. Now the situation is that 3,760 buses of DTC’s fleet have crossed their age,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “The Delhi government has done another act of looting the exchequer: the AMC contract of Rs. 500 crore has been given in the name of maintenance of 1,000 old DTC buses,” he alleged. If the government had bought 1,000 new non-AC buses, Mr. Bidhuri said, their cost would have come to Rs. 500 crore, but this amount was being spent only on the maintenance of old buses. He further alleged that preparations were under way to give a contract for the maintenance of the remaining 2,600 buses under the DTC as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-for-cvc-inquiry-into-dtcs-old-buses-scam/article36487203.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi will treat 155 MGD of waste water from Haryana, UP: Minister||Water Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that the Delhi government will treat 155 million gallons per day (MGD) of waste water flowing into the city from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana through different drains. Wastewater is a resource which can solve water problems of any city when handled properly. The Delhi Jal Board has already taken few initiatives in this direction,” Mr. Jain said. Recycled water from this project will be diverted to lakes and green areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-will-treat-155-mgd-of-waste-water-from-haryana-up-minister/article36487201.ece
16 September 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases dip to nearly 49,000||Maharashtra’s active case tally continued to drop with the State reporting 4,364 recoveries on Wednesday as against 3,783 new COVID-19 cases. The active cases now stand at 49,034. As many as 56 deaths took the cumulative fatalities to 1,38,277. The case fatality rate remains constant at 2.12%. The total cases now stand at 65,07,930 while the State’s cumulative recoveries have risen to 63,17,070 with the recovery rate at 97.07%. “Of a total 5,63,61,089 laboratory samples tested thus far, 65,07,930 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 11.55%) have returned positive with over 1.35 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported a big surge of nearly 1,000 new cases, taking its total case tally to 11,32,215, while six deaths pushed the toll to 18,810. As per district authorities, the active case count has declined to around 7,400. Despite the rise in cases, Pune district, which was the worst-hit in the country at one point during the lethal second wave, has shown a marked improvement in the last few days. Cases in urban pockets, particularly, have shown a consistent decline, with the district’s overall active tally reducing by more than 25% of the peak which was somewhere around 10,000 cases. Mumbai recorded a higher-than-usual spike of 515 fresh cases to take its total tally to 7,36,282, while the active count went up to 5,488. Four deaths took the city’s fatality figure to 16,037. Ahmednagar registered 725 new cases and 17 deaths, taking its total cases to 3,21,322 of whom 6,586 are active. The district’s death toll climbed to 6,700. Satara added 227 new cases and six deaths to take the total case tally to 2,44,686 of whom 4,302 are active, while the fatality toll rose to 6,173. Neighbouring Sangli logged 154 fresh cases and two fatalities. The total tally stands at 2,05,896.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-active-cases-dip-to-nearly-49000/article36487212.ece
16 September 2021||Washington DC,||U.S., U.K., Australia form new partnership||A week before a meeting of Quad leaders in Washington DC, the Biden administration, on Wednesday, announced a new trilateral security partnership for the Indo-Pacific between Australia, the U.K. and the U.S. (AUKUS). Speaking to reporters ahead of the announcement, senior (Biden) administration officials outlined a trilateral grouping that was security focused, suggesting it was different from — but complementary to — arrangements such as the Quad. 18-month plan A central feature of the partnership would involve a trilateral 18-month effort to help Australia acquire nuclear-powered submarines which are quieter, more capable (than their conventional counterparts) and can be deployed for longer periods, needing to surface less frequently. The partnership would also involve a new architecture of meetings and engagements between the three countries and also cooperation across emerging technologies (applied AI, quantum technologies and undersea capabilities). Australia has felt increasing pressure from an assertive China, like other countries in the region, and has sought to strengthen its partnerships with India, the U.S. and the U.K., including through ‘plurilateral’ forums. However, as in the case of the Quad, the U.S. officials denied the partnership was a response to China. “I do want to just underscore very clearly this partnership is not aimed [at] or about any one country. It’s about advancing our strategic interests, upholding the international rules-based order, and promoting peace and stability in the Indo- Pacific,” an official said. Officials suggested that Australia wanted to step up its game with regard to maritime security in the Indo-Pacific region, and the partnership was a “down-payment” the U.K. was making on its decision to engage more deeply with the Indo-Pacific. Peace and stability Calling the announcement “historic”, one of the administration officials on the call said it “reflects the Biden administration’s determination to build stronger partnerships to sustain peace and stability across the entire Indo-Pacific region”. The official also said there are “no better allies than the United Kingdom and Australia” and that the partnership was a “fundamental decision…that binds, decisively, Australia to the United States and Great Britain for generations”. “We undertake this effort as part of a larger constellation of steps, including stronger bilateral partnerships with our traditional security partners in Asia: Japan, South Korea, Thailand, the Philippines, and also stronger engagements with new partners like India, Vietnam, and new formations like the Quad,” one of the officials said. Asked about extensions of this trilateral framework in future, an administration official said AUKUS was “very rare” and a “one-off” and that the U.S. sharing this kind of technology on nuclear submarines had been done only once before — with the U.K. and almost 70 years ago. “I do not anticipate that this will be undertaken in other circumstances going forward,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-uk-australia-form-new-partnership/article36487019.ece
16 September 2021||Washington DC,||U.S. General was concerned Trump could start a war||Concerned about then U.S. President Donald Trump’s mental state, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley, called his Chinese counterpart, twice, to mitigate the risk of a war, according to a new book Peril , by renowned journalist Bob Woodward and Robert Costa of The Washington Post.  According to reporting in The Washington Post, Gen. Milley called the People’s Liberation Army’s General Li Zuocheng on October 30, 2020 — days before the U.S. general election, and again, on January 8, 2021, after the U.S. Capitol insurrection. The first call occurred after a review of military intelligence by Gen. Milley, which suggested that China was concerned that the U.S. was going to attack it, based on U.S. military exercises in the South China Sea and Mr. Trump’s language on China, as per the Post’s reporting. “General Li, I want to assure you that the American government is stable and everything is going to be okay,” Gen. Milley, a Trump-appointee, said, as per the report. “We are not going to attack or conduct any kinetic operations against you.” ‘Everything’s fine’ Two days after a right-wing mob attacked the U.S. Capitol on January 6, Gen. Milley reportedly made his second call to Gen. Li and said: “We are 100% steady. Everything’s fine. But democracy can be sloppy sometimes.” Gen. Milley also spoke with U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on that day, as per a CNN review of the book, and assured her that the U.S.’s nuclear weapons were safe. Ms. Pelosi called Mr. Trump “crazy” — a characterisation Gen. Milley agreed with, according to a call transcript obtained by the authors. Gen. Milley then called the service chiefs and CIA Director Gina Haspel and told them to stay alert. Gen. Milley also, according to The Post’s review, called the Admiral in charge of the Indo-Pacific Command and recommended that he postpone military exercises (they were postponed). He also told senior Army officers that while the President alone could order a nuclear strike, he (Milley) would need to be involved. As the American press published quotes and passages from the book, social media was rife with views on whether the General’s alleged actions were right or whether he had overstepped his limits. Republican Senator Marco Rubio wrote to President Joe Biden on Tuesday, asking him to “immediately dismiss” Gen. Milley for his “treasonous leak of information” to China and for undermining the Commander-in-Chief (the President).  Peril is due to be released next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-general-called-china-over-fears-trump-could-start-a-war/article36486931.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Sri Lankan Minister resigns after ‘threatening prisoners at gunpoint’||Sri Lanka’s Prisons Minister resigned on Wednesday, following allegations that he asked Tamil prisoners to kneel, threatening them at gunpoint. A statement from the Presidential Media Division said: “Lohan Ratwatte, State Minister of Prison Management and Prisoners’ Rehabilitation has tendered his resignation, acknowledging his responsibility for the incidents”. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa accepted his resignation, it said. Meanwhile, official sources told The Hindu that Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, currently on a visit to Italy, telephoned the Minister accused of threatening prisoners, to immediately resign, pending investigation. However, Mr. Ratwatte will continue holding his other post, of State Minister of Gem and Jewellery Related Industries, effectively continuing to serve as a government Minister, Colombo-based The Morning newspaper reported. The Minister’s resignation from the prisons portfolio followed wide condemnation from the political opposition, mainly Tamil political parties, that demanded his immediate resignation. In a Twitter thread confirming the incident, Jaffna legislator and Tamil National People’s Front (TNPF) leader Gajen Ponnambalam said that on September 12, the State Minister for Prisons went to the prison in Anuradhapura, North Central Province, “summoned the Tamil political prisoners” and got two of them to “kneel” in front of him. The Minister had them pointed his personal firearm at them and had threatened to kill them on the spot, the Tamil MP said. Tamil prisoners Inmates at the Anuradhapura prison include dozens of Tamils, arrested under the country’s Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) that rights activists deem draconian and want repealed. In some cases, the suspects have spent over a decade in prison, without any evidence produced in court or indictments served. The serious allegations of the Minister’s conduct at the prison, along with “drunk” friends according to local media reports, surfaced days after the UN Human Rights Chief raised concern over persisting attacks on human rights in Sri Lanka, at the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva. “That a Minister can behave in this manner when UNHRC’s gaze is on Sri Lanka, only shows how unperturbed the state is with regards to the UNHRC,” Mr. Ponnambalam said. Following Mr. Ratwatte’s resignation from the prisons portfolio, Jaffna parliamentarian and Tamil National Alliance spokesman M.A. Sumanthiran said in a tweet: “That’s not enough. He must be arrested, and a full-scale inquiry must be conducted and he and all responsible must be prosecuted. Prisoners are wards of the State, and their protection cannot be compromised in any way.” Leader of Opposition Sajith Premadasa said he “vehemently condemns the disgraceful & illegal behaviour” of a government Minister. “This disgusting, unlawful act amply exemplifies the anarchical situation that exists in our country,” he said in a tweet. The incident sparked immediate reaction from international bodies, including the UN. In a tweet, Resident Coordinator Hanaa Singer-Hamdy reminded the Sri Lankan government that: “It is the duty of the State, as per the #MandelaRules, to protect the rights of prisoners.” Amnesty International said: “These dumbfounding reports go to show that our ongoing concerns regarding Sri Lanka’s treatment of prisoners, especially the authorities’ torture and other inhumane and degrading treatment of PTA detainees are all too valid.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankan-minister-resigns-after-threatening-prisoners-at-gunpoint/article36486929.ece
16 September 2021||Beijing,||Chinese court throws out first #MeToo case||A Chinese court on Tuesday threw out a landmark sexual harassment case on the basis of insufficient evidence, in a blow to the country’s fledgling #MeToo movement. Zhou Xiaoxuan, now 28, came forward in 2018 to accuse former state TV host Zhu Jun of forcibly kissing and groping her during her 2014 internship at the broadcaster. Her claims ignited a social media storm and inspired many women to share their experiences of sexual assault publicly. But after a three-year legal battle, the court ruled there was not enough evidence to proceed. “The evidence provided by the plaintiff Zhou was insufficient to prove her argument that she was sexually harassed by the defendant Zhu,” Beijing Haidian District People’s Court said in a statement late on Tuesday, adding that the case would not proceed to trial. Ms. Zhou’s case against Mr. Zhu was originally filed under the “personality rights” law — covering rights relating to an individual’s health and body — but her lawyers later asked for it to be considered under new sexual harassment legislation that was passed last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-court-throws-out-first-metoo-case/article36486921.ece
16 September 2021||London,||Johnson demotes Foreign Minister in Cabinet rejig||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday appointed a new-look Cabinet to revamp his Brexiteer government after controversies over COVID-19, Afghanistan and taxes, demoting his under-fire Foreign Minister Dominic Raab. Mr. Raab took over as Justice Secretary but will retain the role of Deputy Prime Minister, Downing Street confirmed. The former lawyer, who deputised for Mr. Johnson when he was in intensive care with COVID-19 in April last year, has faced sustained criticism for his handling of the Afghan crisis. He was replaced by Trade Secretary Liz Truss, who has brokered a series of deals since Britain’s full exit from the European Union in January. She became only the second women Foreign Secretary in British history. Among the other leading offices of state, Finance Minister Rishi Sunak — who has overseen big-spending economic support during the pandemic — and hard-line Interior Minister Priti Patel both retained their roles. Education Secretary Gaffe-prone Education Secretary Gavin Williamson was the first Minister to indicate he was out of a job, tweeting that it had been a “privilege” to serve in his role since 2019 when Mr. Johnson took office on a vow to “get Brexit done”. Now that Britain has formally left the EU after a years-long divorce process, the Conservative government has been battling to tame one of the world’s highest per capita death tolls from the pandemic. Mr. Johnson enjoyed a “vaccine bounce” after Britain led the Western world in a mass immunisation programme, but the Conservatives’ lead over the main Opposition Labour party has eroded in recent opinion polls. Last week, Mr. Johnson broke an election promise not to raise taxes as he announced a new levy to fund the beleaguered state-run National Health Service (NHS) and elderly care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/johnson-demotes-foreign-minister-in-cabinet-revamp/article36486926.ece
16 September 2021||Seoul,||Rival Koreas test missiles hours apart, raise tensions||The powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un on Wednesday criticised South Korea’s President and threatened a “complete destruction” of bilateral relations after both countries tested ballistic missiles hours apart. The South Korean and Japanese militaries said North Korea fired two short-range ballistic missiles that flew 800 km before landing in the sea inside Japan’s exclusive economic zone — a worrying development even though they did not reach Japan’s territorial waters.  Hours after the North Korean launches on Wednesday, South Korea’s presidential office said the country conducted its first submarine-launched ballistic missile test. President Moon Jae-in said improvements in the country’s missile capabilities would serve as “a sure deterrence against North Korean provocation.” In a statement, Kim Yo-jong berated Mr. Moon for describing North Korean weapons demonstrations as a provocation. “If the President joins in the slander and detraction (against us), this will be followed by counter actions, and the North-South relations will be pushed toward a complete destruction,” she said. “We do not want that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rival-koreas-test-missiles-hours-apart-raise-tensions/article36486927.ece
16 September 2021||Port-au-Prince,||Haiti PM sacks prosecutor for murder claims||The investigation into the assassination of Haitian President Jovenel Moise descended into confusion on Tuesday, as the Caribbean island’s Prime Minister sacked a prosecutor who had accused him of links to the killing. The decision by Prime Minister Ariel Henry to fire prosecutor Bed-Ford Claude exposed the infighting at the highest levels of what is left of Haiti’s government, more than two months after Moise was slain in his home by gunmen. Mr. Henry’s move came hours after Mr. Claude asked the judge investigating Moise’s murder to charge the Prime Minister with involvement in the case. “I have the pleasure of informing you that it was decided to terminate your post,” Mr. Henry told Mr. Claude in a publicly distributed letter. Mr. Henry was named by Moise as Prime Minister days before the President’s murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/haiti-pm-sacks-prosecutor-for-murder-claims/article36486922.ece
16 September 2021||Lahore,||Afghan girls’ football team flees to Pak.||Members of Afghanistan’s national girls’ football team have fled across the border into Pakistan, officials said on Wednesday, a month after the hard-line Taliban swept back into power. The group of junior players and their coaches and families had tried to escape the country last month but a devastating bomb attack at Kabul airport left them stranded, a person close to the team said. “I received a request for their rescue from another England-based NGO, so I wrote to Prime Minister Imran Khan who issued clearance for them to land in Pakistan,” said Sardar Naveed Haider, an ambassador for global development NGO Football for Peace, based in London. More than 75 people crossed the northern border on Tuesday, before travelling south to the city of Lahore where they were greeted with flower garlands. About 30 more are still hoping to cross into Pakistan. They will stay in Pakistan for a month before moving on to another country. The girls, who played for the under-14, under-16 and under-18 teams, crossed the land border dressed in burqas, Mr. Haider said. They later changed into headscarves. The Taliban banned women from playing all sport during their first rule in the 1990s and have indicated that women and girls will face restrictions in playing sport this time around. A senior Taliban official has told Australian media it is “not necessary” for women to play. But on Tuesday, Bashir Ahmad Rustamzai, Afghanistan’s new director general for sports, said top-level Taliban leaders were still deciding.  At least 75 members of the Afghan women’s national football team and their family members were evacuated to Australia last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/members-of-afghan-girls-football-team-flee-to-pak/article36486742.ece
16 September 2021||Tehran,||Iran demotes chief nuclear negotiator||Iran has demoted its chief nuclear negotiator, replacing him with an opponent of concessions to the West, state media reported on Wednesday. Abbas Araghchi was one of the key negotiators of the 2015 deal, which was abandoned by former U.S. President Donald Trump. His role in the current talks will now be limited to that of a adviser. He will be replaced as Deputy Foreign Minister by Ali Bagheri, a protege of ultraconservative President Ebrahim Raisi.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-demotes-chief-nuclear-negotiator/article36486924.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Hardly the India-China century Deng envisioned||Fifteen months after the clashes between Chinese and Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley, India-China relations are at their lowest ebb in living memory. To be sure, there have always been political tensions even before, both over each country’s territorial claims over land controlled by the other, and over such long-term problems as China’s “all-weather” alliance with our hostile separated sibling, Pakistan, and our hospitality to the Dalai Lama, who was granted refuge when he fled Tibet in 1959. But neither country had allowed these tensions to overwhelm them: China had declared that the border dispute could be left to “future generations” to resolve, and India had endorsed the “One China” policy, refusing to support Tibetan secessionism while limiting official reverence for the Dalai Lama to his status as a spiritual leader. The line is no provocation India has usually shown no desire to rock the boat. Its actions and statements have usually been designed not to provoke our northern neighbour, but to relegate the border problem to the back burner while enabling trade relations with China (now worth close to $100 billion) to flourish. India made it clear that it was unwilling to join in any United States-led “containment” of China; its traditional obsession with preserving its “strategic autonomy” after two centuries of colonial rule made it wary of the blandishments of the West. Ironically, before Galwan, 2020 was supposed to be a landmark year for the two countries’ bilateral relations. In October 2019 in Mahabalipuram, at their 18th meeting in nine years, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi had grandly pledged to take relations between their two countries to “greater heights”. To mark the 70th anniversary of formal diplomatic relations between the two countries, they announced they would conduct 70 joint activities, including further improving their burgeoning trade, supporting scholarly research into their ancient civilizational links, and even exchanging military delegations, in a grand show of Sino-Indian cooperation. There is much connect This wasn’t just fluff. The two countries had indeed developed multiple avenues of engagement. From negligible levels till 1991, trade with China had grown to become India’s second-largest largest? trading relationship. Prime Minister Modi, an early enthusiast, had lifted residual restrictions on bilateral Chinese investment in strategic sectors of the Indian economy (notably ports, airports, power generation and telecoms technology), so that by 2020, Chinese investment (current and planned) stood at about $26 billion with infrastructure projects accounting for about half the total. India engages with China diplomatically in the BRICS (an association of Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa), as well as conducting annual summits of RIC (Russia-India-China). India is an enthusiastic partner in the Chinese-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and the New Development Bank (NDB), formerly referred to as the BRICS Development Bank. But it has become increasingly apparent that the policy of side-stepping contentious issues and encouraging bilateral economic relations has played into Chinese hands. The People’s Liberation Army has used the seemingly benign situation to repeatedly undertake “minor” military incursions, inflict small-scale military setbacks on India, take a few square kilometres of territory along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for local tactical purposes, and then declare peace. Mutual disengagements are duly announced, both sides claim the crisis is over, but China establishes and fortifies its new deployment. These mini-crises always end with the Chinese in a better position on the ground than before. Each incident establishes a new “normal” on the LAC. The Chinese strategy In the Galwan clash, the Chinese troops seem to have been engaged in a tactical move to advance their positions along areas of the LAC that it covets, in order to threaten Indian positions and interdict patrols. After the recent incursions, the Chinese now reportedly control over 900 square kilometres of area in Ladakh along the LAC. They are threatening India’s construction of roads, bridges and similar infrastructure on undisputed Indian territory, a belated effort to mirror similar Chinese efforts near the LAC in Tibet. Rather than merely patrolling, they have established a fixed presence in these areas well beyond China’s own ‘Claim Line’, occupied the “Finger Heights” near Pangong Tso Lake, pitched hundreds of tents, constructed concrete structures and built additional kilometres of road along the LAC. The objective seems to be to extend Chinese troop presence to the intersection of the Galwan river and the Shyok river, which would make the Galwan Valley off bounds to India. The Chinese have constructed permanent structures in the area of their intrusion and issued statements claiming that sovereignty over the Galwan valley has “always belonged” to China. China’s strategy seems to be to consolidate the LAC where it wants it, so that an eventual border settlement — that takes these new realities into account — will be in its favour. That is the longer-term plan: Beijing keeps saying the border should be left to future generations to settle, knowing full well that each passing year increases China’s relative economic, military and geopolitical strength vis-à-vis India, while shifting the LAC in its favour. In the meantime, border incidents keep the Indians off balance and demonstrate to the world that India is not capable of challenging China, let alone offering security to other nations. Whereas Deng Xiaoping had told then-Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1988 ( picture ) that the 21st century would be “India and China’s century”, the current Chinese leadership has no patience for such pablum. They believe — indeed believe they know — that it is destined to be China’s century alone, and are all too happy to show India its subsidiary place in the pecking order. India’s options India’s tactical options are unenviable: it has reinforced its military assets on the LAC to prevent deeper incursions for now, and hopes to press the Chinese to restore the status quo ante through either diplomatic or military means. Chinese and Indian officials are currently engaged in diplomatic and military-to-military dialogue to ease tensions, but de-escalation has been stalled for months, with China behaving as if their disengagement is already complete. India has responded with largely symbolic acts of economic retaliation, banning Chinese apps in India on grounds of data security. It is likely that Chinese companies will be barred from various lucrative opportunities in the vast Indian market, as two of them, Huawei and ZTE, have been from the ongoing trials to be picked to build India’s 5G telecoms infrastructure. India has also reimposed tighter limits on Chinese investment in projects such as railways, motorways, public-sector construction projects, and telecoms, a reversal of the openness to China that the Modi administration had initially shown. The economic angle Yet, India is far too dependent on China for other vital imports — such as pharmaceuticals, and even the active ingredients to make them, automotive parts and microchips, all needed by Indian manufacturers — that many in New Delhi fear it would be shooting itself in the foot if it acted too strongly against China. Today, India’s dependence on China for its non-consumption economy remains high; what is more, imports from China have become indispensable for India’s exports to the rest of the world. Various manufacturing inputs, industrial equipment and components, and even some technological know-how come from China; eliminating them could have a seriously negative effect on India’s economic growth at a time when, thanks mainly to the COVID-19 crisis, our GDP is estimated to have shrunk dramatically. And there are limits to the effectiveness of any Indian retaliation: trade with China may seem substantial from an Indian perspective, but it only represents 3% of China’s exports (https://bit.ly/2VHsmWD). Drastically reducing it would not be enough to deter Beijing or cause it to change its behaviour. This range of considerations seems to leave only two strategic options for New Delhi: reconciling itself to playing second fiddle to an assertive China in the region, or seeking strength and leverage by aligning itself with a broader international coalition against Chinese ambitions. Since the first is indigestible for any democracy, is China de facto pushing India into doing something it has always resisted — allying with the West? Shashi Tharoor is a third-term Member of Parliament representing Thiruvananthapuram and an award-winning author of 22 books, including most recently, ‘The Battle of Belonging’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/hardly-the-india-china-century-deng-envisioned/article36486728.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||T.N.’s unending dilemma with NEET||The latest Bill passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly exempting the State from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate (UG) medical courses and also to prescribe its own admission method for MBBS seats is in no way different from the efforts taken by the previous government in 2017. The Bills sent by the State were returned by the President of India without getting his assent. Before passing the Bill, the Tamil Nadu government had appointed a committee of experts under Justice A.K. Rajan, a retired judge of the Madras High Court, to look into the question of the desirability of having the examination as a prerequisite for MBBS admissions. When the committee started its hearing, it was generally stated that it would advise the government to exempt itself from the requirement of the examination. However, when a public interest litigation (PIL) petition was filed in the High Court challenging the appointment of the committee on the ground that it violated the orders of the Supreme Court regarding NEET, the stand taken was that the committee would only look into the effects of the examination on the students in the State. Views of all stakeholders The committee said it had ascertained the views of all the stakeholders and that a majority were not in favour of the NEET requirement. It did not recommend any legislation. The committee was of the opinion that the examination had not provided any special mechanism for testing the knowledge and aptitude of the students. It suggested that the higher secondary examination of the State board itself was an ample basis for the selection of students for MBBS seats. NEET only worked against underprivileged government school students, and had profited coaching centres and affluent students. The present Bill proceeds on the assumption that medical college admissions will come under the Concurrent List (Entry 25 of List III) and, therefore, the State can also enact a law regarding admission and amend any Central law on admission procedures. This thinking of the State may be due to the observation made by the Supreme Court in the selection process  of postgraduate (PG) courses in medicine, where the Medical Council of India (MCI) had prescribed certain regulations providing reservation for in-service candidates. The Supreme Court struck down regulation 9(c) made by the MCI on the ground of  the exercise of power beyond its statute. It must be remembered that the Supreme Court was only dealing with a regulation framed by the MCI, whereas the requirement of NEET being a basic requirement for PG and UG medical courses has now been statutorily incorporated under Section 10D of the Indian Medical Council (IMC) Act, which states, “ There shall be conducted a uniform entrance examination to all medical educational institutions at the undergraduate level and postgraduate level through such designated authority in Hindi, English and such other languages and in such manner as may be prescribed and the designated authority shall ensure the conduct of uniform entrance examination in the aforesaid manner: Provided that notwithstanding any judgment or order of any court, the provisions of this section shall not apply, in relation to the uniform entrance examination at the undergraduate level for the academic year 2016-17 conducted in accordance with any regulations made under this Act, in respect of the State government seats (whether in government medical college or in a private medical college) where such State has not opted for such examination.” Though this amendment was to come into force from the academic year 2016-2017 onwards, due to opposition from many quarters, the Union government issued an Ordinance on May 24, 2016, postponing the introduction of NEET to the next academic year. When the Tamil Nadu government issued an order in 2017 providing for the reservation of 85% of the seats for students passed out from the State board and 15% for students from other boards, it was struck down by the Madras High Court. An appeal by the State to the Division Bench was also rejected. Same fate It was then the Tamil Nadu Assembly passed a Bill seeking the exemption of the State from NEET, which the President refused to give his assent to. The present move to pass a fresh Bill on the same lines is most likely to meet the same fate. It is significant that no other State in India has sought an exemption from NEET and, therefore, exempting Tamil Nadu alone may not be possible. Even among the seats allotted to the State, there is no bar for students from other States from competing or selecting colleges in Tamil Nadu. Also, if exempted, what will be the fate of the all-India quota of 15%, which will be filled up by students who write NEET, and what will happen to Tamil Nadu students who do not write the examination, thus not availing this quota? As a sop for government school students, the State government had brought in a law providing 7.5% reservation in medical seats, but with NEET as a criterion. The same situation continues even for the admission for this academic year. The introduction of internal reservation for government school students is under challenge before the Madras High Court. Similarly, NEET as a requirement is also pending in the Supreme Court. Unless these two issues are decided, NEET cannot be removed by a State amendment. However, certain legal pundits had said the State could amend a Central law falling under the Concurrent List and had given examples of the amendments made to to the Hindu Marriage Act, the Industrial Disputes Act, etc. The question is not whether the State government can amend a law falling under the Concurrent List. The question is whether the State government can exempt Section 10D of the IMC Act, which is a parliamentary law that falls under the Central List (Entry 66). Moreover, the Supreme Court has also upheld NEET as a requirement. Mere statistics highlighting that a majority of the stakeholders do not want NEET in Tamil Nadu is not an answer for exempting the examination that was introduced by a Central law. Data is necessary only when there is power to legislate on the subject concerned. If the committee’s findings that government school students are edged out from entering medical colleges due to competitive examinations are accepted, it will be difficult to explain the 7.5% reservation exclusively meant for these students. Since the Bill, which will become an Act after the President’s nod, will come into effect only from the next academic year, the battle for and against the NEET requirement will continue in courts. Hopefully, the courts will determine the legality and have a definite solution to the question of medical admissions within the next year. Till such time, students who wrote NEET will fill the seats under the State quota. Justice K. Chandru is a retired judge of the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tns-unending-dilemma-with-neet/article36486740.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Know the enemy, know self’ is sound professional advice||Sun Tzu, Chinese general, military strategist, writer, and philosopher, famously said, “If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles... if you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.” Considering the recent events in military circles, this needs examination, and certain facets of Professional Military Education (PME) in the Indian armed forces evaluated. A structured process Knowing the adversary and yourself is a three-step process. First, gathering information (the adversary’s and your own), its distillation into knowledge and finally recommending options to decision-makers; the third step is critical for national leadership. Pragmatic leadership seeks advice from knowledgeable people. Thus, the National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS), the National Security Advisory Board (NSAB) and NITI Aayog advise the Government and offer options on key issues. Each body must have domain specialists from important fields and when one considers the NSCS and the NSAB, the three arms of the armed forces should be represented at the senior advisory level. Unfortunately, this has not been the case for many years now; it would be instructive to see how other nations fare in such apex bodies since the members need to be both, academics and professionals, rolled into one. Apex institutions abroad I had the good fortune of doing two specialist courses abroad. In the test pilots school (EPNER) in France that I attended in 1987, the Chief Ground Instructor, who taught us theory of test flying, was a civilian aerodynamicist. The school’s commandant had earlier been the Air Force’s Mirage-2000 project pilot with the aviation company M/s Dassault; he was seconded to EPNER to teach test flying. Can we replicate such intermixing in PME institutions so that personnel benefit from expertise available within ourselves? Incidentally, the examiner for my final examination was the chief test pilot of Aerospatiale, i.e., a civilian working in the French aviation industry. The EPNER example, one from the tactical level, illustrates how theorists and practitioners from different fields can be dovetailed to holistically train junior professionals who later hold appointments at the operational and strategic realm. The United States Air Force has its air university with a faculty of civilian academics who, having dedicated their lives studying just one particular field, are the last word in their area of expertise. Their teachings are co-related with real life experiences by uniformed service instructors. When I was doing my course there, Colonel John Warden came as the Commandant of the Staff College — an air power strategist, the Colonel had designed the brilliant air campaign in Operation Desert Storm against Iraq in 1991; post the successful air campaign, it would be remembered, ground forces had a free run. After his successful operational tour, he turned an academician and enriched the staff college syllabus with his operational experiences. The situation in India How are we doing in India? It would be safe to say that in our PME institutions most, if not all, instructors are service officers posted-in from field/staff appointments who do their two/three-year tenure and move on; there is no time to become an ‘expert’. Having guest lectures is no substitute to having subject matter experts on staff doing full-time teaching. Luckily, we see a whiff of change in some institutions. The Naval War College in Goa invites an eminent academic from abroad to run capsules on operational art. The college also has an adjunct faculty of tri-Service retired officers acting as mentors in specialised areas of learning. It is also heartening to see the National Defence College at Delhi set-up a President’s Chair of Excellence teneted by a retired scholar warrior; and, this is how it should be elsewhere too. IDU project languishes The Defence Services Staff College should be the starting point with permanent chairs for subject matter experts teaching military history, strategy, geo-politics et al. ; service officers would be the links to field realities. It is a joint institution and hence the Commandant should be a reputed scholar warrior from any of the three services, and not just from the Army as has been till now. The Army War College, College of Air Warfare, College of Defence Management, etc. should take similar action. And as one moves up the hierarchy of learning, one wonders where the Indian Defence University (IDU) project (earlier INDU — Indian National Defence University) is languishing after its foundation stone was laid in 2013 near Gurgaon. In times when road infrastructure and the setting up of additional Indian Institutes of Technology, Indian Institutes of Management, All India Institutes of Medical Sciences, etc. are being fast-tracked, the silence on the IDU, which would be the capstone institution to guide PME architecture in India, is unfathomable. While the Ministry of Home Affairs has set up the Rashtriya Raksha University (RRU) in Gujarat (whose head is a member of the NSAB too), one wonders why the Ministry of Defence is procrastinating with IDU that is planned to have all tri-Service institutions, including the National Defence College, under its tutelage. Incidentally, the website of RRU states that it will have schools for Air and Space, Navy, Army, et al. ; but, one thought that the charter for such schools of higher strategic learning was to be for IDU. Which brings us to the topmost policy advisory tier, the NSAB and NSCS. These apex bodies conduct long-term analyses and provide perspectives on issues of national importance to India’s political leadership; if there was ever a case of sound academic presence and military professionals from all three services populating them, it is here. The national leadership, both civil and military, in these times of galloping technology in the military sphere and re-hashing of international relationships, will gain immensely in knowing the enemy — and ‘itself’. Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur VM (retired), is a former Additional Director General, Centre for Air Power Studies. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/know-the-enemy-know-self-is-sound-professional-advice/article36486731.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||NEP schools: the future||The COVID-19 pandemic has been the greatest disruptor in the education sector. It has brought the future to us sooner than we ever imagined. Had there been no pandemic, the use of digital technologies in education would not have been so rampant. Learners would not have been exposed to a huge variety of innovative content or digital formats of education in their own languages. The engagement of parents and communities in their child’s education would have been a distant dream. The essential role of schools and teachers in caretaking and the mental/physical/cognitive development of a child would not have been so permanently established. The need for foundational literacy and preventing dropouts would not have been so intensely realised. And the need to overcome the digital divide would not have been felt so acutely. The schools of the future and the future of schooling are now both subject to intense debate, especially with the coming in of the National Education Policy 2020. But certain broad understandings have emerged that most agree upon. Firstly, there is already a discernible shift in the focus from physical infrastructure towards digital and virtual requirements. Secondly, it is not edtech as much as it is the traditional face-to-face modes of learning in schools that will continue to be the greatest equaliser in education. Thirdly, skill-building for the requirements of the 21st century has assumed great significance. Fourth, accelerated and even differentiated instructional interventions will be required to overcome and reverse the impact of the pandemic. Lastly, it is likely that there will be more pressure on the government schooling system to expand its intake. Four qualities In this scenario, for schools to emerge as strong, inclusive and professional educational systems, it is essential to imagine what the schools of the future will be like. We believe that the following four qualities will define the schools of the future, both public and private. Firstly, schools will encourage extended networks rather than remain as closed classroom communities. Over the last couple of centuries, our education systems have shifted towards methods that may help individuals acquire knowledge, but may not equip them with life skills. As a result, we hardly have job creators passing out of the school precincts. We have many day-to-day problems, but very few problem-solvers. Future schools will go beyond the school walls. They will take teaching-learning to informal settings such as topic circles and eco clubs, visits to the neighbourhood, to museums or scientific laboratories, etc. Learners will be green in their approach, tech-savvy, connected to their roots and to the world, and will be able to effectively link their curriculum to their lives. Secondly, schools will be pro-active innovators. They will adopt innovative pedagogies and differentiated instructions as per the needs of the learners to enable them to become knowledge creators and, eventually, job creators. They will utilise innovative methods of assessment to bring out the unique potential of every child, harness innovative technologies for teaching, learning and administration, and usher in a culture of innovation. Thirdly, the future of jobs also has a direct bearing on the schools of the future. Routine jobs will become scarce. Students of the future will have to struggle with the new set of capabilities needed, hyper-information digressing into disinformation, virtual teams not seeing each other physically, and will constantly experience a swing between super speciality and cross-disciplinary skills. Future schools will be future-oriented and connected to the job market, capable of empowering, and building the skills of learners for jobs that are yet to be created and technologies that are yet to be invented. Lastly, schools will forge stronger and more trusting engagement with families and communities. The online world of e-parents-teachers meetings (e-PTMs), e-guidance to parents, and social media-based active communication with parents during the pandemic has opened up an entire world of possibilities. Local self-governments, health workers, environmentalists, civil society organisations (CSOs) and the community at large will be actively engaged in future schools in offering services, support, infrastructure, exposure to future jobs, and learning from beyond the school boundaries. The future depends on the decisions we make in the present, and lest we forget, the future of the country is enrolled in our schools today. Future schools will build the character of the children and set them free to discover the world, shape it and contribute to make it just and equitable.  Anita Karwal is Secretary and Rajnish Kumar, Director in the Department of School Education, Government of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/nep-schools-the-future/article36486736.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A relationship tied to Sharia law||The recent political developments in Kabul are enough to justify that the so-called “new” Taliban’s approach to women is not going to be any different from the “old” Taliban that governed Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001. It became apparent when Zabiullah Mujahid, its spokesperson, tied the issues of women’s freedom in the “new” Afghanistan with Sharia law while addressing the Taliban’s first press conference. The international community needs to recognise that the “new” Taliban, like its predecessor, has not occupied power to rebuild Afghanistan as a modern nation state based on core democratic values, but to colour the Afghanistan society with its own extreme version of Islam. The Taliban is an ideological movement. Like all such movements, it is making strategic compromises by manoeuvring through rhetoric. At the heart of this crisis lies the issue of the relationship between women and religion. Genuine emancipation of women, some argue, lies outside religion because all religions are inherently patriarchal. Others recognise the prevalence of enough moral resources in various religions, including Islam, that could be marshalled for gender rights. Scholars sympathetic to Islam often attribute its anti-women tendencies to flawed interpretations of the women’s role in Islamic texts. Feminist movements in various parts of the world, including Egypt, Iran and even in India, often cite various Islamic sources, at times even practices from Prophet Mohammed’s life, to make a case for encouraging prospects for gender rights in Muslim societies. Some describe this as Islamic feminism because white feminism that originated in the West has its own share of problems. Moroccan feminist Fatima Mernissi’s book, Women and Islam: An Historical and Theological Inquiry , articulates fascinating perspectives on the relationship between women and Islam. She makes a persuasive case on why the West has been unfair in singling out Islam as “anti-women”. By engaging with various classical sources, she blames the misinterpretation of Islamic texts and its intellectual history as the reason behind such biases against Islam. She talks about Aisha, the Prophet’s wife, her role in the power struggle, and how she led armed opposition against the Caliph who ruled at the time. This narrative contradicts the Taliban’s argument, which denies Muslim women any public role in governance or its politics. The Taliban’s resurgence has the potential to sway the global opinion about Muslim societies as being intrinsically “anti-women”. However, Muslim-majority societies further present encouraging evidence about the women’s pre-eminent roles in various fields, including governance. For instance, Benazir Bhutto in Pakistan or Sheikh Hasina in Bangladesh have played seminal roles. Some would attribute class as a factor in their rise, but a majority of clergy and Muslims in general embrace their roles as normal and not a violation of Islamic tradition. One major failure of the U.S.-led intervention in Afghanistan for 20-odd years has been the failure of liberal Islam to gain adequate roots in Afghanistan to counter the Taliban’s extreme patriarchal narrative of Islam. Unfortunately, liberal Muslims as champions of liberal Islam often do not find solidarity with liberals from non-Muslim communities for their cause due to the misconception that conservatives and clergies call the shots in Muslim communities. Hence, dominant stakeholders consider it politically incorrect to back liberal Muslims. Such a perception motivated the passage of the Shah Bano Bill in India during the 1980s, and liberal Muslims were abandoned by a dominant fraction of the power-hungry liberals of the majority community and by the Indian state. The women groups that are active in present Afghanistan need proactive support from the international community. Without such support, they will not be able to smash their new prison. Dr. Shaikh Mujibur Rehman teaches at Jamia Millia Islamia. He is the author of the upcoming book, Shikwa-e-Hind: The Political Future of Indian Muslims||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-relationship-tied-to-sharia-law/article36486737.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Transient easing||The latest retail inflation data suggest, at first flush, that price pressures have begun to moderate in the economy, with the August print for CPI showing inflation having slowed for a second straight month to a 5.3% pace, after July’s 5.59%. Price trends among the constituents of the Consumer Price Index and the latest Wholesale Price Index-based inflation, however, show that it would be premature to drop the guard on price gains. For one, the year-earlier inflation reading was elevated thus imparting a favourable base effect. Month-on-month, however, the CPI nudged up 0.25% from July, belying the inference of softening inflation. And the pace of price gains in at least three essential food components speeded up from the preceding month, with meat and fish, dairy and oils and fats posting significant accelerations. Edible oils have been on a tear for months now — the August print was 33% after July’s 32.5% — and an earlier round of cuts in import duties have had little impact in cooling their prices, forcing the Centre to announce another tranche of duty reductions this month. Inflation in two other vital protein sources, eggs and pulses, also continued to remain a cause for concern. While inflation in eggs remained in the high teens at 16.3%, price increase in pulses was 8.81% after slowing 23 basis points from July’s 9.04% pace. A persistent and wider deflation in vegetable prices was the main positive contributor to the easing in overall food and beverages inflation last month. The pace of inflation in fuel and light, clothing and footwear, health as well as household goods and services all ratcheted up last month. Transport and communication, which includes pump prices of the main automotive fuels of petrol and diesel, stayed stuck in double digits at 10.2% albeit after a 30 basis points easing from July’s 10.5% pace. And the WPI data show higher transportation costs combined with input price pressures fanned faster inflation in manufactured products as well, sending the segment’s pace to 11.4%, a fourth straight month of double-digit price gains. The outlook for inflation is far from sanguine if one considers that IHS Markit’s PMI survey for services revealed input costs rose in August at the fastest rate in four months, and a recent CII poll of CEOs showed a majority 67% expect average retail inflation this year to hover close to or exceed the RBI’s mandated monetary policy upper threshold of 6%. Policymakers are only too well aware that ultimately, inflation is not just about a point reading but far more about consumers’ and businesses’ expectations of the trend in prices. Fears of future high inflation dampen sentiment and thus retard economic activity. Cutting fuel taxes is a sure-shot way to address a major component of price pressures and it is time the Government bites the bullet and acts to provide a more abiding solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/transient-easing/article36486722.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||TN’s case against NEET||The Bill passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly to exempt aspirants for its undergraduate medical courses from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) is no magic wand that will dramatically alter the status quo. There seems to be no tangible basis for the hope and optimism behind its intent to deliver its rural and urban poor from what it perceives to be an inequitable admission system that favours the rich and the elite. It hopes to receive Presidential assent, even though similar Bills passed by the erstwhile AIADMK regime had been denied the favour in 2017. Such assent is required as the proposed State law is in conflict with the parliamentary legislation regulating medical admissions. The key element the DMK has brought to the table now to fulfil its electoral promise of abolishing NEET is a report by the Justice (retd.) A.K. Rajan Committee on the adverse impact of NEET on students and health-care delivery in the State. The committee’s view that NEET would adversely affect the rural and urban poor, and consequently, the State’s future manpower availability to run its network of primary health centres, has many takers, as well as some truth behind it. The moot question, however, is whether the mere inclusion of these elements from the report in the Bill’s preamble and its Statement of Objects and Reasons is sufficient incentive for the Centre to grant the exemption that Tamil Nadu wants. NEET has become crystallised as the only means of gaining admission to medical institutions, including private colleges, after the Supreme Court’s categorical view that such a test alone could help maintain standards. It will be quite difficult for the Union government to grant relief to one State alone in the face of this strong and inflexible judicial opinion. However, what is possible is for the rest of the country not to dismiss the anti-NEET narrative in Tamil Nadu as a product of Tamil exclusivism; rather, there is a case to examine it dispassionately. The State has invested heavily in medical education infrastructure and aimed to afford easy access to all sections: this has so far preserved the efficiency of its health-care system. The time may also have come to examine whether NEET has met its purposes of improving standards and curbing commercialisation and profiteering. Under current norms, one quite low on the merit rank can still buy a medical seat in a private college, while those ranked higher but only good enough to get a government quota seat in a private institution can be priced out of the system. The Centre should do something other than consider an exemption to Tamil Nadu. It has to conceive a better system that will allow a fair admission process while preserving inter se merit and preventing rampant commercialisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tns-case-against-neet/article36486723.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Mahatma Gandhi’s tour||Mahatma Gandhi and party are arriving in Tinnevelly in a few days. The District Congress Executive has formed a Reception Committee to receive them. Maulana Sheik Ibrahim of Pettai is the President. Maulana Mahomed Ismail Sahib and P. Thrikoodasundaram Pillai are Vice-Presidents. Mr. R. Mahadevaiyar is the Secretary. All who pay Re 1 each, will be entitled to become members of the Reception Committee. The balance of funds of the committee, after defraying the expenses, will form part of the collections of the district, for the Tilak Swarajya Fund. The Reception Committee members will be given the first seats in the public meetings addressed by the Mahatma. All lovers of the country and the Mahatma are requested to become members of the committee by paying Re 1 to the Secretary or Mr. Thrikoodasundram Pillai and obtaining a reception committee ticket. Secretaries of the All-Congress Sabahs and other public bodies are requested to widely publish this information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mahatma-gandhis-tour/article36486732.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A.P. CM hands in resignation||The Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister, Mr. K. Brahmananda Reddi, to-day submiited his resignation to the Governor, Mr. Kandhubhai Desai. Mr. Brahmananda Reddi said he wanted to resign on September 13 itself, but it could not be done. “Once I decided, that is the end of the matter,” he added. Accompanied by the seniormost member in the Cabinet, Mr. Kakani Venkataratnam, the Chief Minister drove to the Raj Bhavan this morning and handed over his letter of resignation and that of the Council of Ministers to the Governor. The Governor accepted the resignation “with regret” and asked the Chief Minister to continue in office till alternative arrangements were made. The Governor then escorted the Chief Minister to his waiting car and posed for photographs with him. He then shook hands and took leave of the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister said that in the selection of a successor to him, “due consideration and respect should be given to the wishes of the legislators”. Mr. Brahmananda Reddi said that the Prime Minister would have to indicate the date for the meeting of the Legislature Party for election of a new leader. He said he would not go to Delhi for participation in the talks, unless the Prime Minister invited him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ap-cm-hands-in-resignation/article36486733.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Cabinet clears PLI for auto sector to spur ‘green’, high-tech||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a Rs. 26,058 crore production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to spur manufacture of advanced technology and green vehicles, auto parts and drones. The government estimates the scheme will attract Rs. 42,500 crore in fresh investment into the automobile and auto components industry over five years, spurring incremental production of over Rs. 2.3 lakh crore and helping create more than 7.5 lakh jobs. “It will herald a new age in higher technology, more efficient and green automotive manufacturing,” the government said in a statement. With industry struggling to recover from the twin blows of an economic slowdown and the pandemic, the scheme has been devised for both existing automotive firms and new investors. The ‘sales value linked’ scheme includes a ‘champion OEM’ incentive applicable on battery electric vehicles and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, while a ‘component champion’ incentive is for advanced automotive technology components. “Any country which aspires to lead in a particular sector needs government support and this scheme aims to do just that in the future mobility space,” said TVS Motor Company Chairman Venu Srinivasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cabinet-clears-pli-for-auto-sector-to-spur-green-high-tech/article36486702.ece
16 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Tata Group submits financial bid to acquire Air India||The Tata Group has submitted a financial bid for acquiring Air India, which the government plans to privatise. The group’s holding company Tata Sons confirmed the bid but declined to divulge details. Tata Sons has an 83.7% stake in AirAsia India and holds 51% in Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines. The government confirmed that it had received bids from several parties. Spicejet chairman Ajay Singh is also said to have submitted a financial bid, according to multiple media reports. Secretary, Department of Investment & Public Asset Management, said in a tweet, “Financial bids for Air India disinvestment received by transaction adviser. Process now moves to concluding stage.” E&Y is the transaction adviser. Wednesday was the last date for submitting financial bids. According to people familiar with the process, the disinvestment should be completed “towards the end of this financial year”. The government had decided to sell 100% stake in Air India along with low-cost subsidiary Air India Express. It also plans to sell its 50% stake in the ground-handling joint venture Air India SATS Airport Services Pvt. Ltd. Founded in 1932 as Tata Airlines, the carrier was renamed as Air India in 1946 and nationalised in 1953.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-group-submits-financial-bid-to-acquire-air-india/article36486708.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||iPhone 13 to debut in India on Sept. 24, prices start at Rs. 69,900||Apple’s latest line-up of iPhones, including iPhone 13 mini and iPhone 13 Pro Max, will be available in India from September 24 with prices starting at Rs. 69,900. Industry watchers said Apple now has an ‘aggressive entry point’ — starting with iPhone SE 2020 going till iPhone 13 Pro Max — that will help it bolster its position in India, which is among the world’s biggest smartphone markets. Apple said these devices would be available from September 24 for customers in India and many other countries, including Japan and the U.S. “Our Pro lineup pushes the limits with our most advanced technologies for users who want the very best iPhone. Best-in-class performance, best-in-class camera experience, great durability, larger displays and incredible design. This year, we build on that in a major way,” Apple CEO Tim Cook said during the launch event late Tuesday night.  Counterpoint Research Director Tarun Pathak said, “It’s the iPhone 12 series that is likely to gain traction in India and take on the baton from iPhone 11 that until last quarter captured around 60% of the overall iPhone sales. Apple is likely to capture a 2.4% share in the coming Q4 2021 and will end the year [at] its highest..., crossing 4 million shipments”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/iphone-13-to-debut-in-india-on-sept-24-prices-start-at-rs-69900/article36486704.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Debt of households surged between 2012 and ’18: NSO||The number of indebted households have risen sharply in rural India, with the average debt shooting up by 84% between 2012 and 2018, and COVID-19 has likely further doubled all households’ borrowings by 2021. Rural households’ average debt grew from Rs. 32,522 in 2012 to Rs. 59,748 by June 2018, according to the All India Debt & Investment Survey conducted by the National Statistical Office (NSO) over 2019, while urban households’ average debt increased by 42% in the same period to little more than Rs. 1.20 lakh. ‘Urban debt static’ The number of households in debt as measured by the incidence of indebtedness among surveyed households, had risen to 35% in rural India from 31.4% in the previous survey, while it remained static at 22.4% for urban households. “We project that household debt in rural and urban areas might have doubled in 2021 from the 2018 levels,” SBI group chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh said in a report on Wednesday, estimating that the rural household debt increased to Rs. 1.16 lakh and urban households’ debt to Rs. 2.33 lakh. “This indicates that COVID impacted households significantly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/debt-of-households-surged-between-2012-and-18-nso/article36486710.ece
16 September 2021||Shenzhen,||China’s Evergrande tries to pay bills with parking spots||Protests against teetering developer Evergrande spread to more Chinese cities on Wednesday after a company offer of property and parking spaces instead of cash repayments of its debts was rejected by investors. The troubled property titan has warned it may not be able to service its colossal debts of more than $300 billion, seeding panic among property buyers, bond holders and contractors while fanning fears of a default that could ripple through the world’s second-biggest economy. Several dozen protesters returned for a third straight day to the firm’s headquarters in the southern city of Shenzhen, where the company began its ascent in 1996. Chanting “Evergrande, give us our money back”, they were met by a heavy police presence but refused to disperse. The fresh demonstration came after an apparent effort overnight by Evergrande to repay debts with promises of property, parking spaces and commercial units soured the mood. Experts say the Hong Kong-listed firm has more than a million units pre-paid by customers yet to be built, adding to the sense of dread among Chinese investors, many of them first-time buyers trying to get a foot on the runaway property market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chinas-evergrande-tries-to-pay-bills-with-parking-spots/article36486715.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ola commences sale of electric scooter||Ola Electric on Wednesday commenced the sale process of its electric scooter S1. The e-scooter, which comes in two trims — Ola S1 and S1 Pro — is currently available for purchase only on the Ola app, and not on the website. While the sale was to begin on September 8, the company postponed the process by a week to September 15, as it faced “technical difficulties” in making the website for purchases live for customers. Deliveries will start from October 2021. Buyers will be notified of estimated tentative delivery dates within 72 hours of purchase. “Once a person’s purchase window opens, it will notify them through email, SMS, and/or push notification. They can visit the updated Ola app (latest version), click on the Ola Scooter banner on the home page, and initiate the purchase process,” Ola said in a blog post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ola-commences-sale-of-electric-scooter/article36486718.ece
16 September 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Investments by PE/VC rose to $10.7 bn’||Investments by private equity and venture capital funds surged to $10.7 billion in August from $2.2 billion in the same month last year, and $9.7 billion in July this year, a report said on Wednesday. In terms of volume as well, the numbers were up with August recording 137 transactions as against 83 in the year-earlier period and 77 in July, said the report by industry lobby IVCA and EY, a consultancy. IPOs like that of Zomato led to exits worth $7.3 billion in August, and took the overall number to $30.7 billion in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/investments-by-pevc-rose-to-107-bn/article36486712.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Telco shares rise on govt. relief package||Telecom shares were in demand on Wednesday and jumped up to 5% even as the Union Cabinet approved a relief package for the sector. Bharti Airtel climbed 4.53% and Vodafone Idea rose 2.76% on the BSE. Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) gained 4.94% and Tata Communications, 1.38%. The Cabinet approved a relief package for the sector that includes a four-year moratorium on payment of statutory dues by telecom firms as well as allowing 100% foreign investment via the automatic route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/telco-shares-rise-on-govt-relief-package/article36486719.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,||NCLT reserves order on Valli’s plea in AIL case||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) Chennai has reserved its orders on an application filed by Valli Arunachalam and her family to withdraw the earlier waiver petition in the case against Ambadi Investments Ltd. (AIL) and its family members. Ms. Arunachalam had sought to file a fresh waiver plea to rectify the errors and withdraw the previous one. During the hearing on Wednesday, Ambadi and the other family members strongly opposed the plea and argued that the application be dismissed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclt-reserves-order-on-vallis-plea-in-ail-case/article36486711.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Retail sales touch 88% of Aug. 2019 level’||Helped by festive demand, retail sales improved in August and reached 88% of pre-pandemic levels, a survey showed on Wednesday. In July, sales were at 72% of levels seen two years earlier, as per the survey by the Retailers Association of India. “Retail businesses in North and South India have indicated sales nearing recovery... with sales at 98% and 97% respectively, of pre-pandemic levels (August 2019), as against 78% (North India) and 82% (South India) sales in July,” it said. Sales in West and East were 76% and 81% of that seen in August 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retail-sales-touch-88-of-aug-2019-level/article36487015.ece
16 September 2021||new Delhi,||Cabinet clears govt. guarantee for bad bank||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to provide government guarantee to security receipts issued by the National Asset Reconstruction Company (NARCL) as part of resolution of bad loans, sources said. Indian Banks’ Association (IBA), entrusted with the task of setting up a bad bank, has pegged the government guarantee to be about Rs. 31,000 crore. The proposed bank will pay up to 15% of the agreed value for the loans in cash and the remaining 85% would be government-guaranteed security receipts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cabinet-clears-govt-guarantee-for-bad-bank/article36487016.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Lupin launches generic arthritis drug in US||Lupin Ltd. on Wednesday said it had unveiled Duexis tablets, used to treat rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, in the U.S. It has unveiled a generic version of Horizon Medicines LLC's Duexis(ibuprofen and famotidine) tablets, Lupin said in a regulatory filing.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lupin-launches-generic-arthritis-drug-in-us/article36486716.ece
16 September 2021||Mumbai,||Mahindra unveils Furio 7 LCVs||Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.’s Truck and Bus Division (MTB) has unveiled the new Mahindra FURIO 7 light commercial vehicle (LCV) in the Indian market. This range will be available across three product platforms: 4-Tyre Cargo, 6-Tyre Cargo HD, and 6-Tyre Tipper, M&M said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mahindra-unveils-furio-7-lcvs/article36486705.ece
16 September 2021||Mumbai,||Poshmark Inc rolls out social shopping format in India||Poshmark Inc., a social marketplace for women, men, children, pets and home announced its foray into India. Founder and CEO Manish Chandra said the firm would focus on expanding its community of sellers and buyers in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/poshmark-inc-rolls-out-social-shopping-format-in-india/article36486706.ece
16 September 2021||Mumbai,||RBL begins issuing Visa credit cards||Two months after getting hit by the regulatory ban on Mastercard, private sector lender RBL Bank on Wednesday restarted credit card issuances on rival Visa’s payment network. The Reserve Bank of India had banned Mastercard from issuing any new cards on July 14 this year for not complying with data localisation requirements. The move had hit a slew of lenders, including RBL Bank. RBL Bank said it signed up with Visa on July 14 itself, and the technology integration was achieved in record time to restart new issuances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbl-begins-issuing-visa-credit-cards/article36486713.ece
16 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Fitness tests mandatory for state’s players||Selection into the Karnataka State senior cricket team will now require players to clear mandatory fitness tests, including the Yo-Yo. Coach Yere Goud, on the opening day of the preparatory camp ahead of the 2021-22 domestic season, said the standards have been set in line with those recommended by the National Cricket Academy. “Earlier we had normal fitness standards, but not all were mandatory. We conducted tests like Yo-Yo and last year we also had the 2-km running test. But players had to clear one of them. From this year, whoever wants to be part of the final 20 will have to mandatorily clear [everything] to be eligible,” Goud said. From the group of 35 probables announced on Monday, 23 players were in attendance on Wednesday at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium, with the others away on IPL duties in the UAE. The idea over the next 30 to 40 days leading up to the start of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 trophy on Nov. 4 will be to assess where the players stood in terms of their cricketing skills and fitness. Goud also said there would be one-on-one sessions with all players to understand what they individually want from the camp. “Most of the youngsters who have come in... K.V. Aneesh, Rohan Patil, Vidhyadhar Patil… I’ve coached them at the U-16 and U-19 levels. So I know what they bring to the team and have watched their progress. Rather than just us expressing what we want from them [players], we want to know where they see themselves by the end of the camp.” Bolstering fast bowling Goud stated that one of the goals of the camp will be to bolster the fast-bowling unit so that workload can be managed better. But as it stands, Ronit More and Prateek Jain, though part of the probables, have fitness concerns and V. Koushik hasn’t found a place among the 35. “We have time. Ronit is at NCA. Players will play in the KSCA T20 tournament to prove their fitness. Selectors have also told us that the current probables list is not final. It is not that the final 20 will be from this list alone. There is the Super League coming up and everyone has a chance. Koushik does not have any fitness issues and has been playing in the league. We will see.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fitness-tests-mandatory-for-states-players/article36487056.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Good spells by Nikhil and Nitin||S. Nikhil (seven for 36) for Mahmood CC and A. Nitin (six for 38) for Continental were some of the highlights of the A1-Division three-day league cricket championship here on Wednesday.  The scores:   A1-Division three-day league: Continental 183 in 63.4 overs & 143/6 in 29 overs (S. Rohit Reddy 30, Jayasuriya 47 batting) vs UBI 237 in 71.3 overs (Neeraj Bist 59, C. Durgesh 55, Abhinav Kumar 47, A. Nitin 6/38).   SBI 171 in 54.2 overs (Anirudh Singh 62, Anoop Pai 36, Rathan Teja 5/40) vs Sporting Xi 95/8 in 30 overs (Akash Bhandari 4/20, Vishal Sharma 3/31).   India Cements 160 in 58.1 overs (Md Afreedi 4/37, T.V.S. Narayana Teja 3/40) vs Combined Districts 131/3 in 39 overs ( TVS Narayana Teja 81 batting).   Central Excise 140 in 57.4 overs (K. Sumanth 61, Chaitanya Reddy 34, K. Vamshi Krishna 3/33, Vignesh Agarwal 4/39) vs Evergreen 75/1 in 26 overs (Sai Vikas Reddy 36b atting).   MP Colts 227 in 60 overs (Vaishnav Reddy 44, A. Akash 54, Sireesh Goud 46, Tanay Tyagarajan 3/35, Ashish Srivastava 4/60) vs Budding Star 25/1 in 7 overs.   Mahmood 219 in 65.1 overs & 147/2 in 31.2 overs (Vigneshwar 71, Y.S. Varun 71 batting) vs Sec’bad Nawab 103 in 30.4 overs (Takshith Rao 34, S. Nikhil 7/36, T. Aaron Paul 3/30).   Jai Bhagwathi 110 in 38.1 overs & 84 in 30.5 overs (Rajashekar 6/12) lost to Balaaji 68 in 23.1 overs & 127/4 in 29.3 overs (Hrishikesh Simha 43), Charminar 255 in 62.4 overs (Ram Prakash 35, K. Sri Harsha 5/60) & 78/3 in 16.2 overs (Syed Ghouse 43, Ali Kacchi 33) vs Apex CC 171 in 46.2 overs (Syed Firasuddin 33, S. Dheeraj Goud 74, Muddasir 6/48).   A2-Division two-day league: Sayi Satya 133 in 32.2 overs (S. Pratap Reddy 40, Rohan Bansal 7/54) lost to Visaka 136/5 in 23.4 overs (Harshith 47, B. Sai Vamshi 34).   Telangana 112 in 47.3 overs (Krishna Patel 53, Md Nadeem Khan 3/15) lost to New Blues 119/7 in 26.3 overs.   Vijay Hanuman 399 in 80.5 overs (Mohd Zaveed 64, Suresh Vikas 37, Stephen Jacinth 120, Sahik Sahil 50, Nihal Reddy 3/75, Sai Rishi 3/44) bt Balaji Colts 32 in 17.4 overs (Suresh Vikas 6/14, T. Harish 3/14).   Hyderabad Wanderers 164 in 40.4 overs (Keshav Upadhay 46, Abdul Kaleem Khan 38, Imam Shareef 4/33, Rithvik Talla 4/36) bt Sri Shyam 63 in 17.5 overs (Umar Khan 6/23, Syed Zeeshan Hyder 4/17).   Medak Dist 322/5 in 57.5 overs (Sandeep Raj 78, Mohd Nayum 126, H. Prem Charan 42) bt Marredpally CC 265 in 63.3 overs (Pramod Mahajan 93, P. Jai Krishan 56, Shafeeq 32, S.A. Aziz 3/52).   Kosaraju 431 in 89.3 overs (Sachit Binjrajka 138, Naga Sai 46, Aayush Repaka 31, Syed Mohammed Hussain 80, Nishanth Reddy 41, Arjun Choudary 3/63, Veera Prabhav 3/55) bt Classic 100 in 40 overs (R. Mani 40, Sachiet 4/6, Vasist 3/12).   Oxford Blues 146 in 49.3 overs (A. Sai Prachotan 97 n.o., Shaswat Upadyay 4/33) lost to Universal 149/6 in 34.2 overs (Abhyuday Pratap 51, Kalid 34, K. Shiva Pranav 3/36).   Vijay 122 in 43.4 overs (Yashwanth 44, G. Vignesh Edlamudi 43, Yandam Chay 5/10, Ramana 3/10) bt Yadav Dairy 30 in 28 overs (Yashwanth 7/3).   Nizam College 73/9 in 27.1 overs (K. Roshan Reddy 30, Y. Yashaswi 5/15) lost to Future Star 75/1 in 10.5 overs (Likith 58 n.o.); Deccan Blues 180 in 73 overs (Sai Gutta 39, Ajay 57, N. Anish Reddy 3/30) lost to Brothers XI 184/1 in 41.3 overs (Anish Reddy 103 n.o., Arun Mishra 35 n.o.)   Mahbubnagar Dist 94 in 24 overs (Pavan Kumar 41, P. Venkata Apparao 7/30) lost to Khammam Dist 97/7 in 23.5 overs (S. Vamshi 47, Mohd Khayum 3/9).   Osmania University 316/9 in 68.1 overs (Debanshu Rayaguru 85, Vishnu Sai Ram 70, C. Vinay Kumar 52, Mirza Adeeb Ahmeed 40) vs PJLCC 45/1 in 19 overs.   Super Star 96 in 45.1 overs lost to Young Master 97/4 in 23.5 overs (Gowtham Raj Yadav 36).   Tirumala 123 in 58 overs (J. Gaurav Nag 40, Aadhi Jampanna 3/22, Arfath 5/29) lost to Victoria 124/3 in 26.3 overs (R. Alankrit 87).   International 303/9 in 90 overs (Ishan Virani 100) vs Sunshine.   Lords 90 in 19.3 overs (Obaid Khan 64, Shanshank Shrivastava 6/28) lost to Swastik 93/2 in 24.2 overs (K. Satya Karthik 36, B. Avinash 36).   RJCC 87/6 in 43 overs (B. Jayanth Reddy 46) lost to Hariram CC 127/6 in 29.3 overs (Dheeraj 30, Shrunjith Reddy 3/40).   New Star 50 in 27.5 overs (Bhanu Charith 4/29, Kush Agarwal 5/20) lost to Mahadev 53/0 in 11.2 overs.   Anu CC 236 in 58.3 overs (Akhil 53, S.M. Tanju 48, Ankit Kumar 41, Ram Reddy 5/83, Robin 3/37) vs Hyd Patriorts 70/1 in 29 overs (P. Avinash 46).   Manchester 166 in 41 overs (B. Rakesh 36, A. Hrushikesh Reddy 44, Abdul Zeeshan 5/48) lost to Nalgonda Dist 170/5 in 40.5 overs (Manish 86).   A3-Division one-day league: Raju 144 in 38 overs (Raguram 57 n.o., Deepak Gupta 3/26, Arun 4/22) bt Reliance 29 in 26.5 overs (Balesh 6/18).   All Saints 259 in 44.4 overs (Dhanraj Yadav 53,Yash 30, Koushik 43, R. Charles Nelson 4/37) bt Sacred Heart 97 in 21.1 overs (Terry 32, Arnav Kumar 5/31, Dhanraj Yadav 3/35).   Raju 226/6 in 45 overs (P. Ganesh 49, S. Shyam 62, M.A. Fasiuddin 38 n.o., Adessh 4/33) bt Picket 148 in 42.1 overs (G. Prem 30, Aryan Reddy 50, P. Balesh 3/25, Y. Sreekar 3/27).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-spells-by-nikhil-and-nitin/article36487319.ece
16 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Manika left out of team||The Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI), on Wednesday, announced the team for the ITTF-Asian championships at Doha from September 28 to October 5. As expected, the country’s top woman paddler Manika Batra, who didn’t attend the camp, has been left out. Madhurika Patkar, India’s third best player, too, has not been included. The Mumbai-based paddler couldn’t attend as TTFI was apparently not able to get the Sports Authority of India’s approval. The coaches will be announced later. At its Executive Committee meeting last month, the TTFI made it mandatory for all top players to attend National training camps to be considered for selection.  The squad: Men: Team: A. Sharath Kamal, G. Sathiyan, Harmeet Desai, Manav Thakkar, Sanil Shetty; Singles: Sharath, Sathiyan, Harmeet, Manav, Sanil; Doubles: Sharath & Sathiyan; Manav & Harmeet.   Women: Team: Sutirtha Mukherjee, Ayhika Mukherjee, Archana Kamath, Sreeja Akula; Singles: Sutirtha, Ayhika, Archana, Sreeja; Doubles: Archana & Sreeja; Sutirtha & Ayhika.   Mixed doubles: Manav & Archana; Harmeet & Sreeja .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manika-left-out-of-team/article36487058.ece
16 September 2021||Berlin,||Bayern tramples over Barcelona||It was a tale of three strikers as the Champions League group stage started on Tuesday. Cristiano Ronaldo scored but lost on his return with Manchester United (against Young Boys), then Robert Lewandowski and Romelu Lukaku both led their teams to victory in their opening games on Tuesday. Lewandowski scored two as Bayern Munich eased to a 3-0 win in Barcelona, and Lukaku’s second-half header gave defending champion Chelsea a 1-0 win over Zenit St. Petersburg. Juventus won 3-0 at Malmo. Thomas Muller scored with a deflected shot in the 33rd minute to ensure Bayern scored for the 23rd consecutive Champions League game, a club record. Lewandowski got the second in the 56th on a rebound after 18-year-old Jamal Musiala’s effort struck the post. The Poland star scored his second goal in the 85th, again after a teammate — Serge Gnabry — hit the post, though there was plenty for Lewandowski to do as he slotted the ball past a host of defenders. Chelsea had to wait until the 69th minute for Lukaku to make the breakthrough against a stubborn St. Petersburg defence. The Belgium forward towered above a defender to meet Cesar Azpilicueta’s cross with a header for his fourth goal in as many games for Chelsea since his return from Inter Milan. Jude Bellingham shone with a goal and an assist for Erling Haaland as Borussia Dortmund kicked off its campaign with a 2-1 win at Besiktas on Wednesday.  The results: Wednesday: Group C: Besiktas 1 (Montero 90+4) lost to Borussia Dortmund 2 (Bellingham 20, Haaland 45+3).   Group D: Sheriff Tiraspol 2 (Traore 16, Yansane 62) bt Shakhtar Donetsk 0.   Tuesday: Group E: Barcelona 0 lost to Bayern 3 (Muller 34, Lewandowski 56, 85); Dynamo Kiev 0 drew with Benfica 0.   Group F: Villarreal 2 (Trigueros 39, Danjuma 73) drew with Atalanta 2 (Freuler 6, Gosens 83).   Group G: Lille 0 drew with Wolfsburg 0.   Group H: Malmo 0 lost to Juventus 3 (Alex Sandro 23, Dybala 45-pen, Morata 45+1); Chelsea 1 (Lukaku 69) bt Zenit St. Petersburg 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayern-tramples-over-barcelona/article36487014.ece
16 September 2021||WARANGAL,||Parul and Abhishek play the waiting game before winning 5000m||Training with steeplechaser Avinash Sable, the stunning national record-breaking machine, has made Parul Chaudhary look at life in a new light. Making the move The Asian bronze medallist played a smart waiting game, shadowing Maharashtra’s Komal Jagadale for a major part of the 5000m before making her move in the final lap for the gold in the 60th National Open athletics championships at the Nehru Stadium here on Wednesday. And then the 26-year-old opened up about what’s running in her mind. “Training with Olympian Avinash has motivated me in a big way. At first, I found the training load too heavy and used to get tired fast. “But after seeing the others in the group work hard, I felt I could do it too,” Railway’s Parul, who hails from Meerut, told The Hindu . “A few months ago, I was also looking at big goals like Avinash but I was down with coronavirus. Now, I’m getting close to my old form. I want to do well like Avinash and now my target is Asian Games.” Parul, who narrowly missed making the cut for the Tokyo Olympics through the world ranking route, is keen on two events, the 5000m and the 3000m steeplechase. “Both are my favourite events,” she said. Avinash’s coach Amrish Kumar feels Parul has it in her to produce stunning times too. Capable “She is capable of improving her personal best by nearly 20 seconds in both the 5000m and the steeplechase. Her chances are better in the 5000m, and she is an Asian medallist in that event, but she wants to do both,” said Amrish. “Her running style and speed endurance have improved now, the timings will do too.” Abhishek Pal, also from Railways, won the men’s 5000m after watching Services’ inter-State National champion Kartik Kumar and a couple of others do much of the early leading from a vantage point before making his crucial strike. Tamil Nadu’s Pavithra Venkatesh took the women’s pole vault gold, beating Railways stars Mariya Jaison and Krishna Rachan. With Olympian V. Revathi failing to make the start and under-20 Worlds mixed relay medallist Summy failing to qualify for the final, the expected women’s 400m battle between the two fell apart. In the men’s section, V. Muhammed Ajmal of Services, who was his making his quartermile debut at the Nationals, was the fastest qualifier to the final with 47.08. Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud inaugurated the five-day meet.  The results (finals): Men, 5000m: 1. Abhishek Pal (Rly) 14:16.35s; 2. Dharmender (Ser) 14:17.20; 3. Ajay Kumar (Ser) 14:20.98. Women, 5000m: 1. Parul Chaudhary (Rly) 15:59.69s; 2. Komal Jagdale (Mah) 16:01.43; 3. Sanjivani Jadhav (Mah) 16:19.18. Pole vault: 1. Pavithra Venkatesh (TN) 3.90m; 2. Mariya Jaison (Rly) 3.80; 3. Krishna Rachan (Rly) 3.60 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parul-and-abhishek-play-the-waiting-game-before-winning-5000m/article36486745.ece
16 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Gavaskar’s trust gets govt. nod to construct multi-sports facility||The Government of Maharashtra has given its nod to the Sunil Gavaskar Cricket Foundation Trust (SGCFT) for converting the reserved plot for an indoor cricket academy in Bandra-Kurla Complex into a full-fledged multi-facility sports complex, including a sports medicine facility.  Gavaskar, whose trust had been allotted the plot measuring 2,000 sq. mt. more than three decades ago, had requested the State government twice in thee two years to be allowed to expand the plot into a multi-sports facility. According to a Government Regulation (GR) issued by the State government on Sept. 15, the SGCFT has been granted the requisite permission besides an indoor cricket academy. “Besides the decision on Nov. 29, 2002 to grant permission for health club, fitness centre, gymnasium, swimming pool, squash, residential complex and sports cafeteria, based on the request by SGCFT in a letter dated Jan. 27, 2021, permission is also granted for badminton, table tennis and football facilities,” states the GR. Auditorium The GR has also allowed the trust to construct an auditorium to facilitate expert lectures for promising sportspersons who will train at the centre. As a result, in addition to an indoor cricket facility, permission is granted for the sport training centre to be known as ‘multi facilities sports centre with indoor and outdoor facilities. The GR has asked SGCFT to complete the formalities with the Maharashtra Housing and Development Authoritiy (MHADA) in 30 days and has asked the legendary batsman’s trust to start the construction in one year thereafter and complete it in three years. The GR confirms that 25% of the proceeds generated through the facility will be deposited into the State government, as per the previous arrangement in 2007.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gavaskars-trust-gets-govt-nod-to-construct-multi-sports-facility/article36487501.ece
16 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Neeraj’s next target: Olympic record||Star Indian javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra on Wednesday said he has set his sights on breaking the Olympic record to go with his gold medal-winning feat at the Tokyo Games. Neeraj, who has a personal best of 88.07m, clinched a historic gold with an effort of 87.58m. The Olympic record stands at 90.57m, set by Andreas Thorkildsen in Beijing 2008. Neeraj said it would be great to add another feather to his cap. “An Olympic gold medal is the ultimate. But in athletics, you can add one more thing to your gold medal — an Olympic record,” the 23-year-old said during his maiden trip to Kolkata after becoming the first Indian to win an Olympic gold in athletics. “I’ve the National record (88.07m), while the Olympic record is 90.57. If I can go a step further, it would be an Olympic gold with a personal best and an Olympic record,” he said. Neeraj, who is here on a two-day visit for a felicitation programme, was honoured by the Kolkata Police. “I’m meeting new people everyday, attending so many functions. The biggest change I see is for the Olympic sport. I always knew it would be a different atmosphere when I return home,” he said. “It’s a great thing that people are now keenly following Olympic sports. I hope Indian sports achieves greater heights,” he said. “I will start training soon, and will focus on my real work then,” he said. The javelin champion was earlier felicitated by West Bengal MOS for sports and youth affairs Manoj Tiwary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neerajs-next-target-olympic-record/article36487008.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dia upsets top seed Samya||Fifth seed Dia Arora outplayed top seed Samya Singh Sikand 6-0, 6-1 in the under-18 girls’ quarterfinals of the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament here on Wednesday. In the semifinals, Dia will face Sneha Sundaraneedi who beat third seed Sreenidhi Balaji in three sets. The other semifinal will be between fourth seed Durganshi and Sumeira Jaiswal. In the boys’ section, top seed Parag Jain was stretched to three sets by Pratyaksh. He will play Vedant Mehta in the semifinals. Aditya Talwar bounced back after losing the first set to beat Ananya Gohri 2-6, 6-1, 6-4, to set up a semifinal against Harsh Fogaat.  The results (quarterfinals):   U-18: Boys: Parag Jain bt Pratyaksh 7-6(2), 4-6, 6-2; Vedant Mehta bt Abhiraj Mohil 6-4, 6-1; Aditya Talwar bt Ananya Gohri 2-6, 6-1, 6-4; Harsh Fogaat bt Namish Sharma 6-3, 6-1.   Girls: Dia Arora bt Samya Singh Sikand 6-0, 6-1; Sneha Sundaraneedi bt Sreenidhi Balaji 3-6, 6-2, 6-4; Durganshi bt Anya Gupta 6-0, 6-0; Sumeira Jaiswal bt Somya Arya 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dia-upsets-top-seed-samya/article36487167.ece
16 September 2021||KOLKATA,||BFC starts with a win over Kerala Blasters||Namgyal Bhutia and Leon Augustine struck a goal apiece as Bengaluru FC defeated an eight-man Kerala Blasters 2-0 to start its campaign on a winning note in the 130th Durand Cup football tournament at the Salt Lake Stadium here on Wednesday. Blasters dominated the Group C contest between the two Indian Super League (ISL) outfits early on and created some good chances. Alert custodian However, BFC’s alert custodian Lara Sharma brilliantly saved Sreekuttan and Adrian Luna’s shots in the 33rd and 38th minutes respectively. Bhutia’s 45th free-kick broke the deadlock. Three red cards Madness prevailed on the ground resulting in three red cards for the Blasters in the second half. R.V. Hormipam was the first to go in the 64th minute, followed by Sandeep Singh and Denechandra Meitei. It practically took away the Blasters’ chance for a revival. In the 71st minute, Augustine scored from Harmanpreet Singh’s cross to make it 2-0. Lara was adjudged the man-of-the-match for his outstanding effort.  The result:   Group C: Bengaluru FC 2 (Namgyal Bhutia 45, Leon Augustine 71) bt Kerala Blasters FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-starts-with-a-win-over-kerala-blasters/article36487051.ece
16 September 2021||Cary (US),||Sasikumar advances||Sasikumar Mukund beat wild card Luca Staeheli of Switzerland 6-3, 5-7, 6-1 in the first round of the Challenger tennis here.  The results: €66,640 Challenger, Rennes, France: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Brayden Schnur (Can) & Arjun Kadhe bt Toshihide Matsui & Kaito Uesugi (Jpn) 6-1, 7-6(4); Mats Hermans & Gllenn Smits (Ned) bt Davide Pozzi (Ita) & Anirudh Chandrasekar 6-1, 6-3.   $52,080 Challenger, Cary, US: First round: Sasikumar Mukund bt Luca Staeheli (Sui) 6-3, 5-7, 6-1.   $25,000 ITF men, Madrid: First round: Louis Wessels (Ger) bt Digvijay Pratap Singh 4-6, 6-3, 6-2; Juan Ignacio Galarza (Arg) bt Manish Sureshkumar 6-4, 2-0 (retired).   $15,000 ITF men, Champaign, US: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Emile Hudd (GBR) & Adam Walton (Aus) bt Eric Sock (US) & Parth Aggarwal 6-0, 6-1; Kweisi Kenyatte (USS) & Karlis Ozolins (Lat) bt Henry Barrett (USS) & Suraj Prabodh 6-3, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo: First round: Jakub Wojcik (US) bt Rishab Agarwal 6-4, 6-4; Nathan Seateun (Fra) bt S.D. Prajwal Dev 6-0, 6-7(1), 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir: First round: Ajeet Rai (Nzl) bt Paras Dahiya 3-0 (retired); Blake Ellis (Auss) bt Niki Poonacha 6-3, 6-3; Ryota Tanuma (Jpn) bt Ajay Pruthvi Nemakal 6-1, 6-1.   Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Mattia Bellucci & Giovanni Oradini (Ita) bt Niki Poonacha & Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-2, 6-4; Riccardo Di Nocera & Tommaso Roggero (Ita) bt Vishal Saravanan & Amaan Siddiqui 6-1, 6-1.   Women: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Sharmada Balu & Sravya Shivani bt Mariana Drazic (Cro) & Zeel Desai 6-4, 6-2.   $80,000 ITF women, Valencia: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Irina Maria Bara & Andreea Prisacariu (Rou) bt Nicoleta-Catalina Dascalu (Rou) & Prarthana Thombare 6-1, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF women, Melilla, Spain: First round: Maria Jose Zehnder (Arg) bt Sathwika Sama 6-4, 3-6, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sasikumar-advances/article36487100.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Sangwan begins well in new weight division||Olympian and Asian medallist Sumit Sangwan began his journey in a new weight division on a confident note, winning his first round bout in the 86kg category on the opening day of the National boxing championships at the Inspire Institute of Sports campus in Vijayanagar on Wednesday. Representing Haryana, Sangwan, who competed in the 91kg in the last National championships in Baddi in 2019 and 81kg in the Asian championships in May last, eased past Harish Prasadula of Andhra Pradesh 5-0 in the newly introduced weight category. Delhi’s Neeraj Swami, another experienced boxer and the 2019 President’s Cup gold medallist, also made a winning start. He blanked Haryana’s Sagar 5-0 in the 48kg class which was making a comeback after a year’s gap. Punjab’s Rajpinder Singh trounced Rahul Niltu of Himachal Pradesh 5-0 in a 54kg bout. Maharashtra’s Nikhil Dubey and Chhattisgarh’s Dinesh Kumar Yadav posted contrasting victories in the 75kg section. Nikhil took out Sejad Lilgar of Gujarat in the first round (referee stopped contest) while Dinesh had to work hard against Bengal’s Abhishek Shaw to secure a 3-2 win.  Important results: 48kg: Kuldeep Kumar (Chd) bt Suraj Routh (WB) 4-1; Sujat Hussain (Lad) bt Pratik (Bih) k.o. (R2); 54kg: Sanket Goud (Mah) bt Appala Raju Pedda (AP) 5-0.   67kg: Subham Kumar (AIP) bt Zomuansanga (Miz) 3-2; Dinesh (RSPB) bt Vasu Pinapothina (SPSB) 5-0. 75kg: Sumit (SSCB) bt Aditya Maan (Chd) 5-0; 92-plus kg: Sagar Singh (Utk) bt Nagesh Patil (Kar) 4-1; Akash (Del) bt Sushil Raj (TN) 4-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sangwan-begins-well-in-new-weight-division/article36486999.ece
16 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Women’s tennis heading in right direction: Sania||The women’s event of the US Open produced a magical final, between two unheralded teenagers in Emma Raducanu and Leylah Fernandez. With a straight-set win over Fernandez, Raducanu stunned the world to become the first qualifier to win a Grand Slam title in the Open Era. Successors have arrived Indian tennis star Sania Mirza believes that the fairytale run of Raducanu and Fernandez provided a glimpse of the depth in the women’s field. The successors to Serena Williams’ era of domination have arrived, Sania stated. “Women’s tennis is heading in the right direction. Look at the two US Open finalists — one was a qualifier (Raducanu) and the other was ranked in the 70s. The depth in the field is incredible. “Everyone was asking what happens after Serena (Williams) finishes. I guess we have our answer now,” Saina said, in an interview arranged by Sony Sports . Youthful exuberance Sania added that Raducanu’s youthful exuberance worked in her favour. “One of Emma’s biggest strengths was that she is so young that she did not fully realise the magnitude of what she was achieving. She was in the zone — she couldn’t feel or see anything but the tennis ball. It shows you what pure belief can do,” Sania, 34, said. In the men’s section, Novak Djokovic fell just short in his quest to record a historic Grand Slam. The occasion got to the Serbian in the final, when he buried his face under a towel and wept during his defeat to Daniil Medvedev. “Athletes are the most raw, emotional beings. On court, we laugh, we scream, we get angry. You have millions of people watching, it’s incredible for people to understand that Djokovic is human. Everyone has emotions “No matter how great an athlete you are, you have emotions as a human being. What he was going for (Grand Slam) was incredible. Whether he wins or not, he is one of the greatest of all time,” Sania said. Sania weighed in on the Indian women’s cricket team’s tour of Australia, which commences with three ODIs. “Showing more live women’s cricket matches like this is the best way to increase the profile of women’s cricket. “A lot of channels show repeats of men’s cricket matches; it will be nice to have live women’s action instead,” Sania said. ( Watch live coverage of India women’s tour of Australia on Sony Six channels from September 21 ).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-tennis-heading-in-right-direction-sania/article36487006.ece
16 September 2021||Dubai,||‘IPL in UAE will level playing field for T20WC’||Star Australian all-rounder Glenn Maxwell believes having the IPL in the UAE will level the playing field “a fair bit” in the T20 World Cup to be held at the same venue next month. The IPL will resume on September 19 in the UAE after being suspended in May due to the second wave of COVID-19 in India, which led to multiple cases inside the bio-bubble. It will be followed by the T20 World Cup from October 17. “The tournament being in UAE probably levels the playing field a little bit,” Maxwell, who plays for Royal Challenger Bangalore in the IPL, told icc-cricket.com . “Probably makes it a little bit easier as there will not be much of a home ground advantage. For the IPL to be there, to have a lot of international players who are going to be in that World Cup over there playing, I think it’s probably levelled the playing field a fair bit.” Top players will be back Australia’s top players, including Steve Smith, David Warner, Aaron Finch and Pat Cummins, have not competed in the last few months and will be back in action at the IPL. Maxwell said the IPL stint will help the Australians in their preparation for the T20 WC. “The fact we’ve got a lot of guys going over for the IPL as a preparation, get a few games in those conditions, it’s going to do wonders for our batters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-in-uae-will-level-playing-field-for-t20wc/article36487013.ece
16 September 2021||KOLKATA,||All-round show by Gani||Aamir Gani shone with both bat and ball in Kolkata Heroes’ seven-wicket win over Krishnagar Challengers in the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Wednesday. Left-arm spinner Ramesh Prasad captured four wickets and off-spinner Gani had two to restrict Challengers to 133. Gani, opening the inning, scored 50 (36b, 7x4, 1x6) to provide Heroes a solid start. Captain Ritwik Roy Chowdhury (28, 22b, 2x4, 1x6) and Ranjot Singh Khaira (29 n.o., 28b, 3x4) made handy contributions to ensure Heroes’ victory.  The scores: Krishnanagar Challengers 133 in 19.4 overs (Koushik Ghosh 33, Ramesh Prasad 4/24) lost to Kolkata Heroes 134/3 in 18.2 overs (Aamir Gani 50) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-round-show-by-gani/article36487525.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian teams qualify for next stage||The Indian boys’ team lost to Pakistan in the last league match but both teams qualified for the next stage of the Asian under-12 tennis championship in Islamabad on Wednesday. In the decisive doubles, Aarav Chawla and Ojas Mehlawat led 6-2, 5-0 with two matchpoints on hand, but lost the plot and suffered a 6-2, 5-7, [5-10] loss to Abubakar Talha and Mikheel Shahbaz Ali Baig. The Indian girls’ team won all its matches and qualified on top for the World playoff to be played in Kazakhstan in November.  The results (league):   Boys: Pakistan bt India 2-1 (Homza Roman bt Ojas Mehlawat 6-4, 6-4; Abubakar Talha lost to Aarav Chawla 2-6, 0-6; Abubakar Talha & Mikheel Shahbaz Ali Baig bt Aarav Chawla & Ojas Mehlawat 2-6, 7-5, [10-5]).   India bt Nepal 3-0 (Ojas bt Nisad Joshi 6-1, 6-0; Aarav bt Boriss Adhikari 6-1, 6-0; Aarav & Rudra Batham bt Nishad Joshi & Darsheel Shrestha 6-2, 6-1).   Girls: India bt Nepal 3-0 (Janhavi Kaila bt Mansa Kandel 6-1, 6-0; Harithashree Venkatesh bt Shivali Gurang 6-1, 6-2; Maaya Revathi & Harithashree Venkatesh bt Shivali Gurang & Manssa Kandel 6-0, 6-1).   India bt Maldives 3-0 (Harithashree bt Sarah Saamee Mohamed 6-1, 6-0; Maaya bt Naba Nishan 6-3, 6-0; Jahnvi & Harithashree bt Naba Nishan & Imani Moosa Kaleem 6-2, 6-1).   India bt Pakistan 2-1 (Harithashree bt Zunaisha Noor 6-1, 6-1; Maaya lost to Haniya Aman 6-3, 2-6, 2-6; Harithashree & Maaya bt Haniya Aman & Zunaisha Noor 6-4, 4-6, [11-9]).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-teams-qualify-for-next-stage/article36487102.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||PVL formally launched||The Prime Volleyball League (PVL) featuring six teams, sponsored by fantasy game leader A23 and marketed by Baseline Ventures, was formally launched here on Wednesday in the presence of the owners of respective franchisees. Joy Bhattacharya, CEO, PVL, said the forthcoming edition for which auction will be held in December, would be totally different and innovative given the fact that the owners will be the stakeholders. “This league is for players who have been really wanting to get into competitive mode after a long break because of the pandemic,” he said. “The league, to be played on round-robin format and featuring Calicut Heroes, Kochi Blue Spiders, Ahmedabad Defenders, Hyderabad Black Hawks, defending champion Chennai Blitz and new addition Bengaluru Torpedoes, will see the top four teams make it to the semifinal stage. “Our endeavour is to provide the right kind of platform for volleyball talent to grow. In PVL, the franchises are committed to long-term interests,” the PVL CEO said. “More details about the schedule and prize money will be announced later. The auctions will feature foreign players who are already showing a lot of interest. PVL will strictly follow the rule-book with no scope for tampering at any stage.” Neville Bastawalla, SVP & Head (Marketing & On Air Promotions), Sports Channels at Sony Pictures Networks India, said, “the league will be shown live in most of the regional languages and SonyLIV.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pvl-formally-launched/article36487060.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Yeshwanth stars with ball for Mahabubnagar||Yeshwanth’s five for seven was the highlight of Mahabubnagar’s seven-wicket win over Jangaon in the TCA inter-district one-day (under-19) cricket championship being played at different venues in the districts.  The scores:   Nalgonda 183 in 38.0 overs (Shashank Naik 47, Yuvatharak Potu 31, Shiva Rathod 4/21 ) bt Wanaparthy 104 in 30.1 overs (Nikhil Nakirekanti 3/12).   Nirmal 125 in 25.3 overs (Yuktha Bheema 6/26) lost to Bellampalli 126/5 in 20.5 overs (O. Rishi 51).   Hanamakonda 130 in 32.2 overs (Rangarao 39, Bhairav 4/30) bt Bhadradri 111 in 22.1 overs (Srinath 45, Hardhik 3/22).   Khammam 73 in 16.4 overs (A. Aditya 4/17, S. Adarsh 3/16) lost to Bhupalapally 76/5 in 12.4 overs (Gowtham 3/24).   Jangaon 57 in 18.5 overs (Yeshwanth 5/7) lost to Mahabubnagar 58/3 in 10.4 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yeshwanth-stars-with-ball-for-mahabubnagar/article36487533.ece
16 September 2021||SRINAGAR,||Mane shoots 65 to take first round lead||Udayan Mane, who represented India at the Tokyo Olympics, fired a sublime seven-under 65 in the opening round to take the early lead at the Rs. 40 lakh J&K Open golf tournament here on Wednesday. Delhi’s Rashid Khan and Honey Baisoya as well as Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat, the runner-up at the PGTI event last week, shot five-under 67 to be tied second. Om Prakash Chouhan of Mhow, Chandigarh’s Akshay Sharma and Patna’s Aman Raj returned cards of four-under 68 to be tied fifth. Delhi-based Kshitij Naveed Kaul, who has his origins in J&K, carded a 70 to be tied 14th. Jyoti Randhawa posted an even-par 72 to occupy the joint 25th place. Mane got off to a dream start with eight birdies on the first 10 holes. Precision He struck the ball with precision, landing it within six feet of the pin to set up birdies on the first, third, fourth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth. On the 10th, Mane sank a 12-footer to move to eight-under for the day. After a terrific start, Udayan slowed down on the back-nine as the putts didn’t roll in. He dropped a bogey on the 15th but saved a good par from the bunker on the 16th. Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa ended the day with a 73 to be tied 39th while PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar of Chandigarh was two shots back in tied 63rd place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mane-shoots-65-to-take-first-round-lead/article36487001.ece
16 September 2021||London,||Holding bids adieu to commentary||Former West Indies cricketer Michael Holding has announced his retirement as a cricket commentator on Wednesday, ESPNcricinfo reported. Holding was a member of the Sky Sports panel for more than 20 years. The West Indian legend had been contemplating his retirement for the past year. “I am not too sure how much further than 2020 I will be going with commentary. “I cannot see myself going much further down the road at my age. I am 66 years old now, I am not 36, 46 or 56,” he had said on a BBC radio talk show then. “I told [Sky] that I could not commit to more than a year at a time. If this year gets totally destroyed, I might have to think about 2021 because I can't just walk away from Sky, a company that has done so much good for me,” he added. Holding, who bid adieu to international cricket in 1987, was widely respected for his famous insightful analysis and razor-sharp insights. The West Indies legend represented the Caribbean team in 60 Tests and 102 ODIs, has 391 international wickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/holding-will-no-longer-hold-the-mike/article36487003.ece
16 September 2021||Tunis,||Yashaswini, Hansini win||India’s Yashaswini Deepak Ghorpade and M.R. Hansini clinched the girls’ u-17 and u-13 singles titles in the World TT Youth Contender Tunis on Tuesday.  The results (final):   Girls: Under-17: Yashaswini Deepak Ghorpade bt Farida Badawy (Egy) 11-6, 14-12, 11-7. Under-13: M.R. Hansini bt Prisla Goel 11-5, 11-8, 11-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yashaswini-hansini-win/article36486934.ece
16 September 2021||Hyderabad:,||Yeshwanth shines||Yeshwanth’s five for seven was the highlight of Mahabubnagar’s seven-wicket win over Jangaon in the TCA inter-district one-day (u-19) cricket championship.  The scores: Nalgonda 183 in 38.0 overs (Shashank Naik 47, Yuvatharak Potu 31, Shiva Rathod 4/21 ) bt Wanaparthy 104 in 30.1 overs (Nikhil Nakirekanti 3/12); Nirmal 125 in 25.3 overs (Yuktha Bheema 6/26) lost to Bellampalli 126/5 in 20.5 overs (O. Rishi 51).   Hanamakonda 130 in 32.2 overs (Rangarao 39, Bhairav 4/30) bt Bhadradri 111 in 22.1 overs (Srinath 45, Hardhik 3/22); Khammam 73 in 16.4 overs (A. Aditya 4/17, S. Adarsh 3/16) lost to Bhupalapally 76/5 in 12.4 overs (Gowtham 3/24).   Jangaon 57 in 18.5 overs (Yeshwanth 5/7) lost to Mahabubnagar 58/3 in 10.4 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yeshwanth-shines/article36487313.ece
16 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Vihari to turn out for Hyderabad||India cricketer Hanuma Vihari will play for Hyderabad in the coming season, with all the necessary formalities regarding his move to shift base from Andhra being completed, a senior official of the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) said. “Vihari spoke to the HCA top brass over the last few days, making clear his intention to play for Hyderabad again and he has been welcomed to do so,” the source told The Hindu on Wednesday. Vihari moved from Hyderabad to Andhra in the 2015 season, apparently for better prospects. After that, he went on to play for India in Test matches. “I am taking this opportunity to inform everyone that I am parting ways with Andhra Cricket Association on good terms,” Vihari said. “ I thank all my teammates (Andhra), coaches and office-bearers of ACA for the constant support,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vihari-to-turn-out-for-hyderabad/article36487049.ece
16 September 2021||Sao Paulo,||Pele leaves intensive care||Retired Brazilian soccer star Pele was moved out of intensive care as he continues to recover from surgery to remove a tumour from his colon. The 80-year-old Edson Arantes do Nascimento was in good clinical condition and will remain “from now on recovering in his room” at Albert Einstein Hospital, the Sao Paulo facility said in a statement on Tuesday. Pelé said he is ready “to play 90 minutes, plus extra time” after leaving intensive care. “Don’t think for a minute that I haven’t read the thousands of loving messages I’ve received around here,” Pelé wrote on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pele-leaves-intensive-care/article36487010.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Limited spectators for IPL games||Limited spectators will be allowed into stadiums when the much-awaited IPL resumes in the UAE this weekend, the event’s organisers announced on Wednesday. The IPL, which was suspended midway in May due to COVID-19 cases in its bio bubble, will resume on Sunday with Mumbai Indians taking on Chennai Super Kings at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium. Momentous occasion “This match will be a momentous occasion as IPL will welcome the fans back to the stadiums after a brief hiatus owing to COVID-19 situation,” a statement said. “Matches will be played at Dubai, Sharjah and Abu Dhabi with limited seating keeping in mind UAE government regulations.” It will be the first time since 2019 when the IPL will be played in front of an audience. Last year it was played behind closed doors in the UAE while the first half of the 2021 edition was also played inside a strict bio-bubble. Although the organisers did not specify the exact number of fans who would be let in, sources said it would be 50% of the stadium capacity. “Fans can buy tickets starting Sept. 16 for the remainder of the tournament on the official website www.iplt20.com. Tickets can also be purchased on PlatinumList.net.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/limited-spectators-for-ipl-games/article36487011.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Rachana stars for Pink Panthers with hat-trick||Rachana scored a hat-trick as Pink Panthers FC blanked Sai Sports Academy 7-0 in the KSFA A-division football league on Wednesday.  The results: Modern Girls FC 4 (Maithreyi 29, 46, Treia 43, 53) bt Pioneers Women’s FC 2 (Priya 27, Shravani 60); Pink Panthers FC 7 (Amshitha 14, 30, Rachana 20, 32, 60, Nuthana 23, 50) bt Sai Sports Academy 0 .    Samarth Kurdikeri and V. Kushi emerged the men’s and women’s singles champions respectively at the Karnataka State-ranking table tennis tournament here.  The results (final): Men: Samarth Kurdikeri bt Shreyal Telang 13-11, 11-7, 9-11, 11-9, 11-8. Women: V. Kushi bt Maria Rony 11-9, 11-6, 11-9, 8-11, 12-10. Non medalist singles: Tavanth Nerlaje bt Rohit Ravi Kumar 11-7, 11-7, 11-8 .    Super Strikers FC beat Thanco’s Students Union FC 3-1 to win the inaugural KSFA Futsal League, on Wednesday.  The result (final): Super Strikers FC 3 (Surya, Nikhil, Vijay) bt Thanco’s Students Union FC 1 (Prashant) .    Kashvi Sunil upset top seed Mahika Reddy 6-2, 6-3 to enter the girls’ last four at the Transform Tennis Academy AITA CS7 under-14 tennis tournament, on Wednesday. Boys top seed Aaradhaya Dwivedi, however, had an easy passage, beating Pranav Mahesh 6-2, 6-1.   Sundeep Patil beat B.C. Karthik 4-3 (75-46, 18-57, 83-48, 46-77, 23-67, 55-44, 81-43) to enter the quarterfinals of the State-ranking men’s snooker tournament at the KSBA.   Sujan’s 18 points helped PPC defeat Aryans BC 36-34 in a State C-division basketball championship match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rachana-stars-for-pink-panthers-with-hat-trick/article36487053.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||TV PICKS||UEFA Europa Conference League: Sony Ten 1 (SD & HD), 8 p.m., 10.15 p.m. & 12.30 a.m. (Friday)  UEFA Europa League: Sony Ten 2 (SD & HD), 10.15 p.m. & 12.30 a.m. (Friday)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tv-picks/article36487059.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 09:00 IST,||Sudoku — September 16, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-16-2021/article36488112.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Retro strokes||Seated comfortably in his room at a guest house in Vadapalani, just a stone’s throw away from AVM Studios, make-up artist Pattanam Rasheed is skimming through reviews of recently-released Thalaivii on his phone. One of them mentions the word ‘make-up’, which makes Rasheed sit up. He has been getting a lot of praise for the look of MGR, played by Arvind Swami in the Kangana Ranaut-starrer that is currently running in theatres. “I go a long way back with director Vijay, with whom I first worked with on Madrasapattinam (2010),” he recalls, “During that time, he had a lot of reference material for the British soldiers and locals featured in the film. Subsequently, I worked on most of his projects. It was during the shoot of GV Prakash-starrer Watchman that he showed me the title and details of Thalaivii and I was super excited.” Pattanam Rasheed, a National Award-winner, immediately began collecting material about MGR. “Everyone in Tamil Nadu knows MGR. I realised that this would be a big test for me, since I had the responsibility to bring him alive for audiences.” The biggest challenge was to arrive at the looks, covering all phases of MGR: his entry into cinema and politics, and when he was not keeping well. “Arvind Swami is an actor who prefers less make-up, as he is fair in complexion. But for Thalaiivi , he had to apply a lot of make-up to get into character. The trend in make-up used during MGR’s time is not in vogue now, so the challenge was to re-create that using the products of today.” For the film, Rasheed used specially designed prosthetic teeth set on Arvind to ensure he resembled the matinee idol. “For the portions in which we show an aged MGR, we had to use a special shading technique on the actor’s skin, apart from the double chin and the prosthetics used near the neck.” Rasheed has worked in multiple languages and genres, but prefers historical subjects. “It helps me put a lot of thought and effort,” he says, citing examples like Kaaviya Thalaivan and Kanchivaram , apart from mentioning Mohanlal’s Paradesi and Odiyan as among the toughest projects till date. Currently, he is working on multiple Tamil projects, including GV Prakash’s Jail, Suriya’s Jai Bhim and Karthi’s Sardar . Rasheed debuted as a make-up artist in 1985, and has since kept his tryst with the profession. “New-age filmmakers sometimes do not prefer make-up. They state that it takes away from the natural texture of the actor. During such occasions, I have learnt to adopt techniques to ensure that make-up is so minimal that audiences will not even realise that it has been applied.” Change and evolve  Rasheed keeps to date with make-up trends across the world by browsing the Internet and reading magazines. His most prized possession is American special make-up effects artist Dick Smith’s book on professional make-up, which he considers a bible for anyone looking to make a mark. That book has prime place in his make-up academy in Ernakulam, which he set up in 2010 with the prime intention of imparting his life experience and techniques to the younger generation. He is most happy when he hears of his students going places. They are mostly established artistes, like last year’s National Award winner Ranjith Ambady (for Helen ), one of his assistants. “It gives me great pleasure to see them doing well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/retro-strokes/article36486894.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||In the foxhole||When Prithish Shyam Narayan was 16, his mother asked him what his dream was. He replied without hesitation, “I want to be the club doctor for Arsenal!” His parents nodded indulgently, but Prithish felt it was his destiny. At this time, during the early 2000s, there was not much dialogue about sports doctors. Fast forward to a few weeks ago, 31-year-old Prithish was on the phone with his mother and said with a laugh, “Mum, we’re halfway there!” Prithish is now First Team Trauma Doctor and co-head of Academy Medicine for Leicester City Football Club, having been the club doctor for Coventry City Football Club. Prithish is also a Special Registrar in Trauma and Orthopaedics for the National Health Service in the UK. He chats with MetroPlus over a video call from his home in Leicester right before his club’s match against Manchester City for the Premier League. With family roots in Palakkad, Thrissur and Malappuram, and having grown up in Botswana and then moving to Australia, Prithish nurtured a passion for cricket to the point of wanting to play professionally. Towards the end of his student years at Christ Church Grammar School in Perth, he was selected by the national scouts for the Western Australia cricket team. But he decided that an MD would serve him better in the long run.  Getting into medical school was not easy in Australia; Prithish missed the mark by a point percentage. Still determined, Prithish looked to the United Kingdom; he got his MBBS at the University of Southampton and a Masters in Sports and Exercise Medicine from the University of Bath. He is also a member of the Royal College of Surgeons. Thereafter, he recollects, “Despite keeping my mind open to other specialisations, I veered towards Trauma Orthopaedics which linked quite nicely with sporting injuries.” In 2019, a colleague of Prithish’s — a previous Coventry City FC club doctor — urged him to get in touch with the team’s staff management, and in no time, he snagged the position. He worked with Coventry City FC for two years until he switched over to Leicester City FC in May 2021 to watch out for the ‘Foxes’ (aka the Leicester City players). In tandem, he completed a one-year diploma in Football Medicine with Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), which gave him an idea of what to expect in the world of elite athletes. First response On August 4, during a Leicester City FC friendly match against Villarreal FC— which also happened to be Prithish’s first match — central defender Wesley Fofana was rushed to the hospital with a painful fibula fracture. Prithish was tending to Fofana’s injury at the time, which marked his move to become the team’s First Trauma Doctor.  The overall perception of club doctors has evolved over the years; they are not merely fluorescent jackets popping onto the field with a stuffed bag when there is a medical crisis. Take the case of 29-year-old Denmark footballer Christian Erikson, who had a cardiac arrest in the 42nd minute of a Euro 2020 match against Finland. As he was resuscitated by a responsive medical team, the incident shed light on the work of club doctors. Agreeing with this, Prithish explains, “In the case of Erikson, the planning and preparation were good with medical teams ready to assist immediately and also ensure a streamlined transfer to a hospital. It shows the world that we have to be, and are, ready for the worst possible scenario. In the case of a cardiac incident, medics have to ensure there is a towel to dry off the player, a razor to shave their chest for the sticky pads to sit, to make sure the defibrillator works. There have been many incidents across elite sports where the defibrillator is out there and there’s no charge, which increases the risk of long-term injury.”  Clearly, on the field, it is up to the medical team to keep an eye on every movement of the players. “If you see medics on TV, we aren’t watching the match,” he points out, “We are evaluating our players. After a tackle or a fall, our responsibility and instinct are to watch them for any signs of injury or stress. So you can imagine, in a two-hour game, that time for us flies by so fast.”  Matters of the mind Athletes such as tennis player Naomi Osaka, swimmer Michael Phelps, cricketers Ben Stokes and Eoin Morgan, and gymnast Simone Biles have been prioritising mental health conversations for a more supportive sports industry. Prithish, working with footballers who are on a world’s stage with pressures from both fans and stakeholders, has seen the invisible struggles athletes face in the context of the pandemic. as well as self-pressure. “The conversations I have with players are different now; I probe a lot more when I notice a player is not on the usual mental or emotional wavelength,” remarks Prithish. He adds, “I assure them that we were not invested in only their physical health, that they could talk to us about other things too. Playing in an empty stadium is hard, but enormous credit to all the players who had to push through. I still see them switch their headspaces into game mode. I don’t know how they do it, because it all definitely felt uncomfortable on this side of the fence.” Fans are more empathetic too, he says, explaining, “Athletes are a lot more vocal on social media, sharing what they’ve gone through. This has created a lot more transparency. Players are also aware that striving for perfectionism comes at a cost, so they know about the dangers of self-pressure. Elite athletes coming forward and talking about it is also very good for the recreational athlete who can also look out for their own mental health.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-the-foxhole/article36486914.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A village that surfs together...||When the country went into a lockdown in March 2020, Mamallapuram — a UNESCO heritage site, bustling fishing village and popular surfing destination — went into isolated island mode. All entry points were barred. There was no fishing. For the next eight months, the local surfers of Mamallapuram, all from fishing families, rode the waves to stay calm. As a result, their skills and balance kept improving. Now, after long, focussed hours in the water, they have emerged as better surfers than before. At the recently concluded Nationals held in Kovalam, conducted by Surf Turf and TTK group, there was a visible change in the format of the sport. The entry of surfing into the Tokyo Olympics has given the sport a much needed boost in India. There are more practice sessions, and surfers are now focussing on physical fitness and nutrition, earnestly looking at participating in the Paris Olympics in 2024. Powered by Flip Flops beach shack owned by Prashanth Amir and K Shabarinath Nair, the Mahabs Open was held on September 14. With 85 registered participants from Covelong, Puducherry, Mamallapuram, Mangaluru and Goa, it was a long day of surfing by the Shore Temple in Mamallapuram aka Mahabs. Here, four categories were drawn out: Men’s Under-16, Men’s Above-17, the Women’s Open and Longboard championships. At the end of a long day, Mamallapuram saw one of its own boys, Harish M from the fishing village, lift the championship and prize money of Rs. 20,000. The second place went to Yuvaraj Babu, again a local, while Ajeesh Ali from Covelong took the third place. Suhasini Damien from Puduchery won the ladies championship with Shristi Selvam from Covelong winning the second place and Sinchana Gowda from Mangaluru winning the third place. The Under-16 category was won by Srikanth from Covelong, second place and third place went to Naveen Kumar and Kalapathi respectively from Mamallapuram. In the Longboard category, the first place went to Vicky from Auroville, Moorthy Meghavan and Santhosh from Covelong. “Being a DJ, having performed at a few mainstream and offbeat events, I thought it would be great to combine my experience with the amazing talent here and this beautiful surf spot, to bring about a competition to encourage the local boys,” says Prashanth, adding that the competition is “a great platform to connect with the local authorities and communicate the benefits of Mamallapuram becoming the surfing Mecca of the country.” He adds with a beam, “It gave me so much pride to see the families of the local boys watching their children surf and be celebrated for their achievements.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-village-that-surfs-together/article36486920.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A taste of the life we lead||On October 16, the day declared by the United Nations as World Food Day, women of the fishing community of Pazhaverkadu, well known as Pulicat Islands, plan to get together and cook up a seafood feast for the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. A historic seashore town about 60 kilometres from Chennai, Pulicat or Pazhaverkadu is considered a haven for seafood lovers. Pazhaverkadu prawns and crabs are bestsellers across all the fish markets in Chennai. The island is famous for certain varieties of fish, but its value in terms of food heritage and biodiversity was truly spelled out recently, when a group of fisherwomen from Pazhaverkadu came to Chennai to invite the CM to their village via a press conference. At the unusual event, where the women set out tasty samples of Pulicat’s fish, crab and prawns, G Rajalakshmi, a fisherwoman said, “Right from the British era, our island has been known for seafood.” “A majority of the population in the island depends on fishing for livelihood. Women specialise in prawn and crab catching in brackish waters. The yield has been reducing considerably over the years and if the port expansion begins, we will be wiped out completely,” added M Veeramma. Now, these women earn between Rs. 300 and Rs. 500 a day. “We get into groups of 10, hire a mid-size goods van and go to fish markets in and around Pazhaverkadu such as at Ponneri, Minjur, Redhills,” says Rajalakshmi. “On a couple of days of the week we head to Chennai markets in Saidapet, Ennore and Kasimedu... Can you imagine our plight if the region is taken away for port expansion?” she asks with tear-filled eyes. These women play a significant role in the economy of this fishing village, right from catching fish to the curing, auctioning and marketing. The women have already had an elaborate discussion on the Chief Minister’s menu — they want him to taste their favourite dishes. For example, one of the most popular dishes of Pulicat is eral (prawn) karukkal , a quintessential part of a fisherman’s daily life. Fresh-caught prawns are cleaned to remove the sand, with their shells intact. Then on an earthenware kadhai , the prawns are cooked slowly on a low flame with rock salt and broken red chillies, stirring continuously until all the water is absorbed. “We finally press the cooked prawn with a wooden ladle to squeeze out any water, and stir fry it till dry. It is an amazing preparation which we pack in a tiffin box along with soaked rice when our menfolk head into the sea for a couple of days for fishing.Karukkalwill not spoil for at least four days,” says Rajalakshmi. N Vijaya adds, “Most of the cooking we do at home is traditional and handed down from generation to generation.” Vijaya is an expert at making crab soup, and readily shares her cooking process. “Clean a medium-sized crab, place it in a vessel, add four cups water and bring it to boil,” she says, “To this, add a sliced onion and tomato, throw in two red chillies and pepper. When the concoction is reduced to half, switch off the heat. Then heat one teaspoon oil, a teaspoon of ginger garlic paste and curry leaves, and pour it over the soup. Garnish with minced coriander leaves.” The menu for October 16 will be as follows: kal nandu (crab) soup, eral vada , eral karukkal , eral biryani, paara meen kulambu , vaala meen sunda vecha kulambu , meen (fish) puttu , nandu thokku and maybe some fried nethili karuvad (dry fish). “We are still undecided about what to offer for dessert,” says Vijaya. “We normally prepare paal payasam or sakkara pongal for festivities, so we will probably make one of these on that day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-taste-of-the-life-we-lead/article36486908.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Weaving a livelihood||The stark palm trees that ring the shore town of Pulicat (Pazhaverkadu) have witnessed the ebb and tide of history. The Portuguese came first, followed by the Dutch who made Pulicat the capital of the Dutch Coromandel until it passed into British hands in 1825. Over three centuries, the town, 60 kilometres North of Chennai — located on the fringe of a lagoon —has been peopled by fisherfolk and thousands of migratory birds. Another inalienable feature of Pulicat is the sight of many women weaving colourful baskets from locally-sourced palm fronds. A generation ago, basket weaving was popular, but with youth leaving their homes on the islands in the lagoon for more mainstream jobs, and political fallout between local communities, basket weaving was relegated to the bottom of the craft heap. Many NGOs have stepped in to help this beleaguered craft reclaim its popularity — Chenni-based Nonurban is the latest. “In 1959, the Palaverkadu women’s cooperative employed over 2,000 women and was instrumental in spreading the skill of palm-leaf weaving. But an earning of just Rs. 4,000 a month resulted in only 300 pursuing the craft. These women weave at home alongside other women in the family, to sell to buyers across the country. We work to bring them together and establish effective source and supply chains,” says Thein Manimekalai Sowrirajan, 29, founder-CEO of The Nonurban Foundation. Boosting systems Thein, a planner-architect who schooled at Anna University and was involved in projects across Italy, the UK and Russia, is presently a research associate at MSSRF, Chennai. She says, “The COVID-19 pandemic saw a lot of market preferences towards healthier products, culture-driven narratives for sale, focus on sustainable production and a wide support for women-centric businesses. Rural areas have all the right ingredients; they just need a boost for their stories, skills and strengths.”  Nonurban was launched in June 2020 by Thein. Nethra Ganesan, who heads its advocacy, joined a little later. In October the duo organised an international competition for university students, inviting them to devise entrepreneurship models for farming, weaving, and indigenous art and craft sectors. “We initiated conversations and suggested a few non-urban contexts to be worked upon. They were asked to pitch ideas and identify stakeholders. We put in our own money to market it and broke-even,” says Thein, adding that within months “we became 33 members-strong — from multi-disciplinary backgrounds with an average age of 24”. Initially, the foundation was an online forum that supported grassroots organisations by suggesting creative names for home-grown brands, logos, and defining selling points... With students returning home due to COVID-19, the focus shifted to projects in their hometowns. “Right now, we are working with 100 women from Anakaputhur who make saris from banana fabric, 300 palm weavers from Pulicat and 1,000 women from Mannargudi in the coir mat business. Women empowerment is inextricably linked to our efforts towards rural entrepreneurship,” says Thein. The challenges in each of these places are different. Thein says that while the coir business had everything in place and Nonurban’s intervention was only in terms of design, non-rubberised base to increase the sustenance factor and adding gloves to the assembly line, progress in Pulicat has been slow as the foundation has had to rope in activists to get the women weavers on track again. The weavers reached out to Nonurban to help them find an international market for their products such as sari boxes, bottle holders and coasters. “The core team of seven people in Chennai meets every day and some of us work other jobs. We take the help of anyone who can help push our agenda to fortify the rural,” says Thein, adding “In Tamil Nadu we travel as a team and the biggest advantage is the common language.” “People in the rural areas know what they want. We help them with the next step. We only want to make the skill sector become lucrative so that any youngster from anywhere is propelled to take it up.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/weaving-a-livelihood/article36486902.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Small-town stories, big time impact||Two of Hollywood’s most coveted actors, Jeff Daniels and Maura Tierney, now collaborate together to star in American Rust , the television adaptation of Philipp Meyer's acclaimed novel. The series, set in a Pennsylvania Rust Belt town, follows the life of chief of police Del Harris, who has to make a series of difficult choices, when the son of the woman he loves is accused of murder. Full of mutual admiration and respect for each other, Jeff and Maura talk to us about their experience filming the hotly-anticipated drama, how their stage and theatre background comes into play, and the almost-doomed romance their characters share on the show. Excerpts from an interview: Daniels, given that your early days were in somewhat similar setting, was it easier to resonate with the character of Del Harris? Jeff:I am one of these guys from the show. I grew up in small-town earlier and now I have moved back to a small-town, and my family is being tossed there. I was a working-class guy and several things rang true and was familiar to me. Sometimes these kind of characters are oversimplified or dumbed down. But in the book and series, they are represented, as complicated people. My character is dealing with a lot of things, including a broken heart...he is a police chief trying to solve many things, working for 60-70 hours without sleep. I hadn’t been offered or played anyone who goes through what he does, so it was a wonderful challenge. Your characters share an intriguing, almost doomed relationship throughout the course of the series. How did you interpret that? Maura:You know, the last character I played started off as this woman of means, whose parents and husband had always taken care of her, and then later had to figure out how to be independent. In American Rust , it is quite the opposite. Nobody has taken care of her so far, and she is trying to understand how to live in this world, and trust and love people. Jeff:For me, their relationship is almost like what you find in one of those paperback romance novels at the airport. He badly wants a relationship with her and goes all in, but she breaks his heart. But they are both still in each other’s lives, and then later she opens up to him. That is the beauty of the book and the writing in the show. It is, a romance novel that turns dark. Both of you are renowned for your work in film, television and also theatre...  Jeff:Well, they are all hard. Be it the stage and eight shows a week, or night shoots for a show or film where you have to hit it on the first or second take. But I still like the challenge of it, and I find it both dangerous and exciting — in this latent part of my career — to use and feed off the other actor. Maura:I have been a TV actor all my life, but quite late in life, I found experimental theatre and now work with a company in New York. And you know, being on stage doing that, is like no other feeling. I would like to explore that more. American Rust is currently streaming on Voot Select||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/small-town-stories-big-time-impact/article36486891.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Stretch it like Mr Paws||When actor Anson Paul entered Pawga’s pet yoga workshop, most of the puppies had already chosen spots to cosy up in, as humans around them stretched and stretched (not half as deeply as the pups could, but good enough). Anson tried wooing a couple of them towards him, but gave up and started doing the asanas instead. And then, a tiny paw laid itself on him. By the end of the session, three puppies cuddled up on his lap, refusing to let him go home. The idea of Pawga is quite basic, says its co-founder Sinduja Krishnakumar. “You do beginner yoga, as the puppies run around you freely. Most of the time, they find a cosy corner to sleep while you practise,” she says. Founded last year by Sinduja, Swathi Renugopal and Subhashree Madhavan, Pawga is a pop-up pet yoga workshop that functions in association with the Blue Cross of India to encourage pet adoptions. “You feel refreshed when you spend time with animals, especially when coupled with yoga, it helps you calm down,” says Sinduja, adding, “And it is good for the animals too. Most of these shelter puppies hardly see humans. So this helps them socialise and be more active, which makes it easier for them to get adopted.” All the puppies at their workshops come from Blue Cross, and a portion of the ticket sales goes towards the animal welfare NGO. In each session, about a couple of pups get adopted. “Sometimes, someone will bond with a certain puppy, go home to think it over, and then come back to Blue Cross to adopt that particular pup,” she says. Friends since their college days, Sinduja, Swathi and Subhashree shared a love for animals and volunteered at shelters. After their graduation, it was only in 2020 that the three of them found themselves in Chennai again. They conceptualised Pawga pre-pandemic and held their first session in November, after the first set of unlocks. “Our first session was free. We wanted to test how the puppies would react to the people around them,” she says. Since then, they have been holding pop ups at places such as The Bark and Antispot. Sometimes, certain yoga instructors open up their studios for the sessions. “We sat down with the teachers to understand how their practice can be suited to this. They are mostly used to calm environments to practise yoga, but puppies can create a lot of distraction with their running around. So we had to figure out a way that would be beneficial to both the students and the puppies,” she says. Each session is open to 15 to 20 people, same as the number of puppies. “We don’t want to intimidate puppies by throwing in a lot of people. Plus, if there is one pup for each person, they bond better,” she says.  Pawga’s next yoga workshop, led by Pallavi Rajankar, is at Antispot in Anna Nagar on September 19, from 11 am to 12 pm, and 1 pm to 2 pm. Tickets cost Rs. 1,199 for one, and Rs. 999 each for a couple. Visit @pawga_ on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/stretch-it-like-mr-paws/article36486904.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Jewellery that rises from the ocean||In the waters of Bay of Bengal off Visakhapatnam coast, a ‘ghostly’ menace is threatening the existence of several marine species, some critically endangered. Ghost nets are fishing gear which are lost or dumped at sea by fishermen. These inevitably go on to kill marine life for several years, making it the most deadly form of marine plastic debris. With an aim to address this growing issue, Visakhapatnam-based Greenwaves Environmental Solutions is working on á project called Ghost Gear Upcycling at coastal Andhra Pradesh along with WWF India. The project, initiated in Visakhapatnam in June 2021, upcycles these nets to make products like bracelets, pouches, doormats and pots. “The concept of upcycling fish nets is aimed at reducing the impact of marine pollution and also provides alternative livelihoods for fisherwomen,” says Honey Seles, Greenwaves Marine Litter Project in-charge. The organisation is doing this with the help of fisherfolk communities, through awareness programmes, surveys and workshops. “We are also collecting discarded fishnets with the involvement of the fishing community at identified mending sites in Visakhapatnam,” says Anil Potluri of Greenwaves Environmental Solutions. Discarded fish nets and glass bottles collected during beach clean-ups are untangled and segregated as per type, size and colour. Nylon nets are upcycled into bracelets with wooden beads and bags of different colours; hand nets into earrings and key chains; and landing nets into bottle hangers and bags. Since June, the team has collected nearly 1.5 tonnes of ghost net gear along the Visakhapatnam coast. “The situation is alarming in the region. We have been working on it since last December. What we realised is that unless a proper awareness plan is set up, the issue will keep compounding,” says Anil. The International Union for Conservation of Nature estimates that at least eight million tons of plastic waste are discarded into the ocean every year. Greenwaves aims to help fisherfolk implement simple measures such as not dumping old fishing gear in the ocean, moving away from fishing zones that regularly trap fishing line or nets, and ensuring that fishing ropes are responsibly discarded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/jewellery-that-rises-from-the-ocean/article36486917.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||In the foxhole||When Prithish Shyam Narayan was 16, his mother asked him what his dream was. He replied without hesitation, “I want to be the club doctor for Arsenal!” His parents nodded indulgently, but Prithish felt it was his destiny. At this time, during the early 2000s, there was not much dialogue about sports doctors. Fast forward to a few weeks ago, 31-year-old Prithish was on the phone with his mother and said with a laugh, “Mum, we’re halfway there!” Prithish is now First Team Trauma Doctor and co-head of Academy Medicine for Leicester City Football Club, having been the club doctor for Coventry City Football Club. Prithish is also a Specialist Registrar in Trauma and Orthopaedics for the National Health Service in the UK. He chats with MetroPlus over a video call from his home in Leicester right before his club’s match against Manchester City for the Premier League. With family roots in Palakkad, Thrissur and Malappuram, and having grown up in Botswana and then moving to Australia, Prithish nurtured a passion for cricket to the point of wanting to play professionally. Towards the end of his student years at Christ Church Grammar School in Perth, he was selected by the national scouts for the Western Australia cricket team. But he decided that an MD would serve him better in the long run. Prithish got his MBBS at the University of Southampton and he is completing Masters in Sports and Exercise Medicine from the University of Bath. He is also a member of the Royal College of Surgeons. Clearly, on the field, it is up to the medical team to keep an eye on every movement of the players. “If you see medics on TV, we aren’t watching the match,” he points out, “We are evaluating our players. After a tackle or a fall, our responsibility and instinct are to watch them for any signs of injury or stress. So you can imagine, in a two-hour game, that time for us flies by so fast.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-the-foxhole/article36487427.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A village that surfs together...||When the country went into a lockdown in March 2020, Mamallapuram — a UNESCO heritage site, bustling fishing village and popular surfing destination — went into isolated island mode. All entry points were barred. There was no fishing. For the next eight months, the local surfers of Mamallapuram, all from fishing families, rode the waves to stay calm. As a result, their skills and balance kept improving. Now, after long, focussed hours in the water, they have emerged as better surfers than before. At the recently concluded Nationals held in Kovalam, conducted by Surf Turf and TTK group, there was a visible change in the format of the sport. The entry of surfing into the Tokyo Olympics has given the sport a much needed boost in India. There are more practice sessions, and surfers are now focussing on physical fitness and nutrition, earnestly looking at participating in the Paris Olympics in 2024. Powered by Flip Flops beach shack owned by Prashanth Amir and K Shabarinath Nair, the Mahabs Open was held on September 14. With 85 registered participants from Covelong, Puducherry, Mamallapuram, Mangaluru and Goa, it was a long day of surfing by the Shore Temple in Mamallapuram aka Mahabs. Here, four categories were drawn out: Men’s Under-16, Men’s Above-17, the Women’s Open and Longboard championships. At the end of a long day, Mamallapuram saw one of its own boys, Harish M from the fishing village, lift the championship and prize money of Rs. 20,000. The second place went to Yuvaraj Babu, again a local, while Ajeesh Ali from Covelong took the third place. Suhasini Damien from Puduchery won the ladies championship with Shristi Selvam from Covelong winning the second place and Sinchana Gowda from Mangaluru winning the third place. The Under-16 category was won by Srikanth from Covelong, second place and third place went to Naveen Kumar and Kalapathi respectively from Mamallapuram. In the Longboard category, the first place went to Vicky from Auroville, Moorthy Meghavan and Santhosh from Covelong. “Being a DJ, having performed at a few mainstream and offbeat events, I thought it would be great to combine my experience with the amazing talent here and this beautiful surf spot, to bring about a competition to encourage the local boys,” says Prashanth, adding that the competition is “a great platform to connect with the local authorities and communicate the benefits of Mamallapuram becoming the surfing Mecca of the country.” He adds with a beam, “It gave me so much pride to see the families of the local boys watching their children surf and be celebrated for their achievements.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-village-that-surfs-together/article36487429.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Low footfall on first day of DU reopening||After several months, the gates of Delhi University reopened for practical classes for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students on Wednesday. However, students didn’t rush in, and the attendance was low. A reason for the low turnout could be the absence of outstation students, said principals of several colleges. Officials said that vaccination status of students was being checked before they were permitted to enter. Bijaylaxmi Nanda, acting principal of Miranda House, said: “Practical classes for third year students resumed in the college and we had about 10-15 students for each class. We are also checking for the vaccination status of students and are encouraging them to take at least one dose. Right now, the percentage is very low and mostly students who are from Delhi attended college.” Stating that “very few” outstation students had arrived on the campus, Ms. Nanda said: “Those who already have hostel allotment will be able to access the facilities. Very few outstation students have come as of now. Several of our foreign students, are however, already in the hostels. Once we get to know the exact numbers and a few other details, we will take a call about the rest.” At Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (ARSD) College, students who did not take a single dose of COVID-19 vaccine were being counselled and urged to get the jab, officials said. Counselling on jab Gyantosh Jha, principal of ARSD College said, “We are checking for the vaccination status at the gate itself. At least one dose is required otherwise they are being counselled and we are even offering to help students and get them vaccinated. There were about 25-30 students across the three labs on the first day and mostly they were local students.” “Our labs have internet facilities. So the students who are attending online classes are being able to participate virtually while the offline students continue with their practical classes,” Mr. Jha added. Vaccination must At Hindu College, students who are not vaccinated will not be permitted to enter, said principal Anju Srivastava. “Some of the science departments witnessed a few students on the first day. We have already taken the vaccination data of students. While two doses are encouraged, those without a single dose will not be permitted to enter campus,” said Ms. Srivastava. Delhi University had earlier announced that practical classes and libraries will reopen for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students. The varsity specified that attendance for offline classes will not be made mandatory for students and that it was “voluntary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/low-footfall-on-first-day-of-du-reopening/article36487197.ece
16 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers’ plea puts parties in election-bound Punjab in a fix||Punjab-based farmer outfits agitating against the Centre’s farm laws have urged the political parties in Punjab not to campaign in the run-up to Assembly polls until the Election Commission announced the schedule for the election. This request has left the key parties in a fix surrounding their electioneering as none can afford to lose the farmer vote bank. Unions associated with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) last week convened a meeting of non-BJP parties, asking them not to campaign until the EC announced the poll schedule, citing that the ongoing political campaign is affecting the farmers’ agitation. They announced that those who violate the appeal will be considered anti-farmer, and the agriculturists will protest against them as well in addition to the BJP and its allies. While the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the ruling Congress have extended their support for the ongoing farmers’ movement, yet questions are being raised by the parties on the “unfair” decision of the SKM. Yatra put on hold To ensure that the farmers are not annoyed, the SAD has already put on hold the “100 days yatra” across 100 constituencies, started by its president Sukhbir Singh Badal last month. The party has also announced to observe September 17, the day marking one year of the passage of the three farm laws, as a ‘Black Day’ and decided to hold an ‘ardas’ on the occasion at Rakabganj Sahib Gurdwara in Delhi, besides taking a protest march to Parliament. The party, however, has questioned the stance of the SKM, asking it to explain why it was not objecting to political functions being held by the Congress and the AAP. “The Congress has held political functions at Khemkaran and Batala recently and even two Congress Ministers held functions. The AAP has earlier held a political rally,” said senior Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia, adding that it was now being revealed that the SKM itself was not on one platform on its directive. On the other hand, to garner farmers’ support ahead of the Assembly polls, the AAP has been forcefully raising the farmers’ issue on the ground and has even demanded an Assembly session, with at least two days set aside for discussion on farmers’ issues. At the same time, the AAP has also pointed out that the Congress was carrying out election programmes by going against the directives of the farmers under the guise of its government, which, the party said, was “unfair”. AAP’s national executive member and MLA Aman Arora appealed to the SKM to tighten the reins of the Congress or reconsider their directives to the political parties regarding not to hold election events. Cong. support The Congress is also leaving no stone unturned to earn the support of farmers. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu recently wrote to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, seeking cancellation of unfair FIRs registered against the farmers during their agitation. The Chief Minister himself is making all out efforts to ensure that the farmers do not stray away from the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-plea-puts-parties-in-election-bound-punjab-in-a-fix/article36487184.ece
16 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||It’s ‘change your symbol’ talk time in battleground U.P. now||BJP Rajya Sabha member and former Uttar Pradesh DGP Brij Lal on Wednesday suggested that the Samajwadi Party (SP) change its election symbol to an LMG (light machine gun), as the war of words between the two parties over demolition of property of alleged criminals escalated. The SP should change its election symbol from the cycle to LMG, which is “appropriate” for it, said Mr. Lal, sharing a picture of an LMG on Twitter. “This LMG was ordered by Mukhtar Ansari for the murder of Krishnanand Rai [BJP MLA] and which was caught by the STF in January 2004. Your pitashreee [father Mulayam Singh who was then Chief Minister] had saved Mukhtar from the POTA,” Mr. Lal said in an attack on SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. In 2019, a special CBI court in Delhi acquitted Mr. Ansari, jailed MLA from Mau, and seven others in the 2005 Rai murder case. Mr. Ansari's brother and former two-time MLA from Ghazipur, Sigbatullah Ansari, joined the SP recently quitting the BSP, following which BSP chief Mayawati said they would keep away from tainted elements in 2022 polls and even announced that Mr. Mukhtar would not be fielded by her. Maurya’s demand Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya also asked the SP to change its symbol to an AK-47 rifle after Mr. Yadav, taking a dig at the Yogi Adityanath government’s showcasing of demolition of properties of alleged criminals and opponents, said the BJP should change its symbol. Mr. Yadav told reporters on Tuesday, “The ‘sarkar’ should change its election symbol to bulldozer”. The Adityanath government has regularly flaunted that it has demolished or seized property worth over Rs. 1,500 crore of alleged mafia dons and criminals as part of its drive against organised crime. And action against the Ansaris has been on the top of the list of the police. The SP has often accused the BJP government of misusing authority and targetting opponents with bulldozers. Mr. Yadav said, “The government’s biggest accomplishment is that it has a bulldozer”. In a veiled threat, he stated, “A bulldozer comes with a steering. Today it is moving in one direction, tomorrow it can move in another direction.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/its-change-your-symbol-talk-time-in-battleground-up-now/article36487182.ece
16 September 2021||September 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Jewellery that rises from the ocean||In the waters of Bay of Bengal off Visakhapatnam coast, a ‘ghostly’ menace is threatening the existence of several marine species, some critically endangered. Ghost nets are fishing gear which are lost or dumped at sea by fishermen. These inevitably go on to kill marine life for several years, making it the most deadly form of marine plastic debris. With an aim to address this growing issue, Visakhapatnam-based Greenwaves Environmental Solutions is working on á project called Ghost Gear Upcycling at coastal Andhra Pradesh along with WWF India. The project, initiated in Visakhapatnam in June 2021, upcycles these nets to make products like bracelets, pouches, doormats and pots. “The concept of upcycling fish nets is aimed at reducing the impact of marine pollution and also provides alternative livelihoods for fisherwomen,” says Honey Seles, Greenwaves Marine Litter Project in-charge. The organisation is doing this with the help of fisherfolk communities, through awareness programmes, surveys and workshops. “We are also collecting discarded fishnets with the involvement of the fishing community at identified mending sites in Visakhapatnam,” says Anil Potluri of Greenwaves Environmental Solutions. Discarded fish nets and glass bottles collected during beach clean-ups are untangled and segregated as per type, size and colour. Nylon nets are upcycled into bracelets with wooden beads and bags of different colours; hand nets into earrings and key chains; and landing nets into bottle hangers and bags. Since June, the team has collected nearly 1.5 tonnes of ghost net gear along the Visakhapatnam coast. “The situation is alarming in the region. We have been working on it since last December. What we realised is that unless a proper awareness plan is set up, the issue will keep compounding,” says Anil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jewellery-that-rises-from-the-ocean/article36487428.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kin of terror accused say he’s innocent||An eerie silence prevails outside the ground floor residence of Osama, 22, one of six alleged terrorists arrested by Delhi Police’s Special Cell. Inside the house, located in Okhla’s Abu Fazal Enclave, five to six women await the return of the men of the family who were taken away by the police on Tuesday. Osama has been named among the six men — Jaan Mohammad Shaikh alias Sameer, 47, Moolchand, 47, Zeeshan Qamar, 28, Mohd. Abu Bakar, 23, and Mohd. Amir Javed, 31 — allegedly active in the Pakistan-organised terror module busted by Special Cell. 14-day police custody All the six accused were produced before the court on Wednesday and sent to police custody for 14 days. Osama’s brother, Huzaifa, was also picked up by the police, said the landlord, Jaleel Asghar, 75, who lives on the first floor of the four-storey residential building. There is no information on whether Huzaifa has returned home or not. His family is confident that Osama is being falsely charged and say they believe in the judiciary. “There is no reality in what’s being said about Osama. He is being framed. The truth will come out in court,” said an elderly woman from behind the closed door before refusing to speak further. Mr. Jaleel said Osama and his brother rented the house in March this year and have been living with their wives. “Their father had come with them when they moved in here. The rent contract was made in Osama’s name. I usually kept in touch with him for rent,” he said. Both Osama’s and Huzaifa’s wives are pregnant, said Mr. Jaleel’s wife. According to Mr. Jaleel, the Delhi police had come to the ground floor flat around 7 a.m. on Tuesday and searched the place all day before leaving in the evening. “The sisters of the wives of the two brothers are here to support them. They came to our house and said the police didn’t find anything in the flat. I went to meet the women in the evening and they were very scared. An elderly woman was with them. I was informed that the police have taken both the brothers with them,” he said. Mr. Jaleel said he never suspected anything amiss in the family and they mostly kept to themselves. “Once, a few months ago, I had called Osama for rent but I couldn’t reach him. I called his brother who told me that Osama had gone out of the country,” he said. Asked what was Osama’s means of livelihood, Mr. Jaleel said, in his knowledge, he, his brother and father were in the business of dates and also had a cold storage. According to Special Cell, Osama and Qamar are Pakistan-trained terror operatives working under the instructions of Inter-Services Intelligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kin-of-terror-accused-say-hes-innocent/article36487193.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||Declare offering cash in manifestos as corrupt: plea||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked why the Election Commission was “shying away” from taking action against political parties who are in violation of its guidelines on corrupt practices. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh made the remarks while hearing a petition seeking to declare offer of cash transfer in manifestos as a corrupt electoral practice. “Why are you shying from taking action? Start taking action. Don’t just issue notices and letters. Let us see what action you are taking. Proposed actions also, you can state,” the court said. The court’s remarks came after the poll panel’s counsel said it has already issued guidelines in relation to “corrupt practices” and sent the same to the political parties. It was hearing the petition filed by two advocates, Parashar Narayan Sharma and Capt. Gurvinder Singh, whose contended that offering of cash without any work in election manifestos has to be declared illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/declare-offering-cash-in-manifestos-as-corrupt-plea/article36487187.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crimes against women dip by 24%, cybercrimes see 55% rise: NCRB data||Crime against women in the Capital has reduced by 24% in 2020 as compared to 2019, shows the data shared by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). According to it, total crime against women reported in 2020 came down to 9,782 incidents from 12,902 in 2019. Assault on women stood at 938 in 2020 as opposed to 1,088 in 2019 and sexual harassment stood at 862 cases in 2020 as compared to 644 in 2020. A total of 967 rape cases were reported in 2020 as opposed to 1,231 in 2019, leading to a decrease of 21%. Stalking also saw a dip of 40% as 235 cases were reported in 2020 as opposed to 388 in the preceding year. Overall slump Across the 19 metropolitan cities, NCRB stated that a total of 35,331 cases of crime against women were registered during 2020, showing a decrease of 21.1% over 2019 (44,783 cases). Majority of crime against women were registered under ‘cruelty by husband or his relatives’ (30.2%) followed by ‘assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty’ (19.7%), ‘kidnapping and abduction of women’ (19.0%) and ‘rape’ (7.2%). Cybercrimes reported in the Capital saw an increase of 55% in 2020 as compared to 2019, the data showed. A total of 166 cases were reported in 2020 as compared to 107 in 2019. Stalking, online fraud According to the data, cases pertaining to transmitting of sexually explicit act and material accounted for 19 cases in 2019, which increased to 59 in 2020. Cyber fraud increased to 31 from 11 while cyber stalking came down from 16 to 12. Online bank fraud cases also increased to 19 in 2020 from merely two cases in the year before that. Across metropolitan cities, a total of 18,657 cases have been registered under cybercrimes, showing an increase of 0.8% over 2019 (18,500 cases). Cyber crime rate also increased from 16.2 in 2019 to 16.4 in 2020. Crime head-wise cases revealed that computer-related offences (Section 66 of IT Act) formed the highest number of cybercrimes, accounting for 60.9% (11,356 cases) during 2020. A senior police officer said that the reason for increase in cybercrimes in 2020 could be COVID-19 induced lockdown.   Assault on women stood at 938 in 2020 as opposed to 1,088 in 2019 and sexual harassment stood at 862 cases in 2020 as compared to 644 in 2020 NCRB data||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/crimes-against-women-dip-by-24-cybercrimes-see-55-rise-ncrb-data/article36487194.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC pulls up Delhi govt. for lethargic approach in hospital construction||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday remarked that it was a “misfortune” of the public that a 100-bedded hospital in Najafgarh was not completed because of the lethargic approach of the Delhi government. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the Delhi government to submit a timeline within which the permission will be granted. The High Court, which was hearing a plea seeking a direction to the governments to complete the establishment of the hospital at the site of Rural Health Training Centre in Najafgarh in south-west Delhi, posted it for further hearing on November 8. “It is the misfortune of the public at large that a 100-bedded hospital could not be completed because of the lethargic approach on part of the Delhi government. Union of India is writing letter after letter and no reply is given by the Delhi government. No counter has been filed,” the court observed. It said, “Do something so that the construction is over. You can say no also but don’t sit tight. You decide as per law.” The Centre’s counsel said the project was 80% complete and is awaiting clearance from the Forest Department of the Delhi government since December 2018 as the site required a sanction for transplantation of trees. The petition filed by advocate Rajesh Kaushik said that the structure of the building stood completed, and it was “utmost essential for the public at large” that hospital starts running before the onset of the third wave of COVID-19. The plea said there are no good hospitals in the area and the establishment of this facility would “cater to the need of 15 lakh people spread over 73 villages”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hospital-construction-hc-pulls-up-delhi-govt/article36487186.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two arrested in Trilochan Singh Wazir murder case||Delhi Police has arrested two persons in connection with the murder of Jammu & Kashmir leader Trilochan Singh Wazir. He was found dead in a flat in west Delhi on September 9. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Prashant Gautam said that the accused has been identified as Rajender Chaudhary alias Raju Ganja, a driver by profession. Crime Branch made another arrest, the accused has been identified as Balbir Singh alias Billa. Both accused have been sent to seven-day police custody. Police said that Raju was arrested from Jammu on Tuesday and is a classmate of one of the suspects Harpreet, who was associated with Wazir for over a year and claimed to be a journalist. Sedative with food During interrogation, police said, it has been revealed that Wazir was given a sedative with his food on September 3 by the suspects. Harpreet had allegedly booked a dummy ticket for Wazir to Canada for the intervening night of September 2 and 3 and when Wazir came to Delhi on September 2, he was informed that his flight had been delayed by a day, police said. During Raju’s interrogation, it was revealed that in 1983, an incident of triple murder took place in Jammu, where one Kuldeep alias Pappi, maternal uncle of Harpreet, was killed. The accused used swords in that incident. Wazir was arrested in that incident and lodged in jail for around three and a half years. Harpreet allegedly wanted to avenge the death of his maternal uncle. He roped in Raju by assuring him a job and asked him to bring Wazir’s luggage by road from Jammu on September 3. The accused allegedly shot Wazir dead after giving him sedatives, the police said. Police said that Billa initially worked with horticulture department in Jammu for seven years and started working as checker in truck union thereafter. He then worked with bus union in Jammu. Currently, he was unemployed. Wazir was the Chairman of the transport union for over three decades. Investigation is under way and facts are being verified, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-arrested-in-trilochan-wazir-murder-case/article36487191.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Parents forced to send children to govt. schools’||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday said that due to financial distress, several parents in the Capital were being forced to send their children to Delhi government schools. The party alleged that the Delhi government was not providing any financial bailout to families that had been financially ruined due to the pandemic. “Over two lakh students are moving to government schools not because of the quality of schools but due to financial distress,” the party said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/parents-forced-to-send-children-to-govt-schools/article36487528.ece
16 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam track realignment through wetland opposed||Villagers living near Deepar Beel, a Ramsar Site wetland and Important Bird Area under stress, have opposed the proposed realignment of a railway track skirting its southern edge. The project would be catastrophic for the ecology of the Rani-Garbhanga Reserve Forest, affect a prime elephant corridor and uproot the indigenous people, they say. On September 13, a memorandum containing 600 signatures of villagers around Deepar Beel was submitted to W. Longvah, Inspector-General of Forest, at the integrated regional office of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change in Guwahati. The villagers listed the reasons for opposing the realignment of the railway track that has in three decades killed 14 elephants. Senior environment scientist Hemanta Hazarika and green activist Arghadeep Baruah, who accompanied the representatives of the villagers, said the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had proposed realigning the track to the north of the wetland through human habitations. The realignment further south to accommodate another track — both to be electrified — would be much closer to the Rani-Garbhanga Reserve Forest and uproot the indigenous people of Mikirpara Chakardeo who have been coexisting with nature for ages. Tunnel plan A proposed tunnel in the hilly stretch of the Rani Garbhanga Reserve Forest between two railway barriers would also spell doom for the ecology of the area “in the name of preventive measures”, the memorandum said. The track realignment will not only go against the views of the NGT but would also undermine the recommendations of the Wildlife Institute of India, the memorandum said. The issue of the garbage dumping ground on the edge of Deepar Beel was also taken up with Mr. Longvah. Seepages from the dump and sewers from Guwahati have made the Deepar Beel toxic, threatening aquatic life and waterfowls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-track-realignment-through-wetland-opposed/article36487178.ece
16 September 2021||Kolkata,||HC sets aside rustication of Visva-Bharati students||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday set aside the rustication of three Visva-Bharati students who were punished for taking part in a demonstration in January 2020, and came down heavily on “outsiders and political parties” for what it called the misuse of educational institutions. The three students — Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan, of Economics; and Rupa Chakraborty of Hindustani classical music —were expelled on August 23 for three yearson grounds of “gross indiscipline and misconduct” but theirrustication had been placed in abeyanceby the court last week. September 15th’s order would be seen as a victory for them and for the detractors of the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Bidyut Chakrabarty. “…in the interest of and for the ends of justice, as a special case, without creating any precedent, the orders of rustication are set aside. This order is passed in the very peculiar facts and circumstances of the case on the undertaking of the three students that there shall be peace and order in the University henceforth,” Justice Rajasekhar Mantha said in his order. He said the three students could not have caused the mayhem at the University but for the “support of influential outsiders”. “It is sad to note that the noble cause of education has been slaughtered at the altar of politics and a political slugfest. Educational institutions are being misused as breeding grounds by political parties,” Justice Mantha further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-sets-aside-rustication-of-visva-bharati-students/article36487179.ece
16 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rain forecast in Capital for next two days||The Meteorological Department has forecast moderate rain as well as heavy rain in a few isolated areas in the Capital for over the next two days . The Capital has already recorded 1,146.4 mm of rainfall so far this monsoon, the highest in 46 years and almost double the precipitation gauged last year. The rain that is forecast will add to the record of Delhi witnessing its highest rainfall for September in 77 years. The forecast for Thursday reads: “Generally cloudy sky with light to moderate thundershowers. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 33 and 25 degrees Celsius.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rain-forecast-in-capital-for-next-two-days/article36487529.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Persecution of Muslims rises as polls near’||AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan on Wednesday said that persecution of Muslims in the country increases as elections approach and in the name of terrorism, fake FIRs are filed against innocent people. “As elections come closer, the persecution of Muslims in the country increases. In the name of terrorism, the game of harassing innocent people by implicating them in fake FIRs has started. In the future, don’t know against how many people false FIRs will be filed. May Allah protect!” Mr. Khan said in a tweet in Hindi.  When asked about the context of his tweet, Mr. Khan said, “People will understand the context.” When contacted, the AAP spokesperson did not comment on Mr. Khan’s tweet or whether it was the party’s stand too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/persecution-of-muslims-rises-as-polls-near/article36487195.ece
16 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Assembly adjourned||Amid high drama after a constant ruckus over different issues, Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi on Wednesday abruptly adjourned the ongoing session sine die , while observing that neither the treasury bench nor the Opposition could dictate their terms to the presiding officer. The session began last week in continuation of the Budget session, which was not prorogued. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal clashed with the Speaker while insisting on speaking about the behaviour of Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members earlier in the day. Mr. Joshi said the House, which had witnessed repeated adjournments amid the pandemonium, should conduct the rest of its business in proper order. When Mr. Dhariwal continued to speak, the Speaker said the Assembly “could not be run like this”, and announced the sine die adjournment. The sudden adjournment left all the members shocked and bewildered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-assembly-adjourned/article36487176.ece
16 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Hindu Rashtra’ call does not mean promoting enmity: accused||One of the organisers of the event at Jantar Mantar, where alleged communal sloganeering took place last month, argued before the Delhi High Court that a demand for “Hindu Rashtra” does not amount to promoting enmity between religious groups. Preet Singh, currently in judicial custody, argued before Justice Mukta Gupta on Wednesday that he would not press his bail application if the court held a different opinion. Advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, representing Mr. Singh, said: “If the court holds that the demand [of Hindu Rashtra] comes under Section 153 [provocation with intent to cause riot] of the IPC, I will not press my bail application. In a democratic set up, if it [the demand] promotes enmity, I will not press my bail.” The advocate also contended that Mr. Singh was not part of the allegedly communal sloganeering. Counsel Tarang Srivastava, representing the prosecution, opposed the bail plea on the ground that all accused persons acted in concert and Mr. Singh’s absence at the time of chanting of alleged communal slogans would not absolve him from any liability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hindu-rashtra-call-does-not-mean-promoting-enmity-accused/article36487185.ece
