17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. sets up ‘bad bank’ to clear the NPA mess||Paving the way for a major clean-up of bad loans in the banking system, the Cabinet on Wednesday cleared a Rs. 30,600 crore guarantee programme for securities to be issued by the newly incorporated ‘bad bank’ for taking over and resolving non-performing assets (NPAs) amounting to Rs. 2 lakh crore. The Reserve Bank of India is in the process of granting a licence for the National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL), following which toxic assets worth Rs. 90,000 crore that banks have already fully provided for will move to the NARCL, Financial Services Secretary Debashish Panda said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Cabinet’s decision, to extend a five-year guarantee for NARCL-issued security receipts to banks, completed the entire cycle of cleaning up India’s banking system that began with the recognition of the extent of bad loans in 2015. Under the mechanism, the NARCL will acquire assets by making an offer to the lead bank. Private sector asset reconstruction firms(ARCs) may also be allowed to outbid the NARCL. Separately, public and private lenders would combine forces to set up an India Debt Resolution Company (IDRC) that would manage these assets and try to raise their value for final resolution. ‘Back-stop arrangement’ “A 15% cash payment would be made to the banks based on some valuation and the rest will be given as security receipts. For those to hold on and have their value intact, there is a need for the government to give a back-stop arrangement and that is why this Rs. 30,600 crore has been cleared by the Cabinet,” Ms. Sitharaman said. Once the National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited and the IDRC have finally resolved the asset, preferably as a going concern and not through liquidation proceedings, the Minister said the balance 85% held as security receipts would be given to the banks. While there are 28 ARCs in the private sector, she said they did not take up big ticket resolutions, so a need was felt for government-backed security receipts for big ticket resolutions. “The government back-stop will come in only as much as to pay the gap between the realised value and the face value of those receipts and this will hold good for only five years,” she explained. ‘Growth capital’ “The whole idea is to ensure that these assets for which this whole set-up is being created, and the value that is locked in the assets is realised and comes back to the banks; they use it as a growth capital and the banking system becomes more robust,” Mr. Panda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-sets-up-bad-bank-to-clear-the-npa-mess/article36507757.ece
17 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||All set for Liberation Day celebrations today||Kalaburagi is all decked up for celebrating the 74th anniversary of Kalyana Karnataka (Hyderabad Karnataka) Liberation Day on Friday, a red-letter day in the annals of the freedom movement of the region after it was liberated from the Nizam’s rule. The main roads in the city are decorated with giant colourful entrance arches and the government offices are decked up with lights to rouse a festive spirit. The district administration has drawn up elaborate programmes to mark the occasion on a grand scale. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who will arrive at the airport at 8.15 a.m., will reach the main circle named after the former Deputy Prime Minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and garland his statue, before proceeding to the District Armed Reserve Police Grounds where the main function will be held. This is Mr. Bommai’s maiden visit to the district after taking charge as Chief Minister. After the main event, Mr. Bommai will also lay the foundation stone for various development projects. Minister of Large and Medium Industries and Kalaburagi district in-charge Murugesh Nirani and public representatives from the region will take part in the celebrations. The Kalaburagi Police have made elaborate arrangements to ensure foolproof security during the celebrations at DAR Police Grounds and in and around the city. Police Commissioner Y.S. Ravi Kumar said that 426 head constables and police constables, 200 Home Guards, two platoons of Karnataka State Reserve Police and City Armed Reserve Police each, 23 Police Sub-Inspectors, 13 Police Inspectors, will be deployed at the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-set-for-liberation-day-celebrations-today/article36508024.ece
17 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Congress leaders launch peace mission||Stewing over a perceived improvement in ties between the Catholic Church and the Bharatiya Janata Party in central Travancore subsequent to the ‘narcotic jihad’ controversy, the Congress leadership has reached out to various religious groups, including the Syro-Malabar Church, with an intention to broker peace. A delegation, comprising Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K.Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, kick-started the mission by visiting Metropolitan Archbishop Mar Joseph Perumthottam at Changanassery on Thursday morning. In the afternoon, Mr.Sudhakaran met Mar Joseph Kallarangatt at the bishop’s house in Pala and Shamsuddeen Mannani Ilavupalam, Imam of the Thazhathangadi Juma Masjid. Meanwhile, Mr. Satheesan held a meeting with the bishop of the Church of South India Central Kerala diocese Malayil Sabu Koshi Cheriyan in Kottayam. Speaking to mediapersons later, Mr.Sudhakaran highlighted the need for upholding the values of secularism. “The KPCC is now taking the lead to find out an amicable settlement to the narcotic jihad issue. Despite being asked a couple of times, the government has refused to act on this issue,” he said. Rumours aplenty Meanwhile, the absence of Mr.Satheesan during the visit to Pala ignited rumours about the Church registering its annoyance over his initial criticism of the bishop. The party, however, sought to dismiss it and said the Opposition leader stayed in Kottayam to attend a meeting of the UDF district unit. While the bishop’s remark had initially drawn criticism from the Congress leadership, especially Mr.Satheesan and P.T. Thomas, the party now appears to have realised its ‘folly’ of ignoring the issue at the first place. Having witnessed the BJP attempting to leverage the issue to its benefit, the Congress now seeks to settle the issue amicably so that it does not further erode its vote base in the region. Ever since the bishop’s remarks on jihad by way of love and narcotics kicked off a controversy, leaders across the political spectrum have made a beeline for the bishop’s house in Pala and extend their solidarity with Mar Joseph Kallarangatt. The Left Democratic Front, on its part, too has made its presence felt through the Kerala Congress (M), a party regarded as having close ties with the Church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-launches-peace-mission/article36508085.ece
17 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Government urged to allow Tulu theatre, film industry to reopen||Tulu theatre and film artists on Thursday urged the State government to allow re-opening of theatres and permit theatre troupes to stage dramas as artistes are in dire straits. Addressing a joint press conference here, senior artistes Devadas Kapikkad, Vijaya Kumar Kodialbail, Kishor D. Shetty and producer Prakash Pandeshwar said that educational institutions, commercial establishments and industries have been allowed to re-open and the transport sector is returning to normal. New COVID-19 cases have come down drastically in the coastal region. Hence, the Dakshina Kannada district administration, MLAs and other elected representatives from the coastal belt should intervene and convince the government of the need to permit re-opening of cinemas and the theatre sector. They said that many artists are entirely dependent on theatre and films to lead their life. There are over 30 theatre troupes in the coastal belt. Over 5,000 people are dependent on different forms of cultural activity. Theatre troupes did not get permission to stage dramas during prominent festivals, including Sri Krishna Janmashtami and Ganesh Chaturthi. Hence, it has become hard to eke out a living for many artistes. The government should allow drama troupes to stage shows during the coming Dasara and Deepavali festivals. Mr. Pandeshwar said that about 10 to 15 Tulu films are waiting to be released. The government should allow full occupancy in cinemas. Then only it will help producers, cinemas and other stakeholders. If 50% occupancy is allowed in cinemas, it will not help the stakeholders. Mr. Kodialbail said that if the same situation continued, many cinemas will have to be closed down permanently. The Tulu film industry will be forced to face the situation that existed in 1971, he said and added that all restrictions imposed on cinemas should be relaxed. The artists said that Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel, district in-charge Minister S. Angara and other elected representatives should take the lead in convincing the government of the need to save the theatre and film industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/government-urged-to-allow-tulu-theatre-film-industry-to-reopen/article36508396.ece
17 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||A young woman’s vow gets the govt. machinery going in Davangere||Following a young woman’s letter to the Chief Minister saying that she would not marry till a proper road was laid to her village, Deputy Commissioner of Davangere Mahanthesh Bilagi visited Hedne Rampura village on Thursday and promised to get the road work done immediately. He also promised to facilitate her marriage. R.D. Bindu, a resident of Hedne Rampura village in Mayakonda taluk of Davangere, had written to the Chief Minister saying that as there was no proper road and bus facilities to her village, several marriages of young men and women in the village had been adversely affected and a few had been stalled. She had told the Chief Minister in the letter that she would not marry until a road to her village was laid. As her “vow not to marry till road is laid” caught the attention of several people and also featured in print, electronic and social media posts, Mr. Bilagi visited the village on Thursday, accompanied by several officers. After inspecting the condition of the road and covering a distance on foot, Mr. Bilagi spoke to the young woman over telephone and promised to get the road repaired immediately. He said that a stretch of two kilometres has been laid and the remaining work will be completed soon. He also informed the young woman that a road work project worth Rs. 60 lakh has been sent for approval. “We will lay a new road to the village and also facilitate your marriage,” Mr. Bilagi told Ms. Bindu. Mr. Bilagi was accompanied by Executive Engineer of Panchayat Raj Engineering Department Parameshwarappa, Executive Engineer of Public Works Department and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-young-womans-vow-gets-the-govt-machinery-going-in-davangere/article36508028.ece
17 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Students stage demonstration seeking bus services, scholarships in Dharwad||Demanding various facilities such as bus services and scholarships, scores of students staged a demonstration in Dharwad on Thursday. Staging the demonstration in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office under the aegis of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishat (ABVP), the students said that they welcome the move to restart offline classes. However, the authorities have failed to ensure the required bus services for those coming to institutions in Dharwad from villages, they said. As classes are being held in different sessions, there is a need to run bus services to suit the requirements of students. However, even those services that were suspended during the lockdown have not been resumed yet, they said. “As schools and colleges have begun, students are finding it difficult to go to Dharwad and taluk places to attend classes. Hence, the transport corporation should run buses based on school timings,” they said. They also pointed out the inordinate delay in the release of scholarships to students under Vidyasiri. They urged the government to immediately disburse all scholarships and also hike scholarship amount to encourage students. ABVP office-bearers, who led the agitation, said that due to the pandemic and the unprecedented lockdown, many have either lost their jobs or have taken a cut in salary. And, to save money, they have enrolled their children in government institutions. Nearly 15 lakh students across the State have applied for government hostel facilities where as the hostels can accommodate only 2.50 lakh students. The government should immediately open new hostels by taking private buildings on rent to accommodate rural students, they urged. They later submitted a memorandum to the district authorities addressed to the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-stage-demonstration-seeking-bus-services-scholarships-in-dharwad/article36508026.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Rape, murder suspect found dead on railway track||Pallakonda Raju (30), the only suspect in the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl at Saidabad, was found dead on the railway tracks near Station Ghanpur in Jangoan district of Telangana, 130 km from here. Confirming the development to The Hindu , a senior police officer said that on Thursday morning they found Raju’s mangled body on the tracks while searching for him, as he was absconding for a week now. “We suspect he ended his life...,” the officer said. According to eyewitnesses, the incident took place around 8.40 am when Raju came under Hyderabad-bound Konark Express. “Just been informed by @TelanganaDGP Garu that the beast who raped the child has been traced & found dead on a railway track at station Ghanpur,” IT Minister KT Rama Rao tweeted. A massive manhunt was launched for Raju and the Hyderabad city police had also announced a cash reward of Rs. 10 lakh for any information leading to the arrest of the former. As part of the massive manhunt, posters declaring Raju a 'WANTED' man were pasted on auto-rickshaws, buses and all public places across the State. On September 9, the minor had gone missing from her home in Saidabad, and hours later, her body was recovered from Raju's house, who was her neighbour. The autopsy at Osmania General Hospital confirmed that she was ‘sexually assaulted’ before she was strangled to death. The victim’s mother suspected Raju to be the culprit as he too was missing from his house. The incident triggered widespread outrage in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the State with various political parties and youth groups staging protests demanding justice for the minor girl. While Labour Minister Ch. Malla Reddy said the suspect will be arrested and “encountered”, the Opposition has criticised the State government and police force over the delay in the probe. Meanwhile, on Thursday morning, Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod visited the girl’s family and handed over a cheque of Rs. 20 lakh.  There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 in case of any emotional break down at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rape-murder-suspect-found-dead-on-railway-track/article36507750.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,||Telangana rape case accused found dead on railway track||A massive manhunt launched by the Telangana police to nab the only suspect in the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl at Saidabad ended on Thursday morning, with his body being found on the railway tracks between Station Ghanpur and Naskhal railway stations in Jangoan district of Telangana, 125 km from here. Speaking to The Hindu , Additional Director General of Police (Railways and Road Safety) Sandeep Shandilya said that around 9 a.m. a railway keyman Sarangapani and two farmers noticed a man hiding in the bushes. “Minutes later, he jumped in front of the Mumbai-bound Konark Express and ended his life. Later he was identified as Raju, the absconding suspect in the rape and murder case of a little girl in Hyderabad,” he said. The Government Railway Police registered a case under Section 174 (Police to enquire and report on suicide, etc.) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and launched a probe. The body was shifted to State-run MGM Hospital in Warangal for autopsy. The deceased was absconding since September 9 after the minor girl’s semi-naked body was found at his residence in Saidabad. The girl was his neighbour. “The accused of Child Sexual Molestation and murder @ Singareni Colony, found dead on the railway track, in the limits of #StationGhanpurPoliceStation. Declared after the verification of identification marks on the deceased’s body,” Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy tweeted. While IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao tweeted: “Just been informed by @TelanganaDGP garu that the beast who raped the child has been traced & found dead on a railway track at station Ghanpur.” Meanwhile, narrating the incident that led to the death of Raju, Warangal Commissioner of Police Tarun Joshi said that around 9.58 a.m. Station Ghanpur police received a Dial 100 call informing about an unidentified dead body on the railway track and soon a team went to the spot. Accordingly, as the police were looking for Raju for the last few days, the team had all the details about his identity marks, background, clothes and other features. “We compared them and found that this person was the same fellow Raju involved in the offence in Hyderabad,” Dr. Joshi said. According to him, the information about the suicide was given by railway employee Sarangapani,who was checking the track and he found a man walking on the track. “Though he tried to get him out of the track, the man started running. He was run over by Konark Express and died on the spot,” he said, adding that the deceased person’s identity was confirmed by the family members too. Quoting eyewitnesses statement, the Commissioner said ‘it is clear case of suicide’. Since the last one week, the Hyderabad City Police have launched a search for Raju and also announced a cash reward of Rs. 10 lakh for any information leading to his arrest. As part of the massive manhunt, posters declaring Raju a ‘WANTED’ man were pasted on autorickshaws, buses, at toddy compounds, wine shops and all public places across the State. Ironically, the cops started removing the posters from buses, autorickshaws, and other public places on Wednesday evening. On September 9, the minor had gone missing from her home in Saidabad, and hours later, her body was recovered from Raju’s house, who was her neighbour. The autopsy at Osmania General Hospital confirmed that she was ‘sexually assaulted’ before she was strangled to death. The victim’s mother suspected Raju to be the culprit as he too was missing from his house. The heinous incident triggered widespread outrage in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the State with various political parties and youth groups staging protests demanding justice for the minor girl. While Labour Minister Ch. Malla Reddy said the suspect will be arrested and “encountered”, the Opposition has criticised the State government and police force over the delay in the probe. Meanwhile, on Thursday morning, Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod visited the girl’s family and handed over a cheque of Rs. 20 lakh. [Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-rape-and-murder-case-accused-found-dead-on-railway-track/article36507762.ece
17 September 2021||GUNTUR,||OTS scheme for those who availed loan from APSHC||In a move that provides huge relief to those who have availed themselves of loans from the A.P. State Housing Corporation (APSHC) between 1983 and 2011, the State government has decided to bring in a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme. The OTS amount in the rural areas is Rs. 10,000, Rs. 15,000 in municipalities and Rs. 20,000 in corporations. The loanees can avail themselves of the scheme by paying the prescribed amount up to December 15. The revenue officials will register the land for beneficiaries on December 21, 2021. The decision of the OTS scheme was taken at the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday. Briefing the media after the Cabinet meeting, I&PR Minister Perni Venkatramaiah said the OTS scheme was also open for those who had bought the house from the original beneficiary. “If anybody has constructed the house and has sold it due to any personal emergencies, the buyer too can get the land registered in his or her name, provided he or she is also poor and doesn’t own a house,” the Minister said. However, the OTS amount in such cases would be Rs. 20,000 in the rural areas, Rs. 30,000 in municipalities and Rs. 40,000 in corporations. For the beneficiaries who had taken land from the government and constructed a house on their own, the government would register their houses free of cost. The Cabinet also approved an additional Rs. 35,000 loan for the housing scheme beneficiaries who were also a part of the self-help group at 3% interest. The Cabinet also gave its nod for the release of the second instalment under the YSR Aasara programme. A financial assistance of Rs. 6,470.76 crore would be given to women in 8 lakh self-help groups. He said eligible beneficiaries who missed the first instalment would receive the financial assistance of two instalments in the second term. Sub-plan for minorities The Minister said that the Cabinet also decided to take further action with the Solar Energy Corporation of India to implement 10,000 MW solar power project to supply 9-hour day-time free power to farmers on a sustainable basis for the next 30 years at the rate of Rs. 2.49 per unit. The Cabinet also decided to implementation a sub-plan for the benefit of the minorities on a par with the SCs, STs and BCs. Mr. Venkatramaiah said that the Cabinet also approved the proposal of the Microsoft Corporation (India) Pvt. Ltd. for skilling the students in the State. He said the cabinet approved to name the schools and hospitals after donors, and added that the donation amount should be Rs. 50 lakh for satellite foundation schools, Rs. 1 crore for primary schools, Rs. 3 crore for high schools, Rs. 1 crore for primary health centre, Rs. 5 crore for community healthcare centre, and Rs. 10 crore for area hospital. He said the Cabinet also approved to amend the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ots-scheme-for-those-who-availed-loan-from-apshc/article36507743.ece
17 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Over 70% eligible population got at least one dose of vaccine’||The Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department has claimed that more than 70% of the State’s eligible population has received at least one dose of vaccine against COVID-19 so far. In a tweet shared by the official handle of the Department on Thursday, it was announced that the eligible population (18 years and above) in the State was 3,47,30,845 and 70.5% of them received at least one dose, and 31.6% of them received both the doses. The Department also announced that 99% of the total health workers in the State had received at least one dose of the vaccine. It further says 4,86,438 health workers received at least one dose while 4,40,568 received two doses. Additionally, the Department said that more than 99% of the frontline workers received at least one dose. It said 15,36,738 received one dose and 11,07,123 received both doses. However, the Department on August 31 had claimed that 56% of the eligible population (2.16 crore) got one dose. According to it, the eligible population was much higher than what was mentioned now. When contacted, Health, Medical and Family Welfare Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar said that the latest information posted holds true.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-70-eligible-population-got-at-least-one-dose-of-vaccine/article36507754.ece
17 September 2021||MYSURU,||Dasara elephants offered ceremonial welcome||The gentle giants from jungle camps, led by Abhimanyu, made a majestic entry at Mysuru palace and were offered a ceremonial welcome on Thursday. The elephants have arrived for the Dasara celebrations. Abhimanyu and the other elephants were received at Jayamarthanda Gate with full paraphernalia, including police band and traditional musicians. The caparisoned elephants were the cynosure of all eyes from the time they stepped out of Aranya Bhavan. Vehicle movement ceased and bystanders applauded as the majestic animals marched along the main thoroughfares of Mysuru. For the people of Mysuru, their arrival marks the beginning of the countdown to the Dasara celebrations. The other elephants are Gopalswamy, Vikrama, Dhananjaya, Ashwathama, Kaveri, Chaitra and Lakshmi. Ashwathama, who will be participating in the Dasara celebrations for the first time, panicked briefly as he was in unfamiliar surroundings, but the mahout and his assistant calmed him down after which he marched to the palace with the other elephants. Though the Nada Habba (festival of the State) has been scaled down due to COVID-19 pandemic, the presence of elephants tends to shore up the festive spirit. At Jayamarthanda Gate, priests performed a special puja for their collective welfare and chanted hymns after which flower petals were showered on the elephants. The district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar, Mayor Sunanda Palanetra, MLAs S.A. Ramdas and L.Nagendra, and senior officials from the district administration were among those present at the event. The elephants were offered sugarcane, jaggery and coconut after which they were ushered into the open courtyard leading to Amba Vilas palace. After another round of prayers and other ceremonial activities, the elephants were taken to a vacant courtyard where they will remain, along with their mahouts, till the conclusion of the festivitieson October 15. It is customary for the elephants to be brought to Mysuru 45 days before the festival to enable them to acclimatise to the city and its environment. The elephants are also familiarised with the 5-km route of the Vijayadashmi procession from the palace to the Bannimantap ground. But this year, the elephants will have it easy, as the procession will be confined within the palace premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dasara-elephants-offered-ceremonial-welcome/article36508150.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru police trace student who faked his kidnapping||The Mahalakshmi Layout police tracked a 20-year-old student who allegedly faked his own kidnapping in an attempt to extort Rs. 5 lakh from his father. He later told the police he needed the money to pay off a loan he had taken. The police have identified the victim-turned-accused as Makhthum, who studies in a private college in Bengaluru. His father, Gani, is a civil contractor from Kurubarahalli. Last Sunday, Makhthum left his house to meet some friends and did not return home. His parents started searching for him and calling his friends. Within hours, they received a WhatsApp voice message from Makhthum’s mobile phone. In the message, the son claimed that he had been kidnapped by four or five people who were demanding Rs. 5 lakh for his release. A few minutes later, Mr. Gani received another voice message from Makhthum stating that he had been tortured for ransom. He begged his father to arrange the money at the earliest. Mr. Gani immediately contacted the police for help. A team led by Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Dharmender Kumar Meena started tracking the student. “His friends said that Makhthum had partied with them on Sunday, but then rented a car to leave the city. The police analysed call record details and also GPS information from the rental company,” said a police officer. Both data indicated that Makhthum was in Tirupati. A team immediately went to Andhra Pradesh and after an intensive search operation traced him to a lodge on Tuesday. However, when they went to ‘rescue’ him, they found him alone in the room unharmed. When questioned, Makhthum allegedly confessed that he had racked up loans amounting to Rs. 3 lakh after spending money on his girlfriend and indulging in luxuries. When the moneylenders started demanding repayment, he came up with a plan to steal from his father by faking his kidnapping. The police let Makhthum off with a warning and are filing a B-report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-trace-student-who-faked-his-kidnapping/article36507784.ece
17 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Govt. considering proposal to set up fisheries university in city||The State government is considering a proposal to set up a university for fisheries in Mangaluru, according to Fisheries Minister S. Angara. Replying to a demand for creating such an university in Mangaluru by BJP MLA Vedavyas D. Kamath, who tabled a call attention notice in the Assembly, the Minister said that a suitable decision will be taken soon. Earlier, Mr. Kamath wondered about the propriety of fisheries science being part of Karnataka Veterinary Animal & Fisheries Sciences University (KVA&FSU) located in Bidar. “There should be an university for fisheries and it should be located in Mangaluru as it has a coastline which is required for taking up studies on fisheries,” he argued. However, member Bandeppa Kashempur, who hails from Bidar, opposed the proposal to break the university which is located in the backward district of Bidar. Responding to this, Speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri advised the Minister to take members from Bidar district into confidence before taking a decision. The Legislative Assembly also adopted the Karnataka Agricultural Pests and Diseases (Amendment) Bill that seeks to increase the penalty for violation of norms besides changing the nomenclature of officials in tune with today’s requirements in legislation concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-considering-proposal-to-set-up-fisheries-university-in-mangaluru/article36508021.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Urja nears the end of its tunnelling work||In July 2020, when Bengaluru was coming to terms with the pandemic, the tunnel boring machine (TBM), Urja, started its underground journey from Cantonment. After more than a year, it has almost completed tunnelling through the 850-metre stretch and will achieve a breakthrough at Shivajinagar in three to four days. Urja, will be the first TBM to achieve a breakthrough on Namma Metro’s Pink Line from Kalenga Agrahara to Nagawara (21 km). The machine is just 10-12 metres away from the breakthrough point. Anjum Parwez, the managing director of Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL), told The Hindu that the TBM achieving a breakthrough is an important development in tunnel work under way for Phase II of Namma Metro. “Our engineers have told me that the TBM is progressing well and will come out at Shivajinagar metro station within a few days.” Urja is around 102 metres long and costs Rs. 70 crore. In the same direction, another machine, Vindhya, is building a parallel tunnel, just 70 to 100 meters away from Urja. For the underground section on the Pink Line, BMRCL has to tunnel nearly 14 km from Dairy Circle to Nagawara. To carry out this work, nine TBMs will be deployed. “Seven machines are already on the job,” said BMRCL Chief PRO B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan. Construction of tunnels is a challenging job as machines burrow under densely populated areas and hundreds of buildings located on the surface. In August, due to tunnel work, slurry had gushed inside houses located opposite Government V.K.O. School. BMRCL had to evacuate the residents from the affected buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/urja-nears-the-end-of-its-tunnelling-work/article36507767.ece
17 September 2021||KOCHI,||Iconic Cheraman mosque, India’s oldest, gets makeover||The Cheraman Juma Masjid at Kodungalloor, the oldest mosque in the Indian subcontinent that dates back to 629 AD, and the Holy Cross Church at Chendamangalam built by Jesuit priests in 1577 AD, both of which were renovated under the Muziris Heritage Project, are getting ready to be opened to the public. A completion report on their renovation has been submitted to the government to be included on the list of projects under the Chief Minister’s 100-day action plan. Just a few final touches are pending on both the structures, said P.M. Noushad, managing director, Muziris Heritage Project, here on Thursday. On the renovation and conservation work worth Rs. 1.14 crore done on the historic mosque, he said the concrete structure that was added to the mosque in 1974 was demolished and the mosque rebuilt in its old style, as a two-tier structure whose tiled roof was supported by teakwood frames. This is in addition to the Islamic Heritage Museum that was established at a cost of over Rs. 1 crore. Another Rs. 65 lakh was allotted for its refurbishment. This is apart from heritage funds that were used for research and digitalisation of old documents and archiving them. “The mosque committee raised another Rs. 15 crore for well-ventilated prayer halls in the basement to accommodate approximately 3,000 people at a time in the masjid, based on a design submitted by conservation architect Benny Kuriakose. They include measures to pump out water, if needed, since the basement space will be over one metre below the groundwater level,” Mr. Noushad said. Another Rs. 10 crore worth Central tourism funds are expected under the National Mission on Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) project, using which landscaping, lighting, and a facilitation centre will be readied, apart from rejuvenating a pond in the vicinity. Dr. Mohammed Sayeed, president of the masjid managing committee, said the conservation and renovation of the historic structure would go a long way in regaining its past glory. It will also enable hundreds of people to converge for prayers. Holy Cross Church On the Rs. 2.23-crore renovation work on Holy Cross Church, Mr. Noushad said its roof was reinforced using teakwood, while the wall made of mud and lime was strengthened. It was apart from knocking down a concrete structure that had been added later and rebuilding its facade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iconic-cheraman-mosque-indias-oldest-gets-a-makeover/article36508082.ece
17 September 2021||KURNOOL,||Two crest gates of Srisailam dam lifted||The inflows into Srisailam dam increased from 1 lakh cusecs on Wednesday morning to 2,28,938 cusecs by Thursday evening and the dam engineers lifted two of the 12 gates up to 10 feet in the early hours to let out water into the river through the spillway. The inflows are likely to continue in view of the heavy inflows to Jurala from the upper reaches in the catchment area of Krishna river and Tungabhadra. Meanwhile, power houses on both sides of the dam continued to generate electricity and the water level in the dam was 884.78 feet against the FRL of 885 feet and the storage was 214.86 tmcft against the maximum capacity of 215.81 tmcft. A flood cushion has been left for the unexpected inflows. The outflow from the Jurala continued to be 212,412 cusecs at 7 p.m. on Thursday. The Tungabhadra Dam currently was discharging 16,965 cusecs with a similar amount of inflows and the dam has so far realised 235.22 tmcft during the current water year against the 10-year average of 217.62 tmcft and last year it was only 189.17 by this time. The Srisailam Dam received 734 tmcft of inflows cumulatively during the current water year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-gates-of-srisailam-dam-lifted-142903-cusecs-released/article36507741.ece
17 September 2021||GUNTUR,||HC nod for counting of votes polled in ZPTC, MPTC elections||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, headed by Chief Justice Justice A.K. Goswami, has given the nod for counting of votes of ZPTC, MPTC elections held in April this year, bringing the curtains on a process which began in March 2020. Justice Goswami had earlier stayed the order of a Single Judge who cancelled the ZPTC, MPTC elections and reserved judgment on August 5 on an appeal filed by the State government against the cancellation of Single Judge order. Following the judgment, State Election Commissioner Neelam Sawhney said that a coordination meeting would be held with the Director-General of Police and the Chief Secretary on the modalities for counting of votes. The process of ZPTC/MPTC was set in March 2020 and just days before the election, the then Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh postponed the elections citing COVID-19. A new notification was issued on April 1, 2021 and elections were held on April 8. On May 21, a Single Judge Bench cancelled the elections, hearing a petition filed by TDP leader Varla Ramaiah that the four-week mandatory period of Model Code of Conduct was not taken into consideration from the date of announcement of election schedule to the conduct of elections on April 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-gives-nod-for-counting-for-zptc-mptc-elections/article36507749.ece
17 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Search on for baby boy after his mother sells him for Rs. 5,000||In a case that has come to light late in Vijayapura, a woman is said to have sold her newborn boy for Rs. 5,000 through a nurse of the district hospital. The child is yet to be traced. The case has come to light, after the woman identified Renuka Sadashiv Kambale of Bijjaragi village returned to the hospital seeking her baby back. According to police sources, Renuka Kambale was delivered of her second child in the district hospital on August 19, where Kasturi, the nurse, befriended her and told her that she could get some money by selling her baby if she (Renuka) is unable to look after it. Subsequently, on August 26, Renuka Kambale handed over her baby to Kasturi’s husband Manjunath Padasalagi and another man on a payment of Rs. 5,000. After a few days, Renuka Kambale approached Kasturi seeking her baby back and as an altercation took place, a complaint was also lodged with the Children Helpline. After officials visited Bijjaragi village, the sale came to light. Then, the police registered a case against Kasturi and Manjunath Padasalagi and another man. A search is on for the baby boy. Meanwhile, the nurse has been suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/search-on-for-baby-boy-after-his-mother-sells-him-for-rs-5000/article36508029.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cheema to head NCLAT till Sept. 20, govt. tells SC||After a brief impasse with the Supreme Court on Thursday, the Central government agreed, as a one-off measure, to reinstate Justice A.I.S Cheema as Acting Chairperson of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) till his retirement on September 20 so that he can pronounce the judgments pending with him. The government blinked after a to and fro between a Bench, led by ChiefJustice of India N.V. Ramana, and the government, represented by Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal, reached such a pass that the court threatened to suo motu stay the Tribunal Reforms Act of 2021. The government made it clear that Justice Cheema’s reinstatement was after considering the “peculiar circumstances” of his case, and should not be treated as a precedent. The reinstatement spells relief for Justice Cheema, who had challenged his “premature” removal from the post on September 10. Senioradvocate Arvind Datar, for Justice Cheema, had raised the point that this was no way to treat a former Bombay High Court judge who had been part of the legal profession for 40 years. The Attorney General informed the court that Justice M. Venugopal, a former Madras High Court judge who was appointed the new NCLAT Acting Chairperson on September 11, would go on leave for the next few days till Justice Cheema completed his tenure on September 20. Chief Justice Ramana appreciated the Attorney General’s efforts to resolve the brief stalemate between the court and the government on the issue. Mr. Datar also thanked Mr. K.K. Venugopal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cheema-back-in-nclat-post-as-govt-blinks/article36507755.ece
17 September 2021||MYSURU,||Journalist assaulted||A journalist, Mohammed Safdar Khaisar, covering the protest by VHP and Hindu Jagarana Vedike against the demolition of a temple at Nanjangud was assaulted in front of Kote Anjaneyaswamy Temple, near the North Gate of Mysuru palace, on Thursday. The police managed to rescue Mr. Khaisar and took him to safety. The Mysuru District Journalists’ Association condemned the assault. In a statement, association president Ravi Kumar said the protesters suspected Mr. Khaisar and assaulted him. Mr. Ravi Kumar appealed to the Commissioner of Police Chandragupta to take action against the guilty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/journalist-assaulted/article36508152.ece
17 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Projects worth Rs. 14.09 cr. for five medical colleges||Health Minister Veena George will inaugurate 15 projects worth Rs. 14.09 crore in five government medical college hospitals (MCHs) in the State on Friday as part of the government’s 100-day action programme. One of the major projects is the modular operation theatre constructed at Rs. 65 lakh as part of the paediatric cardiac surgery wing at SAT Hospital at the MCH in Thiruvananthapuram. This is the first modern paediatric cardiac theatre in a government medical college in the State. The government has also purchased equipment worth Rs. 3 crore to make the surgical unit functional. Eight projects are being launched at the Ernakulam MCH. where, apart from a digital mammography machine and an apheresis machine, major infrastructural additions are being made. These include renovated pay-ward rooms, an ICU ambulance, street lighting, family quarters for doctors, oxygen generator plant, and Karunya pharmacy. The Kozhikode MCH is opening a comprehensive lactation management centre, being set up with Rs. 38.62 lakh. In the Idukki MCH, an 82-bed facility with piped oxygen supply and an RT-PCR testing platform are being set up. The other projects include an oxygen plant and stereotactic neurosurgery frame at the Thrissur MCH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/projects-worth-rs-1409-cr-for-five-medical-colleges/article36508089.ece
17 September 2021||VELLORE,||Veeramani’s properties searched by DVAC||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) conducted searches at 28 places, including properties belonging to former Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration K.C. Veeramani, in Chennai, Ranipet, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Krishnagiri and his native place Tirupattur. The search operation is still on. The police said the searches, covering the residence of Mr. Veeramani at Jolarpet, began around 7 a.m. on Thursday, when he was getting ready for his morning walk. Officials blocked key routes connecting his residence with other areas in the townto prevent any untoward incident. Searches are also being carried out in houses and properties of two brothers of Mr. Veeramani in Jolarpet. Fourteen places are under the scanner, sources said. A native of Edaiyampatti village in Jolarpet town, Mr. Veeramani lived in the village with his brothers K.C. Alazhagiri and K.C. Kamaraj. Together, they have been handling their father’s beedi business, K.K. Chinnarasu & Co., for several years. Mr. Veeramani also runs a tipper lorry transport business, Akalya Transports, in the town. The details were recorded in an FIR filed against him by the DVAC. Sleuths registered a case against him under the Prevention of Corruption Act.In the FIR, the DVAC said that while serving as a Minister, Mr. Veeramani enriched himself illicitly and acquired assets worth Rs. 28.7 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/veeramanis-properties-searched/article36507817.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Three killed as ambulance rams into truck||A patient and a doctor travelling in an ambulance were among three people killed in an accident at Anekal early on Thursday. Four others, including another doctor and an attender, were injured. The incident happened when the ambulance driver rammed into a truck while reportedly attempting to overtake the vehicle near Neralur Gate in Anekal. According to the police, the ambulance was heading to Tamil Nadu from Maharashtra. “While attempting to overtake the truck, the ambulance driver lost control of the wheel rammed into the truck. On impact, the front portion of the ambulance was completely damaged,” said a police officer. The deceased have been identified as the patient Anwar Khan, 68, Dr. Jadav Bhushan Ashok from Igatpuri in Nashik, and one of the ambulance drivers, Tukaram Namdev Jamnade, 38, from Mumbai. Passers-by and motorists helped shift them to a nearby hospital where doctors declared them as dead on arrival. According to the police, Anwar Khan hailed from Nellikuppam, Tamil Nadu. “He was suffering from paralysis and was getting treatment at a hospital in Mumbai. He was heading to his native town for further treatment,” the police officer added.  There were seven people in the ambulance. The injured have been identified as Dr. Jithendra Biradar, 30, from Bidar who resides in Navi Mumbai; driver Ashkhan Shamir Memon, 27, from Kalyan; attender Yusuf Khan, 58, and the second ambulance driver, Ahmad Raza Shaikh, 35. The truck driver abandoned the vehicle and fled the spot fearing public anger. Traffic was disrupted for over an hour until the police cleared the truck and the ambulance from the spot. The Attibele police have registered a case of rash and negligent driving. This is the second accident this week where rash driving has resulted in fatalities. On Tuesday night, two friends fell off Electronics City flyover onto the road below when a speeding car hit them while they were standing next to their two-wheeler on the lay-by.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-killed-as-ambulance-rams-into-truck/article36507764.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID cases falling across India: Centre||New COVID-19 cases have reduced across India, even in Kerala, but Mizoram remains a State of concern, said V.K. Paul, member (Health), Niti Aayog. “Mizoram is a State of concern even though we are seeing a declining trend of new cases across India and even in Kerala. In the coming months, we have to maintain caution against any upsurge in COVID-19 cases,” he said. Balram Bhargava, Director-General, ICMR, said: “We know that the festivals are coming and a sudden increase in population density creates a conducive environment for viral spread. The need of the hour is to behave responsibly.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-falling-across-india-centre/article36507903.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Fresh start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fresh-start/article36507752.ece
17 September 2021||GUNTUR,||50 special invitees nominated to TTD Board||The State government has appointed 25 members to the Tirumala Tirupati Devastanams (TTD) Trust Board headed by the Chairman. The tenure of the members would be coterminous with that of the Chairman of TTD under Section 99 of Act 30/1987. The government has also nominated 50 members as special invitees, who would be given privileges on a par with members of TTD Trust Board regarding darshan. Their tenure is coterminous with that of the TTD Board. The names of the members are as follows: Pokala Ashok, Malladi Krishna Rao, Tanguturi Maruti Prasad, Manne Jeevan Reddy, Bandi Parthasaradhi Reddy, Jupalli Rameswara Rao, N Srinivasan, Rajesh Sharma, Bora Saurabh, Muramshetty Ramulu, K. Vidya Sagar from Andhra Pradesh. The other include Nanda Kumar, MLA, Pachipala Sanath Kumar, Vemireddy Prasanth Reddy, Kethan Desai, Bodati Lakshmi Narayana, Milind Keshav Narvekar, M.N. Sashidar, Alluri Malleswari, S. Shankar, R. Viswanatha Reddy, MLA, Burra Madhususan Yadav, Kilveti Sanjeevaiah, and Katasani Rambhupal Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/50-special-invitees-nominated-to-ttd-board/article36507748.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Cabinet nod for LI schemes||In keeping with the promise by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao earlier, the State Cabinet on Thursday approved 15% reservation for members of Goud community, 10% for SCs and 5% for STs in allotment of liquor shops from next year. By other decisions, the Cabinet cleared Sangameswara and Basaveswara lift-irrigation schemes over Singur reservoir to irrigate 3.84 lakh acres in Sangareddy, Andole, Zaheerabad and Narayankhed constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quota-for-gouds-scssts-in-liquor-outlets/article36508054.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Assembly session from September 24||The monsoon session of Assembly and Legislative Council will start from September 24. This was decided at the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assembly-session-from-september-24/article36508056.ece
17 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||1.02 lakh students get digital devices||More than one lakh children got digital equipment with public participation in one-and-a-half months as part of the State government’s Vidyakiranam project. With this, the number of children in need of digital equipment for online classes that are planned by the government as a follow-up to the KITE Victers digital classes has gone down from nearly 4.72 lakh at the time of the launch of Vidyakiranam to 3.7 lakh, a statement here on Thursday said. As per figures collected till July 26, over 4.72 lakh students needed digital equipment. After the launch of the Vidyakiranam portal by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at the beginning of August, more than 1.02 lakh children have received digital equipment. Monetary contributions The fact that 21.5% of the students got digital equipment even before purchases through the portal got under way was proof of how society had welcomed the project, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Individuals, organisations, and companies could contribute equipment for students to either schools or local bodies as desired. Monetary contributions too could be made. Those who pay cash will be eligible for tax relief. Mr. Vijayan called for more public support to speed up availability of equipment for all students so that online classes could be started.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/102-lakh-students-get-digital-equipment/article36508088.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Appointment of Asthana in public interest’||The Centre has informed the High Court that the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner was done in “public interest”, taking into account the city’s policing issues, which not only had national security, but also cross-border implications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/appointment-of-asthana-in-public-interest/article36508108.ece
17 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||New road technologies in the offing, says Gadkari||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said his Ministry has been working on 15 projects worth Rs. 53,000 crore to reduce traffic congestion and pollution in Delhi. He was speaking at a function at Lohtaki village here as part of his two-day site visit and inspection of the 1,380-km-long under-construction Delhi-Mumbai Expressway across different States. Mr. Gadkari said work was already in progress on 14 projects and a meeting was scheduled with Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a week’s time to discuss another project. The Minister said that the construction of the Western and Eastern Peripheral Expressways had diverted at least one lakh non-destined vehicles from Delhi roads, providing a huge relief from traffic congestion and pollution. “Earlier, around 5.5 lakh vehicles, including 70% commercial ones, from neighbouring States travelled through Delhi. But now almost one lakh vehicles take the peripheral expressways,” said Mr. Gadkari. He said a six-lane road from DND Expressway to Delhi-Mumbai Expressway passing through Faridabad would help reduce traffic congestion at Ashram Chowk, Badarpur, Faridabad and Ballabgarh. The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway would reduce travel time between the two cities to just 12 hours. The expressway passes through six States — Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra — and will improve the connectivity to economic hubs like Jaipur, Kishangarh, Ajmer, Kota, Chittorgarh, Udaipur, Bhopal, Ujjain, Indore, Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Surat, said the Minister. The Jewar airport in U.P. and the Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Maharashtra are also connected to the expressway through spurs. The Minister said the Delhi-Meerut Expressway would be inaugurated in a month’s time, reducing the travel time between the two cities to just 40 minutes from four hours earlier. He added that the widening of the Delhi-Panipat road would be completed by the year-end at the cost of Rs. 2,250 crore and work on another Ring Road in Delhi would commence this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15-projects-in-pipeline-to-decongest-delhi-roads/article36507902.ece
17 September 2021||BENGALURU,||RWH to be mandatory for 30x40 ft sites||Rainwater harvesting, which was hitherto mandatory for sites with measurement of above 60x40 feet, is set to be made mandatory by law even for 30x40 sites in Bengaluru, as the Legislative Assembly on Thursday adopted a Bill in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rwh-to-be-mandatory-for-30x40-ft-sites/article36507766.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Asthana’s appointment in public interest: Centre||The Centre has informed the High Court that the appoint- ment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner was done in “public interest”, taking into account the Capital’s policing issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/asthanas-appointment-in-public-interest-centre/article36507900.ece
17 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Flood likely to affect coastal areas in Odisha||A low or medium level flood is likely to hit coastal districts of Odisha on Saturday following heavy rain in the upper catchment of the Mahanadi, said Special Relief Commissioner Pradip Kumar Jena on Thursday. Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur and Puri districts are likely to be hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flood-likely-to-affect-coastal-areas-in-odisha/article36508105.ece
17 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Railways launches cleanliness drive||A series of activities organised as part of the Cleanliness Fortnight were launched by General Manager of South Western Railway Sanjeev Kishore in Hubballi on Thursday. During the launch of the fortnight, Mr. Kishore administered the Swachhta Pledge to officers and staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/railways-launches-cleanliness-drive/article36508031.ece
17 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengal: 6 children dead, hundreds in hospital||Hundreds of children across several districts of West Bengal have been hospitalised with symptoms of a viral infection. Reports that at least six children have died in the past few days — three in Jalpaiguri, two in Malda and one in Uttar Dinjapur — have spread panic in the State. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee held a meeting on Thursday at the SSKM Hospital on the emerging health situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-6-children-dead-hundreds-in-hospital/article36508169.ece
17 September 2021||Lucknow,||AAP woos U.P. voters with free power promise||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday said if it is voted to power in Uttar Pradesh, it will provide 300 units of free electricity to domestic consumers, waive “inflated” bills and ensure 24-hour power supply, a move aimed at replicating its Delhi model. AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also announced providing free electricity to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-woos-up-voters-with-free-power-promise/article36507898.ece
17 September 2021||Pune,||State’s active cases see marginal rise yet again||Maharashtra’s active case tally rose slightly on Thursday with 3,595 new COVID-19 cases being recorded as against 3,240 recoveries. The active cases stand at 49,342. Forty-five fresh deaths were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-active-cases-see-marginal-rise-yet-again/article36508423.ece
17 September 2021||Pune,||Focus more on resolving farmer issues, says Shetti||Amid speculation of a strain in ties between the Swabhimani Paksha and the State government over its chief Raju Shetti’s nomination to the Council, Mr. Shetti clarified that his focus was on farmers’ issues and not on whether he secured a seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/focus-more-on-resolving-farmer-issues-says-shetti/article36508424.ece
17 September 2021||Pune,||One killed in blaze in Pune industrial estate||One person was killed and at least one other was injured after a fire broke out at a small cake sparkler manufacturing unit at an industrial estate in Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-killed-in-blaze-in-pune-industrial-estate/article36508425.ece
17 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Phalguni encroachment goes on unabated||The encroachment of the Phalguni (Gurupura) riverbed at Bangrakulur west off the Kulur Bridge that was about 2 acres in December last has now expanded to over 4 acres as the district administration and the Mangaluru City Corporation have failed to check flagrant violation of all norms related to environment protection and maintenance of public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/phalguni-encroachment-goes-on-unabated/article36508398.ece
17 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengal: 6 children dead, hundreds in hospital||Hundreds of children across several districts of West Bengal have been hospitalised with symptoms of viral infection. Reports that at least six children have died in the past few days — three in Jalpaiguri, two in Malda and one in Uttar Dinjapur — have spread fear and panic. The Chief Minister held a meeting on Thursday on the emerging health situation. The State Health Secretary said there was no reason to panic and most of the children were infected by Influenza B and RS virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-6-children-dead-hundreds-in-hospital/article36508106.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre verifying information on kidnapping of ‘Indian national’||India has been told that a man kidnapped in Kabul is an Indian national. Official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday India was verifying all the information regarding the person. “We are told he is an Indian national. We are in touch with all concerned. We have seen reports that local authorities are undertaking investigation in this matter. We will continue to monitor the situation,” Mr. Bagchi said. The intelligence wing of the Taliban issued an order on Wednesday to investigate the case with the help of CCTV footage. Mr. Bagchi’s comment hinted at India indirectly engaging Taliban elements in Kabul for ensuring the safety of the kidnapped person identified as Bansri Lal Arrendeh. Mr. Bagchi termed the case “sensitive”. India has not so far established ties with the Taliban but has declared intention to continue to carry out developmental work for the Afghan people. Mr. Arrendeh, a prominent pharmaceutical shop owner in Kabul, was kidnapped on Tuesday morning. It was learnt that negotiations are under way to free him. Afghanistan is facing a breakdown in the medical sector following the Taliban takeover on August 15 as hospitals are fast running out of basic medicines. Mr. Arrendeh had stayed back in Kabul and was not among those Afghan Hindu or Sikh citizens who had requested evacuation to India and other countries. The incident coincided with the summit meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) which will take place on Friday morning. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar reached Dushanbe for the meeting which will be addressed virtually by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan was one of the early arrivals for the meeting which is likely to focus on the unfolding humanitarian situation in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-verifying-information-on-kidnapping-of-indian-national/article36507659.ece
17 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Packed agenda for GST Council today||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council has a packed agenda when it convenes here on Friday, with well over a dozen weighty issues for its consideration, including the extension of tax relief granted for COVID-19 related essentials and initiating talks on bringing petroleum products under the GST regime. The council, which will hold its first physical meeting since the onset of the pandemic, is also likely to consider levying GST on food delivery apps and take up a proposed rejig of tax rates on items such as footwear and textiles that has been kept on hold for over a year. The demand of some States, including the host State Uttar Pradesh, to introduce a new tax system for industries such as brick kilns, gutkha and paan masala, and sand mining, based on production capacity instead of actual output, may also be taken up at least for one or two of these sectors. Instances of tax evasion in these sectors have been quite rampant. Some States, including Kerala, are expected to seek an extension of the five-year compensation period for implementing GST that expires next June and raise concerns about their revenue constraints since the tax was introduced in 2017. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier promised States that a separate meeting of the council would be held to discuss compensation-related issues. While such a meeting may still be on the cards later, Friday’s agenda item on compensation will kick off the parley between the Centre and the States, informed sources said. The council is also likely to take a call on Sikkim’s request to be permitted to levy a small cess on power generation and pharmaceutical products to raise about Rs. 300 crore and cope with COVID-induced fiscal stress. A ministerial group of the council had examined the State’s request and urged the Centre to grant some additional funds to the small State. Kerala Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, who was part of the group, however submitted a dissent note, highlighting that this reflected the transfer of taxation powers to the Centre and other States may face similar crises in the future. The recent Supreme Court verdict disallowing input tax credit for services used in making products with an inverted duty structure may also come up for discussion, though a resolution of the issue is unlikely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/packed-agenda-for-gst-council-today/article36507675.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 cases falling across India: Centre||New COVID-19 cases have reduced across India, even in Kerala, but Mizoram remains a State of concern, said V.K. Paul, member (Health), Niti Aayog. “Mizoram is a State of concern even though we are seeing a declining trend of new cases across India and even in Kerala. In the coming two to three months, we have to maintain caution against any upsurge in COVID-19 cases. We request everyone to remain careful in the coming quarter. We’re happy to see the number of cases stabilising,” he said. Emphasising that the public should follow COVID-19 norms during the upcoming festival season, Balram Bhargava, Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “We know that the festivals are coming and a sudden increase in population density creates a conducive environment for viral spread. The need of the hour is to behave responsibly.” Presenting a picture of the current COVID-19 situation in India, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there was an overall decline being observed in the country. “Weekly positivity is less than 3% for the 11th consecutive week. Currently, there is only one State with over one lakh active cases.” “States and Union Territories such as Lakshadweep, Chandigarh, Goa and Himachal Pradesh have registered 100% vaccine coverage of the first dose for the population over 18 years of age. Overall, 20% of the population over 18 is fully vaccinated,” he said. Medical oxygen Mr. Bhushan added that 3,631 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants were available for medical oxygen, while 1,595 had been commissioned. Speaking of the rise in dengue cases some States, he said that stagnant water after rains led to proliferation of mosquitoes that spread the disease, “Source reduction is done in all States every year. We have received reports of dengue outbreaks in Delhi, Haryana, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Assam. There are set guidelines that are being followed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-cases-falling-across-india-centre/article36507683.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED searches premises linked to Mander||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday searched premises linked to social activist Harsh Mander in connection with a money laundering probe. The searches were carried out at Adchini, Mehrauli and Vasant Kunj in south Delhi, hours after Mr. Mander left for Germany along with his wife for a six-month fellowship programme at the Robert Bosch Academy. “The ED investigation is related to a first information report [FIR] registered by the Delhi police’s Economic Offences Wing in February,” a senior agency official said. The police instituted the case against two children’s homes and their parent body, the Centre for Equity Studies (CES), of which Mr. Mander is a director. It was based on a report submitted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) last year, highlighting alleged financial irregularities. Mr. Mander’s name is not included in the FIR. In February, the Mehrauli police registered an FIR under various provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on a complaint from the NCPCR Registrar alleging violations. NCPCR teams, in October 2020, conducted an inspection of the children’s homes — Umeed Aman Ghar and Khushi Rainbow Home in south Delhi. In a statement, the CES confirmed the ED searches in its office, Umeed Ghar and Mr. Mander’s residence. “This is a continuation of harassment and coercion of CES and Harsh Mander for being an outspoken and passionate defender of human rights,” it alleged. Meanwhile, over 600 academics, advocates, activists, civil servants, writers, film-makers, journalists, musicians, artists and others condemned the searches. In a statement, they said the agency’s move was to harass and intimidate a leading activist who consistently upheld the highest moral standards of honesty and probity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-searches-premises-linked-to-mander/article36507671.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. seeks probe into COVID data||Accusing the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) of “criminal culpability” in trying to fudge India’s COVID-19 data to spin a “false narrative” in favour of the Narendra Modi government, the Congress on Thursday demanded a criminal investigation against the Prime Minister, former Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, and senior officials of the ICMR. Addressing a press conference, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken cited a report by The New York Times , which quoted former scientists of the ICMR alleging political interference in providing data on COVID-19 and related deaths. Calling it a “very, very serious issue”, Mr. Maken said there should be a probe by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court or a High Court. “We are demanding that a criminal investigation be carried out against the Prime Minister, against the former Health Minister and against senior officials of the ICMR... There should be a criminal investigation under court supervision by a sitting judge as this is not a small matter,” he told reporters. Mr. Maken said the former ICMR scientists had themselves come out openly now to allege that a “false narrative” was built only to show that “everything is normal”. “We feel that it was because of this reason that the guard was lowered and State governments were unprepared, and so was the general public, because of which there were large numbers of avoidable deaths during the second wave of the coronavirus [pandemic] that caused so much devastation,” he said. “We could have saved so many lives had the false narrative not started and hence it requires a criminal investigation,” he added. The Congress leader also said that the party would plan agitations around the issue as well as raise it strongly in the next session of Parliament. Officials reject report Rejecting the media report, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V.K. Paul described it as an “out of context report that is not desirable”, while ICMR chief Balram Bhargava said the report was “provocative and attention-seeking that doesn’t merit any attention”.  There should be a criminal investigation under court supervision by a sitting judge as this is not a small matter Ajay Maken AICC general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-seeks-probe-into-covid-data/article36507691.ece
17 September 2021||Boolgarhi,||A year on, family of Hathras rape victim awaits justice||The posters of gods and goddesses that adorned the walls of the inner courtyard, when this correspondent last visited, were missing. A CRPF jawan was guarding the roof of the two-room house, while another was in the thatch-roofed kitchen, heating some eatables. Outside, mounds of dung raised a stench. A year after a Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped by four men of other caste and left bleeding in a field in Hathras village of Uttar Pradesh, the family of the victim is still struggling to come to terms with the constant gaze of CCTV cameras and the presence of a posse of security men. “It feels frustrating and suffocating. We know we are safe because of them, as the incident has made us even more untouchable than before in the village, but we also want to lead a normal life,” said the victim’s father. Only a Brahmin family, he said, had agreed to till our quarter of a hectare of land and share the produce. Recalling the gruesome incident, the victim’s elder brother said they found the 19-year-old with severe injuries on the neck and private parts. She was taken to Jawaharlal Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh. When her condition deteriorated, she was taken to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, where she died on September 29. The body was taken to the village in an ambulance and “forcibly” cremated around 3.30 a.m. by the police and district officials. Sandeep, 20, Ravi, 35, Ramu, 26, and Luv kush, 23, were arrested. “Nobody visits us, and taunts and comments are passed when we go out for hearing as if I have committed a crime by seeking justice for my daughter,” the victim’s father said, adding that the family never tried to break social rules. “When the SHO visited the scene of the crime, I asked for a medical investigation but he tried to shut me up by raising issues of izzat [dignity] and that it would jeopardise the prospects of getting her married. Despite my daughter’s clear declaration of rape, the administration delayed medical investigation. They didn’t want the rape part of the crime to come out. But I persisted… they disapprove of our touch but feel that they could do anything to our daughters.” ‘Uncertain about future’ The elder brother, a father of three girls, lamented he was uncertain about the future of his daughters. “Will they be safe when they start going to school. When lewd comments are passed on our lawyer, her car is followed, where do we stand a chance,” he wondered, reeling out similar incidents in Akrabad (Aligarh), Delhi and Mumbai. “Things haven’t changed for women after the incident,” he noted. The family received Rs. 25 lakh as compensation from the Uttar Pradesh government, but the father wondered how long will that last if the case dragged. A senior CRPF personnel requesting anonymity revealed that he had not guarded a family against a neighbour, living bang opposite, before. He said it felt odd that the entire village dumped dung and other waste in front of the victim’s house. “When it rains, it makes life difficult for us as the waste not only releases foul odour but could also cause infection.” Two cases were registered after the girl’s death. While the Allahabad High Court took suo motu notice of the ‘forcible’ cremation, an SC/ST court in Hathras is hearing the rape-murder case. Expressing satisfaction on the pace of the trial, the victim’s advocate, Seema Kushwaha, hoped that the trial court would deliver the judgment within the next two months. “Another positive development,” she highlighted, was that the Lucknow Bench of the High Court had asked the State government to formulate a standard operating procedure wherein the cremation of a victim of a heinous crime could lead to a law and order situation. She pointed out that the promise of a residence and a job from the government had not been fulfilled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-year-on-family-of-hathras-victim-awaits-justice/article36507654.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||China questions India’s missile project||China on Thursday cited a United Nations Security Council (UNSC) resolution issued after the 1998 nuclear tests to question India’s missile programme amid reports of an upcoming test for the Agni-V intercontinental ballistic missile. “As for whether India can develop ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons, the UNSCR 1172 already has clear stipulations,” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Thursday in response to questions over reports on the upcoming test, which has received wide attention in the Chinese press with focus on the detail that the 5,000-km-range nuclear-capable missile would bring many cities in China within range. “Maintaining peace, security and stability in South Asia meets the common interests of all, where China hopes that all parties would make constructive efforts,” Mr. Zhao said. The Foreign Ministry spokesperson was referring to the UNSC resolution 1172, adopted in June 1998. The resolution, in the aftermath of the 1998 nuclear tests, “calls upon India and Pakistan immediately to stop their nuclear weapon development programmes, to refrain from weaponisation or from the deployment of nuclear weapons, to cease development of ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons and any further production of fissile material for nuclear weapons, to confirm their policies not to export equipment, materials or technology that could contribute to weapons of mass destruction or missiles capable of delivering them and to undertake appropriate commitments in that regard”. While citing the resolution regarding India’s missile programme, China has, in contrast, been aiding the development of Pakistan’s nuclear and missile programmes for decades, from providing enriched uranium and even technology for nuclear-capable missiles. That cooperation has continued unabated and was officially acknowledged three years ago. In 2018, the state-backed Chinese Academy of Sciences announced it had sold Pakistan a tracking system to speed up development of multi-warhead missiles, a detail that the government chose to declassify. Zheng Mengwei, a researcher with the CAS Institute of Optics and Electronics, told the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post that Pakistan had purchased a “highly sophisticated, large-scale optical tracking and measurement system”. “We simply gave them a pair of eyes. They can use them to look at whatever they want to see, even the Moon,” he said, noting that China was the first country to export such sensitive equipment to Pakistan, which had been deployed by the Pakistani military “at a firing range” for testing new missiles. The South China Morning Post report at the time linked the sale to India’s development of Agni-V. It noted that it “has been a long-held notion that Beijing is supporting Islamabad’s missile development programme but solid evidence can seldom be found in the public domain, making the CAS statement a rarity”. The CAS team “enjoyed VIP treatment during the nearly three months it spent in Pakistan assembling and calibrating the tracking system and training technical staff on how to use it,” the CAS statement on the sale said. The Post report noted that “an optical system is a critical component in missile testing” and also helps record “high-resolution images of a missile’s departure from its launcher, stage separation, tail flame and, after the missile re-enters atmosphere, the trajectory of the warheads it releases”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-questions-indias-missiles-project/article36507669.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||New defence office complex opened||In the 75th year of Independence, an important step had been taken towards developing the capital of the country according to the needs and aspirations of a new India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday after inaugurating the Ministry of Defence’s (MoD) two new office complexes, constructed as a part of the Central Vista redevelopment project at a cost of Rs. 775 crore. The modern offices, built at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue, would go a long way in effectively carrying out all the work related to the security of the nation. “This is a big step towards the creation of a modern defence enclave in the capital,” Mr. Modi observed at a formal ceremony of the new complex on Africa Avenue. “This new Defence Office Complex is going to further strengthen our efforts to make the work of our forces more convenient and more effective,” he noted. Over 7,000 officers and staff belonging to 27 different organisations — attached offices of the MoD, service headquarters and other subordinate offices — will move to the new complexes soon. “When we talk about the capital, it is not just a city, and the capital of any country is a symbol of the thinking, determination, strength and culture of that country. India is the mother of democracy. Therefore, the capital of India should be such, people and public in the centre,” Mr. Modi asserted. The construction of the complexes was to be completed in 24 months but it was done in a record time of 12 months despite challenges during the pandemic, he said. The new buildings were eco-friendly with all amenities, Mr. Modi added Technology had a big role in the speed of construction now. There was also a multi-level car parking for over 1,500 cars at both locations, Mr. Modi said.  Speaking at the event, Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri said the next Republic Day parade would be held at the new Central Vista and the work related to it would be completed in the next few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-defence-office-complex-opened/article36507689.ece
17 September 2021||KOLKATA,||6 children dead, hundreds in hospital in Bengal||Hundreds of children across several districts of West Bengal have been hospitalised with symptoms of viral infection. Reports that at least six children have died in the past few days — three in Jalpaiguri, two in Malda and one in Uttar Dinjapur — have spread fear and panic in the State. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee held a meeting on Thursday at the SSKM Hospital on the emerging health situation. State Health Secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said there was no reason to panic and most of the children were infected by Influenza B and RS (Respiratory Syncytial) virus. He said that along with fever, the children had other ailments too. The State had adequate infrastructure to deal with the situation, he said. A team of experts has reached the districts affected and the State government is preparing a standard operating procedure for treating children with fever. Hundreds of children have been admitted in various State-run hospitals in north Bengal — 112 in Cooch Behar, 113 in Alipurduar, 92 in Jalpaiguri, 86 in Darjeeling, 196 in Malda, 92 in Dakshin Dinajpur and 64 in Uttar Dinajpur. Influenza B Samples taken from children with fever were sent to the School of Tropical Medicine, Kolkata, where they tested positive for Influenza B and RS (Respiratory Syncytial) Virus. While no sample was found to be positive for COVID-19, some children were found to be suffering from dengue. Reports of children falling ill have also been reported from Purulia and Durgapur. Meanwhile, the State leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party highlighted the issue and wanted answers from the Chief Minister who holds the health portfolio. “I urge the West Bengal Health Secretary to kindly take note of the distressing news coming from north Bengal, where more than 750 children have been admitted in hospitals for high fever & undetected flu-like symptoms. Please initiate measures at the earliest as six infants have died already,” Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-children-dead-hundreds-in-hospital-in-bengal/article36507693.ece
17 September 2021||Patna,||Bank goof-up leaves villagers flush with cash||A private tutor in Khagaria district of Bihar has been arrested for refusing to return Rs. 5.5 lakh erroneously credited to his account by the South Bihar Gramin Bank. Despite several notices from the bank, Ranjit Das, a native of Bakhtiyarpur village under the Mansi police station, refused to return the amount. He told the police that the “money was sent by the Narendra Modi government as part of a promise by the Prime Minister to deposit Rs. 15 lakh in everyone’s account”. Spent Rs. 1.6 lakh “I was happy that the government had sent money into my account when I needed it most. How else could such an amount reach my empty bank account? And, since I needed money for some urgent works, I spent Rs. 1,60,970.” “Mr. Das was arrested and produced before a local court on September 15, which sent him to judicial custody. The remaining amount has been debited from his account by the bank,” said Mansi police station in-charge Deepak Kumar. Students ‘get’ Rs. 960 crore In another incident, schoolstudents Guruchandra Biswas and Asit Kumar of Azamnagar in Katihar district were left speechless after they received messages on September 15 saying that Rs. 60 crore and Rs. 900 crore respectively had been desposited in their bank accounts at the Bhelaganj branch of North Bihar Gramin Bank. Hearing the news, residents of their village rushed to the ATM hoping for a similar turn of luck. “Both the accounts have been frozen and higher bank officials have been informed about it,” manager Manoj Gupta said, adding that this could have happened due to “some glitch in the computer system of the bank”. Katihar District Magistrate Udayan Mishra said, “Investigation is on and I have sought a report from the bank regarding this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bank-goof-up-leaves-villagers-flush-with-cash/article36507655.ece
17 September 2021||Srinagar,||J&K govt. staff face tighter passport rules||The Lieutenant-Governor’s administration on Thursday further toughened the process of issuance of passports to around 4.5 lakh employees in Jammu and Kashmir by making the Vigilance Department’s clearance mandatory, besides the other police verifications. “It is impressed upon all the administrative departments, heads of departments to mandatorily obtain the latest vigilance clearance in respect of an employee applying for obtaining passport,” Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, Commissioner Secretary, said in an order. The order said the current system did not contain any mechanism that would help in denying the passport to such employees who were either under suspension or facing departmental inquiry or prosecution on account of serious charges. “The Anti-Corruption Bureau has also brought to the notice of the government that the present mechanism for issuance of passport to government employees without obtaining requisite vigilance clearance results in the issuance of passport to those employees against whom vigilance cases are pending,” the order read. Earlier, an employee would get a passport after the two-layer police verifications — from the local police station and the Criminal Investigation Department. According to the order, the guidelines for obtaining a passport have been reviewed by the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India, in consultation with the Central Vigilance Commission and the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). The L-G administration has been acting tough against the employees who had either expressed their politics on social media platforms or been associated with any separatist groups. Earlier, Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin’s two sons and a teacher associated with the Tehreek-e-Hurriyat (TeH) were among other 20 employees whose services were terminated under the amended Article 311 of the Constitution of India, which requires no official inquiry before termination. In such cases, the termination of service could be based on the police or an official report and should be satisfactory enough for the Lieutenant Governor to take a final call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-govt-staff-face-tighter-passport-rules/article36507661.ece
17 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||None from Rupani Ministry in Bhupendra Patel team||In an unprecedented move, all Ministers in the previous Rupani government in Gujarat have been dropped as the BJP inducted 24 new Ministers on Thursday, adopting a “no repeat” formula in the Cabinet formation in the State. It is for the first time in the State that a new Ministry has no Minister from the previous administration. The party’s bold move is aimed at bringing in new faces to cut down on the anti-incumbency factor as it faces the crucial Assembly election next year. 24 Ministers inducted A total of 24 Ministers have been inducted — 10 of Cabinet rank and 14 Ministers of State, including five with independent charge. Along with Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel, there are 25 members in the new Gujarat Cabinet. “It is a new experiment that the party has carried out in Gujarat,” a former Minister said, adding that the “no repeat” formula is a bold move politically, but how it succeeds in improving administration and efficiency in governance remains to be seen. The Chief Minister has retained key portfolios and departments like Home, Industries and Mines, Ports, Information and Broadcasting, and Urban Development, in the new administration that took charge on Thursday. Rajendra Trivedi, Assembly Speaker during the Rupani administration, has been made a Cabinet Minister. His portfolios include Revenue, Law and Justice, and Legislative Affairs. Former State BJP chief Jitu Vaghani has also been inducted as Minister for Education. Surat BJP leader and legislator Purnesh Modi, who filed a defamation case against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, has also been made Minister with a string of portfolios, including Transport, Tourism, Roads and Civil Aviation. Kanubhai Desai, a legislator from south Gujarat, has been given key departments such as Finance, Energy and Petrochemicals, while Rushikesh Patel heads Health and Family Welfare. Only a handful members have previous ministerial experience. Among them are Mr. Trivedi, who was a Minister in the Anandiben Patel government; Kiritsinh Rana, who served in the governments of Keshubhai Patel and Narendra Modi; and Raghavji Patel, who served in the Shankarsinh Vaghela government in the mid-1990s. Harsh Sanghvi, a trusted aide of State BJP president C.R. Paatil, has been made Minister of State for Home, with Independent Charge of Youth, Culture, Sports, Prohibition, etc. Brajesh Merja is Minister with Independent Charge of Labour, Employment and Panchayats. Mr. Merja is a legislator from Morbi in Saurashtra, which he won in 2017 from the Congress, and then joined the BJP in 2020 to get re-elected from the same seat. He was previously a government servant. No statement has been made on the Cabinet formation by either the party leadership or the Chief Minister’s Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/none-from-rupani-ministry-in-bhupendra-patel-cabinet/article36507673.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP plans 20-day outreach to mark Modi’s 71st birthday||The BJP will launch a 20-day outreach from Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday, to continue till October 7. The programme includes a massive push to facilitate COVID-19 vaccination drives across the country in what the party is terming a part of its “ Sewa and Samarpan ” (service and commitment) campaign. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya called for a major push to the vaccination drive on Friday. “Tomorrow is the birthday of our beloved Prime Minister, lets do #VaccineSeva by helping all unvaccinated people, including their loved ones, family members and all sections of society by getting them vaccinated. This will be a birthday gift for the Prime Minister,” he tweeted. The BJP has been celebrating Prime Minister Modi’s birthday as ‘Seva Diwas’ (Service Day) and organising welfare activities across the country for a week, but this time it has been extended to 20 days as he is completing two decades holding public office, including his stint as Chief Minister of Gujarat. As part of the campaign, BJP workers will carry out a large-scale cleanliness drive on October 2, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, and people will be encouraged to use khadi and local products. The party has said that five crore postcards will be sent from the BJP booth workers across the country to Mr. Modi, pledging their commitment to public service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-plans-20-day-outreach-to-mark-modis-71st-birthday/article36507687.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Only 4 witnesses to be quizzed, panel tells SC||The Justice (retired) A. Arumughaswamy Commission, which is probing the hospitalisation and death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, told the Supreme Court on Thursday that only four witnesses remained to be examined, and that the panel should be allowed to complete its work and submit its report. A Bench, headed by Justice Abdul S. Nazeer, assured the Commission, represented by senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, that its submissions would be heard in detail on September 23. The court stayed the proceedings before the Commission in April 2019 on a petition filed by Apollo Hospitals in Chennai — where Jayalalithaa died in December 2016 — that the Commission’s functioning was “replete with bias”. “Only four witnesses are left to examine. A fact-finding inquiry report should be presented in the House. The House will then decide... 155 witnesses have been examined... only four more. The inquiry has been pending since 2017,” Mr. Kumar submitted. The Tamil Nadu government, represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Joseph S. Aristotle, said the Commission needed to complete its work. Senior advocate Aryama Sundaram, for Apollo Hospitals, agreed with the court’s decision to schedule the hearing for next week. In 2019, the court had stayed the inquiry after Apollo Hospitals alleged that instead of conducting an impartial inquiry, the Commission had transformed itself into an adversary. Mr. Sundaram had then argued that the proceedings was causing a “grave prejudice” to the hospital’s reputation. He had informed the court that the Commission was even filing applications “on its own behalf before itself” alleging that the hospital had been negligent in the treatment of Jayalalithaa. Apollo Hospitals had submitted that the Commission, instead of holding an impartial probe, had filed a pleading alleging a “criminal intent” on the part of the hospital and its doctors. Mr. Sundaram had submitted that the Commission even asked for the medical reports of former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran, who died in 1987. Apollo Hospitals had submitted that the elaborate medical reports on the circumstances leading to the death of Jayalalithaa were released in March 2017 to end speculation. In 2019, Tamil Nadu urged the court not to stay the Commission’s proceedings. But the Bench refused to oblige the State. The State had appointed the Commission, headed by Arumughaswamy, a retired Madras High Court judge, on September 25, 2017. Its reference was to examine the circumstances which led to the hospitalisation of Jayalalithaa on September 22, 2016, and the nature of treatment given in order to determine the cause of hospitalisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-4-witnesses-to-be-quizzed-says-panel-probing-jayas-death/article36507855.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Asthana appointment in public interest: govt.||The Union government has informed the Delhi High Court that the appointment of Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner was done in “public interest”, taking into account the national capital’s policing issues, which not only had national security but also cross-border implications. The government, in an affidavit, said best attempts were made to find a suitable IPS officer having diverse experience of policing in a vast State or Central investigating agency or national security or paramilitary force from the options available in AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa and Mizoram Union Territories) cadre. However, AGMUT cadre being one comprising Union Territory and small northeastern States, it was felt that requisite experience of working and supervising the Central investigating agency/para-military force and police force of a large State having diverse political and law and order problem was lacking in the present pool of available officers, it noted. “Hence in public interest, a decision was made by the Central Government to have an officer who had experience in all the above fields to supervise Delhi Police force,” it stated. Mr. Asthana took charge as the Commissioner on July 28. This is one of the very few instances when an IPS officer outside the AGMUT cadre has been appointed Delhi police chief. His appointment has been challenged in court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/asthana-appointment-in-public-interest-govt/article36507663.ece
17 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||New road technologies in the offing: Gadkari||The Transport Ministry was looking to adopt new technologies such as steel fibre used in developed countries for construction of roads and cut down on the use of steel and cement, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday . Mr. Gadkari was speaking at a function in Sohna here during a visit to inspect the 1,380-km-long Delhi-Mumbai Expressway. A section of the road connecting Delhi to Sohna, which is part of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, will help reduce traffic and pollution in the national capital near Ashram Chowk, he observed, adding that 15 projects, worth around Rs. 50,000 crore, were being undertaken in Delhi to reduce traffic and pollution. The Minister expressed the hope that the longest expressway in the country, being developed at a cost of Rs. 98,000 crore, would be completed by March 2023. It would reduce the travel time between Delhi and Mumbai to just 12 hours. It would connect the urban centres of Delhi through the Delhi- Faridabad-Sohna section. In addition, the expressway, which will pass through Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra, will improve connectivity to economic hubs such as Jaipur, Bhopal, Indore, and Surat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-road-technologies-in-the-offing-gadkari/article36507657.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Rape accused found dead on railway track||Accordingly, as the police were looking for Raju for the last few days, the team had all the details about his identity marks, background, clothes and other features. “We compared them and found that this person was the same fellow Raju involved in the offence in Hyderabad,” Dr. Joshi said. According to him, the information about the suicide was given by railway employee Sarangapani. “Though he tried to get him out of the track, the man started running. He was run over by Konark Express and died on the spot,” he said, adding that the deceased person’s identity was confirmed by the family members too. Since the last one week, the Hyderabad City Police have launched a search for Raju and also announced a cash reward of Rs. 10 lakh for any information leading to his arrest. As part of the massive manhunt, posters declaring Raju a ‘WANTED’ man were pasted on autorickshaws, buses, at toddy compounds, wine shops and all public places across the State. Ironically, the cops started removing the posters from buses, autorickshaws, and other public places on Wednesday evening. On September 9, the minor had gone missing from her home in Saidabad, and hours later, her body was recovered from Raju’s house, who was her neighbour. The autopsy at Osmania General Hospital confirmed that she was ‘sexually assaulted’ before she was strangled to death. Meanwhile, on Thursday morning, Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod visited the girl’s family and handed over a cheque of Rs. 20 lakh.  [Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000 ]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rape-accused-found-dead-on-railway-track/article36508058.ece
17 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Hike in sugarcane prices insufficient, says Hooda||Senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday termed the recent increase in sugarcane rates by the Haryana government “insufficient”. The Leader of the Opposition also claimed that the BJP-JJP government was fiercely marketing the increased price though it was “10 times less than what the previous Congress regime had done”. “The increase in minimum support price (MSP) of all crops and FRP (the minimum price that mills have to pay to cane growers) of sugarcane is negligible as compared to the increasing cost of cultivation. “The rate of sugarcane was increased by 165 per cent during the tenure of the Congress government in the State (2005-2014), that is, an increase of more than 16 per cent every year. But during the past seven years of the BJP regime, there was a total increase of 16 per cent, which is 10 times less than the Congress' time,” he said in a statement. Mr. Hooda further said when the Congress formed the government in Haryana in 2005, farmers were getting only Rs. 117 per quintal for sugarcane, but the rate was raised to Rs. 310 per quintal by the party. ‘Nominal increase’ “In its seven years, the BJP government in the State has increased the rate of sugarcane to only Rs. 362, increasing the rate only by Rs. 52 per quintal,” he said. The Haryana government recently increased the sugarcane price by Rs. 12 per quintal to Rs. 362 per quintal, for the 2021-22 crushing season. “The highest price of sugarcane in the country is being provided in Haryana,” State Agriculture Minister J.P. Dalal had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hike-in-sugarcane-prices-insufficient-says-hooda/article36507906.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Asthana appointment in public interest: govt.||Defending the appointment of Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner, the Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that it was done in “public interest”, taking into account the Capital’s policing issues, which not only had national security but also cross-border implications. The Centre, in an affidavit filed before the High Court, said that best attempts were made to find a suitable Indian Police Service (IPS) officer having diverse experience of policing in a vast State or Central Investigating Agency or National Security or para-military force from the options available in AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa and Mizoram Union Territories) cadre. However, AGMUT cadre being a cadre comprising Union Territory and small north-eastern States, it was felt that requisite experience of working and supervising the central investigating agency/para-military force and police force of a large State having diverse political and law and order problem was lacking in the present pool of available officers, the Centre said. “Hence in public interest, a decision was made by the Central government to have an officer who had experience in all the above fields to supervise Delhi Police force,” the Centre said. Mr. Asthana took charge as the Commissioner of Delhi Police on July 28. His appointment came just days before his superannuation on July 31, and he will have a tenure of one year. This is one of the few instances when an IPS officer outside of the AGMUT cadre has been appointed as Delhi Police chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/asthana-appointment-in-public-interest-govt/article36508109.ece
17 September 2021||Nainital,||Uttarakhand High Court allows Char Dham Yatra||The Uttarakhand High Court on Thursday vacated its stay on the Char Dam Yatra and directed the State government to conduct the pilgrimage with strict adherence to COVID-19 norms. Lifting the ban on the yatra, a Division Bench of the court comprising Chief Justice R.S. Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma said the pilgrimage will start with restrictions like a daily limit on the number of devotees visiting the temples. Carrying a negative COVID-test report and a vaccination certificate will also be mandatory for the visitors, the court said. Putting a daily cap on the number of devotees visiting the famous Himalayan temples also known as the Char Dham, the High Court said 800 pilgrims will be allowed in Kedarnath Dham, 1,200 in Badrinath Dham, 600 in Gangotri and 400 in Yamunotri every day. Pilgrims will not be allowed to take a bath in any of the springs around the temples, it said. Police force will be deployed as per requirements during the Char Dham Yatra in Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts. Big relief for State govt. The court order comes as a big relief to the State government which was under pressure from various quarters to start the pilgrimage with which the livelihoods of lakhs of people including travel agents and pilgrimage priests are linked. With the COVID situation being uncertain, the court had on June 28 put a stay on the State Cabinet's decision to start the Char Dham yatra in a limited way for the residents of Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts where the temples are located. It had plans to open up the yatra in a phased manner for pilgrims from outside the State depending on the COVID situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-high-court-allows-char-dham-yatra/article36507904.ece
17 September 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool chief reaching out to all communities||After visiting a mosque and a gurdwara, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday visited two temples in Bhabanipur clearly with the intention of wooing voters of all communities and religions. During the day, she had an interaction at Uttam Udyam with representatives of Gujarati, Marwari and Jain communities where the Trinamool chairperson said she is there for every community. Ms. Banerjee said she was destined to contest and represent Bhabanipur. The constituency located in south Kolkata is an eclectic mix of communities like Bengalis, Gujaratis, Marwaris and Hindi speaking people. “When I go to a mosque, the BJP raises questions why am I going there? They are making the videos of my visit go viral. Yesterday [Wednesday] I went to a gurdwara. I covered my head and went. I do Kali Puja. When I go to gurdwara or do Kali Pujo, the BJP doesn’t object to it,” Ms. Banerjee said. The Chief Minister said she had faced a similar campaign in Nandigram when the BJP had alleged that “Nandigram will become Pakistan”. “I will not let India become Taliban or Pakistan. This is my motherland. Who is BJP to give the certificate who is national and who is anti-national?” The Chief Minister spoke about how she stood with members of the business and trading community during demonetisation and she would often frequent Burrabazar — the largest wholesale market in Kolkata. Ms. Banerjee filed her nomination for Bhabanipur on September 10 and in the past one week has left no stone unturned in reaching out to the voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-chief-reaching-out-to-all-communities/article36507905.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Rape accused found dead on railway track||The deceased was absconding since September 9, after the minor girl’s semi-naked body was found at his residence in Saidabad. The girl was his neighbour. The body was shifted to the State-run MGM Hospital in Warangal for autopsy. The Government Railway Police registered a case under Section 174 (Police to inquire and report on suicide, etc.) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and launched a probe. “The accused in Child Sexual Molestation and murder @ Singareni Colony, found dead on the railway track, in the limits of #StationGhanpurPoliceStation. Declared after the verification of identification marks on the deceased’s body,” Director-General of Police M Mahender Reddy tweeted. IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao tweeted: “Just been informed by @TelanganaDGP garu that the beast who raped the child has been traced & found dead on a railway track at station Ghanpur.” Warangal Commissioner of Police Tarun Joshi said that Station Ghanpur police received a Dial 100 call around 9.58 a.m. informing them about an unidentified body on the railway track and a team went to the spot. As the police were looking for Raju for the last few days, the team had all the details of his identity marks, background, clothes and other features. “We compared them and found that this person was the same fellow Raju involved in the offence in Hyderabad,” Dr. Joshi said. According to him, the railway employee Sarangapani doing a routine check saw a man walking on the track. “He tried to get him out, but the man started running. He was run over by Konark Express and died on the spot,” he said.Raju’s identity was confirmed by his family members too, he said. For the past one week, the Hyderabad City Police had been searching for Raju and even announced a cash reward for any information leading to his arrest. As part of the massive manhunt, posters declaring Raju a ‘wanted’ man were pasted on autorickshaws, buses, in toddy compounds, wine shops and all public places across the State. The minor girl had gone missing from her home in Saidabad on September 9 and hours later, her body was recovered from Raju’s house. The autopsy at Osmania General Hospital confirmed that she was ‘sexually assaulted’ before being strangled to death. The victim’s mother suspected Raju as he too was missing from his house. [People who need assistance may contact Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rape-accused-found-dead-on-railway-track/article36507650.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Cheema to head NCLAT till Sept. 20, govt. tells SC||Senior advocate Arvind Datar, for Justice Cheema, had raised the point that this was no way to treat a former Bombay High Court judge who had been part of the legal profession for 40 years. The Attorney General informed the court that Justice M. Venugopal, a former Madras High Court judge who was appointed the new NCLAT Acting Chairperson on September 11, would go on leave for the next few days till Justice Cheema completed his tenure on September 20. Chief Justice Ramana appreciated the Attorney General’s efforts to resolve the brief stalemate between the court and the government on the issue. Mr. Datar also thanked Mr. K.K. Venugopal. However, the first half of the hearing witnessed a tense exchange between the Bench and Mr. Venugopal. It began with Mr. K.K. Venugopal placing on the table the offer that Justice Cheema would be “treated” as Acting Chairperson till September 20 and be paid his service benefits. He said it would be “very awkward” for the government to remove Justice Venugopal now. But the Bench said Justice Cheema still had to pronounce five judgments. It was the government which had “created the awkward situation”. If there was admittedly no doubt whatsoever about Justice Cheema’s integrity, why had the government stopped him from completing his term on September 20, it stated. Initially, the Attorney General said the government would then argue the case on merits. However, Chief Justice Ramana decided to hear the case again after some time, giving Mr. K.K. Venugopal an opportunity to consult the government. Half an hour later, Mr. K.K. Venugopal conveyed to the court the government’s decision to reinstate Justice Cheema. “That is good… The Attorney General has solved the problem,” Chief Justice told Mr. K.K. Venugopal. Justice Venugopal happens to be the third Acting Chairperson in a row for the NCLAT since the retirement of regular NCLAT Chairperson Justice S.J. Mukhopadhaya in March last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cheema-back-in-nclat-post-as-govt-blinks/article36507651.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. sets up ‘bad bank’ to clear the NPA mess||“The government back-stop will come in only as much as to pay the gap between the realised value and the face value of those receipts and this will hold good for only five years,” she explained. “The whole idea is to ensure that these assets for which this whole set-up is being created, and the value that is locked in the assets is realised and comes back to the banks; they use it as a growth capital and the banking system becomes more robust,” Mr. Panda said. “In all probability, some assets may have an upside, [and] by using the guarantee as a backstop, the entire upside will also come to the banks rather than getting retained by the NARCL,” the Financial Services Secretary said. The five-year limit on the guarantee, with an increase in the fees charged for the guarantee every year, is an incentive for the resolution process to be completed at the earliest, he added. “We have addressed the issues facing the banking system in totality that in 2015 was a major challenge for the economy. The twin balance sheet problem which caused a lot of stress … today, we have resolved this in a holistic way. Within those five years, all these [NPAs] will have to be resolved,” Ms. Sitharaman emphasised. ‘Positive step’ The government guarantee for the proposed security receipts is a positive stepping stone for unlocking stressed assets’ value, said ICRA vice-president in charge of financial sector ratings Anil Gupta. “The upfront cash payment by the NARCL will immediately be accretive for the profitability and capital of the banks, however the ability of the NARCL to resolve these assets in a time-bound manner will be critical for future provision writeback by banks,” Mr. Gupta noted. J. Sagar Associates’ partner Anish Mashruwala said the bad bank’s success would depend on the implementation and management of the transferred NPAs and it was likely that the government would keep a close eye on the management of the IDRC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-sets-up-bad-bank-to-clear-the-npa-mess/article36507652.ece
17 September 2021||Mumbai,||Param Bir plea quashed||The Bombay High Court on Thursday held that former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh’s petition seeking to quash preliminary inquiries against him by the Maharashtra government is non-maintainable. A Division Bench dismissed Mr. Singh’s petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/param-bir-plea-quashed/article36507664.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dhoni, Anand Mahindra on NCC reform panel||The Defence Ministry has constituted an expert committee, under the chairmanship of former MP Baijayant Panda, for a comprehensive review of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) to make it more relevant with changing times, a Ministry statement said. “The Terms of Reference of the Committee, inter-alia, broadly provide for suggesting measures, which can empower NCC cadets to contribute more effectively towards nation-building and national developmental efforts in various sectors; propose measures for gainful engagement of its alumni for betterment of the organisation as a whole and to study/recommend best practices of similar international youth organisations for inclusion in the NCC curriculum,” the statement said. The 15-member committee includes cricketer M.S. Dhoni and Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dhoni-anand-mahindra-on-ncc-reform-panel/article36507665.ece
17 September 2021||Mumbai,||‘Don’t usurp State rights’||Maharashtra Finance Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday said the Union government should not “encroach on the State’s rights” to collect taxes, and “any topic to put a curb on the State’s rights, if discussed, will be strongly opposed”. He said stamp duty and excise duty were taxes that helped States “in extreme situations”. Asked about the ongoing discussion on bringing petrol and diesel within the ambit of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), Mr. Pawar said the State government had not received any such proposal. “But we have kept our position ready in case the topic comes up for discussion. We have decided on the strategy and it will be presented in the meeting.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-usurp-state-rights/article36507667.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Fake vaccination certificates sold on app’||Fake COVID-19 vaccination certificates and fake test results for 29 different countries, including India, were being sold on the Telegram app, a report by Check Point Research, a U.S.-Israeli cybersecurity firm, said on Thursday. According to the report, a fake vaccination certificate for India is available at a price of about $75 (Rs. 5,520). Oded Vanunu, head (products vulnerability research) at Check Point Software Technologies, said that there were people who did not want to take the vaccine but still wanted the freedoms that come with being vaccinated, and hence used the fraudulent services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fake-vaccination-certificates-sold-on-app/article36507677.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Divine will prevails||Scriptures, the Puranas and the Itihasas speak in one voice that the divine name has infinite power, especially in Kali Yuga, and so entreat people to chant the names at all times. In this context, the impact and influence of the Ajamila episode has given rise to discussions on many issues such as devotion, faith, sin, punishment, grace, pardon, etc. If the Nama has the infinite power to not only absolve one of all sins, but also purify by removing any lingering tendency to sin, is bhakti bhava being sidelined? In a discourse, Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal drew attention to Adi Sankara’s pertinent observation about the efficacy of the Lord’s names in his introduction to the Vishnu Sahasranama commentary. The acharya says even if the names are uttered without bhakti bhava, it will certainly ward off sin, but the fruits will be less. In one’s own interest there should be conscious cultivation of practices of sravana, manana, kirtana, etc. Moreover, bhakti bhava takes root and grows strong with His grace alone. In the Sivanandalahari, the acharya shows that there is nothing that cannot be achieved through bhakti, when he describes how the Lord is moved by the selfless devotion that dominates the hunter Kannappan’s unconventional way of worship. To those who doubt the claim of efficacy of the Lord’s Nama, interpreters point out that the episode highlights the Supremacy of Divine Will. When the compassionate Lord chooses to bless the devotee none can stand in the way of His Divine Sankalpa. Rama makes known that His vow to protect all beings is the foremost of His concerns. The Katopanishad states that the desire to know Brahman should be strong in the jiva; but it is equally important that Brahman enables the sparkling of Brahma Jnana in whomsoever He chooses to grace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/divine-will-prevails/article36507676.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mementoes gifted to PM to be auctioned||Mementos gifted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the sports gear and equipment of Olympics and Paralympics medal winners would be auctioned from Friday till October 7, the Union Culture Ministry said on Thursday. The e-auction of the memorabilia was among the activities mentioned in the BJP’s internal plan to mark Mr. Modi’s birthday on Friday and the 20th anniversary of his election to public office as Gujarat Chief Minister on October 7. In a statement, the Culture Ministry said the auction would take place through the website pmmementos.gov.in. Proceeds would go to the Namami Gange Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mementos-gifted-to-pm-to-be-auctioned/article36507684.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Coal theft case: CBI raids in Delhi, Bengal||The CBI on Thursday conducted searches in Delhi and West Bengal in connection with the illegal coal mining and theft case. The Delhi premises of a former director-level official of the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) and those of its general manager in West Bengal’s Asansol were searched. The CBI also searched the premises of a Central Industrial Security Force officer in Farakka, West Bengal. In July, it searched the premises of certain other ECL officials in West Bengal, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, in the case involving “mastermind” Anup Majhi and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coal-theft-case-cbi-raids-in-delhi-bengal/article36507685.ece
17 September 2021||BENGALURU,TAMIL NADU||Karnataka Assembly adopts Gram Swaraj Bill amid protest||The Legislative Assembly on Thursday adopted the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill that provides for constitution of delimitation commission, amid a walkout by the principal Opposition Congress. Both the Opposition parties, the Congress and the Janata Dal-Secular (JD-S), termed the Bill as a “ploy to put off the Zilla Panchayat (ZP) and Taluk Panchayat (TP) elections”, and expressed serious resentment over its provisions. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said, “It is an attempt by the BJP to decide delimitation and reservation of wards to suit its political needs and also put off the ZP and TP polls.” Congress member Krishna Byre Gowda said the government was only using the provision for setting up a delimitation commission to further delay the ZP and TP polls. “It only shows that the BJP does not have confidence of winning the majority seats in rural local bodies,” he said. JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna too opposed the Bill by saying that it only displayed the mindset of the government which was not in favour of holding elections. Congress member K.R. Ramesh Kumar said it was an effort to manipulate the reservation system at the grassroots level. Pointing out that constitution of a delimitation commission would delay the process of elections to Panchayat Raj institutions, he said this would mean that the ZP and TP elections were unlikely to be held before the next Assembly elections in 2023. Earlier, piloting the Bill, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa maintained that the Bill was being brought in to ensure fairness in the process of delimitation and fixing of reservation of wards in the wake of “thousands of objections being filed by the general public” against such an exercise undertaken by the State Election Commission.  It’s an attempt by the BJP to decide delimitation and reservation of wards to suit its needs Siddaramaiah Opposition leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karnataka-assembly-adopts-gram-swaraj-bill-amid-protest/article36507695.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Oscar Fernandes was a true soldier of the Congress: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday met the family members of the late senior party leader Oscar Fernandes in Bengaluru and attended his funeral prayers. Mr. Gandhi, along with State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal and other senior leaders, attended the last rites of Mr. Fernandes, who passed away on September 13. He met the family members — wife Blossom Fernandes and children Oshin and Oshan Fernandes — at the late leader’s residence on Rest House Road and then participated in the final blessing at St. Patrick’s Church on Brigade Road. Tweeting about his visit to Mr. Fernandes’ house, Mr. Gandhi said, “Spent some time with the family of Sri Oscar Fernandes ji and paid last respects to him — a friend, a guide, and a true soldier of the Congress party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oscar-fernandes-was-a-true-soldier-of-the-congress-rahul/article36507697.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||IISc student commits suicide||In less than a week, two cases of suspected suicides have been reported at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. On Tuesday night, a student enrolled in B.Sc. (Research) programme was reportedly found dead in his room. The incident came to light when his parents called other students to check on their son as he was not answering calls. “The student hailed from Rajasthan. We found two suicide notes at the spot, which he had written to his friends and to his parents,” said a police officer. On September 13, a Ph.D student in the Organic Chemistry department had allegedly killed himself. The Sadashiva Nagar police have taken up a case of unnatural death. IISc. authorities did not respond to The Hindu’s request for a comment.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iisc-student-commits-suicide/article36507732.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents want three more toll plazas to be scrapped||With the removal of toll plazas on Rajiv Gandhi Salai, the clamour for doing away with the ones at Vanagaram, Puzhal and Mathur in Manali has increased. Residents in these areas hope the government will take steps to meet their long-pending demand. M. Manaligam, a social activist of Manali, said the Mathur toll plaza was within the Greater Chennai Corporation limits and was a fit case for removal. “We have been protesting against its construction since 2017.” “It is on Jawaharlal Nehru Salai, which is the city’s Inner Ring Road. The plaza came up here with the purpose of collecting toll from container-carrying trailers proceeding to the ports. However, locals are forced to pay toll since passes were not given to them,” he said and added that the line of containers caused congestion in the locality. If the government wanted to collect toll from containers, it could do so at the entrance to ports, not here, Mr. Mahalingam said. S. Jude Mathew of Puzhal said residents of his area had to pass through the toll plaza at Surapet, Puzhal. “If we are to go to nearby Sholavaram, we have to pass through the Red Hills plaza. The distance between Manali and Puzhal is not much. Within a 50 km radius, there are three toll plazas and all the three must be removed. The road is poorly maintained. The employees at the plazas behave in a rash manner. If we cross the plaza before the FasTag scans vehicle details, they hit the rear view mirror,” he said. Asi Thirumaladimai, general secretary, Federation of Maduravoyal Residents Welfare Associations, said they had been protesting for the removal of the Vanagaram toll plaza for a long time. “What else should we do to get it removed is a question that we have been been raising. I have travelled to Malaysia and Singapore where there are truly world-class roads. But not seen such congestion at plazas. We don’t get the required service for the amount collected. If we travel by road to Kanniyakumari, we end up spending four times the train fare on toll and on fuel. But it takes longer to travel by road than by train,” he said. Common problems The poor condition of roads leading to the three plazas, lack of local resident passes, rude behaviour of the staff and snarls are issues faced by residents. This is a problem common to many of the 48 plazas in the State. Highways Minister E.V. Velu recently announced that he would take steps to reduce the number of toll plazas. He said the State government would write to the Centre. Residents expect him to keep his word.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-want-three-more-toll-plazas-to-be-scrapped/article36507829.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Any government oversight may rob the media of independence’||The Madras High Court on Thursday observed that an oversight mechanism of the government may rob the media of its independence, and “the fourth pillar, so to say, of democracy may not at all be there”. Chief Justice Sanjeeb Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu made the observation while passing interim orders on the writ petitions filed by Carnatic vocalist T.M. Krishna, Digital News Publishers Association and former Editor of The Hindu Mukund Padmanabhan challenging the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The judges ordered that any action taken to block a website or a digital platform under Rule 3, read with Rule 7, of the IT Rules, 2021, would be subject to the result of the cases challenging the Rules. The judges also recorded the submission of Additional Solicitor-General R. Sankaranarayanan that an order passed by Bombay High Court on August 14, staying the operation of Rule 9 (1) and (3), would have a pan-India effect and not just within the territorial jurisdiction of that High Court. The Bench pointed out that Rule 9 (3) provides not only self-regulation by publishers but also an oversight mechanism by the Centre. Stating that the petitioners were wary of the mechanism, the judges said: “ Prima facie there is substance in the petitioners’ grievance that an oversight mechanism to control the media by the government may rob the media of its independence and the fourth pillar, so to say, of democracy may not at all be there.” The judges also said nothing more need be said on such aspects of the matter since Bombay High Court had already stayed the operation of the Rule 9 (3). However, when counsel for the petitioners pointed out that the Association members had received notice despite the stay granted by Bombay High Court, the judges wrote, “It must be recorded in all fairness that learned Additional Solicitor-General, representing the Union, accepts that the order by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay would have pan-India effect.” Since Bombay High Court had not dealt with Rules 3 and 7, the judges pointed out that Rule 7 makes intermediaries (any host of a website or a platform) liable for punishment if they fail to observe the Rules. Further, Rule 3 empowers the intermediaries to deny access to the platform on the ipse dixit of the intermediary or on the intermediary’s apprehension that it might be proceeded against by the Centre. The Bench said, “There is substantial basis to the petitioners’ assertion that Article 19 (1)(a) (freedom of speech and expression) of the Constitution may be infringed in how the Rules may be coercively applied to intermediaries. ...There is a genuine apprehension, as the petitioners suggest, that a wink or a nod from appropriate quarters may result in the platform being inaccessible to a citizen.” After the Additional Solicitor-General submitted that the Centre had filed an application before the Supreme Court to transfer to it all cases pending before various High Courts challenging the Rules and the application was likely to be taken up in early October, the judges adjourned the cases to the last week of October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/any-government-oversight-may-rob-the-media-of-independence/article36507840.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records a sharp increase in crimes against women, children||Tamil Nadu registered a significant increase in the number of cases of crime against women and children in 2020, a year when COVID-19 broke out, according to the Crime in India report released by the National Crime Records Bureau. Cases of juveniles in conflict with the law also rose sharply. The increase in Tamil Nadu was despite the decline in the nationwide figures for these three categories. Tamil Nadu was one of the very few States that reported an increase. West Bengal registered the highest increase in crimes against women and children. However, Tamil Nadu fared better in the rate of crime, which refers to the number of incidents per lakh population. Rates of crime against women and children in Tamil Nadu were among the lowest in the country as compared to other major States. Activists said the increase in Tamil Nadu was in line with the anecdotal evidence of the rise in crime against women and children during the pandemic and the better registration of cases. The registered cases of crime against women in the State increased by 11.7% between 2019 and 2020. The increase was only 1.9 % in the year before. Crimes against children increased by 4.8% in 2020, compared with the marginal decline of -0.4% between 2018 and 2019. The trend of juveniles getting into conflict with law has been increasing in the State over the past few years. But the rise was 26.4% in 2020. Madurai, in particular, reported an abnormally high number of such cases. The district accounted for 33% of all such cases in the State. C. Jim Jesudoss, child rights activist and executive director of the Madurai-based child rights organisation Sakthi Vidiyal, said the reported rise in crimes against children would still be a fraction of the actual number during the pandemic. He said children were thrown into the adult space during the pandemic with the loss of their space like schools. “They could not go out with other children to play. Even organisations like ours, which support children facing vulnerabilities, had to scale down operations considerably at the peak of the pandemic,” he said. He added that this loss of space increased children’s vulnerabilities. One of the priorities of the Integrated Child Protection Scheme was to reduce vulnerabilities, but this task was extremely difficult during the pandemic. The pandemic was not over yet, he said. The government could use messaging through mass media and social media platforms to sensitise parents. In the long run, community involvement should be encouraged. “The district-level and village-level child protection committees largely remain on paper,” he said. Activist and advocate Sudha Ramalingam underscored the need for more awareness among women of the support systems available to them to report the issues they faced.  The reported rise in crimes against children would still be a fraction of the actual number C. Jim Jesudosschild rights activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-a-sharp-increase-in-crimes-against-women-children/article36507845.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen seek waiver of road cess on diesel||Fishermen have urged the Centre to reduce agriculture infrastructure and development cess, which is Rs. 4 for a litre of diesel, and the additional excise duty which goes towards road and infrastructure cess, which is Rs. 18 a litre. “We are unable to buy diesel and many boats remain onshore since the larger boats require between 4,000 litres and 8,000 litres of diesel per voyage. The State government bears the sales tax on diesel for 18,000 litres a year per boat in the mechanised boats and 4,000 litres per boat a year for motorised country craft. But the Centre does not give us any respite. It, instead, burdens us with an additional Rs. 22 a litre,” said Varadhan, a community leader. In 2020-21, 97,256 kilo litres of diesel was supplied to fishing boats with a subsidy of Rs. 157.68 crore. Posters have come up all over Kasimedu urging the Centre to exempt fishermen from the payment of these two amounts. The posters seek urgent intervention of both the governments. “The State government recently reduced petrol prices but not that of diesel. It can consider bringing down diesel prices at least for fishing boats since only around 20% of the boats go on voyages,” said K. Bharathi of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association. Nanjil Ravi of the Akhil Indhiya Meenvar Sangam said Chief Minister M. K. Stalin must write to the Centre on behalf of fisherfolk. “Boat owners are unable to get loans because banks do not provide loans for boats. They had expected an announcement on the setting up of a bank for the community in the recently concluded Budget session but that did not happen,” he said. Oil industry experts said reduction in cess would not be possible. “The Centre can reduce the price but the cess is a fixed figure. If the cess is waived for one industry, then others too will start asking for such a measure, which will reduce the government’s income under that head,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-seek-waiver-of-road-cess-on-diesel/article36507831.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||6 districts account for 52% of 1,693 fresh infections||Six districts, including Chennai, accounted for a little over half of the fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. As many as 1,693 people tested positive, a marginal increase from the previous day’s caseload of 1,658. About 52% of the cases were reported in Chennai, Coimbatore, Chengalpattu, Erode, Tiruppur and Thanjavur. The number of fresh cases dropped marginally in both Coimbatore and Chennai, compared with the previous day. There were 206 cases in Coimbatore and 202 in Chennai. Chengalpattu and Erode reported 135 and 134 cases respectively. Thanjavur and Tiruppur saw a rise, with the cases exceeding 100 in both districts. A total of 110 persons tested positive in Tiruppur, while 108 tested positive in Thanjavur. Among the other districts, there were 69 cases in Salem, 63 in Tiruvallur, 56 in Namakkal and 52 in Tiruchi. The State has so far registered 26,40,361 cases. The number of active cases rose to 16,756. They included 2,226 in Coimbatore, 1,864 in Chennai, 1,324 in Erode, 1,220 in Chengalpattu and 1,005 in Thanjavur. Another 25 persons succumbed to COVID-19, taking the toll to 35,271. There were four deaths in Chennai and three each in Chengalpattu and Salem. There were no fatalities in Coimbatore. Among the deceased was a 29 year-old-man from Cuddalore with obesity. He was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital in Cuddalore on September 4. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on September 13. In the last 24 hours, 1,548 people were discharged after treatment. The total number of recovered patients has gone up to 25,88,334. A total of 1,53,721 samples were tested. So far, 4,48,31,541 samples have been tested. A total of 2,22,647 people, including 1,33,355 people aged 18-44 and 66,613 people aged 45-59 years, were vaccinated across the State. This took the total coverage at government vaccination centres to 3,91,67,252. The cumulative coverage of private vaccination centres stood at 23,31,103.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6-districts-account-for-52-of-1693-fresh-infections/article36507847.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK’s exit from alliance may affect AIADMK in north T.N.||The PMK’s exit from the AIADMK-led coalition may dent the main Opposition party’s vote base in seven northern districts in the local bodies elections scheduled for next month, if the alliance’s performance in the Assembly election is any indication. In 35 Assembly constituencies of Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts, which cover the rural local bodies wholly or partially, the AIADMK bagged seven out of 26 seats it had contested and the PMK one out of eight. The BJP lost by a huge margin at Thirukoyilur. Two other districts, which are in the southern region, are going to the polls, and they are Tirunelveli and Tenkasi. In the definition of the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, all the Assembly constituencies in the northern region are called rural, regardless of the number of village panchayats under their jurisdiction. Though Vellore and Pallavaram have only two village panchayats under their jurisdiction, they are termed rural constituencies. Of the 26 seats it had contested, the AIADMK had a vote share of 40% and more in 18 and 30%-39% in eight constituencies. In Vanur of Villupuram district, the party romped home with 50.61% vote share. The PMK got 40% and more in three seats and netted a vote share of 30%-39% in five districts. On an average, the AIADMK secured 33.29% and the PMK 3.8% at the State level. As it is in the northern districts where the PMK is perceived to be a key player, the party’s decision to go it alone may bring the AIADMK’s vote share down by at least 4%, opines a section of the leaders in the party. But others dismiss such a calculation. Organisation secretary S. Semmalai, who hails from Salem district in the western region, says it is the local factor that counts in the rural local bodies elections more than any other consideration, including caste. A party’s network complements this factor well. “We are well prepared to face the elections and I am confident my party will sail through.” Another leader, who belongs to the northern region, says the PMK’s departure makes no difference as the party does not have the base it had in the 1990s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmks-exit-from-alliance-may-affect-aiadmk-in-north-tn/article36507848.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Screen to be installed at CMO to monitor execution of schemes||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Thursday that a screen would be installed in his office at the Secretariat to monitor the implementation of the welfare schemes announced by his government. The Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency will set up the dashboard for the Chief Minister to monitor the implementation daily. “Steps are under way to install the screen. The dashboard will be updated daily,” Mr. Stalin said at a meeting of the Secretaries of all Departments. The Chief Minister would see the status of the physical and financial targets once a week. A consultant from the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency would be the coordinator for the screen, he said in the presence of Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu. “Issuing a Government Order does not mean the scheme announced has been implemented. The benefits of the scheme should reach people and only then can it be considered to have been implemented,” Mr. Stalin said. A government meant not just Ministers but officials too, he said, adding that he would monitor the functions of the Secretaries of all Departments. The Governor’s Address in the Assembly, the presentation of the revised and agriculture Budgets, the announcements made after the debate on the demand for grants for the Departments and suo motu announcements made by him were the “five mountains” that were to be overcome, he said. The Secretaries should take upon themselves the task of translating all these into Government Orders. Underlining the need to implement all announcements in a “time-bound” manner, Mr. Stalin cautioned, “You have the responsibility of ensuring that court does not stay the implementation of any scheme.” Only six months were left for the next Budget, and he would monitor the work of all the Secretaries, he said.  Issuing a G.O. does not mean a scheme has been implemented. The benefits of the scheme should reach people and only then can it be considered to have been implemented||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/screen-to-be-installed-at-cmo-to-monitor-execution-of-schemes/article36507852.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||21 more areas in State to be brought under CNG grid||More districts in the State will have compressed natural gas home connections and fuel outlets. The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) has finalised a list of 65 geographical areas for the next round of bidding. Of these, 21 are in Tamil Nadu. Already, Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Nagapattinam, Ramanathapuram, Coimbatore, Salem and Karaikal in Puducherry will get natural gas pipeline networks and fuel outlets following successful bidding of tenders. The companies that won the bids are proceeding with works to lay, build, operate or expand city or local natural gas distribution networks and would have exclusive rights over these areas for eight years. The 21 areas to be added to the city gas distribution networks include Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Namakkal, Tiruchirapalli, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Thanjavur, Madurai, Theni, Virudhnagar, Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Dindigul, Karur, the Nilgiris and Erode. “This would more or less cover the State. It would mean infusion of investment into Tamil Nadu and increase the availability of clean fuel. This fuel would only be an addition to the fuel basket of the State. Already, due to the opening of fuel outlets selling compressed natural gas in districts covered under the 10th round of bidding, vehicle manufacturers have begun selling such variants,” said an industry source. Tamil Nadu is the last State to add natural gas to its energy basket in the country. At present, there are 228 geographical areas authorised by the PNGRB in 27 States and Union Territories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-more-areas-under-cng-network/article36507830.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||659 died in road accidents in city this year||An analysis of road accidents in the Greater Chennai police limits reported between January 1 and September 7 reveals that 659 people died and 3,325 sustained injuries. About 26% (173) of the dead and 37% (1,214) of the injured were riding two-wheelers. Also, 74% (126) of the two-wheeler riders who died (173) and 86% (1,056) of injured persons were not wearing helmets, the police said. As per a study on the compliance of helmet rule conducted in June at 10 junctions, 72% of two-wheeler riders were found to be adhering to it. The police conducted vigorous awareness campaigns and began strict enforcement of the rule during a drive in August and booked 3,58,548 cases under the Motor Vehicles Act. Of these, 1,29,240 cases were booked against two-wheeler riders who were not wearing helmets. “The Greater Chennai Traffic Police have been taking steps to enforce traffic rules in the city to reduce accidents and fatalities due to accidents,” said Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Pradip Kumar, in a press release. In the last few weeks, the level of compliance with the helmet rule among two-wheeler riders has increased to 86% from 72%, he said. “The Greater Chennai Police will continue the special drive and awareness campaigns to ensure that all two-wheeler riders and pillion riders comply with the helmet rule,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/659-died-in-road-accidents-in-city-this-year/article36507821.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt.’s move gives relief to MTC, Corporation||The removal of toll plazas on Rajiv Gandhi Salai, popularly known as Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR), which was one of the many poll promises made by the DMK, has been welcomed by the residents as well as the State Transport Department and the Greater Chennai Corporation. The main beneficiary of this move among all government entities is the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC). A senior official of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation Chennai (MTC), a subsidiary of (TNSTC), said although Rajiv Gandhi Salai was a high collection corridor, the toll had offset the earnings. The MTC operates more than 130 services on the Information Technology Expressway. It has been paying about Rs. 7 lakh a month as toll charges. The official said the removal of four toll plazas will result in significant savings for the MTC. The TNSTC (Villupuram) will also save some cost as it operated a few buses on the IT corridor route. Relief to civic body The government’s decision provides relief to the Greater Chennai Corporation as the Tamil Nadu Road Development Company, which manages the road, wanted toll paid for garbage trucks. While the Corporation was not paying any toll for the garbage trucks earlier, the Highways Department started demanding user fees for garbage trucks belonging to to Urbaser Sumeet. However, by the time the federation could raise the issue with the Minister concerned, the toll plazas had been removed. Danger zone Residents want to know if the booths at the plaza locations would be removed. “Many people, especially two-wheeler riders, drive on the wrong side at Perungudi plaza. This is due to the absence of police, and a median. If the booths are removed, a median could be laid and provision for a U-turn would help,” said Kannan Baktavatsalam, a resident of Mettukuppam. Many motorists using the road have also sought clarity on the status of their local resident passes to be used at the lone toll plaza that is functional now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govts-move-gives-relief-to-mtc-corporation/article36507826.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Search on for Nigerian gang that conned 35 women||The Cyber Crime Police have launched a hunt to nab members of a Nigerian gang which defrauded women through a matrimony portal by posing as prospective bridegrooms. Two members of the gang were arrested in New Delhi on September 3 for duping a woman doctor in the city with one of them posing as a doctor based in the Netherlands using a fake profile. The 45-year-old woman doctor of Perambur is separated from her husband and lives with her mother and 11-year-old son. She decided to remarry and registered on a popular matrimony site in February. The fraudsters made her transfer Rs. 4.5 lakh under the pretext of sending a gift parcel and demanded money for air travel of the bridegroom and so on. During investigation, it was found that the accused had created fake profiles on a matrimony website. They operated four bank accounts, three Indian mobile numbers and a few foreign phone numbers for committing the offences, and swindled Rs. 4.5 lakh. The police said the accused obtained SIM cards by misusing identity documents of others. The mobile phone subscriber’s address details were found to be fake but the calls from the mobile numbers were traced to Uttam Nagar in New Delhi. On analysing CCTV footage, one was identified to be a Nigerian national. Subsequently, the police arrested the two Nigerian nationals — Paulinus Chikeluo, 31, and Cletus Ikechukwu, 23, who were staying in New Delhi. A senior police officer said, “We interrogated the accused after taking them into custody and analysed their call records and cash transactions, besides data stored on laptops. Our investigation revealed that apart from these two, more persons are involved in the matrimony fraud. The gang has cheated more than 35 women who were looking for bridegrooms for second marriage through matrimony sites. We have launched a hunt to nab the remaining accused.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-on-for-nigerian-gang-that-conned-35-women/article36507832.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. to form panel to ensure social justice||The Tamil Nadu government will constitute a committee to monitor social justice in education, employment, postings, promotions and appointments, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Thursday, the centenary of the first ‘Communal G.O.’ issued by the Justice Party government in the Madras Presidency. “The scale [communal reservation] to ensure social justice is available legally. But we have decided to constitute a committee to monitor whether it is implemented fully,” he said in a statement. If the norms were not followed, this committee of bureaucrats, educationists and legal experts would recommend appropriate measures. Guidelines for its functioning would be issued soon. The ‘Communal G.O.’ had had a great influence beyond the borders of the Madras Presidency, Mr. Stalin said. It had made a great impact on several generations of the Tamil society, and it was the very basis of social justice, marking as it did the start of the social justice movement. The constitution of the committee was the next stage in the long history of this movement. Mr. Stalin recalled the Justice Party’s contributions, since it was founded in 1916, to the welfare of various sections, especially the poor. In line with his announcement in the Assembly earlier this month, Mr. Stalin would preside over an event to be held on the ‘Day of Social Justice’ on September 17, the birth anniversary of social reformer ‘Periyar’ E.V. Ramasamy. In it, government officials would take a pledge.  Communal reservation to ensure social justice is available legally. But we have decided to constitute a committee to monitor its implementation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-to-form-panel-to-ensure-social-justice/article36507816.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ISRO working on reusable GSLV Mk-III launch vehicle||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) is working on technologies that will enable it to land the GSLV Mk-III launch vehicles vertically, similar to what Elon Musk’s SpaceX is doing, and to recover the first and second stages, a senior official said. This will enable the space agency to reuse the GSLV Mk-III, thus helping it save money, the official said. Speaking at an international space conference and exhibition organised by the CII, V.T. Baskar, project director, GSLV Mk-III, said the space agency had been working on multiple mini-projects. “If we recover the first and second stages, we will have a lot of cost advantage. Already studies are on. Mini projects...have been approved for landing experiments. We have to implement a few enabling technologies to have the capability to take a wing body or large body to land safely.” Mr. Baskar said the ISRO was working on augmenting its technologies for landing launch vehicles and hoped to have a technology demonstrator in the next one year. Landing on legs “Landing on legs like what SpaceX is doing has also been planned for this year or the next year,” Mr. Baskar said. “We will have the most critical technologies for recovering the stages. Once we have mastered recovery and landing, we will have a lot of cost advantage”. He said the Gaganyaan human-rated GSLV Mk-III had a better human fraction payload factor than other vehicles. “However, this is not adequate when we plan for human space programmes that are intended for longer-duration space missions or human space applications such as asteroid mining. There is a definite space for augmenting the higher capability of the launch vehicles,” he said. Mr. Baskar said a “wholesale change or augmentation” was required for this. One of the ways of augmenting the vehicle would be to rework its three stages. “We will replace the second liquid stage with a semi-cryo stage, and the terminal cryo stage, C-25, will be converted into C-32. Also the inert mass for the terminal stage will be optimised,” he said, adding that the use of mini and micro electronics would bring down the total mass of avionics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isro-working-on-reusable-gslv-mk-iii-launch-vehicle/article36507841.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VIT, Sedaxis set up centre of excellence||A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed by VIT Chennai with SEDAXIS Advanced Materials Pvt. Ltd. to establish a Centre of Excellence (CoE) for Additive Manufacturing in 3D printing. The VIT-Sedaxis Centre for Excellence, which will be located on the VIT campus in Chennai, will help accelerate the adoption of 3D printing in various industry sectors such as automotive, aerospace, defence, manufacturing, consumer goods, education, service bureaus, healthcare and construction among others. Kanchana Bhaaskaran, Pro Vice-Chancellor, VIT Chennai, said that industries across all the domains situated in and around Chennai can utilise the expertise of the VIT faculty and the 3D printing facilities at the Centre for their manufacturing needs such as design, prototyping, tooling, and small-batch manufacturing of the components. “Besides providing solutions to social and industrial problems, we are looking forward to witnessing many remarkable outcomes as part of this association in terms of supporting academic research and projects,” she said. Vishwanath Godavarty, Business Head for 3DP at Sedaxis, said there was need for such facilities in the country and it was their joint vision with VIT to democratise 3D Printing and help make it more accessible to the thousands of SMEs across the region.  Industries situated in and around Chennai can utilise the expertise of VIT faculty and the 3D printing facilities at the Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vit-sedaxis-set-up-centre-of-excellence/article36507823.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||50% of total person days under urban job scheme to be set aside for women||No less than 50% of the total person days under the Tamil Nadu Urban Employment Scheme will be earmarked for women. Women and men will be paid the same wages for the same unskilled and semi-skilled work. The scheme, to be fully funded by the State government, is based on the recommendations of a committee led by former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan. Under it, job-seekers will be enumerated and slotted in three categories — unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled. It will give gainful employment to the urban poor by engaging them in the creation and maintenance of public assets such as parks, playgrounds, storm-water drains, roads and buildings and rejuvenation of waterbodies. Rs. 100 crore allocated An initial allocation of Rs. 100 crore has been made during 2021-22 for the scheme, which is aimed at improving livelihood and social security by increasing job opportunities and through creation and maintenance of public assets. It will be implemented in two zones in the Greater Chennai Corporation, one zone each in 14 municipal corporations, one municipality each in seven regions and one town panchayat each in 37 districts during 2021-22. The job-seekers from every household will be registered and given a job card. Those having these cards can apply for employment in their urban local bodies. The workers will receive wages once in a week. “The workers will be given specified wages, which will be fixed through a proper time and motion study. The wages will be paid on the basis of the outcome of the work indicated against the approved/notified daily rate,” says a government order. All payments will be made through the Electronic Fund Management System and a mechanism to redress grievances will be established to ensure accountability. There will be an online management information system to monitor the implementation of the scheme under which all adult members of a household can register themselves and apply for employment.  The scheme, to be fully funded by the State government, is based on the recommendations of a committee led by former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-person-days-under-job-scheme-to-be-set-aside-for-women/article36507850.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman undergoes surgery for neck pain||A 28-year-old woman from Bangladesh underwent a CT-guided minimally invasive neurosurgical procedure for chronic pain in a city hospital recently. The patient had severe pain on the left side of the nape of neck and head. Doctors at MGM Healthcare diagnosed that the pain was emanating from the left cervical C2 Dorsal root ganglion, a press release said. K. Sridhar, director, Institute of Neurosciences and Spinal Disorder of the hospital, said in occipital neuralgia, the pain can be relieved in 90% of patients through medication. “This patient had excruciating pain for seven to eight years and she was unable to do her daily work. She had exhausted all options provided by medication and we needed to do an intervention,” he told reporters on Thursday. Interventional radiologists planned for a CT-guided radio frequency (RF) ablation procedure. RF ablations are used for many nerve ablations for pain relief in other parts of the body such as the shoulder and knees but not for C2 Dorsal root, according to Navin Gnanasekaran, associate director, medical services, and senior consultant — radiology. The complex anatomical location was one of the challenges as it was located close to the spine, the doctors said.  N. Arunkumar, senior consultant, radiology, and V. Ponniah, associate director, Institute of Neurosciences and Spinal Disorders, spoke. Harish Manian, chief executive officer of the hospital, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-undergoes-surgery-for-neck-pain/article36507834.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Direction to issue copy of cause of death certificate||The Director of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine, who is the Chief Registrar of Births and Deaths, has directed all birth and death registrars in the State to issue a copy of a medical certificate of cause of death to the next of kin of a deceased person, if sought by them. In a press release, the DPH said in case of deaths for which the medical certificate of cause of death was not obtained or when families were not satisfied with the cause of death mentioned in the certificate obtained from the birth and death registrar, they could apply to the Collector and get the official document for COVID-19 death, after the application is considered by the district-level committee. SC directive The official referred to a Supreme Court directive to frame guidelines to simplify the process of issuing “official documents for COVID-19 deaths” to families of those who had died of coronavirus. Following this, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had issued guidelines to the States to form district-level panels headed by the respective Collectors to look into the applications received on COVID-19 deaths and issue the official document for deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/direction-to-issue-copy-of-cause-of-death-certificate/article36507853.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Indian chess team calls on Chief Minister||The Indian chess team led by Viswanathan Anand, which secured a bronze medal in the FIDE Online Chess Olympiad 2021, called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat in Chennai on Thursday. The Chief Minister handed over certificates to the players, an official release said. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-chess-team-calls-on-chief-minister/article36507822.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The Chennai Angels ties up with NAN||The Chennai Angels (TCA) has struck a deal with the Madurai-based Native Angels Network (NAN) to co-invest on start-ups across Tamil Nadu. As per the agreement, the two will coordinate and plan common pitch sessions on a case-to-case basis. They intend to not only fund but also mutually support start-ups for select activities. “The game plan is to ensure that State-based start-ups get access to a large pool of investors,” said R. Sivarajah, founder and CEO of Native Angels Network. “We are mainly concentrating on investing in early-stage start-ups emerging from small towns of Tamil Nadu. This tie-up will provide an opportunity for our investors to look at projects based in bigger cities and likewise we will work with TCA investors to look at projects in smaller towns,” he added. At present, NAN has 252 investors across the State from places including Madurai, Coimbatore, Erode, Karur, Thoothukudi and Tiruchi. The network has investors from the U.S. and Japan. “Tamilians who have settled there are now investing in State-based start-ups,” Mr. Sivarajah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-chennai-angels-ties-up-with-nan/article36507835.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Implement Clean Air Action Plan’||PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Thursday wrote to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, urging him to immediately implement the State Clean Air Action Plan. Tamil Nadu and other States should have implemented it by 2020, as envisaged in the National Clean Air Program, he said. The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had sought a response from States, including Tamil Nadu, he said. Expressing disappointment over the non formulation of the plan in Tamil Nadu, he said the State government should formulate and implement it without delay. The plan should be formulated after inviting comments from the public, NGOs, parties, MLAs, MPs and representatives of local bodies, among others, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/implement-clean-air-action-plan/article36507849.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meeting of education officials held||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi led a meeting of school education officials on Thursday in Chennai. Speaking on the sidelines of the meeting, he said the main focus was on the announcements made for the development of school education in the State during the Assembly proceedings. “Nearly 28 new announcements were made for the department, and these were discussed by the Textbook Corporation, SCERT and the Directorate of Matriculation Schools. Directors and joint directors from the department took part, and discussed their focus areas and set targets for the same,” he said. Addressing concerns raised against students who have dropped out owing to closure of schools during the pandemic, Mr. Mahesh said district-level officials had already been asked to check with schools about how many were not in attendance. The Minister said since schools reopened on September 1, through random checks, 148 students had tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-of-education-officials-held/article36507837.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches mass feeding scheme||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday virtually inaugurated the day-long annadhanam scheme at Subramaniya Swamy temple in Tiruchendur, Mariamman temple in Samayapuram, and Subramanya Swami temple in Tiruttani by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. About 7,500 devotees are expected to benefit daily in these three temples. They could have food anytime between 8 a.m. and 10 p.m. under this scheme. Arulmigu Aranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam and Arulmigu Dhandayuthapaniswamy temple in Palani are the other two temples under the department where the day-long annadhanam scheme is being implemented at present. Fisheries Minister Anitha R. Radhakrishnan, HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, Minister for Dairy Development S.M. Nasar, legislators, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-mass-feeding-scheme/article36507858.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City ophthalmologists chosen for U.S. association’s award||Two ophthalmologists from Dr. Agarwal’s Group of Eye Hospitals here have been chosen for the Secretariat Award of the American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO) for 2021. They are Ashvin Agarwal, chief clinical officer and executive director of the group, and Soosan Jacob, director and chief, Dr. Agarwal’s Refractive and Cornea Foundation. A release said that Dr. Jacob had 21 years of experience and had received several prestigious awards, including the International Society of Refractive Surgery’s Kitzinger Memorial Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-ophthalmologists-chosen-for-us-associations-award/article36507824.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 held for diesel adulteration||The Civil Supplies CID Police have arrested three persons on charges of adulterating diesel. The police seized huge quantities of hexane, used for the adulteration, as well as adulterated diesel, near Poonamallee. Following information received, John Sundar, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Chennai sub division, came across an oil tanker at the Vandalur bypass bridge, near Sitharkadu Road. The lorry was carrying hexane from Vijayawada to a factory near Poonamallee. The driver had parked the vehicle and the accused were unloading hexane illegally from it. The police arrested three persons, who were identified as S. Ayubkhan, 50 of Arcot, Ranipet district; P. Prabakaran, 42, of Thoothukudi; and A. Alex, 49, of Sattankulam. The police also seized the vehicle containing diesel and 21,690 kg of hexane. A case has been registered under the Motor Spirit and High Speed Diesel (Regulation of Supply and Distribution and Prevention of Malpractice) Order, 1998 and the Essential Commodities Act. The police said the accused were trying to take advantage of the increase in fuel prices and sold the adulterated fuel at Rs. 60 a litre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-diesel-adulteration/article36507820.ece
17 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||R.N. Ravi arrives in Chennai||Governor-designate R.N. Ravi arrived in Chennai on Thursday. He is expected to assume office at Raj Bhavan on Saturday. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin received Mr. Ravi at the air terminus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-governor-to-be-sworn-in-on-saturday/article36507843.ece
17 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 appropriate behaviour key to bringing down new infections: Collector||Sustaining COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and achieving complete vaccination of eligible population should be the main focus to bring down the rate of new infections, Coimbatore Collector G.S. Sameeran said on Thursday. The district’s Test Positivity Rate (TPR) fluctuated between 1.7 % and 2 % for the last several days and the average TPR was around 2 %. “People should follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour to bring down the new cases. Also, the public should be careful to avoid formation of new COVID-19 clusters. The district administration and the Health Department are simultaneously pushing to increase the inoculation rate,” Mr. Sameeran told The Hindu . Due to stringent control measures, the district had a seroprevalence rate of 43 % in July this year. However, this meant that only 43 % of the people whose samples were collected had developed antibodies and the remaining population was susceptible to infection. “Now the vaccination rate has increased and we aim to cover the eligible population through routine camps and mega vaccination drives like the one held on September 12,” he said. As on Thursday evening, 30.17 lakh doses of vaccines were administered in the district of which 23.65 lakh were first doses and 6.52 lakh were second doses as per the CoWIN portal. The district’s total population is 38,67,926, according to the Revenue Department and 27,07,550 persons are aged above 18, currently eligible for vaccination. Mr. Sameeran urged people to alert the Health Department or local bodies when more cases were getting reported from a locality, so that new clusters could be prevented. “Places like hostels and old age homes are more likely to have new clusters,” he said. On Wednesday, a cluster was reported in a private educational institution. The source of infection was identified as four students who came from Kerala, though they had COVID-19 negative certificate. As the disease can spread easily in marriage halls and markets, Mr. Sameeran and Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara made a surprise visit to a marriage hall at Peelamedu on Thursday to check whether people followed safety norms such as physical distancing, wearing of mask, maintaining respiratory hygiene, frequent hand washing and cleaning frequently-touched surfaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-appropriate-behaviour-key-to-bringing-down-new-infections-collector/article36507892.ece
17 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Road near Prozone Mall to be widened into four lane||The State Highways Department will soon widen 1.5 km of road near Prozone Mall here into a four-lane stretch. An official of the NH wing of the Department told The Hindu the stretch was identified as an accident prone one and was being taken up for widening. About 45 trees on either side of the existing road would be brought down for the widening work. To be done at Rs. 5.92 crore, the four-laning work would be completed by the end of March next year. The Department would also widen the existing road near Seyyur pirivu into a four-lane one at Rs. 5.31 crore. This widening work for one km was also taken up as it was an accident prone area and the works would be completed by the end of March, 2022. The flyover works on Trichy Road and at Koundampalayam would be completed by March next year or even before that. However, “We are asking the contractor to expedite the works near GN Mills,” the official added. Regarding the plan to construct a flyover at Singanallur, the official said the Department was preparing the estimate and it hoped to start works by December this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-near-prozone-mall-to-be-widened-into-four-lane/article36507874.ece
17 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murdering wife||The Thudiyalur police on Thursday arrested a 47-year-old man from a residential area on Thadagam Road on charges of murdering his wife. The police said Anandakumar of Manjeswari Colony was arrested for stabbing his wife Selvi (45) to death over a dispute. According to the police, Anandakumar, an autorickshaw driver, used to consume alcohol. “On Wednesday evening, Selvi questioned Anandakumar for talking to a woman over phone. This led to a quarrel between the couple and Anandakumar stabbed his wife with a knife,” said the police. Selvi suffered multiple stabs and the neighbours alerted the Thudiyalur police about the incident. A team led by sub-inspectors Jegannathan and Pandiammal rushed to the spot. Selvi, who was found unconscious, was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where doctors declared her dead. Though Anandakumar fled the spot after the incident, the police arrested him. He was remanded in judicial custody on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murdering-wife/article36507878.ece
17 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Four students in Coimbatore, Tiruppur districts test positive||Two school students each in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts have tested positive for COVID-19. Officials from the Health Department and School Education Department said on Thursday that a girl studying Class X at the Government Higher Secondary School, Irugur, and another girl studying Class XI at a government aided school in Somanur tested positive. Both of the students were asymptomatic. Swab samples of their contacts were lifted and physical classes continued after disinfection in the respective schools, the officials said. In Tiruppur district, two boys studying Class IX and X respectively at the Government High School, Kongalnagaram in Gudimangalam block tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Officials said nearly 200 samples of students and faculty members were lifted from the school on Thursday and regular classes continued. As any school with more than three positive cases will be closed for disinfection in the district, further action will be initiated based on the test results, according to the officials. R. Ramesh, Tiruppur Chief Educational Officer, said on Thursday that all District Educational Officers and Block Educational Officers had been instructed to inspect all schools in the district and check the compliance with the COVID-19 safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-students-in-coimbatore-tiruppur-districts-test-positive/article36507886.ece
17 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Additional restrictions in Coimbatore from today||The Coimbatore district administration has imposed new restrictions from September 17 to control the spread of COVID-19. In a release issued on Wednesday, Collector G.S. Sameeran said all shops except those selling milk, medicines, vegetables and groceries would remain shut on Sundays. Department stores and supermarkets would also remain closed. All restaurants and bakeries should offer only parcel services on Sundays and that too from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. only. All malls, cinemas, parks and tourist spots would remain shut on Sundays. The administration would allow wholesale markets to function, but on a rotation basis with only 50% traders present at a time. Likewise, farmers selling produce at farmers’ markets (Uzhavar Sandhai) would be allowed on a rotation basis. And, for all other markets including weekly markets the restrictions already in place would continue. The release also said the Pollachi cattle market would be open only for local customers. Buyers from other districts or States would not be allowed. The Pollachi sub collector would ensure this. Starting September 20, managements or owners of shops in malls,textile shops, jewellery stores and other shops should ensure that their employees have had at least the first dose of vaccine. They should also take the responsibility to educate their customers, the Collector said and wanted them to follow all COVID-19 appropriate behaviour as the positive case count was on the rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-restrictions-in-coimbatore-from-today/article36507884.ece
17 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Operate all TNSTC, private buses’||Consumer Awareness and Protection Association appealed to the State government to allow the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) and private bus operators to resume operations of all buses following the relaxations in COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. For students In a letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Association’s president N.R. Ravisankar said that school and college students found it difficult to reach their respective institutions as the TNSTC and private buses had not been operating their full fleet despite the relaxations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/operate-all-tnstc-private-buses/article36507887.ece
17 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DRI seizes gold, traded goods from air passengers, six arrested||Officials of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence arrested six persons recently and recovered 3,985 gms of gold worth Rs. 1.92 crore and traded goods (foreign cigarettes, electronic items, etc) worth Rs. 1.16 crore. According to a release, six persons, who reached Coimbatore International Airport from Sharjah by Air Arabia flight on September 13, were intercepted based on specific intelligence. The passengers had concealed gold and traded goods in their body and dress. The officials recovered the goods worth totally Rs. 3.08 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dri-seizes-gold-traded-goods-from-air-passengers-six-arrested/article36507875.ece
17 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||One booked for sexual assault on minor girl||The All Women Police, Coimbatore central, booked a man on charges of sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl and impregnating her. The accused has been identified as Vishnukumar of Rathinapuri. The police said the girl, a class XII student, had got acquainted with the accused through social media. As per the girl’s complaint, on July 28, the accused told her that he was unwell. She visited him at his residence where he sexually assaulted her. On Wednesday, the girl’s mother took her to a hospital where the doctor found that she was pregnant. She told her parents about the incident and lodged a complaint with the police. Efforts were on to arrest the accused, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-booked-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article36507879.ece
17 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No power||September 18   Ukkadam (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.): Variety Hall Road, Town Hall, Oppanakkara Street area, TK Market area, Selvapuram, Kempatty Colony area, Karumbukadai, Athupalam area, Ukkadam area, Sungam bypass, Shanmugha Nagar, Alwin Nagar, Indira Nagar, Pari Nagar, Dr. Munnuswamy Nagar and nearby areas, State bank Road, Collector’s office, CMCH, Railway Station, Lorry Pettai.  Saravanampatti (9 a.m. to 2 p.m.): Saravanampatti, Ammak Koil, Chinnavedampatti, Krishnapuram, Sivanandapuram, Vellakinar, Urumandampalayam, Gounder Mills, Subramaniapalayam, KNG Pudur, part of Maniyakarampalayam, Lakshmi Nagar, Nachimuthu nagar, Jayaprakash Nagar, Ganapathi Pudur, Udayampalayam, Vellakinar Housing Unit, and Vinayakapuram North part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-power/article36507885.ece
17 September 2021||Kannur,TAMIL NADU||Kerala BJP chief quizzed in election bribery case||Kerala BJP president K. Surendran was questioned by the District Crime Branch in the Manjeswaram election bribery case on Thursday. The BJP leader appeared before District Crime Branch Deputy Superintendent of Police Satish Kumar at the Kasaragod Guest House by 10 a.m. The case was registered by the Badiaduka police based on a complaint that Mr. Surendran had bribed BSP candidate K. Sundara and threatened him to withdraw his candidature from Manjeswaram in the last Assembly polls. The case was later handed over to the Crime Branch. Mr. Surendran said the case was politically motivated. He told the investigators that he did not know Mr. Sundara and was not present on the day the money was allegedly paid. He further said he did not stay at the hotel in Talapady where Mr. Sundara allegedly signed papers to withdraw his nomination. He said he was cooperating with the probe because he had faith in the legal system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-bjp-chief-quizzed-in-election-bribery-case/article36507705.ece
17 September 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||IUML leader appears before ED||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader P. K. Kunhalikutty, MLA, on Thursday appeared before Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials in connection with an alleged money-laundering case. The case pertains to the allegations that former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju laundered Rs. 10 crore, said to be the kickbacks he received from awarding the contract for the construction of the Palarivattom flyover, through the account of the Chandrika , the mouthpiece of the IUML. Mr. Kunhalikutty later told mediapersons that he appeared before the ED officials as a witness and he would prove his innocence before the authorities. Jaleel’s evidence K.T. Jaleel, MLA, who raised the allegations of money laundering, had appeared twice before the officials to provide information on the allegations of corruption in the case. Last week, he was at the ED office in Kochi, which, according to him, was to hand over the evidence he collected to prove his allegations. The allegations of money laundering had rocked the IUML as the ED officials had questioned party supremo Panakkad Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal twice. Controversy Shocking the party rank and file, Mueen Ali Shihab Thangal, the elder son of Shihab Thangal, had come out against Mr. Kunhalikutty as the controversy over money laundering was raging. Mr. Mueen Ali, who held Mr. Kunhalikutty responsible for the fiasco, alleged that the health condition of his father deteriorated following the tension created by the interrogation. He also alleged that it was Mr. Kunjalikutty who handled the funds of the party. However, in a damage-control exercise, the IUML leadership distanced itself from the statements of Mr. Mueen Ali, also a leader of the Muslim Youth League, the youth wing of the party, and condemned his statements. The party also maintained that Mr. Shihab Thangal will decide on the future course of action on the issue once he recuperates from his illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iuml-leader-appears-before-ed/article36507703.ece
17 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Leaders make a beeline for Pala bishop’s house||Just as the controversy over the ‘narcotic jihad’ looked set to subside, the issue has begun to assume new proportions with more political leaders pouring into the bishop’s house in Pala. On Thursday morning, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Rajya Sabha MP Suresh Gopi reached Pala and held discussions with Mar Joseph Kallarangatt for nearly an hour. Speaking to reporters after the visit, Mr. Gopi said he visited the prelate not as a politician but as an MP. “The bishop never sought to cast aspersions on any particular religion, but was only referring to the activities by some sections. Why does a section of people take the onus when speaking about terrorism?” . Interestingly, Mr. Gopi's visit comes against the backdrop of his earlier statement that there was no need to go all the way to Pala and declare solidarity. A sudden change in his stance is attributed to an intervention by the BJP central leadership. Later in the afternoon, Kerala Congress (M) chairman Jose K. Mani arrived at the bishop’s house and held discussions with the prelate. Mr. Mani, who had been out of station over the last few days, said he had been in frequent contact with the bishop in view of the controversies. Mr. Mani was followed by a Congress delegation comprising Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K Sudhakaran, general secretary Tomy Kallani, and District Congress Committee president Nattakom Suresh. During the meeting that lasted about 45 minutes, Mr. Sudhakaran extended his wholehearted support to the bishop. Later in the day, Kerala Congress (Jacob) chairman Anoop Jacob also paid a visit to the bishop’s house. According to sources, more politicians and organisational heads, including Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader Valsan Thillenkeri, are likely to visit the bishop’s house. BJP leaders P.K. Krishnadas and A.N. Radhakrishnan visited the bishop here a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leaders-make-a-beeline-for-pala-bishops-house/article36507700.ece
17 September 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Solar powered bus shelter opened on Salem-Krishnagiri bypass road||A solar powered bus shelter, established with funding from Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme, was declared open by A. Chellakumar, MP, on Thursday. The shelter has been set up at a cost of Rs. 13.5 lakh near Aavin flyover on Salem-Krishnagiri bypass road. Dr. Chellakumar said the shelter had been a long pending demand by the constituents and benefit commuters waiting for inter-district buses. The shelter has been designed to be dismantled and reassembled for future relocation. In the event of road expansion works, the bus shelter can be easily dismantled and shifted to a new location. The bus shelter is fitted with solar panel and also equipped with LED TV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solar-powered-bus-shelter-opened-on-salem-krishnagiri-bypass-road/article36507988.ece
17 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Will complaint boxes protect girls from sexual offences?||Installation of complaint boxes on school premises to help female students drop their complaints against sexual offences should be made more effective by changing mindset of all stakeholders in protecting the girl children, feel activists. Based on recommendations of the Madras High Court, School Education Department had recently directed all schools across the State to install complaint boxes on their premises. Though the initiative comes with a good motive, women and child rights activists say that it could be a meaningful effort only when it is implemented in the right way, combined with other steps that have to be taken to ensure protection of children against sexual abuses. “The idea of a complaint box where students are given a space to write down their complaints is good. But, when it comes to follow up action, we need to look into many practical angles,” said women and child rights activist S. Selvagomathy from SOCO Trust. The complaint boxes cannot be placed under CCTV supervision expecting students to make use of it, without fear. Instead of a single box, multiple boxes can be kept in places like library or in the hallway closer to restrooms where students get some privacy. The effort should not stop there and regular awareness sessions must be given to children about sexual abuse to help them confidently open up on their problems to teachers or parents. “We need to take collective responsibility to ensure safety of children in schools and other places. With increasing number of cases of child abuse by teachers, it is very important to sensitise the male teachers on the issue. If a complaint comes up against a reputed teacher or official in this regards, the school management should not defend them mindlessly,” she adds. It is highly unlikely that children would open up about such issues on their own and that efficient committees against sexual abuse at the ground-level have to be formed, feels member-cum-bench magistrate of District Child Welfare Committee, L. Shanmugam. Teachers have to be trained to create an environment in which a child feels safe to talk about such things. “Coming up with a suggestion or complaint box in institutions is not a new idea. In fact, there are suggestion boxes across registered Child Care Institutions in the district. Though inspections of such boxes are done once in a month or two, we do not generally come across letters from children opening up about sexual abuse,” he points out. V. Elavarasi from Madurai Seed, a non-profit organisation that has been working towards uplifting children from disadvantaged backgrounds in the city, says, “We generally work with children from economically and socially backward backgrounds. They do not open up about any issues to their parents. Parents with no educational background are generally unsupportive when children face sexual abuse of any kind. They start blaming the victim. This needs to change first. Schools need to educate the parents first.” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-complaint-boxes-protect-girls-from-sexual-offences/article36507967.ece
17 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Parivar Dairies case: panel appointed to facilitate settlement to depositors||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has appointed a committee headed by a former judge of the Madras High Court Justice N. Kirubakaran to facilitate settlement of deposits in the financial fraud case involving Parivar Dairies. The CBI is conducting a probe into the case. The accused had cheated several depositors who had deposited money in the company which they were managing. They had collected Rs. 49.76 crore from a total of 17,379 depositors and the entire amount was misappropriated. Justice B. Pugalendhi appointed the committee after the petitioners: Rakesh Singh Narwaria and Ahibaran Singh, both accused in the case had agreed to settle the deposits made by the depositors. They sought the appointment of a committee to disburse the amount. During the course of the hearing in the case, the intervenors submitted that the total deposit amount was Rs. 77.91 crore and the maturity amount was Rs. 222.02 crore. It was said that the total depositors was 45,167. The court was informed that several depositors were not aware of the pending proceedings and many others did not know to whom they had to approach to lodge a complaint. A paper publication would be made on the proceedings so that depositors are made aware of details. The CBI submitted that a chargesheet was filed in the case and further investigation into the case was still continuing. The accused company had cheated depositors in Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh and properties were purchased in Dindigul, Chennai and Bangalore. After the petitioners said that they would pay a sum of Rs. 2.50 crore, the court granted them bail with conditions. The committee headed by the former High Court judge would facilitate the settlement of deposits and would be assisted by an advocate and other staff. A savings bank account would be created for this purpose. A mobile phone contact number and an e-mail will also be made available for the committee. The police shall also assist the committee. The accused should appear before the CBI, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parivar-dairies-case-panel-appointed-to-facilitate-settlement-to-depositors/article36507970.ece
17 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to grant bail to accused in illegal child adoption case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday refused to grant bail to Madarsha who is the second accused in the illegal child adoption case. Earlier, the court had dismissed the bail petition of the Director of Idhayam Trust G. R. Sivakumar, the main accused. Justice B. Pugalendhi took a serious view of the offence and observed that the court was not inclined to grant bail to the accused Madarsha, an accomplice of Sivakumar. The counsel for the accused sought to withdraw the petition and the petition was dismissed as withdrawn. The court has refused to grant bail to both the main accused in the case. It was said that a woman who was unable to maintain her children had handed them over to the home run by the Idhayam Trust. The main accused Sivakumar is said to have told the woman that her child was affected by COVID-19 and that he would take it to the hospital for treatment. Later, he told her that the child died of COVID-19 and the final rites were performed as per protocol. But, Sivakumar had instead sold the child to a childless couple. The woman suspecting the actions of Sivakumar had lodged a complaint. Following an inquiry, it was brought to light that the accused had also sold another child to another childless couple. It was said that he had told the couples that the legal formalities would be completed later. In their bail petitions, the couples said that they were made to believe that the adoption was done legally. The court granted bail to the two childless couples and three others in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-refuses-to-grant-bail-to-accused-in-illegal-child-adoption-case/article36508393.ece
17 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||EOW to probe financial fraud case involving ‘Helicopter Brothers’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court was informed by the State that the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) would probe the financial fraud case involving ‘Helicopter Brothers’ M. R. Ganesh and M. R. Swaminathan of Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. Justice B. Pugalendhi was told by the State that there were more than 41 complaints against the main accused and more than Rs. 500 crore foreign investment were made, particularly in Malaysia. The entire volume of the fraud had to be unearthed. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Akilandam, wife of M. R. Ganesh and another bail petition filed by a priest S. Venkatesan. Both the petitioners said that they were innocent and had played no role in the financial fraud committed by the brothers. The court granted bail to the priest after taking note of the fact that he was only involved in canvassing for investments to the company owned by the two brothers. However, the court refused to grant bail to Akilandam after it was said that she was a Director in the company. The ‘Helicopter Brothers’ are accused of cheating the residents of Kumbakonam of several crores of rupees. They had claimed that they were into diversified businesses, that included helicopter service, dairy farms, gold investments and financial companies. They were arrested based on the complaint lodged by the investors. The accused are remanded in judicial custody. Earlier, the court sought to know the total extent of the financial fraud committed by the brothers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eow-to-probe-financial-fraud-case-involving-helicopter-brothers/article36507949.ece
17 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘New recruits to Postal Department should clear regional language test’||Test on regional language should be included in recruitment of staff for the Postal Department to ensure proper services to the people, said Madurai MP, Su. Venkatesan. In a letter addressed to the Union Minister for Communication, Ashwini Vaishnav, he said that earlier a regional language test was conducted when recruitment was done by the Department. However, after recruitment for the posts of Postal Assistant, Sorting Assistant and Inspectors was handed over to Staff Selection Commission, the practice of test on regional language was not being conducted. The new recruits have to interact with people as part of their job and Inspectors have to deal with functioning of village post offices, Mr. Venkatesan said. People approaching them for services have to encounter lot of hardships and confusion. They are also not able to discharge their responsibilities effectively. “Among the 60 Inspectors recruited directly for Tamil Nadu in the last 10 years, 57 are from other States,” he said. Since postal services connect crores of people and with most of them living in rural areas, it was important for the staff to know the local language, the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-recruits-to-postal-department-should-clear-regional-language-test/article36507971.ece
17 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Cleanliness fortnight begins||Divisional Railway Manager, P. Ananth administered cleanliness awareness pledge to officers and staff at the divisional office here on Thursday as part of cleanliness fortnight beginning from September 16. The officials committed themselves to devoting 100 hours a year and two hours a week to cleanliness work. They would encourage others to follow them. Awareness rally, planting of saplings, essay competition to railway school students, would be taken up. Mass cleaning in major stations, service buildings and rail coaches have also been planned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cleanliness-fortnight-begins/article36507984.ece
17 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 130.85 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 907 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 57.00 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 581 cusecs and a discharge of 1,219 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,761 mcft.    Tamil Nadu Governor-designate R.N. Ravi arrived in Chennai on Thursday. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin received Mr. Ravi at the airport. Ministers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36507979.ece
17 September 2021||MYSURU,TAMIL NADU||Hindu groups protest temple demolition||The protest against the demolition of a temple near Nanjangud intensified on Thursday with a large number of activists of VHP, Hindu Jagarana Vedike and other organisations taking to the streets in Mysuru and chanting slogans against the government. The protesters assembled in front of Kote Anjaneyaswamy temple at the north gate of the palace, and raised slogans against the State government, embarrassing BJP MLA S.A. Ramdas and supporters of the ruling party who were in the vicinity. The demolition of Mahadevamma temple at Hucchagani near Nanjangud has embroiled the BJP in a controversy as leaders across the political spectrum have slammed the government. The issue has divided the BJP as a section of elected representatives, including Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, have criticised the district administration and spoken out against the demolition. On the other end, Mr. Ramdas and others in the party say that court orders have to be implemented even as legal efforts will be made to safeguard temples. Mysuru district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar told mediapersons that it was natural for VHP and other such groups to be upset and described their protest as ‘justified’. He denied that the stir by Hindu organisations against removal of unauthorised temples from public places is an embarrassment to the BJP. Nearly 100 temples in Mysuru have been identified as unauthorised, but Mr. Somashekar said the demolition drive has been stopped for now. The issue will be discussed by the Cabinet and a final decision will be taken over clearing unauthorised places of worship, he said. A report has been sought on demolition of Mahadevamma temple from the local authorities, he added. The Hindu Jagarana Vedike’s organising secretary Jagadish Karanth questioned the district administration’s ‘haste’ in carrying out the demolition. The officials should be held accountable and the Vedike will intensify its agitation in case no action was taken within 10 days, he said. He wondered why places of worship could not be regularised when there was a precedent of regularising commercial and residential buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-groups-criticise-bjp-over-temple-demolition/article36507694.ece
17 September 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Petrol bomb lobbed on house in Perambalur||The Perambalur police are on the lookout for Selva alias Neelakandan and Sathyamurthy who allegedly lobbed a petrol bomb in front of the house of a woman, a school teacher, in Perambalur Town in the late hours of Wednesday. Police sources said that the woman was in love with Neelakandan a few years ago. However, she apparently refused to continue the relationship after coming to know that Neelakandan had committed offences. Neelakandan and his associate Sathyamurthy went to her house, armed with a machete, and damaged the windshield of the car parked at the entrance and threatened the woman. They also lobbed a petrol bomb and escaped. None was injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-bomb-lobbed-on-house-in-perambalur/article36507961.ece
17 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination certificates will be needed to avail of benefits: L-G||A certificate of proof of vaccination against COVID-19 will soon be a precondition for availing of benefits of government schemes and even the Diwali special gifts likely from the Puducherry government, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Thursday. Flagging off the Indian Air Force East Coast Cycle Expedition in front of the Raj Nivas to commemorate the 1971 war victory over Pakistan, Ms. Soundararajan said it was proposed to conduct door-to-door surveys on vaccination status of families and to identify those yet to volunteer for the jab. Pensioners, as one of the most vulnerable sections of the population, who did not take the shot would be identified and prioritised for vaccination, the Lt. Governor said. Other segments that were the beneficiaries of the government schemes would also be surveyed to determine vaccination status, she said. The COVID-19 task force meeting that she chaired at the Raj Nivas on Thursday had decided to go into mission mode for achieving 100% vaccination in the Union Territory in 15 days. Stressing on the imperative of vaccination both in terms of personal protection as well as public good, Ms. Soundararajan appealed to an estimated 35% of the population, which was yet to volunteer for the first dose of the vaccine, to do so without any further delay. She reiterated the finding that an estimated 98% COVID-19 patients requiring ICU admission were those who had not received a single dose of vaccination. To a question on the high TPR in Karaikal, Ms. Soundarajan said one of the reasons for this was the contiguity with Tamil Nadu. An estimated 40% of patients in Puducherry institutions hailed from the neighbouring State and were being given proper care, she said. Instructions had been given to the district authorities in Karaikal to intensify prevention measures, the Lt. Governor said. The IAF cycle rally, which is also celebrating the 75th anniversary of Independence and to propagate the message of vaccination against COVID-19, has clocked over 700 km traversing places such as Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Chidambaram, Mamallapuram and Velankanni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-certificates-will-be-needed-to-avail-of-benefits-l-g/article36508219.ece
17 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Arumparthapuram bypass project yet to take off||In 2010, the Public Works Department mooted a four-lane bypass road at the intersection of the western arm of flyover on the 100-feet road that connects with the railway over bridge at Arumparthapuram in Villianur. However, the project is yet to take off. The inordinate delay has caused much resentment among the road users. The expansion of the 4.45 km stretch of the bypass was conceived by the PWD under the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (Hudco) scheme. The delay in executing the project has been mainly attributed to problems in acquiring land from four revenue villages — Olandai, Reddiyarpalayam, Kurumbapet and Odiampet — that fall under the corridor. According to official sources, the project has been going through rough patches from the initial stages. “The government had acquired the Right of Way for about 22 metres on the stretch. A mud road was laid from the western arm of the flyover on the 100-feet road to a distance of 2.25 km. But differences in fixing price for two revenue villages resulted in a few residents moving the court. This put the project in trouble. The issue was resolved after the government settled Rs. 39 crore to the landowners for the project,” an official said. However, the delay in the construction of the bypass road stretching from Indira Gandhi square to the Thattanchavady electric sub-station at Arumparthapuram has been leading to massive traffic blocks on the Puducherry-Villupuram corridor though two flyovers have been opened on the 100-feet road and Arumparthapuram. The sector has also been witnessing a spurt in traffic volume over the years. As a result, traffic jams have become the order of the day on the Puducherry-Villupuram road. For the last few years, residents have been demanding early completion of the bypass work to ease traffic congestion in the town. According to D. Vinoth, a techie of Odiansalai, traffic snarls are not uncommon even at odd hours and the situation only worsens during peak traffic hours. “The highways department has failed to put up sign boards about diversions and there are too many damaged stretches on the Villupuram road which have been left unattended to. “The road space has also shrunk and there is only limited space on the road for vehicles as business establishments have extended up to the road. And there is no end in sight for the troubles, as there is no clarity over the time it is going to take for completing the work.” he said. When contacted, a senior official of the PWD said a detailed project report for the bypass road had been prepared at a cost of Rs. 33.06 crore. The road would have four lanes with median and the proposal would be forwarded to Hudcofor sanction. Tenders would be floated once the project got the sanction, he added. On its completion, there would not be any need for people travelling to Indira Gandhi square from Madagadipet to enter Moolakulam or Reddiyarpalayam. They would be able to touch Natesan Nagar by taking the bypass road at the intersection of the flyover. This would also reduce the traffic from Indira Gandhi square to Moolakulam in the town limits. Besides, the proposed road would ease the traffic on many roads in the areas located around the Villupuram Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arumparthapuram-bypass-project-yet-to-take-off/article36508224.ece
17 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||The art of handling snakes with love||Several heads turned at the Rajiv Gandhi Square signal as a man on a two-wheeler stopped for the red light, holding a snake in one hand and expertly manoeuvring the vehicle with the other. Once the lights turned green, Leo Fabian, a hotelier in the city, rode off to the Forest Department to hand over a rat snake that he had caught while on his way to work. For Mr. Fabian, who works as general manager at the Hotel Villa Des Gouverneurs , it is second nature to catch/rescue all sorts of snakes, from the highly venomous vipers to rat snakes, that stray into city lanes. He hands the rescued reptiles over to the Forest Department or releases them back into shrubbery on the outskirts of the city. His lack of fear about serpents is something he picked up in childhood from his father, S. Marshal, who was army man who taught the family to love and coexist with all life forms. “Handled with the right mix of caution and care, they are no threat to humans. We must learn to correlate the sighting of a snake in an urban environ with the systematic destruction of greenery that has forcefully evicted these reptiles from their natural habitats,” said Mr. Fabian. Snakes stray into the city because humans have relentlessly damaged their natural homes and once that perspective is understood, killing would not be the default response, he said. Mr. Fabian has caught and rescued some highly venomous species of snakes such as vipers and cobras across the city, especially the sprawling campus of Jipmer, earning quite a reputation as a snake-catcher. “However, there is a certain way to catch a snake...you begin with the tail and turn it around quickly manually or with a stick to immobilise it before your hand goes anywhere near its fangs. Once the snake senses that you are not going to hurt it, you will be surprised to find it responsive to your handling,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-art-of-handling-snakes-with-love/article36508221.ece
17 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DGPS-based survey of temple lands begins in Salem region||A survey of temple lands using digital methods was launched on Thursday in the Salem region by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. The works are expected to be completed in a year. According to HR and CE officials, it is being conducted using differential global positioning systems (DGPS) provided by the Survey Department. The devices are fitted with SIM cards. Digital record of the lands belonging to the temples is created through the survey. Officials said that a four-member surveyor team and two rover devices had been provided to the Salem region, including Salem and Dharmapuri districts. A rover and two surveyors had been deployed for each district for conducting the survey. Officials said that the primary aim of the survey was to digitise temple land records and to protect the land from encroachers. Officials said once the survey was completed, it would be cross-checked with land data and title documents that were uploaded on the HR&CE Department’s website earlier. The survey works had begun on 110 acres of land belonging to Sukneshwar Temple at Alagapuram here. Officials said that the survey stones of about 5ft height, with common design would be erected on temple lands. There were 221 temples under the Joint Commissioner’s control and 2,400 temples under the Assistant Commissioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgps-based-survey-of-temple-lands-begins-in-salem-region/article36507995.ece
17 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Anti-diarrhoea drive in Salem, Krishnagiri||Intensive diarrhoea control fortnight will be observed till September 30 in the district. According to a release, 3,23,382 children aged below five will be covered under the campaign to prevent deaths due to diarrhoea. Village health nurses and anganwadi workers will visit children at their homes. The team will provide them with ORS solution and advise them on methods to use it. A total of 3,212 workers will be involved with the camps to be conducted at 107 primary health centres, 502 sub-health centres, 13 government hospitals and 2,709 anganwadis here, a release said. Krishnagiri In Krishnagiri, mass anti-diarrhoea drive that began here on Thursday will cover over 1,54,205 children in the district. The camp will end on September 30. According to the administration, 2,436 workers are engaged to cover 1,54,205 children aged under five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-diarrhoea-drive-in-salem-krishnagiri/article36507991.ece
17 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Two child labourers rescued in Salem||Two child labourers, who were working at a silver jewellery manufacturing unit near Thiruvagoundanur, were rescued by district administration on Wednesday. According to officials, the 17-year-old boy and 15-year-old girl, both from Salem, were employed as bonded labourers by Ganeshan to clear loans taken by the children’s parents. On Wednesday, the boy’s mother lodged a complaint with District Collector. Action was initiated immediately. A inter-department team, including revenue officials, child welfare department officials and police personnel visited the unit and rescued the children. According to officials, the children were shifted to the government home and action has been initiated against the owner of the silver jewellery manufacturing unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-child-labourers-rescued-in-salem/article36507996.ece
17 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem district reports 69 cases, three deaths||Salem district reported 69 COVID-19 positive cases and three deaths on Thursday. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 19 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 56 cases. Erode district reported 134 new cases taking the total cases to 1,00,332. Krishnagiri recorded 27 cases, while 10 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 241 as of Thursday. Dharmapuri recorded 33 fresh cases and one death., As many as 27 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 211. As of date, a total 27,199 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-reports-69-cases-three-deaths/article36507990.ece
17 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man gets 10 years jail for sexual assault on minor girl||The District Mahila Court here on Thursday sentenced a man to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting a minor girl. According to police, in 2010, Kumar from Mettumaranur near Omalur lured the 16-year-old girl from his locality with false promises and sexually assaulted her. Based on the complaint lodged by the girl’s father, a case was registered in Tharamangalam police station and police arrested Kumar. Fine imposed The mahila court judge also imposed a fine of Rs. 2,00 on the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-10-years-jail-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article36507992.ece
17 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Resume cancelled train services’||A Railway Users’ Committee member petitioned with the Salem Division Railway manager on Thursday demanding measures to resume train services which were cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic. R.P. Gopinath, Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee member and BJP leader, said that the public have been affected due to cancellation of services in certain routes. The petitioner also urged the division to operate trains from Salem to southern districts like Madurai, Thanjavur and Kumbakonam. He demanded that trains must be operated to Egmore, Karur, Coimbatore, to Tiruchi via Karur from Salem and to Mettur and Jolarpettai from Erode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resume-cancelled-train-services/article36507993.ece
17 September 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Gang of six murders BJP functionary in Sivaganga||A Muthupandi, 45, of Vairavanpatti near here, a BJP functionary, was murdered by an armed gang here on Thursday. Police said the six-member gang came in two motorcycles and after identifying the victim near a tea stall, assaulted him with deadly weapons and escaped from the spot. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Muthupandi was the vice-president of the party’s Sivaganga district unit. He lived with his wife, son and two daughters. His family was away at a relative's house and he went to a nearby tea stall in the evening. When the gang members went to his house, it found the door locked. After damaging the car parked in front of his house, they left the place. But soon they spotted Muthupandi having tea. Immediately, they chased him and attacked with weapons. Muthupandi was rushed to Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital, but the doctors said he died on admission. SP Senthil Kumar, DSP Palpandi and other officials visited the scene of crime. A senior official said some relatives had issues with Muthupandi and, perhaps, they could be behind the heinous crime. A three-member team had been formed to nab the killers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-functionary-murdered/article36507974.ece
17 September 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Two boys rescued||Revenue authorities and Child Protection Committee officials rescued two boys aged 14 and detained four accused on charges of practising bonded labour. Following a complaint received by Child Line, RDO (Sivaganga) Muthukaluvan was informed about the issue. A team comprising Assistant commissioner Labour (Enforcement) Rajkumar, District Child Protection Officer Ramachandran, Revenue Inspector Kalavathi and others secured the two boys, who were found grazing goats in a village. Based on their confession, the officials found that they belonged to Thanjavur district. It is said that Muthukannan, 62, and Anjammal, 53, both from Pethananjivayal in Thanjavur, took Rs. 60,000 and Rs. 50,000 from Krishnan near Kalayarkoil in Sivaganga and Dharmalingam in Sivaganga. In exchange, they allegedly sent the boys with them. After securing the four, the officials handed over the two boys to a home in the district. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-rescued-from-bonded-labour/article36507980.ece
17 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||School teacher booked under POCSO Act||The Kumbakonam East Police have arrested a school teacher under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act based on complaints from girl students studying in an aided school in the town. Inquiries revealed that the 57-year-old teacher taking classes to the higher secondary level students has the track record of submitting letters to the school authorities seeking clemency as and when such charges of sexual harassment by him on girl students surfaced since 2004. Meanwhile, after the school was reopened recently, 23 girls lodged complaints with the School Headmaster about his misdeed. Following an inquiry, the school authorities suspended him and brought the issue to the notice of Superintendent of Police C. Ravali Priya Gandhapuneni. Subsequently, the Kumbakonam East Police registered a case under POCSO Act and arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-teacher-booked/article36507939.ece
17 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Two migrant workers killed in wall collapse||Two migrant labourers from Jharkhand were buried alive on Thursday evening as a compound wall collapsed when they were working in a trench dug for construction of storm water drainage. Police said a team of migrant labourers from Jharkhand were involved in digging the trench for storm water drainage, which is under construction for the past three years to drain rainwater in State Bank Colony and adjoining areas during monsoon. Even as an earthmover was digging the trench near the compound wall of a marine products export company in Sundaravelpuram here, the migrant labourers were preparing the steel bars for constructing the concrete wall of the storm water drainage. “Since the soil in this region is loose, the workers involved in digging trenches in the area usually give support with steel poles to adjoining compound walls and other structures to prevent possible collapse. Without taking this precaution, the migrant labourers had been involved in the work that triggered the collapse of the compound wall of the company,” said a police officer who visited the spot. When the compound wall collapsed, seven migrant workers, all from Jharkhand, who were preparing the steel bars for concreting the storm water drainage, were trapped beneath undre it. While Bagrad Ali, 21 and Amit, 24, both suffered grievous injuries and died on the spot, others were rescued with injuries by Fire and Rescue Services personnel. They were rushed to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for treatment. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi City, Ganesh, visited the spot and grilled the supervisor of the work. “Since the workers were not provided with safety gears such as helmets, gloves and boots, two persons have been killed in the wall collapse,” said the sources in the police. Thoothukudi North police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-migrant-workers-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-thoothukudi/article36507976.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fish and meat market razed||The Tiruchi Corporation on Thursday began demolishing the fish and meat market behind Gandhi Market to clear the site for constructing a new building for the market. After issuing work order to build the new meat-cum-fish market at a cost of Rs. 13 crore, the Corporation had issued an ultimatum to fish, mutton and poultry traders to remove their belongings within Monday. They were asked to move to alternative sites till the construction of the new building. But none of them shifted their business until Thursday morning. They transacted business as usual on Thursday. Following this, Corporation officials led by P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman visited the market on Thursday and asked the traders to remove their belongings immediately. The officials warned that if they failed to cooperate, their belongings would be seized. The traders subsequently began removing their items. They shifted their items meant for trading to the Golden Jubilee Bazaar and the nearby slaughtering house. After ensuring the removal of their belongings by most of the traders, an earthmover employed by the Corporation demolished a portion of the 50-year-old building where about 60 traders were doing business. A Corporation official said that the entire building would be brought down before dawn on Friday and subsequently the site would be handed over to the contractor. The new meat market would be built on 25,000 sq ft at the same spot. It will have 148 stalls on two floors with separate provisions made for fish, mutton and chicken traders. An arrangement would be in place for parking 200 two-wheelers. There was no cold storage facility in the existing building but the new building would have one for fish traders. Establishing a waste disposal mechanism was also part of the plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fish-and-meat-market-razed/article36507941.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||MEMU shed to be established soon||With several stretches falling under its jurisdiction having been electrified already, the Tiruchi railway division plans to establish an exclusive shed for maintenance of Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) rakes in Tiruchi. The divisional railway authorities have set the process in motion by identifying location for the proposed MEMU maintenance shed in Ponmalai. The exercise of preparing estimates for the facility by involving various departments is under way, Divisional Railway Manager Manish Agarwal told The Hindu on Thursday. The detailed plan for the establishment of the MEMU shed, which would be the first of its kind for Tiruchi Railway Division, is being done involving engineering, signal, electrical and operating departments. The extent of land required for the shed and other infrastructure were being worked out. Scope for future expansion would also form part of the detailed plan. The plan is to accommodate a 12-car MEMU rake in the shed which would also be equipped with overhead electrical arrangements. The detailed estimates would be forwarded to the Southern Railway headquarters shortly, Mr. Agarwal said. The plan would thereafter be forwarded to the Railway Board, New Delhi for approval and sanction of funds. Scope for service Although major stretches falling under the Tiruchi division have been electrified with electric loco hauled express and freight trains being operated, there is no operation of MEMU trains anywhere in the Division. The Tiruchi - Villupuram via Vriddhachalam chord line section; Villupuram - Thanjavur mainline section; Tiruchi - Thanjavur - Tiruvarur - Nagapattinam - Nagore - Karaikal; Puducherry - Villupuram, and Villupuram - Tiruvannamalai sections have all been electrified. Railway officials here expect that the first MEMU train service with eight to 12 cars could be operated before this year-end. A few stretches were being considered for operation of MEMU services. Even if the MEMU services were to be introduced soon, the maintenance of the rakes would be done in Chennai till Tiruchi MEMU shed is set up. At present, MEMU maintenance sheds are functioning in Chennai, Palakkad and Thiruvananthapuram Divisions. The Tiruchi Division has two Coaching Complexes - one in Tiruchi Junction and the other in Villupuram Junction - where primary maintenance of some express and passenger coaches and DEMU (Diesel Electric Multiple Unit) rakes are being done regularly. Tiruchi Division has a Diesel Loco Shed at Ponmalai housing a fleet of diesel locomotives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/memu-shed-to-be-established-soon/article36507958.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Changing, cloak rooms at Puliancholai soon||Work on construction of changing and cloak rooms at Puliancholai, a popular picnic destination in the district, would be completed within the next two months. Puliancholai is situated about 70 km from Tiruchi and picnickers throng the place to take bath in the stream that meanders down the Kolli hills, traversing through vegetation of medicinal plants. The green and serene location has been a favourite spot for picnickers, especially during weekends. However, absence of public toilets and changing rooms and unchecked littering by youths throwing away empty liquor bottles have been major grouse of visitors. Last year, the Tourism Department sanctioned Rs. 32 lakh for improving amenities at the location. Construction of a changing room and a cloak room were among the important components of the works sanctioned. For, many visitors who take bath in the room had felt the need for changing room. Also given the rugged terrain and the presence of monkeys, a cloak room to leave behind baggage was also a felt need. “Work on the construction of the cloak room and changing room is expected to be completed in another 45 days,” an official of the Tourism Department said. The department is also likely to carry out a sapling plantation drive at Puliancholai on the occasion of World Tourism Day later this month. The department is also scouting for land for establishing a full-fledged car parking lot. However, land availability at the spot is a constraint with most areas coming under the Forest Department. The department has sought information on availability of land owned by the Pachaperumalpatti village panchayat or Uppilliyapuram panchayat union, according to sources. The Tangedco is also in the process of erecting a 1 x 20 MW Kollimalai Hydro Electric Project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/changing-cloak-rooms-at-puliancholai-soon/article36507953.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pedestrians forced to walk along the road as vendors encroach footpaths||Footpaths along Madurai Road have been encroached by street vendors putting pedestrians at risk and forcing them to walk on the road. The recently-built footpaths around the District Central Library, and behind it have been taken over by vendors selling a variety of articles during day and food stalls at night. The Tiruchi Corporation constructed pathways in various parts of the city last year for convenience of pedestrians and also as storm water drains to allow for smooth flowing of rainwater. However, the pavements on Madurai Road, and the street next to the District Central Library connecting it with West Boulevard Road have become extensions of commercial establishments. While some small vendors set up their wares on the footpath itself, plastic sheets have been tied to serve as a shelter and seating area for roadside eateries. These obstructions force the pedestrians to walk on the road, and not the footpath. “The Madurai Road has one way traffic with heavy vehicles, including buses, plying regularly. It is unsafe to walk on the roads, but there is no other way,” a pedestrian said. A Twitter user drew attention to the issue by posting pictures of the encroachments. “This stretch of the Madurai Road, which is a one way, witnesses a lot of traffic throughout the day. Many even drive on the wrong side. It also gets completely waterlogged during rains. It is sad to see people walking in the water and dodging traffic when there is a perfectly good footpath,” the user, who goes by ‘Ward 56 Watcher’ on Twitter told The Hindu . These pathways have two roles - for pedestrians to walk and as storm water drains, preventing stagnation of water on the roads. “These footpaths are doing neither. It is a waste of money and needs to be rectified,” he added. Officials of the civic body said that a drive to evict street vendors without necessary licences would be carried out soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pedestrians-forced-to-walk-along-the-road-as-vendors-encroach-footpaths/article36507946.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Whole day ‘annadhanam’ on||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on Thursday launched whole day ‘annadhanam’ at Mariamman Temple in Samayapuram near here through video conference from Chennai.  Devotees who had come to the temple to offer worship were served food at the Amavasai mandapam just for the first day. Joint Commissioner and Executive Officer of the temple S. Kalyani said food would be provided in packets the whole day to devotees hereafter in view of the COVID-19 pandemic until such time full relaxations were announced. Additional cooks would be deployed and infrastructure augmented for implementing the whole day ‘annadhanam.’ The Samayapuram temple is the second major shrine in Tiruchi district where the scheme of providing ‘annadhanam’ throughout the day is in place after Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whole-day-annadhanam-on/article36507944.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps in Tiruchi today||Three hundred doses of Covishield would be administered at each of the following COVID-19 vaccination camps in the city on Friday: Shammuga School, Thiruvadi Street, Srirangam; North Devi School, Srirangam; Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College; Nehruji Middle School, Mela Kondayampettai, Bishop Heber School, Teppakulam; Schwartz Nursery and Primary School, Nandhikovil Street, Teppakulam; Thevar Hall; Renganathan Park, Mela Kasipalayam; Lakshmi Nursery School, Ariyamangalam; Community Centre, Sathyamurthy Nagar; Sri Yadukula Sangam School, Edatheru; Anganwadi Centre, Mettutheru, Varaganeri; Nagammai Street Library, Mela Kalkandarkottai; Anganwadi Centre, Ganesapuram, Ponmalai; Corporation Middle School, Subramaniapuram; Corporation Overhead Water Tank, Subbaiah Nagar, Sangiliandapuram; Anganwadi Centre, Kuditheru, Sembattu; Corporation Ward Office, Rajaram Salai; Corporation Siddha Dispensary, Edamalaipattipudur; Mission Kovil Complex, Crawford; Corporation School, Khajapettai; St.Anne's School, Melapudur; Anganwadi Centres, Periya Milaguparai and Chinna Milaguparai; Anganwadi Centre, Bharathi Nagar, Thennur; Corporation School, Thennur; RC School, Uyyakondan Thirumalai; Bishop Heber College; Corporation School, Kuratheru; Anganwadi Centre, Vaduvur; S. M. Higher Secondary School, Woraiyur; Anganwadi Centre, Panchavarnaswamy Kovil Street, Woraiyur; Servite Social Service Society Convent, Keezha Ambikapuram; Anganwadi Centre, Nehruji Nagar, Ariyamangalam; Anganwadi Centre, Nehruji Nagar, Tiruverumbur; Anganwadi Centre, and Valluvar Nagar, Tiruverumbur. The camps will start at 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-in-tiruchi-today/article36508436.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Polls to be held in many local bodies in Tiruchi district||Elections would be held for the vacant posts of three panchayat ward union members, two village panchayat presidents and 19 village panchayat ward members in Tiruchi district on October 9, Collector S. Sivarasu has said. Elections would be held for ward 10 in Marungapuri panchayat union, ward 13 in Thuraiyur union and ward 6 in Vaiyampatti union, and for the posts of panchayat presidents of Sirumathur village in Lalgudi union and Keezharasur in Pullambadi union. Elections would also be held for ward 7 of Posampatti village panchayat; ward 5 of Konnaikudi; ward 8 of Konalai; ward 2 of K. Periyapatti; ward 1 of Seegampatti; ward 8 of Nagamangalam; ward 1 of Omandur; ward 4 of Kodumbapatti; ward 8 of Thenur; ward 1 of Thethur; ward 2 of Jeyankondan; ward 4 of Paithamparai; ward 7 of Thumbalam; ward 10 of Keezhakurichi; ward 9 of Palanganankudi; ward 5 of Sriramasamudiram; ward 6 of M. Kalathur; ward 2 of Senappanallur; and ward 6 of Angiyam village panchayat. The last date for filing of nominations is September 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/polls-to-be-held-in-many-local-bodies-in-tiruchi-district/article36507951.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Youth clears JEE (Main) with help from NIT-T students||A student of Government Higher Secondary School, Sevalpatti, has cleared the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) after being coached by students of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi. Students of IGNITTE, the teaching club, consisting of students from the college have been training students from government schools in the district to take up entrance examinations since 2017. Last year, two students cleared JEE and were admitted to the NIT-T. P. Arunkumar was selected to take part in the training provided by IGNITTE through an entrance examination they conduct for students in Class XI. This year, six students underwent training to attempt the JEE (Main). “When the lockdown norms were eased last year, the training was conducted on the NIT-T campus. We got an opportunity to stay there and experience what it would be like to study there. It helped motivate me further,” he said. This year, most classes were conducted online. “The trainers were approachable and clarified our doubts. These classes were unlike private coaching centres as they provided one-on-one guidance to each student,” Arunkumar said. Different trainers taught different subjects in an easy to grasp way, he added. Concepts were taught at regular intervals in each subject, keeping in mind the student’s regular school hours and the trainer’s college hours. “Regular tests were conducted to familiarise the student with the JEE paper pattern, along with 50 hours of classes per week,” S. Rohit, Overall Coordinator of IGNITTE, said. The mentors were given digital writing pads to propel their teaching efforts amid the pandemic, he added. Arunkumar’s father, who is a daily-wage labourer, was elated about his son’s achievements. The boy ranked 17,061 and plans to attempt the JEE (Advanced), the admission test for the Indian Institutes of Technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-clears-jee-main-with-help-from-nit-t-students/article36507964.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over closure of MBA programme||Several thousands of students in the newly-converted government arts and science colleges that were earlier constituent units of Bharathidasan University are a disappointed lot over the abrupt closure of MBA programme. After the conversion process, the college heads are reluctant to approach the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to continue with the programme. Until the colleges were under the purview of Bharathidasan University, the AICTE permission was not considered compulsory for MBA as the university had secured an order from the Supreme Court to that effect a decade back. The onus is on the college heads and the Directorate of Collegiate Education for continuing with the MBA programme in the interests of students. In Tamil Nadu, seats for MBA and MCA are being filled based on TANCET Tamil Nadu Common Entrance Test conducted by Anna University. This factor is now being emphasised by the Directorate of Collegiate Education, according to a faculty of one of the converted government arts and science colleges. Last month, students of Government Arts and Science College, Lalgudi, had submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin seeking his intervention for continuity of the MBA programme. As a constituent unit of Bharathidasan University in 2011, it had started five PG programmes: M.A. Tamil, M.A. English, MBA, M.Com and M.Sc. Computer Science. The MBA programme was closed with effect from 2019. The government must permit the college to offer the programme during 2021-22 in the interests of students in rural parts, the memorandum signed by about 50 students said. It is still not too late for the college heads to approach the AICTE for approval. There is no requirement of laboratory for MBA programme. Teaching faculty, learning materials and classroom are all that are required for MBA programme. The college heads must lose no time in arranging for inspection by AICTE team for resumption of MBA programme, the teachers say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-closure-of-mba-programme/article36507947.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||300 fresh cases in delta region||The central region reported 307 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, a slight increase compared to the previous day. The number of deaths reported, however, witnessed a dip compared to Wednesday. Three patients succumbed to the illness in the region - one each in Nagapattinam, Perambalur and Tiruvarur districts. Thanjavur reported 108 fresh cases of COVID-19, an increase of over 30 cases compared to the previous day. Tiruchi reported 52 fresh cases. Tiruvarur district reported 39 cases. Nagapattinam reported 31 fresh cases and Mayiladuthurai reported 24. Pudukottai district witnessed a slight dip with 21 fresh cases. Meanwhile, 14 fresh cases were reported in Karur and 12 in Ariyalur. In Perambalur district, six patients tested positive, the least in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/300-fresh-cases-in-delta-districts/article36507942.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown tomorrow||Power supply will be suspended in the following places from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday: Central Bus Stand, VOC Road, Collector’s Office Road, Kumuli Thoppu, Raja Colony, Kallankadu, Kumaran Nagar, Canara Bank Colony, Srinivasa Nagar, Ramalinga Nagar, Geetha Nagar, Kalnayakkan Street, Mettutheru, Walajah Street, Shanmuga Nagar, Renga Nagar, Vekkaliamman Temple, Pandamangalam, Fathima Nagar; Nachiar Kovil Street, Mudaliar Chathiram,Khajapettai, Ammaiyappa Pillai Nagar, M. M. Nagar, Vayalur Road, Uyyakondan Thirumalai, Vasan Nagar, Cholanganallur, Promenade Road, Kandi Street, Convent Road, Railway Junction, Birds Road, Bharathiar Salai, Periya Milaguparai, Ponnagar, Selva Nagar, RMS Colony, Karumandapam, Dheeran Nagar, Pirattiyur, and Ramji Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-tomorrow/article36507950.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Youth hacked to death||J. Chinraj, 22, of Kottapattu, a history-sheeter, was waylaid and hacked to death by an armed gang on the Ponmalaipatti Road here on Wednesday night. Previous enmity between Chinraj and Renda alias Rennis is suspected to be cause for the murder. Police have named K. Alex alias Alexander,a history sheeter, Sarath and few others as accused in the murder of Chinraj. Alex is said to be known to Rennis. The body was sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for postmortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-hacked-to-death/article36507959.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Eight drug peddlers held||A special team of Tiruchi Rural police on Thursday arrested eight persons, including four women, and seized around 4.5 kg of ganja from them while conducting checks at Hari Baskar Colony and New Kattur areas in Ramji Nagar police station limits. The team was formed with a view to curb illegal sale of ganja in Ramji Nagar police station limits. Based on a tip-off, the team conducted intensive checks at the two places and seized the contraband from the eight persons. A case has been registered against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-drug-peddlers-held/article36507960.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two murdered in separate incidents in Tirunelveli||Close on the heels of two beheadings within a span of 36 hours since Monday last, the district witnessed two more murders on Wednesday night. While a murder case accused was killed in Palayamkottai by a 10-member armed gang, a labourer was hacked to death at Brammadesam near Ambasamudram on Monday night. Police said 10 persons, who came to the spot in five bikes, hacked to death M. Abdul Kadhar, 28, of Shankar Colony in Palayamkottai, as he was consuming liquor along with his friend near Canteen Stores Department on Monday night. Following the murder that triggered tension, members of various Muslim organisations gathered at Palayamkottai police station seeking early arrest of the assailants. Police assured them that the culprits would be arrested shortly as three special teams had been formed to nab them. Sources in the police said Abdul Kadhar was one of the accused in the murder of moneylender C. Martin, 44, of Thaikka Street in Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district a few months ago. Since Abdul Kadhar was murdered after being enlarged on bail, police suspect that the relatives of Martin might have murdered him in retaliation. “Candy trader Maideen of Odaikkaara Street in Sattankulam had borrowed money from Martin. When he failed to repay the loan with interest, it led to enmity between them and Martin was subsequently murdered by an armed gang on June 10. After being arrested in connection with this murder, Abdul Khadar had been enlarged on bail. Since he has been now murdered, we believe that Martin’s family members or relatives might have murdered Abdul Kadhar,” a police officer privy to the ongoing investigation said. Police are on the lookout for 10 persons including Martin’s brothers Pon Pandi and Manikandan. In another incident, E. Thangapandi, 25, of Brammadesam near Ambasamudram was hacked to death by an armed gang in his native place on Wednesday night. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Ambasamudram, L. Francis, who visited the spot, deployed two special teams to nab the culprits. During investigation, police found that Thangapandi had been murdered following altercation among a group of friends in inebriated condition recently. Police are on the lookout for Naveen, Arumugam, Sudhish, Mari, Karthik and Petchimuthu, all hailing from Brammadesam, in connection with the murder of Thangapandi. In Koodalur Mottamalai, near Sivagiri in Tenkasi district, 21-year-old Sujay Ganesan of Ramanathapuram near Vasudevanallur was found dead with multiple stab injuries. Vasudevanallur police have registered a case in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-persons-murdered-in-tirunelveli/article36507969.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Speaker fulfils promise to sponsor palmyra seeds||Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker M. Appavu has fulfilled his promise of sponsoring 1 lakh palmyra seeds to the Department of Agriculture every year as the State government has proposed to plant palmyra saplings across Tamil Nadu under its ‘Palmyra Protection Programme’. After sourcing the palmyra seeds, Mr. Appavu sent them in two lorries to Chennai on Thursday. While presenting the Budget for Agriculture in the Assembly on August 14, Minister for Agriculture M.R.K. Panneerselvam unveiled his department’s initiatives for protecting palmyra, the State tree, and propagating it in a big way across Tamil Nadu as the tree is facing extinction due to rapid felling. As per his proposal, the Department of Agriculture would give 76 lakh palmyra seeds and 1 lakh palmyra saplings at a subsidised cost to 30 districts every year to be planted at vantage areas. Even as the debate was going on, Mr. Appavu, an ardent lover of ‘pathaneer’ (made from the juice of the palm fruit), promised Mr. Panneerselvam that he would sponsor 1 lakh palmyra seeds to the Department of Agriculture every year so that the department’s plans could easily be translated into action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speaker-fulfils-promise-to-sponsor-palmyra-seeds/article36507965.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||14 persons arrested||Police have arrested 14 persons in connection with the two murders in which a farmhand and a farmer were beheaded since Monday night. In the first incident, K. Sankarasubramanian, 37, a farmhand from Keezha Seval Nainarkulam, was beheaded by an armed gang near Vaduvoorpatti liquor shop on Monday night. The assailants took the sliced head of Sankarasubramanian and placed it on the grave of Manthiram of South Gopalasamudram, who was murdered in November 2013. Since the killers suspected that Sankarasubramanian was close to the murderers of Manthiram, his head was offered at his grave. The Munneerpallam police have arrested Manthiram’s son Maharaja alias Raja, 20, his associates K. Pandi alias ‘Chiyaan’ Pandi, 31, G. Prabhakaran, 26, R. Aravind, Dinesh alias Chiyaan, all from nearby Koththankulam, D. Seetharamakrishnan alias Puppy, 24, of Paaraiyadi in Tirunelveli Town, and the hunt is on to nab a few more. In the second incident, which is the sequel to the murder of Sankarasubramanian, farmer A. Mariappan, 37, of Gopalasamudram was beheaded on Wednesday morning, and his head was placed at the spot where Sankarasubramanian was murdered. Police have arrested S. Siva, 23, M. Siva alias ‘Mottai’ Siva, 24, both from Mela Seval, S. Petchimuthu, 20, C. Ayyappan, 20, both from Keezha Seval, P. Velmurugan, 28, M. Madasamy, 25, G. Suresh alias Nanda, 25 and K. Mahesh Raja, all from Piraanchery in connection with the murder of Mariappan. Police personnel have been deployed in the villages under Munneerpallam police station limits as these murders had caste overtones. Since two more murders rocked the district, Inspector General of Police, South Zone, T.S. Anbu, who visited a few villages under Munneerpallam police station limits and met his subordinates here on Thursday to discuss the prevailing situation following the caste-based murders. He, along with Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, visited some of the villages under the Munneerpallam police station limits. While speaking with the villagers, Mr. Anbu, who assured them of unbiased and swift action against the culprits involved in the gruesome murders, appealed to them to bury enmity and ensure peace. He also met Collector V. Vishnu at the Collectorate. Speaking to reporters after his discussion with the Collector, Mr. Anbu said adequate security arrangements had been put in place in the affected areas following the murders and the assailants, who orchestrated the murders, arrested. Over 1,500 police personnel had been deployed as part of the security arrangements, the IG informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-persons-arrested-in-two-murder-cases/article36508279.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||181 nominations received||A total of 181 nominations were received on Thursday for the rural civic polls to be held in the district in two phases on October 6 and 9. While three nominations were received from panchayat union councillor aspirants on Thursday, 45 were submitted for village panchayat presidents. A total of 133 nominations were received for village panchayat ward members in the district taking the total number of nominations submitted so far for panchayat ward members to 166. In Tenkasi, 114 nominations were received for village panchayat ward members and 44 were submitted for village panchayat presidents on Thursday. For panchayat union ward members, only twonominations were submitted, while it was nil for district panchayat ward members as the political parties were busy selecting suitable candidates. In Kanniyakumari district, two nominations were submitted for vacant village panchayat ward members in Parakkai and Vellichanthai panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nomination-process-begins/article36507977.ece
17 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Casual elections for 19 local body posts in October||Tiruppur District Collector and District Election Officer S. Vineeth said that casual elections for 19 vacant local body posts in the district would be conducted on October 9 and that the Model Code of Conduct came into force in the respective places on Wednesday. In a release, the Collector said that elections would be conducted for member of Ward No. 10 for district panchayat in Kangeyam and Vellakoil blocks and for member of Ward No. 12 for panchayat union in Dharapuram block. Elections for presidents of Karuvalur (Avinashi block), Erasinampalayam (Mulanur block) and R. Velur (Udumalpet block) village panchayats would also be held. Apart from these, elections for village panchayat ward members would be held at the following village panchayats: Ramanathapuram and Palangarai in Avinashi block, Ponnapuram in Dharapuram block, Amandakkadavu in Gudimangalam block, Ganapathipalayam in Kangeyam block, Ellapalayampudur in Kundadam block, Karuppanvalasu in Mulanur block, Manickapuram and Panikkampatti in Palladam block, North Avinashipalayam and Ugayanur in Pongalur block, Ganapathipalayam and Vadugapalayam in Uthukuli block and Mettupalayam village panchayat in Vellakoil block. Model code Candidates, representatives of political parties and the voters in these locations must adhere to the Model Code of Conduct, which was available in the website of Tamil Nadu State Election Commission, Mr. Vineeth said in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/casual-elections-for-19-local-body-posts-in-october/article36507880.ece
17 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel chosen for ‘Anna Medal’||Ten police officers from various ranks in Tiruppur City Police and Tiruppur District Police were among the 100 officers selected by the State government for ‘Anna Medal’ this year. The Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Police Medal for Outstanding Devotion to Duty or Anna Medal was awarded to mark the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai. Assistant Commissioner of Police – Intelligence Section K. Radhakrishnan, Sub-Inspector (South Traffic) A. Muthuselvam and constables P. Nallathambi, M. Ramesh Kumar, S. Sathyamoorthy, P. Joycharlie, M. Salaichandru, V. Mayilsamy and K. Anbarasan were the awardees from Tiruppur City Police. Inspector – Armed Reserve N. Suresh from the district police was also chosen for the medal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-chosen-for-anna-medal/article36507876.ece
17 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Pastor arrested under POCSO Act||The Tiruppur City Police on Wednesday arrested a man on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl at her residence here. According to the police, Samuel (34) was a pastor at a church located close to the residence of the 17-year-old victim, who was staying with her grandmother. He recently visited the house under the pretext of organising a prayer meeting and sexually assaulted the victim, the police alleged. The girl reported the incident to her mother, who lodged a complaint with the Tiruppur South All Women Police. The accused was booked under Section 10 (Punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and sent to be remanded under judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pastor-arrested-under-pocso-act/article36507877.ece
17 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris’ first transgender lawyer aspires to become a judge||The reportedly first transgender lawyer in the Nilgiris, Sowmya Sasu, said that she was extremely happy that she will get to practice law in the district where she has felt “safest” and most at home. Ms. Sasu, who met District Collector J. Innocent Divya recently, said that she aspired to become a judge in the future. Residing at Khandal in Udhagamandalam, Ms. Sasu was born in, and grew up in Thanjavur before moving to Udhagamandalam. “It was during my visit as a tourist to the Nilgiris that I decided to move here as I felt very safe and comfortable as people were extremely friendly and welcoming,” said Ms. Sasu. It was in 2016 that Ms. Sasu decided to pursue a career in law at the Trichy Government Law College. Though unsure of whether she would fit in at first, Ms. Sasu said that her peers in college made her feel welcome almost immediately. She credits her success to the support she received from her friends. “I remember sitting beside a girl during the first day of class and revealing to her that I was a trans-woman only during the second day. During the second year, I stayed in the women’s hostel, where I was treated by the other residents there as one of them, and was never made to feel out of place,” she said. Ms. Sasu said that she was interested in criminal law, and hoped to become a judge one day. “Everyone at the Ooty court, too, has been extremely friendly and welcoming. I was so honoured that I was able to answer questions posed to me by the district judge in Ooty,” she said. Ms. Sasu said that she was writing a book on her experiences as a trans-woman and how the community can move forward in ensuring that trans-women can live a life of dignity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nilgiris-first-transgender-lawyer-aspires-to-become-a-judge/article36507882.ece
17 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Flying squads formed to monitor poll violations||The district administration has deployed 18 flying squads to monitor violations ahead of election to rural local bodies. According to Collector D. Mohan, each team will be headed by an official in the rank of executive magistrate and comprise a videographer and police personnel. The team will videograph all their inspections and track poll code violations. If the candidate or his agent or persons are found carrying any cash exceeding Rs. 50,000 without proper records or any candidate or party representative is found with posters, election materials, arms or gift items which are valued at more than Rs. 10,000, the team will file a case against the persons concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flying-squads-formed-to-monitor-poll-violations-in-villupuram/article36507986.ece
17 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Second mega vaccination camp to be held in Virudhunagar on September 19||The second mega COVID-19 vaccination camp will be held in 1,070 places in Virudhunagar district on September 19. Out of the eligible 16.36 lakh people above 18 years, already 8.78 lakh have been administered the first dose of vaccine till Thursday. And 2.54 lakh people have been given the second dose, taking the total number of doses administered till date in the district up to 11.33 lakh, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said. During the first mega vaccination camp, a total of 75,643 doses were administered. The second mega vaccination camp will be held between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. on September 19. The Collector has appealed to the people to make use of the opportunity to safeguard themselves against the viral infection. Meanwhile, anticipating a large crowd of devotees thronging various temples during the Tamil month ofPuratasi, the district administration has banned their entry into major temples in the district on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Devotees will not be allowed inside Andal temple in Srivilliputtur, Nindranarayaperumal temple in Tiruthangal, Perumal temple and Muthalamman temple in Watrap and Srinivasaperumal temple in Tiruvannamalai and other shrines in the district due to the pandemic situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-mega-vaccination-camp-to-be-held-in-virudhunagar-on-september-19/article36507983.ece
17 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Warning against creating artificial demand for fertilizers||Assuring farmers that adequate quantity of fertilizers were available in the district, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy has warned traders against creating artificial demand for them. Even as farmers are gearing up for rain-fed sowing, the district has around 5,400 tonnes of urea, DAP, Potash and complex fertilizer stocked in various shops and societies. “With the recent rain, farmers have started preparatory works of the land and they need to go for basal application of fertilizer,” said an officer from the Department of Agriculture. The district administration has set a target of 52,000 hectares of rain-fed crops coverage. “The major crop is maize, which will be around 32,000 hecatres. Sowing will go in a big way in the next two weeks,” the officer said. The balance 20,000 hectares will be millets. He said salesmen at shops and societies should provide fertilizer only to those farmers who produced their Aadhaar card. Besides, the quantity of fertilizer should be based on the extent of coverage of crops. The societies and shops should display the price list of various fertilizer and should get the signature of the farmers to whom the fertilizer was sold. For every transaction, the farmers should be given receipts. “Any shop or societie that indulges in creating artificial demand with adequate stocks in hand or sells fertilizer at a premium or without receipts would have to face action under the Fertiliser Control Act 1985. Fertilizer licenses will be cancelled without any notice,” he said. Farmers were also warned against buying ‘organic’ fertilizer through unauthorised organisations or private parties. They could be fake, the Collector said adding farmers must alert local agricultural officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-against-creating-artificial-demand-for-fertilizers/article36507981.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||206 fresh cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district reported 206 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, registering a decline from Wednesday’s 224 cases. The district had 2,226 active cases of the disease on Thursday and 206 persons recovered. Coimbatore district’s Test Positivity Rate stood at 1.9 % on Wednesday when 11,555 swab samples were collected for tests and 224 persons were found positive. Tiruppur district saw a slight increase in its daily caseload as 110 fresh cases were reported on Thursday, which was higher than that of Wednesday (88 cases). The overall case tally went up to 91,744 cases. The reporting of one new death took the district’s overall toll to 944. Tiruppur district had 942 active cases and 109 patients recovered on Thursday. The district’s positivity rate as per Wednesday’s cases was 1.8%. In the Nilgiris, 32 persons tested positive on Thursday and the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 32,252. The toll in the district stood at 196 on Thursday while 355 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/206-fresh-cases-in-coimbatore/article36507890.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Veeramani’s properties searched by DVAC||The police said the searches, covering the residence of Mr. Veeramani at Jolarpet, began around 7 a.m. on Thursday, when he was getting ready for his morning walk. Officials blocked key routes connecting his residence with other areas in the town. Searches are also being carried out at properties belonging to two brothers of Mr. Veeramani in Jolarpet. Fourteen places are on the DVAC’s scanner, sources said. A native of Edaiyampatti village in Jolarpet, Mr. Veeramani lived in the village with his brothers K.C. Alazhagiri and K.C. Kamaraj. Together, they have been handling their father’s beedi business, K.K. Chinnarasu & Co., for several years. Mr. Veeramani also runs a tipper lorry transport business, Akalya Transports, in the town. The details were recorded in an FIR filed against him by the DVAC. The DVAC officials registered a case against him under the Prevention of Corruption Act. In the FIR, the DVAC said that while serving as the Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration, Mr. Veeramani intentionally enriched himself illicitly and acquired assets worth Rs. 28.7 crore, which works out to 654% of his total income. In Vellore, searches are being carried out at the houses of the former Minister’s associates in Sathuvachari on the Bengaluru Highway (NH-48) and Senbakkam. DVAC officials have also been searching the Palar Agricultural College near Gudiyatham in Vellore. Searches are also being conducted on the premises of Mr. Veeramani’s father-in-law at Polur town in Tiruvannamalai and Hosur in Krishnagiri district. In Chennai, searches are being conducted at places linked to the former Minister and his associates. ‘Govt. enacting drama’ AIADMK cadre and supporters of Mr. Veeramani raised slogans against the police and the DMK. The AIADMK accused the DMK regime of staging a ‘drama’ at the time of elections to rural local bodies in 9 districts. In a statement, party coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami said “huge resentment” towards the DMK had arisen among the people of the State in the light of the ruling party not having fulfilled many of the promises it made during the Assembly election. To “change the disaffection” of the people, the government was filing “false cases” against former Ministers and party functionaries. A DVAC release said that during house searches conducted at 35 places including two in Bengaluru and six in Chennai, Rs. 34,01,060, U.S. Dollars worth Rs. 1.80 lakh, 9 luxury cars, five computer hard disks, 4.987 kg (623 sovereigns) of gold jewellery, 47 grams of diamond jewellery, 7.2 kg of silver articles, bank passbooks and property documents were identified. The cash, materials and documents relevant to the case were seized. Also, 275 units of sand (worth around Rs. 30 lakh) was found deposited in one residential premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-conducts-searches-at-former-minister-veeramanis-properties/article36507857.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||State government to form monitoring panel to ensure social justice||It had made a great impact on several generations of Tamil society, and it was the very basis of social justice, marking as it did the start of the social justice movement. The constitution of the committee was the next stage in the long history of this movement, he said. Mr. Stalin recalled the Justice Party’s contributions, since it was founded in 1916, to the welfare of various sections, especially the poor. In line with his announcement in the Assembly earlier this month, Mr. Stalin will preside over an event to be held on ‘Day of Social Justice’ on September 17, the birth anniversary of social reformer ‘Periyar’ E.V. Ramasamy. Officials will take a pledge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-government-to-form-monitoring-panel-to-ensure-social-justice/article36507859.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cattle shifted to ‘goshala’||Cattle reared in two farms run by the owners of a Kumbakonam-based private financial company were shifted to a ‘goshala’ in Villupuram on Thursday. The decision to shift the cattle from Maruthanallur and Korkkai farms near Kumbakonam was taken by offficials ollowing the arrest of the finance company owners in connection with non-payment of deposit. As the cattle remained unfed and their health condition was bad, it was decided to hand over the 145 bovines to the ‘goshala’ for their upkeep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cattle-shifted-to-goshala/article36507938.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||When the skies opened up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-the-skies-opened-up/article36507973.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lifeline||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lifeline/article36508277.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Grand entry||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grand-entry/article36507709.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Bharathiar University: NIRF Rankings 2021 felicitation function, 3.30 p.m.  VLB Janakiammal College of Arts and Science: Webinar on ‘Research in Social Science’, 10 a.m.  Sri Jayendra Saraswathy Maha Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science: Conference on Textiles, Research and Innovation, 10.30 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Industry and Alumni Talk, 9 a.m.  Tamil Nadu Powerlifting Association, KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology and KPR College of Arts and Science: Powerlifting Championship 2021-22, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36507888.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jnanabharathi metro station to get two foot overbridges||After Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) commenced operations from Kengeri to Mysuru Road, there has been an increase in demand to integrate Namma Metro with other modes of public transport. Jnanabharathi metro station is one such station where integration of infrastructure will help commuters. It is just a few metres away from South Western Railways’ halt station. While BMRCL plans to build a foot overbridge (FoB) to connect the two stations, SWR has started work on a FoB to connect the platforms at the halt station. At present, three pairs of trains stop at the halt station: two pairs of Bengaluru-Mysuru MEMU trains and one pair of Bengaluru-Chamarajanagar passenger trains. Chief PRO of SWR Aneesh Hegde said work on the FoB to connect the platforms has begun and will be completed by March 2022 at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.02 crore. This will come as a huge relief to passengers. Every day hundreds of people including garment workers put their lives at risk and walk on the busy track to reach Mysuru Road. In the absence of an FoB, train passengers from Mandya, Ramanagaram and other areas also walk on the tracks to cross platforms. “The construction of the FoB at Jnanabharathi is a long-pending demand. After providing basic amenities, to increase footfall, the SWR should also give stoppage for some of the express trains at the halt station,” said Abhishek R., a railway enthusiast. When it’s ready, passengers who want to use Namma Metro services will be able to use the FoB that will connect the halt and nearby metro station. “The FoB will be built connecting the railway station with the concourse of the metro station. The design has been finalised. It may take six to seven months to complete the work,” said BMRCL Chief PRO B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan. The BMRCL is building a second FoB at Kengeri TTMC station on the extended Purple Line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jnanabharathi-metro-station-to-get-two-foot-overbridges/article36507775.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Anaesthetist who got COVID-19 undergoes lung transplant||A 30-year-old anaesthetist and intensivist, who contracted COVID-19 on duty during the second wave of infections and suffered acute lung damage, got a new lease of life after a team of doctors performed a bilateral lung transplant. The team at Aster CMI Hospital claims that this is the first ever post-COVID-19 double lung transplant on a COVID-19 warrior, who is also a medical professional. Sanath Kumar, the intensivist who was treating critical COVID-19 patients in the ICU of Prakriya Hospital since the beginning of the pandemic, tested positive for COVID-19 on May 8. The disease progressed to a severe stage causing acute lung damage and he needed mechanical ventilation. As he showed no sign of improvement, he was put on ECMO and also on the national transplant list. Doctors said he was not vaccinated. Hewas fortunate to get a matching donor. A team of critical care consultants, pulmonologists, and lung transplant surgeons at Aster CMI Hospital in Bengaluru and KIMS Heart and Lung Transplant Institute in Hyderabad performed the transplant afterfour weeks on ECMO. Explaining the challenges and complexities involved, Sandeep Attawar, Chair and Director of Thoracic Organ Transplants and Assist Devices at KIMS, who led the transplant team, said, “A double lung transplant is a gruelling surgery but was the only solution for Dr. Sanath Kumar, who experienced a life-threatening combination of lung damage caused by the COVID-19 virus, an exaggerated immune response, and the body’s failure to properly repair the injury.” V. Arun, lead consultant, Anaesthesia and Critical Care, Aster CMI Hospital, said Dr. Sanath Kuamr’s case was both emotionally and clinically challenging. “Being from the same fraternity working with COVID-19 patients, it was difficult to see a colleague suffer so much lung damage,” he said. Sunil Kumar K., lead and senior consultant, Interventional Pulmonology, and Transplant Physician at Aster CMI Hospital, said that despite being on ECMO, Dr. Sanath Kumar’s lungs had continued to deteriorate. “A transplant was the last option. Luckily, he remained stable over the few weeks while we waited for a suitable donor match for him,” the doctor said. Thanking the doctors, Dr. Sanath Kumar said, “When I tested positive and started taking medicines, I thought I would recover soon. I had never imagined that my health would deteriorate so much and [I would] end up having a lung transplant.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anaesthetist-who-contracted-covid-undergoes-double-lung-transplant/article36507778.ece
17 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BWSSB law tweaked to make RWH must for 30x40 sites||Rainwater harvesting, which was hitherto mandatory for sites with measurement of above 60x40 feet, is set to be made mandatory by law even for 30x40 sites in Bengaluru, as the Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Thursday adopted a Bill in this regard. The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage (Amendment) Bill seeks to make rainwater harvesting compulsory for owners of sites with not less than 108 sq m of area. Earlier, only groundwater recharging was mandatory for new constructions on 30x40 sites. Tabled by Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, it seeks to reduce dependency on Cauvery water and groundwater for drinking requirements of Bengaluru city. Among other things, it proposes to reduce urban flooding and pollution of surface and groundwater. The Bill proposes to manage the summer peak demand of water through groundwater recharging. It aims at providing fresh water source to Bengaluru city through rainwater harvesting in the areas where water quality is poor. None of the MLAs from parties participated in the debate on the Bill and it was adopted without any discussion. In its report tabled in the Assembly on Wednesday, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India had lashed out at Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), BWSSB, and other civic agencies for allowing high run-off of rainwater in urban areas leading to scarcity of water. It had said that about 73% of the city’s water demand can be met out of rain water. In 2009, the BWSSB made it mandatory for new constructions on any site measuring 30x40 ft to either recharge rainwater or store it in a sump or tank. On the other hand, the guidelines made it mandatory for all constructions on sites measuring 60x40 ft, including those built prior to 2009, to have rainwater harvesting systems in place. A.R. Shivakumar, water management advisor and former scientist, Indian Institute of Science, who drafted the 2009 guidelines on rainwater harvesting, said that with the new amendment, it appeared that even constructions on sites measuring 30x40 ft that predate the earlier amendment in 2009 will have to now adopt rainwater harvesting. Welcoming the move, he said it was time the citizens realised the cost of water. “Unless water conservation is made mandatory, people will not realise the importance of water,” he said. Concurring, S. Vishwanath, groundwater and rainwater harvesting expert, said that earlier, the BWSSB Act mandated citizens to recharge or store 20 litre per sq metre of roof area. This was recently enhanced to 60 litre per sq m of roof area. “It is imperative for more citizens to adopt rainwater harvesting and install these systems in their homes at a rapid pace so as to reduce dependence on water supplied by BWSSB,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bwssb-law-tweaked-to-make-rwh-must-for-30x40-sites/article36507770.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. considering developing PRR through private participation||The State government is considering a proposal to develop the much-delayed Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) project here through private participation. “The cost of the project is now estimated to be Rs. 21,000 crore, including Rs. 15,000 crore required for land acquisition,” Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told the Legislative Council. He said the proposal was to hand over both landacquisition process and road development to a private company that would be selected through tender, and added that two companies had come forward to participate in the tender. Poor finances Replying to a question raised by Janata Dal (Secular) member K.A. Thippeswamy, the Law Minister said the State was not in a financial position to spend Rs. 21,000 crore on one project. “In the changed proposal, the private company will invest in both land acquisition and road development on design, build, invest, operate, and transfer basis. There is a proposal to provide 50 years’ lease for the investing company to collect toll on the road,” he said. Mr. Madhuswamy said the global tender invited for the PRR project had attracted bids from two companies, and discussion was in the final stage. ‘Decision in 4 months’ “A decision will be taken in this regard in the next two to four months. While the private company will pay compensation, the land acquisition process will be done by the government as per the norms,” he said. The Minister said the final notification to acquire 1,810 acres under PRR Phase 1 was done in 2007 while preliminary notification had been issued to acquire 589 acres for purposes including connecting the PRR with NICE Road at Tumakuru Road and Hosur Road, and construction of toll plaza and clover leaf, he added.  Environmental issues He pointed out that the National Green Tribunal had cancelled the environmental clearance given in 2014 since forest and Thippagondanahalli reservoir area had not been taken into consideration earlier. Even the Supreme Court had asked for fresh environmental clearance for the project, he said, adding that public hearing needs to be held again. He said that several lakes under the Minor Irrigation Department were also coming in the alignment, and these had to be protected. “Elevated roads on the lakes are being considered,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-considering-developing-prr-through-private-participation/article36507794.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mega vaccine drive today||Armed with a stock of nearly 40 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine, Karnataka is all set to administer over 30 lakh doses during a mega vaccination drive to be held on Friday. Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, told The Hindu on Thursday that the State has dispatched 34 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines to reach all government COVID vaccination centres in the districts. This includes five lakh doses for the BBMP and over 70,000 doses to Bengaluru Urban, she said. “Apart from this, the central vaccine stores in Bengaluru has a buffer of nearly seven lakh doses. Districts have been given targets based on population to be vaccinated and second dose due, focussing on priority groups,” she said. Districts have roped in medical colleges, nursing schools, private hospitals, and other departments. As many as 14,666 sessions have been planned in around 12,700 government and 300 private vaccination centres for the mega drive. The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) has volunteered to waive service charges in member hospitals. “We have sent a requirement of 20,000 doses to the BBMP and these doses will be administered free of cost to beneficiaries in our hospitals. Besides, we have also offered to provide manpower - vaccinators and data entry operators - if required,” PHANA president H.M. Prasanna said. In Bengaluru The BBMP will be administering four lakh doses of Covishield and one lakh doses of Covaxin in 2,178 vaccination sites across the city, said Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta. To ensure that the target of administering five lakh doses is met, BBMP will be holding outreach vaccination camps across 760 slums. “ So far, 80% of the eligible population in the city have already got the first dose. As per our estimate, we will be able to cover the remaining 18-19 lakh by October,” Mr. Gupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mega-vaccine-drive-today/article36507779.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prioritise pandemic-hit and announce package: HDK||JD(S) floor leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Thursday exhorted the government to come out with a special financial package for reviving sources of livelihoods of lakhs of people who had lost jobs and incurred losses in small businesses owing to COVID-19. Speaking in the Legislative Assembly on a debate on the hike in prices of fuel and essential commodities, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the package would help people who had lost jobs in garment, hotel, cinema, small-scale industries, and other sectors during the pandemic. Many farmers had not been able to get good price for their produce owing to lockdowns and restrictions on movement of vehicles and goods. The package should become a model for other States, he said. The JD(S) leader suggested to the government to postpone all development programmes if necessary, including the recently announced Amrut schemes, and provide financial package to unorganised sector workers who had been impacted most by the pandemic. He criticised the Narendra Modi-led government for imposing heavy excise duty on petrol and diesel and rise in prices when people were suffering on all fronts owing to the pandemic. He opposed waivers and tax incentives given to corporates. Mr. Kumaraswamy narrated several stories of sufferings of people during the debate and said handling of the pandemic was a major challenge to the government when its revenue was down due to lockdowns. Dig at Congress Taking a dig at the Congress, he said during the JD(S)–Congress coalition government (2018–19), the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah put pressure on him to not stop Bhagya (welfare) schemes announced by the Congress government without allocating money in 2018–19 State Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prioritise-pandemic-hit-and-announce-package-hdk/article36507801.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Education Plus career counselling from today||The 19th edition of The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling 2021 to help students make informed career choices and chalk out their future will be in a digital conclave avatar again this year. Three-day event The event, which will be held from September 17 to 19, sets a benchmark in educational and professional guidance. It acts as a platform to connect students and parents with speakers and educational institutions. This will help students make right decisions after getting necessary counselling and guidance.  The Hindu invites students who have cleared II PU this year besides thoseenrolled for II PU as well as their parents to apprise themselves about the career opportunities, trends in the industrial sector, and the prospects in various streams. Students of classes IX to XII, including those who want to pursue higher studies after class XII, besides students looking to do post-graduation in different fields can attend. Registration Register for free once to attend all sessions on all three days: Login to register:https://bit.ly/THEPCET21or scan the QR Code. For queries, call 9964648444 or 9449343420. All participants will get a free copy of The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling handbook (hard copy or soft copy). Hard copy will be available in The Hindu offices across Karnataka after September 20, 2021. Gold Sponsorship: AMC Institutions, Atria Institute of Technology, INSIGHTS IAS. Silver Sponsorship: Sir M. Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Hindustan Business School, K.S. Group of Institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/education-plus-career-counselling-from-today/article36507785.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. offices to have prepaid electricity meters||With government buildings across the State not having paid electricity bills to the tune of Rs. 5,792 crore, the State government plans to install prepaid electricity meters in all government offices, Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar informed the Legislative Assembly on Thursday. The objective of installation of prepaid meters is to reform the power sector and trim expenditure. Prepaid meters would also be installed in buildings under construction and receive temporary connections in all Amruth cities to generate revenue, the Minister said during the question hour. “This is a preliminary thought. There are bill-related problems in government offices and the financial burden is increasing for us. A final decision will be taken after consultation with experts in the sector,” Mr. Kumar said. In a reply to Yashavantharayagouda Vittalgouda Patil (Congress), the Minister said many government buildings had not paid electricity bills on time, resulting in losses to all electricity supply companies. The Minister ruled out installation of meters for IP sets of farmers in the State. He allayed fears of privatisation of the electricity sector and Escoms raised by Mr. Patil. The Congress member alleged that in some cases, the farmers’ IP sets were being charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-offices-to-have-prepaid-electricity-meters/article36507799.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No flyover will be demolished on ORR’||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) has stated that no flyover on the Outer Ring Road from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram will be demolished for the metro work. Space available between the split flyover locations will be used to build piers, it stated in a release. However, at five locations, foot overbridges (FoBs) will come in the way of metro work. An FoB that is infringing on the construction of proposed Bellandur metro station will be removed. Once the station is complete, pedestrians will be able to use it to cross the road. Another FoB located between Iblur and Bellandur metro stations is infringing the viaduct. BMRCL is planning to relocate it around 60-70 m from the existing location. The foot overbridge located near the Embassy building will be modified to facilitate construction work as it will come in the way of the construction of a pier. The BMRCL has approached the BBMP seeking clearance to construct a viaduct at the proposed FoB located after Kadubeesanahalli metro station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-flyover-will-be-demolished-on-orr/article36507773.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘27 died in police custody in 4 years’||As many as 27 persons have died in police custody during the last four years, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said on Thursday. Responding to a question from Congress member K. Govindaraju, the Minister said eight persons died in 2018, three persons in 2019, six persons in 2020, and 10 persons had died so far in 2021. It does not mean all those who succumbed in police custody died because of torture. Some died while escaping and some others committed suicide,” he added. Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil said that an accused in a rape case had committed suicide for fear of harassment by the police. “Will you treat it as suicide?” he asked. The Minister said all the deaths reported in police custody were being investigated by the CID as per the NHRC guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/27-died-in-police-custody-in-4-years/article36507795.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MLCs voice concern over pollution on the coast||Refusing to heed to the opposition demand for a joint house committee to look comprehensively into pollution issues in the Dakshina Kannada coast, the government agreed to hold a meeting of elected representatives to find solutions to manage drainage systems. Janata Dal (S) members, who had earlier raised the issue and demanded a joint house committee, trooped into the well in protest after the government refused a joint house committee. While Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil appealed to the government to heed to the demand, he also requested the JD(S) members to not stall the House proceedings. Eventually, when Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj announced convening a meeting of elected representatives next Thursday, the JD(S) members returned to their seats. Earlier, JD(S) and Congress members had raised the issue of inefficient UGD systems in Surathkal and Ullal. JD(S) member B.M. Farooq said that the presence of chemical and petrochemical industries in Dakshina Kannada had led to pollution of water, air and land. He said it had resulted in the fish population declining and also affected indigenous Malenadu Gidda. Another JD(S) member, K.T. Srikante Gowda, said it had become very difficult to live in Surathkal because of groundwater pollution and improper UGD. Congress members B.K. Hariprasad and Nazeer Ahmed also spoke on the pollution in coastal areas and the UGD situation. In response, Mr. Basavaraj dismissed allegations that sewer water was overflowing in Ullal. He said that once the UGD system is in place, ground water in Ullal would not be polluted. “Nethravati river and Arabian Sea will also not be polluted,” he said. He, however, acknowledged that the manholes were overflowing in Surathkal and said directions have been given to take steps to prevent it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlcs-voice-concern-over-pollution-on-the-coast/article36508411.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Probe sought against officer in ‘bag purchase scam’||K.R. Nagar Janata Dal (S) MLA S.R. Mahesh on Thursday alleged that an IAS officer, who served as the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru district, was involved in a Rs. 6.5-crore scam in the purchase of cotton bags and urged the State government to order a probe. Mr. Mahesh intervened in the Legislative Assembly during a debate on price rise of fuel and essential commodities and said the IAS officer “looted money” and made assets of Rs. 500 crore in Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Investigating agencies such as the CID and the Lokayukta conduct raids on officials of the State government but no raids were conducted on residences of IAS and IPS officers with regard to misappropriation of funds, he alleged. Without naming the IAS officer, Mr. Mahesh said the government had not initiated any action against the former Mysuru Deputy Commissioner. Recently, in Mysuru, Mr. Mahesh accused IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri of siphoning off money in the purchase of lakhs of cotton bags. He alleged that each bag worth of Rs. 4 was purchased at Rs. 65. JD(S) floor leader H.D. Kumaraswamy said that under the government service rules, officials had no privileges to go to the media and level charges against the MLA. Instead of summoning two IAS officers to Bengaluru during their recent public spat on postings, the Chief Secretary had rushed to Mysuru to settle differences. The Chief Secretary must instruct IAS officers to follow their service rules, Mr. Kumaraswamy said. Minister for Revenue R. Ashok said it was wrong on the part of the officer to go to the media and air comments against the MLA. Action would be initiated against IAS officers through the Chief Secretary if they use media to level charges against each other or elected representatives, he said. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said he too had informed the Chief Secretary to issue directions to IAS officers to refrain from going to the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-sought-against-officer-in-bag-purchase-scam/article36507787.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||App to bring all transformers on one platform||The Energy Department plans to introduce an app which will serve as ‘Transformer information management system’ to bring all transformers on one platform, Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar told the Legislative Assembly on Thursday. The app will help to track requirements for repair of transformers. “The objective is to replace faulty transformers within 24 hour,” he said. Mr. Kumar said a 100-day programme would be launched to reform the power sector as well as to ensure repair of all transformers in 24 hours. There were 159 transformer repair centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/app-to-bring-all-transformers-on-one-platform/article36507798.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Curfew a hurdle in extending metro services’||Elected representatives cutting across party lines have backed demands from commuters to extend Namma Metro timings as the absence of services at night is putting riders to hardship. MP for Bengaluru Central P.C. Mohan demanded the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) run trains from 5 a.m. to 10 p.m. However, BMRCL MD Anjum Parwez expressed inability to extend service hours citing night curfew. “Night curfew starts at 9 p.m., so we run the last train till 8 p.m. The trains reach the terminal stations by 9 p.m. We have fixed schedules as per government rules. At present, we cannot extend services due to the curfew.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curfew-a-hurdle-in-extending-metro-services/article36507771.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hoardings: Govt. scraps rules||The State government has scrapped the notification on the new advertisement rules that paved the way for commercial hoardings to make a comeback in the city. An order was issued to this effect on September 14. The notification on the new advertisement rules was issued on July 26 to replace the BBMP Outdoor Signage and Public Messaging Bylaws, 2018, under which there was a blanket ban on commercial hoardings across the city. At a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, several city Ministers had expressed concern over allowing the hoardings to return marring the city’s aesthetics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hoardings-govt-scraps-rules/article36507772.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Foreigner held for making MDMA at home||The Central Crime Branch police arrested a 38-year-old man from Nigeria who was allegedly preparing MDMA crystals from his rented house in Electronics City. According to the police, he had a lab set up in his house and was selling MDMA to clients across the country and even in New Zealand. A team of officials raided the house in Chamundi Layout and arrested David Joao Malave. The police seized four kg of MDMA crystals worth Rs. 2 crore along with harmful chemicals and lab equipment used to prepare synthetic drugs. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, (Crime) said David and his associates purchased the chemicals needed to prepare synthetic drugs online and from shops in the city. The accused concealed the crystals in the soles of shoes and used the services of private couriers to send the consignments to clients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foreigner-held-for-making-mdma-at-home/article36507783.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 1,108 cases, 18 fatalities||Karnataka on Thursday reported 1,108 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,65,191. Bengaluru Urban reported 308 and five deaths. With 18 deaths, the toll rose to 37,555. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 809 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 29,11,434. The State now has 16,174 active COVID-19 patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.66%, the Case Fatality Rate was 1.62%. As many as 1,66,006 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,32,641 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,58,55,899.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-1108-new-cases-18-fatalities/article36507781.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Probe ordered into destruction of 9,500 trees||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday ordered an inquiry by the Lokayukta on the issue of destruction of around 9,500 trees, grown on 37.06 acres of the government land in Kolar district several years ago, due to illegal mining activities. Also, the court directed the Forest Department to take up afforestation on 37.06 acres of the land, situated at Gundehalli, Tekal, Malur taluk, and maintain it for three years before handing over the land to Banahalli Gram Panchayat. Collect fine The government has also been directed to recover within three months the remaining Rs. 106 crore fine imposed on 19 firms for carrying out illegal mining beyond the licensed areas in the panchayat limits. A Division Bench issued the directions while disposing of a PIL petition by Ravindra and four others from Kolar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-ordered-into-destruction-of-9500-trees/article36507776.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bhaskar Rao seeks voluntary retirement||Senior IPS officer and Additional Director-General of Police, Railways, Bhaskar Rao has applied for voluntary retirement from service citing personal reasons. On Wednesday, he applied for VRS to DG&IGP Praveen Sood and Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar. Though there are rumours of his desire to join politics, he refused to comment on the next course of action. Mr. Rao said that with three decades service he had the best time in the department. “Now is the time to exit, learn, motivate, and mentor,” he said, without elaborating on his future plans. During his tenure Mr. Rao held several important posting, including that of Bengaluru Police Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhaskar-rao-seeks-voluntary-retirement/article36507792.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||190 Rohingyas in camps||The government will not allow Karnataka to become a “dharma chatra” for illegal immigrants, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said on Thursday and added that currently there were 190 Rohingyas in six camps in the State. He said, “The Centre has not issued guidelines on deportation of Rohingyas. The government is committed to taking action against illegal immigrants.” Many foreign nationals who have been found to be overstaying after expiry of visa, had been lodged in civil detention centres, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/190-rohingyas-in-camps/article36507796.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Jolle was not given zero traffic facility’||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Thursday said ‘zero traffic’ facility was not given to Minister Shashikala Jolle the day she was sworn in. In response to a question from Congress member M. Narayanswamy on why ‘zero traffic’ was given to her, the Minister said the legislator was given signal-free movement from Kempegowda International Airport after she informed officials about the swearing- in ceremony at Raj Bhavan. However, Mr. Narayanswamy said he had video clippings of the ‘zero traffic’ corridor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jolle-was-not-given-zero-traffic-facility/article36507797.ece
17 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Nirmala Sitharaman to attend Kuvempu varsity convocation||Kuvempu University has invited Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for the 31st convocation to be held in October. Vice-Chancellor B.P. Veerabhadrappa, on Thursday, met the Union Minister in New Delhi and extended the invitation. She had accepted it and would take part in the event, said a communiqué from the university. “The university has decided to hold the convocation as the restrictions over the COVID-19 have been relaxed. We are happy that the Union Minister had agreed to attend the programme”, Mr. Veerabhadrappa said. The Vice-Chancellor, during his meeting with the Minister, was accompanied by Registrar (Evaluation) C.M. Thyagaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nirmala-sitharaman-to-attend-kuvempu-varsity-convocation/article36508162.ece
17 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hindutva activists gherao BJP MPs||Hindutva activists gheraoed BJP Lok Sabha members Pratap Simha and Tejasvi Surya in Mudigere on Thursday condemning the recent demolition of temples in the State. They showed black flags to the people’s representatives for failing to protect the temples, even after getting elected on the Hindutva ideology. The protesters stopped the cars of the two MPs, who were in the city to attend a private programme. The police had a tough time managing the protesters, who urged the MPs to get down from the car. The protesters posed a series of questions to the two leaders. Simha clarifies Mr. Pratap Simha told the protesters that he raised the issue at a meeting in Mysuru and the State government had issued notices to the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru and Tahsildar of Mandya. “The Chief Minister has already given a clear instruction to stop the demolition of temples. We have confidence in the CM taking appropriate action”, he said. Mr. Tejasvi Surya, MP of Bengaluru South, maintained that the demolition of temples had hurt the sentiments of devotees. The State government had taken the issue seriously. “Interestingly, now some people have developed devotion to temples. These are the people who celebrated idol-breaker Tipu’s birth anniversary when they were in power”, he commented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hindutva-activists-gherao-bjp-mps/article36508160.ece
17 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Fresh cases in Hassan, Shivamogga||Hassan reported 70 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death due to the infection on Thursday. With that, the total number of deaths increased to 1,345 and the number of cases rose to 1,10,490. Among the fresh cases, two were from Alur, six from Arkalgud, 11 in Arsikere, three in Belur, seven in Channarayapatna, 21 in Hassan, eight in Holenaraipur and 12 in Sakleshpur. As many as 527 people are under treatment in the district. Hassan district administration has planned a vaccination campaign on Friday with an objective to cover 80,000 people. The officers have appealed to the public to get vaccinated at booths to be set up on the day. Shivamogga reported 42 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. Among them, 13 were from Shivamogga taluk, eight in Bhadravati, nine in Tirthahalli, one in Shikaripur, three in Sagar, seven in Hosanagar and one from out of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fresh-cases-in-hassan-shivamogga/article36508159.ece
17 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman falls off bike, dies||A woman died after she fell off a bike near Undiganalin Arsikere taluk on Wednesday. Lakshmamma, 55, a resident of Halmidi in Belur taluk, was returning from her daughter’s house at Yarehalli with a relative when the incident happened. As a dog came in the way of the vehicle, the rider applied brakes in haste. She suffered serious injuries after she fell. She was taken to the government hospital at Arsikere, where she succumbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-falls-off-bike-dies/article36508158.ece
17 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Railways launches 15-day-long cleanliness drive in Hubballi||A series of activities organised as part of the Cleanliness Fortnight (Swachhta Pakwara) were launched by General Manager of South Western Railway Sanjeev Kishore in Hubballi on Thursday. During the launch of the fortnight, Mr. Kishore administered the Swachhta Pledge to officers and railway employees at Sri Siddharoodha Swamiji Railway Station, Hubballi. Under the fortnight-long programme, various activities have been planned to make it a citizen’s movement, a release said. The fortnight-long activities commenced on Thursday with Mr. Kishore leading a walkathon on the railway station premises. He and other officials and employees did Shramadan. Subsequently, the participants sensitised people on the importance of cleanliness, ban on single-use plastic and other issues. As per the COVID-19 protocol, all necessary precautions were taken. He then inspected the railway station premises and interacted with passengers. He requested passengers to use cloth bags instead of plastic bags to save the environment from pollution. Some passengers were also given cloth bags. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kishore said that that the installation of bio-toilets and other mechanised cleaning systems such as automatic sweeping and mopping machines and introduction of collection and segregation of waste and others a decade ago by the Railways had resulted in cleaner railway stations across the country. Volunteers of Bharat Scouts and Guides and students Railway High School and workshop staff performed street plays as part of the campaign on the launch day. Additional General Manager P.K. Mishra, Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division Arvind Malkhede and senior railway officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railways-launches-15-day-long-cleanliness-drive-in-hubballi/article36508035.ece
17 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Service activities to mark Narendra Modi’s birthday||The Bharatiya Janata Party will hold various service activities to mark the 71st birth day of Prime Minister Narendra Modi September 17 to October 7. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Thursday, State general secretary of BJP Mahesh Tenginakai said that as part of the birthday celebrations of the Prime Minister, efforts are being made to get 30 lakh people vaccinated on Friday. He said that different service activities will be held on the Prime Minister Modi’s birthday on Friday, the birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay on September 25, Gandhi Jayanti on October 2 and on October 7, which will mark the completion of 20 years in office by Mr. Modi as head of elected governments. As part of the campaign, mega health camps will be held in all the districts of the State. Members of the SCs/STs Morcha and OBC Morcha will be distributing fruits in slums, old-age homes, hospitals and orphanages. During the 20-day celebrations, nearly five crore postcards congratulating the Prime Minister on completion of two decades in office and thanking him for pro people welfare measures will be posted. This apart, Yuva Morcha members of the party will be donating blood. Several other initiatives will be taken, he said. Mr. Tenginakai said that the party workers will be taking up cleanliness drives in and along 71 rivers in the country. Welcomed Durgavva Shashikanth Bijawad, who won as independent candidate from Ward No 69 of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation, was welcomed into the party by giving her the party flag. The BJP had expelled Durgavva Bijawad’s husband Shashikanth Bijawad, an office-bearer, following her candidature as an Independent in the elections. However after her election, the party has revoked its decision and welcomed both the husband and wife into the party. HDUDA chairman Nagesh Kalburgi, Chairman of Karnataka Bal Vikas Academy Iranna Jadi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/service-activities-to-mark-narendra-modis-birthday/article36508038.ece
17 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Sangamesh Handigi passes away||Writer and teacher Sangamesh Handigi (84) passed away in Hubballi on Thursday after a brief period of illness. A recipient of various literary awards, Prof. Handigi has 46 books in Kannada to his credit. He has written poems, critical essays and Vachanas. A native of Telagi in Basavana Bagewadi taluk of Vijayapura district, Prof. Handigi was actively involved in literary activities. Prof. Handigi had served as Head of Kannada Department at Shankar College in Navalgund, before serving as visiting faculty member at Kannada University, Hampi, for some time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sangamesh-handigi-passes-away/article36508037.ece
17 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Construction workers plan protest on September 20||The Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) and the Karnataka State Construction Workers Union Co-ordination Committee has given a call for “Chalo Chief Minister’s Home” on September 20 to press for fulfilment of various demands. CITU district president Nagayya Swamy, addressing presspersons here on Thursday, said that members of INTUC, AITUC, NCL, AIUTUC will also join the chalo. Mr. Swamy demanded that the State government release one-time COVID-19 relief of Rs. 10,000 each to construction workers registered with the government. The government should immediately start online registration of construction workers to prevent fake registrations, he added. He urged the government to provide a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh each to families of construction workers who died of COVID-19. Besides, he demanded extension of welfare measures such as financial assistance for education and marriage of the children of construction workers, old age pension and accident insurance for all registered construction workers. The government should provide a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh in case of natural death and Rs. 10 lakh for deaths in accidents, he said. The union also demanded an inquiry into the purchase of equipment by the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board (KKRDB). Mr. Swamy said that the board has purchased substandard food kits. The Suraksha Kit and the boost-up kits distributed by the KKRDB were of substandard quality, he added. Stating that there is a scam involving crores of rupees in the purchase of ambulance, vehicles, computers, television sets, he demanded an inquiry into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/construction-workers-plan-protest-on-september-20/article36508033.ece
17 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Support for bandh call||The Communist Party of India (CPI) will extend support to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers organisations on September 27, according to CPI State secretary Sati Sundaresh. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, Mr. Sundaresh said that the bandh is to oppose two important amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act passed by the State government despite objection by the Opposition parties, experts and farmers organisations. Mr. Sundaresh said that the Land Reforms Act lifts restrictions on purchasing agricultural land and enables any individual to purchase it. The repeal of certain provisions in the APMC Act through an amendment allows private players to directly purchase agricultural produce from farmers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/support-for-bandh-call/article36508032.ece
17 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Yuva Morcha leader refutes reports on expulsion||Refuting media reports that he has been expelled from the party, vice-president of the rural unit of the BJP Yuva Morcha Raghvendra Chinchansur has clarified that he has not received any expulsion letter from the party. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, Mr. Chinchansur said that the demand he made to the State government and BJP leaders through a video that has gone viral, is genuine. Through his video, Mr. Chinchansur accused the BJP State leadership of neglecting the Kalyana Karnataka region and demanded that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai induct at least one member from Kalaburagi district into his Cabinet. He also urged the government to allocate adequate funds for the Kalyana Karnataka region and demanded effective implementation of Article 371(J) of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yuva-morcha-leader-refutes-reports-on-expulsion/article36508034.ece
17 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Phalguni encroachment goes on unabated||The encroachment of the Phalguni (Gurupura) riverbed at Bangrakulur west off the Kulur Bridge that was about 2 acres in December last has now expanded to over 4 acres as the district administration and the Mangaluru City Corporation have failed to check flagrant violation of all norms related to environment protection and maintenance of public places. On December 16 last, there appeared a report in these columns on the encroachment with people dumping building debris and plastic waste into the riverbed for a length of about 300 m-400 m. After a local resident raised a fresh alarm, The Hindu visited the spot on Thursday only to find that the encroachment has expanded. The local resident who did not wish to be named said that some people staying close to the encroached area were responsible for the continuation of encroachment, while the authorities concerned have not done anything to prevent it. He said that miscreants pick up debris dumped alongside the National Highway 66 near Kulur and re-dump it into the Phalguni riverbed. He said that their intentions were not clear. But it could be that some landowners, who might lose their land for the proposed Cornice Road, intend to claim title over the reclaimed land. They also might exploit the encroached space for commercial activities once the Cornice Road is formed, he said. The encroachment has occurred on the road leading to the erstwhile River Festival venue from Kulur Bridge. Along the road, there are minor encroachments of the riverbed at several places where building debris and plastic waste are found dumped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/phalguni-encroachment-goes-on-unabated/article36508402.ece
17 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Temple demolition is part of a conspiracy, says Karnik||Chief spokesperson of the BJP’s State unit Ganesh Karnik said here on Thursday that the demolition of a temple near Nanjangud recently appears to be a part of a planned conspiracy. Replying to questions at a press conference, Mr. Karnik said that there was no need for the Mysuru district administration to have demolished the temple during night. The temple has been demolished against a Supreme Court ruling which mentioned that unauthorised temples built on public land after 2009 should be demolished. But the temple demolished at Nanjangud had a history of 700 years, he said. Stating that his views are personal and that they are not the views of the BJP, he said that the Chief Secretary should clarify why the temple near Nanjuangud was demolished. Mr. Karnik said that he will personally write to the Chief Secretary in the matter. The former MLC said that the temple was demolished without making any alternative arrangements to build a new one. Asked about the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah’s statement that the BJP is practising fake Hindutva and it has no respect for Hindu religion and Hindu temples, Mr. Karnik said that 24 Hindu activists were murdered in the State when Mr. Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister. It revealed how much Mr. Siddaramaiah respected Hindu religion. “It [Siddaramaiah’s] was an irresponsible political statement,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-demolition-is-part-of-a-conspiracy-says-karnik/article36508405.ece
17 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||College organises blood donation camp in city||Dr. M.V. Shetty College of Physiotherapy organised a blood donation camp here recently to commemorate the first death anniversary of Dr. M. Ramgopal Shetty, founder of Dr. M.V. Shetty Memorial Trust. District Government Wenlock Hospital’s Resident Medical Officer Julian Saldanha inaugurated the camp and spoke about late M.V. Shetty’s determination to reopen the blood bank at the Wenlock Hospital. A release from the trust said that because of the efforts of M.V. Shetty 25 years ago, the blood bank was reopened as a public-private partnership initiative. While the trust provided the clinical staff and procured blood, payment from patients went to the government. Poor patients were, however, provided blood free. The first blood donor at the camp was U.T. Ifthikar Ali, Dean, Student Welfare, Dr. M.V. Shetty Group of Colleges. Ranjith Shetty, trustee, Dr. M.V. Shetty Memorial Trust, presided over it, while another trustee Divyanjali Shetty distributed certificates to donors. The meeting also offered a silent prayer in memory of departed leader Oscar Fernandes. The camp witnessed blood donation by over 100 students from the college itself, besides the general public.  ‘Blood bank reopened as a public-private partnership initiative due to the efforts of M.V. Shetty’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/college-organises-blood-donation-camp-in-city/article36508399.ece
17 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Railways begins observing cleanliness fortnight||Southern Railway and Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. began the fortnightly cleanliness campaign — Swachhata Pakhwada 2021 — in line with the Indian Railways and as desired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A release from Southern Railway’s Palakkad division said Divisional Railway Manager Trilok Kothari launched the campaign by administering the cleanliness pledge to employees in the presence of Additional DRMs R. Raghuraman and C.T. Sakkeer Hussain and others. Similar pledges were administered at all field units and railway stations. The division has planned a host of activities during the fortnight, including webinars, cleanliness drives on all railway premises, creating awareness through social media, disinfection and cleaning of coaches and coaching depots, Shramadaan, competitions, intensive inspection and cleaning of all water installations, and intensive cleaning of all toilets. KRCL chairman and MD Sanjay Gupta administered the cleanliness pledge to the employees and conducted the Prabhat Pheri along with directors, executives and staff at the corporation’s headquarters in Neru, Navi Mumbai, on Thursday. Seminars on sanitation and upkeep of railway stations, cleanliness campaigns across the Konkan Railway network, awareness programmes on cleanliness and more are planned during the fortnight, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railways-begins-observing-cleanliness-fortnight/article36508414.ece
17 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Action in a fortnight’||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Thursday said that the district administration has already got a drone survey done to identify encroachment along the Phalguni river bank through Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. Within a fortnight, CCTV cameras will be installed at vantage points to identify vehicles dumping debris. Suitable action against violators will be initiated under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, he said. Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that the corporation will initiate penal action against people dumping debris into the river. It will also consider fencing the encroached portion and displaying board declaring it government property, he said. However, the corporation’s promise in December last to install CCTV cameras in the location is yet to materialise. So is Dr. Rajendra’s promise to get the encroachment removed immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-in-a-fortnight/article36508401.ece
17 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP to launch Seva and Samarpan drive today||The BJP will launch a 20-day Seva and Samarpan drive in the State on Friday to mark the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and to celebrate his two decades of public service after he became the Chief Minister of Gujarat. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, chief spokesperson of the BJP’s State unit Ganesh Karnik said that various activities, including cleaning of rivers at 71 places in the State, have been planned during the period. The party will organise health check-up camps in districts, distribute fruits in hospitals and old age homes and to slum dwellers during the period. Physically disabled persons will be given aids and equipment. Rations will be distributed to poor in each booth. The Yuva Morcha will organise blood donation camps. The party has also asked its booth workers to send five crore postcards, from across the country, to Mr. Modi saying that they are committing themselves to public service and congratulating the Prime Minister for the welfare schemes taken up. As part of the drive, the party workers will carry out a large scale cleanliness drive on October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, and people will be encouraged to use Khadi and local products, he said. The party has also asked workers to publicise the auction of gifts received by Mr. Modi. The auction will be held on pmmemontos.gov.in. and will start on Friday. Funds generated through the auction will be widely used in Namami Gange project, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-to-launch-seva-and-samarpan-drive-today/article36508403.ece
17 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Customs officials seize gold at airport in city||Customs officials at the international airport here seized 854 grams of smuggled gold valued at Rs. 41,33,660 and arrested a passenger from Kasaragod district, Kerala, in this connection on Thursday. A press release gave the name of the passenger arrested as Jafar Kallingal (29). Kallingal, who arrived from Dubai by an Air India Express Flight No IX 384 at 5.30 a.m., had concealed the gold in his rectum. The gold, which was in paste form in four oval shaped packets, was later recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/customs-officials-seize-gold-at-airport-in-city/article36508410.ece
17 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Niveus Solutions sets up shop in Mangaluru||The Udupi-headquartered Niveus Solutions Pvt. Ltd., a bootstrapped cloud engineering services organisation, expanded its reach to Mangaluru by opening its largest office in the country in the city on Thursday. Niveus Solutions, an award-winning Google Cloud partner, has around 300 employees working from multiple locations in India and Singapore. The Mangaluru office sprawls across 16,000 sq.ft, with seating for 210 staff. It is equipped with state-of-the-art technology and designed to create a traditional, homely ambiance of yesteryear ancestral houses in the region. Speaking after the inauguration of the new office, actor Rakshith Shetty said he was surprised to see Mangaluru and Udupi becoming base for a global cloud engineering organisation such as Niveus. He said there was lot of untapped potential in the region, be it in technology, medicine or even arts. When the talent gets access to the right infrastructure, there was no limit to what they could achieve, he said. Niveus CEO Suyog Shetty said the organisation has seen tremendous growth in business and operations in recent times, registering an over 300% growth year-on-year. The Mangaluru office offers opportunities to software professionals in the region where immense pool of talent is available from the education hub. The setup is another key step to attracting and retaining the best of talents in the region, he said. The Mangaluru office working in tandem with the headquarters is expected to create a marked impact in modernising businesses through cloud technology and engineering. Niveus has been empowering industry leaders, including top private banks and leading asset management companies, and customers to leverage cloud technologies and harness the power of cloud services to build resilient infrastructures that scale. It recently expanded to the ASEAN region, setting up a hub in Singapore and onboarding new customers. Niveus was funded in 2013 by Suyog Shetty, Rashmi George, Roshan Bava and Mohsin Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/niveus-solutions-sets-up-shop-in-mangaluru/article36508416.ece
17 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||VHP, Bajrang Dal protest temple demolition||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal and other Hindu organisations staged protests in the city and other taluk headquarters opposing the Mysuru district administration’s move of demolishing a temple near Nanjangud recently. In the protest in front of Kadri Manjunatha temple in the city, the protesters shouted slogans against the BJP-led government and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel. They demanded that the government withdraw its decision of demolishing Hindu temples. They also urged the government to suspend the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru and the tahsildar of Nanjangud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vhp-bajrang-dal-protest-temple-demolition/article36508417.ece
17 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Do not meddle with nature’||Riverbanks are playfields for rivers just as beaches for sea waves and any attempt to meddle with them will result in serious ecological consequences, warned an expert in marine geology. Chairman of the Marine Geology Department, Mangalore University, Hejmady Gangadhar Bhat told The Hindu that encroachment of riverbanks will result in artificial floods as well as change in the river course. No one should attempt to change the natural course of water bodies, he said. Debris, including plastic and other inorganic waste, dumped into rivers, will cause serious imbalance in the marine ecosystem affecting marine life, Prof. Bhat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/do-not-meddle-with-nature/article36508400.ece
17 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two COVID-19 patients die||Dakshina Kannada reported two COVID-19 deaths and 186 new cases on Thursday. With 173 patients getting discharged after treatment, the number of active cases stood at 1,430. The positivity rate stood at 1.65%. Udupi district reported 113 new cases. With 14 persons being discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,625. Of the new cases reported, 70 are from Udupi taluk, 12 from Kundapur taluk, 29 from Karkala taluk and two from other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-covid-19-patients-die/article36508408.ece
17 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mega vaccination drive today||Mysuru, Mandya, and Kodagu districts are all geared up for Friday’s mega vaccination drive. The target in Mysuru is to vaccinate at least 1.25 lakh eligible persons. Mandya has been given a target to vaccinate 1.5 lakh persons during the “vaccine utsav”. Barring Mandya taluk, all other taluks in the district have been given a target to vaccinate 20,000 persons while a 30,000 target has been set for Mandya taluk. At a meeting ahead of the mega vaccination drive, in Mandya on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner S. Aswathi told the health officials in every taluk to make preparations for the drive and ensure the target was achieved. She told the taluk authorities to get ready with an action plan, spread awareness about the drive, especially in rural areas, and ensure that the drive starts at 7 a.m. “I hope the district achieves the target like it did in the previous vaccine utsav.” Kodagu, where the COVID-19 cases were yet to come under control unlike other districts, has also geared up for the vaccination drive.The district plans to vaccinate 55,000 people above 18 years of age. The vaccination drive will be carried out in 119 centres and Deputy Commissioner, Charulatha Somal, reviewed the arrangements made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mega-vaccination-drive-today/article36508165.ece
17 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Stakeholders want tourists invited for Dasara finale in Mysuru||Stakeholders of the tourism industry in Mysuru have suggested that some percentage of seats for this year’s Jamboo Savari, confined to the palace premises as part of a low-key Dasaara, should be set aside for tourists and tour and travel operators despite the pandemic situation as a measure for reviving tourism. “Instead of confining the finale for politicians, their followers and the officers, tourists and the people who drive the country’s travel industry must get a chance to get close to the event as they can help promote tourism which has been badly hit owing to the pandemic,”said B.S. Prashanth, President, Federation of Organisations and Associations of Mysuru. Appeal to CM Mr. Prashanth, who is also the President of Karnataka Tourism Forum, said the KTF representatives in Bengaluru are expected to submit a memorandum in this regard to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and the stakeholders in Mysuru will take up the matter with Minister incharge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar as the festivities are fast approaching and preparations in this regard have to start immediately. Last year, around 200 seats were arranged inside the palace premises for Jamboo Savari as there was a bar on assembling more people. This year, the number of seats can be increased to 1,000 and tourists and travel industry people from across the country can be invited to the event, Mr. Prashanth said . “We have to live with the pandemic. This is the time to promote Mysuru and its tourism as the people dependent on it have been badly hit since the last two years. Instead of catering to the wealthy and influential, those who are behind promoting tourism need to get some priority,” he argued. He urged the MLAs of the district to broach the topic with Mr. Somashekar. The loss suffered by the industry due to low-key Dasara last year can be compensated this year if more tourists arrive here to watch the spectacle provided they get a chance to watch the finale at the palace, the Federation said in a release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stakeholders-want-tourists-invited-for-dasara-finale-in-mysuru/article36508164.ece
17 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hindutva outfits slam BJP govt.||The protest against the demolition of a temple near Nanjangud recently intensified with a large number of activists from Vishwa Hindu Parishat, Hindu Jagarana Vedike and other Hindutva organisations taking to the streets in and chanting slogans against the government, on Thursday. The activists chanted slogans against the ruling BJP, embarrassing MLA S.A. Ramdas and other party workers who were in the vicinity. The demolition of the Mahadevamma temple at Hucchagani village near Nanjangud has embroiled the BJP in a controversy as leaders across political spectrum have slammed the government. The demolition is part of a drive against illegal structures in public places as per guidelines of the Supreme Court. The issue has also left the BJP divided as a section of the elected representatives have come down heavily on the district administration. But MLA Mr. Ramdas and others have opined that court orders have to be implemented but legal efforts will be made to safeguard temples. Mysuru district in charge Minister S.T. Somashekar said it was “natural” for VHP and others to feel offended. Nearly 100 temples in Mysuru have been identified as unauthorised, but Mr. Somashekar said for now the drive has been stopped. The issue will be discussed by the Cabinet, he said. Journalist assaulted A journalist covering the protest by VHP and others at Nanjangud was assaulted by the activists. The journalist Mohammed Safdar Khaisar, correspondent with Rashtriya Sahara, an Urdu daily, was assaulted, but police personnel present at the venue, managed to to take him away to safety. Mysuru District Journalists’ Association has condemned the assault on the journalist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hindutva-outfits-slam-bjp-govt/article36507786.ece
17 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru SWR division to set up solar farms||In an effort to reduce dependenceon conventional sources of energy and go green, the Mysuru division of South Western Railway (SWR) plans to establish three solar farms in its jurisdiction. The proposal has been sent to the Railway Ministry for approval. The farms will come up at Yeliyur between Mysuru and Mandya, Devaragudda near Davangere, and Talaku near Chitradurga. This is part of an ongoing drive across the country by Indian Railways to tap alternative, clean and green sources of energy that are not only renewable, but will also help cut down on power and fuel charges. The drive is in sync with the larger objective of Indian Railways to emerge as a net-zero carbon emission organisation by 2030, according to Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru. He told The Hindu that Mysuru division generated nearly three lakh units of power from the two solar power plants at the divisional railway office and Mysuru railway station. The two solar plants generated 2,86,788 units in the last financial year (2020-21), and enabled the railways save Rs. 11,50,593 on power tariff. While the power plant at the Mysuru divisional office has an installed capacity of 100 KWP, the one at the Mysuru railway station has a capacity of 110 KWP. Both plants are being operated under power purchase agreement where the land is provided free while the developer generates and provides energy at subsidised rate, he added. There is a third plant of 10 KWP at Birur railway station, which is a hybrid power plant being managed by the department. Last financial year, the on-grid plant at the divisional office generated 1,51,854 units of power, the one at Mysuru railway station generated 1,34,943 units, and the plant at Birur station generated 11,197 units. Apart from Mysuru railway station, there are plans to have solar panels at other stations too within the jurisdiction of SWR. Rooftop panels Rooftop solar plants have been set up at nearly 130 railway stations, including KSR Bengaluru, Hosapete, Gadag, Ballari, Yeshwantpur, and Hubballi, besides the Divisional Railway Manager’s office in Hubballi, Railway Hospital in Hubballi, Divisional Railway Manager’s office in Bengaluru, Parcel Office and Railway Hospital in Bengaluru. More than 220 level crossing gates are being operated through solar power, and officials say the potential is immense given the number of sunny days in the region. Indian Railways has assessed that it has a cumulative potential to generate 20 GW of solar power across India, and is planning to utilise its vacant plots to establish land-based solar power plants for its traction requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-swr-division-to-set-up-solar-farms/article36508040.ece
17 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||BJP leader lands in the soup||The BJP district unit president Mangala Somashekar has landed in a soup for ‘inadvertent’ usage of a word perceived to slight a section of the society. The party had submitted a memorandum to the district administration in Mysuru on Wednesday asking it to deny permission for the conduct of Mahisha Dasara being organised by social activist groups and writers since the last few years. The memorandum said no permission should be issued to the “shudra forces’’ and this has drawn flak from various quarters as it was sought to brand Dalits and other OBC groups as being hostile or despicable. Ms. Somashekar on Thursday issued an unequivocal apology and said the usage was a typo and had replaced the Kannada word ‘kshudra’, meaning to say evil or despicable, with ‘shudra’ as if referring to a group or a community. She said this was an inadvertent error and there was no motive to hurt the sentiments of any section of the society. However, the party reiterated that permission should be denied to conduct Mahisha Dasara by various groups who have announced that they would go ahead with the event on October 5. The BJP memorandum said that Dasara was being celebrated to mark the victory of good over evil as symbolised by the slaying of the demon Mahishasura by Goddess Chamundeshwari. But the so-called progressive thinkers are sending a wrong signal to the society by insisting on celebrating the demonaic qualities, according to the BJP activists in the region. The conduct of Mahisha Dasara is a recent development and in 2019 there was tension as the Mysuru MP Mr.Pratap Simha got the venue cleared and asked the followers of Mahisha to celebrate the event at home. Shivaramu, president of the OBC Forum, said the usage was deliberate and is in sync with the mindset of the BJP. “We will file a complaint and seek action against Ms. Mangala Somashekar for caste abuse’’, he added and sought her dismissal from the party’s district unit president’s post. The Mahisha Dasara is not against any community or beliefs and the BJP was deliberately stoking communal sentiments in the society for political gains, said Mr. Shivaramu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-leader-lands-in-the-soup/article36508163.ece
17 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||NAAC peer team visits UoM||A peer team of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) is on a three-day visit to the University of Mysore for assessing and accrediting it based on its performance. The six-member team began its assessment on Wednesday. The team is likely to wrap up its visit on Friday. The NAAC accreditation is valid for five years. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar said the assessment is done for 1,000 marks. “However, an assessment for 700 marks was already based on the records/documents submitted by us. Assessment is now on for 300 marks.” He said UoM has been categorised as a “Grade 2 university” in the country based on its NAAC score. “This time, we are aiming for Grade 1 university status as we have done our best in improving the university’s standing. Our NIRF ranking has improved to 19 from 27. The Mysore varsity is one among the 20 Indian universities with Grade 2 status. If we get Grade 1 status, the grants from funding agencies will go up,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/naac-peer-team-visits-uom/article36508041.ece
17 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||AIISH phone-in session on cerebral palsy today||The All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH), Mysuru, has organised a phone-in programme on September 17 between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. The topic is “Rehabilitation of children with cerebral palsy”. Persons wishing to participate can call 0821-2502530. Cerebral palsy is one of the developmental disorders observed with a prevalence of 2.95 per 1,000 children in India. The children face challenges in motor, speech, and cognition-related issues. Prathima S., Speech Language Pathologist, Department of Clinical Services, AIISH, and Santhosh J.R., Physiotherapist, Department of Clinical Services, are the resource persons. Deepa Anand, Speech Language Pathologist, Department of Clinical Services, AIISH, will moderate the session. The programme will be coordinated by Jayashree C. Shanbal, Head- Tele-Center for Persons with Communication Disorders, AIISH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aiish-phone-in-session-on-cerebral-palsy-today/article36508157.ece
17 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||3-year-old ‘electrocuted’||A three-year-old girl was reportedly electrocuted at Kenkaki village in Chamarajanagar district on Wednesday. The incident occurred when Nivedita came in contact with a pump starter while playing in a field. Her parents took her to hospital but she did not survive. The girl died on her birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-year-old-electrocuted/article36508043.ece
17 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Kuttanad youth bags scholarship||Aby George hailing from Chempumpuram in Kuttanad has bagged the Commonwealth Scholarship 2021-22 to study M.Sc Global Sustainability Solutions at the University of Exeter in the UK. The scholarship is worth over Rs. 40 lakh. Mr. George who completed B.Com from St. Berchmans College, Changanacherry in 2019 later joined the International Centre for Technological Innovations (ICTI) as a Research Associate. He had conducted a study about climate-resilient agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuttanad-youth-bags-scholarship/article36508123.ece
17 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha logs 1,442 cases||Alappuzha district logged 1,442 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was recorded at 18.43%. Of the fresh cases, 1,400 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 39 others remains unknown. Three health-care staff also tested positive. Meanwhile, 1,425 people undergoing treatment in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in Alappuzha district stands at 10,803.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-logs-1442-cases/article36508124.ece
17 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Life mission||A woman and her autistic son living in a plastic shed on a rock fearing elephant attack at 301 Colony in Chinnakanal village will get a house under the LIFE Mission. The case of Vimala and her son Sanal was reported in the media and it came to the attention of Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan. On his directive, the Chinnakanal panchayat president and the Scheduled Tribe promoter visited the woman and her son. In addition, Panchayat Additional Director M.P. Ajith Kumar reached her house and made arrangements to shift them to a nearby house. She will be given a house under the LIFE Mission soon, said a grama panchayat official. Though she was given title deed for a plot of land at Chinnakanal, they could not stay there due to constant intrusion of wild animals. Now, the plan is to make a house in a safer area, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-mission/article36508130.ece
17 September 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Azhikodan Raghavan’s wife dead||K. Meenakshi, widow of the late CPI(M) leader Azhikodan Raghavan, passed away at the Kannur AKG Hospital on Thursday. She was 87. Ms. Meenakshi married then CPI(M) State secretary Raghavan in 1956. Their married life lasted only 16 years. Raghavan was assassinated on September 23, 1972, in Thrissur. Ms. Meenakshi was a teacher for 34 years at the Pallikunnu High School and retired as headmistress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/azhikodan-raghavans-wife-dead/article36508096.ece
17 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Girl with Nipah symptoms dies||Samples collected from a five-year-old girl, who died with suspected symptoms of Nipah in a private hospital in Kannur on Thursday, have been sent for further examination to labs in Kozhikode and Pune. The child, a native of Chengala panchayat in Kasaragod, was admitted with high fever at a private hospital in Kannur on Wednesday morning. However, she died by evening showed suspected symptoms of Nipah infection. Her samples were later collected and sent to the labs. The health Department directed the family members to go into quarantine. However, there was no cause for worry, said Deputy District Medical Officer Preetha. Chengala panchayat president Khader Badaria said vaccination and public functions in the panchayat had been suspended following the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girl-with-nipah-symptoms-dies/article36508097.ece
17 September 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Kannur varsity syllabus may be changed||A committee formed by Kannur University has recommended to omit some extreme communal texts and topics from the controversial syllabus prepared for a postgraduate course. Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran said a decision would be taken after the Academic Council and the Political Science Board of Studies discuss the proposals. The course, available only at Brennen College, Thalassery, created a controversy following the inclusion of works of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ideologues Veer Savarkar, M.S. Golwalker, and Deendayal Upadhyay. The committee said there was a flaw in the preparation of the syllabus. It said when the new course ‘Governance and Politics’ was introduced, the governance section was not given importance in the syllabus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-varsity-syllabus-may-be-changed/article36508133.ece
17 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Iconic Cheraman Juma Masjid gets a makeover||The Cheraman Juma Masjid at Kodungalloor, the oldest mosque in the Indian subcontinent that dates back to 629 AD, and the Holy Cross Church at Chendamangalam built by Jesuit priests in 1577 AD, both of which were renovated under the Muziris Heritage Project, are getting ready to be opened to the public. A completion report on their renovation has been submitted to the government to be included in the list of projects under the Chief Minister’s 100-day action plan. Just a few final touches are pending on both the structures, said P.M. Noushad, managing director, Muziris Heritage Project, here on Thursday. On the renovation and conservation work worth Rs. 1.14 crore done on the historic mosque, he said the concrete structure that was added to the mosque in 1974 was demolished and the mosque rebuilt in its old style, as a two-tier structure whose tiled roof was supported by teakwood frames. This is in addition to the Islamic Heritage Museum that was established at a cost of over Rs. 1 crore. Another Rs. 65 lakh was allotted for its refurbishment. This is apart from heritage funds that were used for research and digitalisation of old documents and archiving them. “The mosque committee raised another Rs. 15 crore for well-ventilated prayer halls in the basement to accommodate approximately 3,000 people at a time in the masjid, based on a design submitted by conservation architect Benny Kuriakose. They include measures to pump out water, if needed, since the basement space will be over one metre below the groundwater level,” Mr. Noushad said. Another Rs. 10 crore worth Central tourism funds are expected under the National Mission on Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) project, using which landscaping, lighting, and a facilitation centre will be readied, apart from rejuvenating a pond in the vicinity. Dr. Mohammed Sayeed, president of the masjid managing committee, said the conservation and renovation of the historic structure would go a long way in regaining its past glory. It will also enable hundreds of people to converge for prayers. Holy Cross Church On the Rs. 2.23-crore renovation work on Holy Cross Church, Mr. Noushad said its roof was reinforced using teakwood, while the wall made of mud and lime was strengthened. It was apart from knocking down a concrete structure that had been added later and rebuilding its facade. A tablet that dates back to the 16th century and the location of the oldest printing press in Kerala nearby add to its heritage value.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iconic-cheraman-juma-masjid-gets-a-makeover/article36508389.ece
17 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Legislators get to know Navy up close||The Navy organised a two-day visit of Kerala legislators and some officials in the State to the Southern Naval Command (SNC) in the city. In all, seven legislators — K.M. Sachindev, M. Vijin, C.K. Asha, Saneesh Kumar Joseph, Roji John, Arun Kumar, and Muhammad Muhsin — and seven officials took part in the visit on September 15 and 16. They were briefed on the training and operational functioning of the Navy with emphasis on maritime strengths and challenges of Kerala. Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the command, sensitised them to the nuances of maritime domain, imperatives of maritime security and challenges thereof. The event was earmarked by familiarisation tours to various naval simulators on water survival, damage control, firefighting techniques onboard ships, and ship handling training simulator. A special visit to INS Dronacharya at Fort Kochi was conducted, which included the maritime museum projecting the historical warfare capabilities of the Navy. There was also an exclusive ‘Day at Sea’ providing an unique opportunity of sailing onboard warships. During the sea sortie, the naval units demonstrated various facets of Naval operations that included displays by aircraft, search and rescue operations, manoeuvres at sea, neutralisation of asymmetric threats by versatile waterjet Fast Attack Crafts as well as Fast Interceptor Crafts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/legislators-get-to-know-navy-up-close/article36508385.ece
17 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat develops app for dementia care||A mobile app developed by researchers at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) will offer a helping hand to dementia patients and their caregivers. It will be launched on World Alzheimer’s Day on September 21. The application was jointly developed by the Centre for Neurosciences and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Kaushal Kendra at the university. “The free app named Prajna will be available on both Android and iOS platforms. In the initial phase, it will cater for people in Ernakulam district,” said Baby Chakrapani P.S., Director of the Centre for Neurosciences. “The app content will include information on dementia care centres, caregivers, doctors, psychologists, social workers, and health experts involved in dementia care. It will provide scientific information on the condition,” he added. A user can measure his cognitive function by participating in the mini mental state exam (MMSE) in the application. Dr. Chakrapani said the app would have videos explaining the best practices in dementia care worldwide. The app is part of the social development project of the Centre for Neurosciences to develop a dementia-friendly community under its Udbodh programme. The project includes awareness programmes on early detection and effective management of the disease through lifestyle changes and treatment. The centre has developed care systems for people with dementia in Kochi. Researchers at the centre have been in the forefront of conducting awareness sessions at schools, colleges, and local bodies. They also offer orientation programmes for healthcare professionals. Memory cafes were held to create a feeling of togetherness among those with Alzheimer’s disease and their caregivers here. The platforms encourage open discussion on concerns in Alzheimer’s management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-develops-app-for-dementia-care/article36508387.ece
17 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||M.P. Prakasam, veteran journalist, passes away||Veteran journalist M.P. Prakasam, 89, passed away here on Thursday. He is survived by his wife P.N. Dayabhai and three sons, namely M.P. Praveen, Principal Correspondent, The Hindu , Kochi; Pradeep, and Pramod. Prakasam, who had served as correspondent of various dailies, including Janayugam , the mouthpiece of the Communist Party of India (CPI), was also involved in socio-political activities. He was elected secretary and president of the Ernakulam Press Club, of which he was a founding member, in 1973 and 1986 respectively. He had also served as the district council member of the CPI and in the national council of the Indian Federation of Working Journalists. Binoy Viswom and Benny Behanan, MPs, and the district committee of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists condoled the death. Mr. Behanan said Prakasam’s contributions to journalism, library council, and Samastha Kerala Sahitya Parishad would be remembered forever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-prakasam-veteran-journalist-passes-away/article36508383.ece
17 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bicycle contests at Cusat||A cycling treasure hunt, slow cycling and cycling with lemon and spoon would be the highlights of bicycling contests that are scheduled to be held at Cochin University of Science and Technology on September 18 evening. The initiative comes from Cusat and MYBYK, which is in charge of operating and maintaining shared bicycles available for hire at metro stations and other public spaces in the city. The shared bicycle project launched earlier this year is an initiative of CSML, in association with KMRL. For details call 6238151008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bicycle-contests-at-cusat/article36508390.ece
17 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC reserves verdict on marks standardisation||The Kerala High Court on Thursday reserved its verdict on a few writ petitions seeking a directive to the State government to give admission to professional courses for the academic year 2021 on the basis of the marks secured by candidates in the entrance examination conducted by the Commissioner of Entrance Examinations. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar reserved the order after the conclusion of the arguments on the petitions. Suman Chakravarthy, counsel for one of the students, submitted that the standardisation of marks for admission to professional courses was not practical in the present scenario as no examination for Class XII was conducted except by the State government. Therefore, marks obtained in the Plus Two examinations should not be reckoned this time around. In fact, students who wrote the State Class XII examinations had secured higher marks because of liberal valuation, the counsel submitted. According to the Kerala CBSE School Managements Association, another petitioner, to give equal opportunity to all students, the marks secured in the entrance exam alone should be taken as the basis for admission to professional courses. As a result of COVID-19, no final examination for CBSE schools and ICSE schools could be conducted in Classes X and XII.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-reserves-verdict-on-marks-standardisation/article36508132.ece
17 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Misra Bhojanam land taken over||Culture Minister Saji Cherian on Thursday officially announced the takeover of the land at Cherai where an inter-dining of people belonging to all castes, Misra Bhojanam, was conducted under the leadership of Sahodaran Ayyappan to denounce caste discriminations. The Minister said a project would be prepared for the space where Misra Bhojanam was held. This apart, he said all steps had been taken for setting up a memorial for Pandit Karuppan. The three cents where Misra Bhojanam was held was bought by the Muziris Heritage Project at Rs. 16 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/misra-bhojanam-land-taken-over/article36508386.ece
17 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,901 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 2,901 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. A total of 2,867 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 28 cases has not been ascertained. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 40 included Pallipuram (92), Thrikkakara (77), Karukutty (75), Kottuvally (71), Kalamassery (66), Chengamanad (60), Kavalangad (56), Edappally (55), Nedumbassery (53), Kothamangalam (52), Thripunithura (49), Elankunnapuzha (45), Kunnathunad (42), Asamanoor (41), Kadungalloor (41), and Vengola (41).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2901-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article36508391.ece
17 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC concerned over delay in construction of drainages||The Kerala High Court has expressed concern over the delay in construction of footpaths and drainage systems by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) in the city. Justice Devan Ramachandran said, “There can be no doubt that the works are being done by CSML, but the delay in the same is certainly worrying particularly because the monsoon season has already arrived.” When the case pertaining to flooding of the city came up for hearing, M.U. Vijayalakshmi, counsel for CSML, submitted that all efforts had been taken to complete the work within the shortest possible time. She further submitted that the delay was caused by shortage of labourers due to the pandemic. Senior Government Pleader S. Kannan informed the court that except for the renovation of Mullassery canal, others had been tendered and sites handed over. As for Mullassery canal renovation, the authorities are awaiting technical sanction from the State Disaster Management Authority which can sanction work to the tune of Rs. 1 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-concerned-over-delay-in-construction-of-drainages/article36508392.ece
17 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC: govt. to decide on increasing liquor outlets||The Kerala High Court on Thursday observed that it was for the State government to take a call on increasing the number of liquor outlets in the State. Justice Devan Ramachandran made the observation when counsel for the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) submitted that the government should be directed to increase the number of outlets to meet the need of large number of consumers. Unlike in other States, only 270 Bevco outlets were now functioning in Kerala, causing overcrowding in front of the shops. The court said it could not “accede to the submission of Bevco” as it was for the State government and the Excise Commissioner to take necessary action on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-govt-to-decide-on-increasing-liquor-outlets/article36508131.ece
17 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mar Severios to be Catholicos of the East||The episcopal synod of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church on Thursday unanimously decided to propose Mathews Mar Severios as next Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan. An official declaration on his nomination as head of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church is likely after a meeting of the managing committee here on Friday. The synod met at Devalokam, near here, with senior Metropolitan Kuriakose Mar Cleemis in the chair. It was attended by all 24 metropolitans of the Church. A meeting of the Malankara Syrian Christian Association, considered the parliament of the Church with proportional representation of the laity and priests from over 1,500 parishes of the Church across the world, is expected to formally elect him to the post at Parumala on October 14. He would succeed Baselios Mar Thomas Poulose II, who passed away in July this year, to the Apostolic See of Saint Thomas. Mathews Mar Severios is the Metropolitan of the Kandanad West diocese, besides holding additional responsibility of the dioceses of Malabar from July 2019 and Idukki from December 2019. He had served as secretary of the episcopal synod and was assistant to Paulose II. Beginnings Born to Mattathil Cheriyan Anthrayose and Mariamma at Vazhoor, near here, on February 12, 1949, he was ordained as deacon in 1976 and priest in 1978. He was consecrated as metropolitan on April 30, 1991. He had a postgraduate diploma in theology from the Leningrad Theological Academy (1979) and a doctoral degree in the Christology of Philoxenos of Mabbug from the Pontifical Oriental Institute in Rome (1984). In 2016, he revised his doctoral dissertation and it was published by Lit Verlag in 2020 with the title Word Became Flesh: The Christology of Philoxenos of Mabbug . His pastoral and administrative engagements include innumerable charitable trusts. He is the founder of 17 charitable organisations run by the Kandanad West diocese. He had guided several theological postgraduates and researchers from various denominations through the Federated Faculty for Research in Religion and Culture of Serampore University. He has authored many books including Begotten not Made: Christology in Perspectives and Didaskalia: Church, Worship and Unity .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mar-severios-to-be-catholicos-of-the-east/article36508144.ece
17 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC flags KPCC panel report||Miffed over a report attributed to the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) that termed the exit of the Kerala Congress (M) from the UDF as a major setback, the Kerala Congress led by P.J. Joseph will raise a complaint against it during a meeting of the coalition leadership on September 23. According to a party leader, a leadership meeting of the party on Wednesday had decided to raise the issue during the UDF district committee meeting here on Thursday. “But the plan had to be put off for the time being. The issue will definitely be raised during the day-long camp, which is slated to discuss all issues relating to the poll debacle,” he said. The leadership meeting, meanwhile, decided to demand adequate representation for the regional party in Central Travancore while reconstituting Assembly-level committees of the coalition.  The report, prepared by a subcommittee appointed by the KPCC, had drawn sharp reactions from Joseph group leaders such as Mons Joseph, MLA, and UDF district committee chairman Saji Manjakadambil. The party is also upset over the infighting that unfolded within the Congress in connection with the election of the Kottayam District Congress Committee president. Meanwhile on Thursday, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan inaugurated a UDF district committee meeting. Mr. Manjakadamban presided. Senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy, UDF convener M.M. Hassan, Kerala Congress leader Joy Abraham, and MLAs Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan and Mani C. Kappan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kc-flags-kpcc-panel-report/article36508125.ece
17 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Stress on aircraft familiarity for rescue units at Calicut airport||The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) which probed the Air India Express crash at the Calicut airport last August has asked the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to ensure mandatory aircraft familiarity for the Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) unit, as this ignorance of the personnel had resulted in poorly coordinated rescue operation and delayed evacuation of pilots from the cockpit. In its report to the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the AAIB said the ARFF crew at the airport had not been given aircraft familiarisation training on Boeing 737-800 that overshot the runway and plunged into a gorge on August 7, 2020. The accident claimed the lives of 19 passengers and two pilots and seriously injured 75 passengers. Despite the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) audit observation of 2018 on aircraft familiarisation training and frequent emails throughout 2019 by the Head of Airport Fire Services requesting training on actual aircraft, the report said no action was taken by any agency concerned in this regard. “The DGCA Safety Audit Report of April 2019 assessing aircraft familiarisation of ARFF crew at the Calicut airport as “satisfactory” [remark] is factually incorrect and misleading,” the report pointed out. The AAI must ensure that mandatory aircraft familiarisation training is provided to all ARFF crew at the station within a defined timeline in addition to recurrent training as per the existing requirements. Also, the directors at all airports should coordinate with airline operators for timely conduct of aircraft familiarisation training for ARFF crew on all types of aircraft as mentioned by ICAO’s ‘Airport Services Manual, Part 1- Rescue and Fire Fighting’. This should be monitored by the DGCA through realistic surveillance inspections, the AAIB recommended. Cockpit opening The ARFF personnel were not present during the rescue of the pilots from the cockpit, hence, there was no guidance provided to the rescuers for unlocking seat harness. The pilots were finally extricated after almost an hour after the crash. The pilot-in-command was taken out of the cockpit by a CISF Inspector, while the co-pilot was taken out by an unknown civilian, the report said. Neither the persons who entered the cockpit nor the ARFF personnel were aware of the procedure for opening the cockpit emergency exit. The cabin crew who were trapped and injured in the forward galley could not assist in rescue operations. And, the cabin crew in the aft galley had to open the rear exit doors and signal the rescuers with the help of light from their mobile phones. The right hand side escape slide was deployed but soon got deflated. Then the ARFF personnel had to cut through the aircraft structure, equipment, and seats to assist in removing trapped passengers. CISF personnel’s help Incidentally, it was the CISF personnel, whose barracks were located within the airport premises around 800 metres from the crash site, who immediately started assisting the passengers before the ARFF arrived. The CISF guard on duty right next to the crash site had also informed their Security Operations Control Centre. The ARFF personnel had rescued the passengers from over the wings and those lying on the ground. Rescue efforts were soon supplemented by CISF off-duty personnel and local civilians, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stress-on-aircraft-familiarity-for-rescue-units-at-calicut-airport/article36508090.ece
17 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Traders protest against containment zone norms||Traders owing allegiance to the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES) on Thursday took out a march to the Kozhikode Collectorate flaying the “unscientific containment zone regulations” which allegedly restricted their normal functioning and caused huge losses. The protesters alleged that they were treated as carriers of the virus and only their establishments were barred from functioning in containment zones. A majority of traders had tested negative for the virus in such containment zones, they added. KVVES leaders who addressed the district-level protest accused the police of charging unwanted cases against traders for their attempts to resume normal operations by complying with the COVID-19 protocol. The cases should be withdrawn at the earliest, as the traders were only trying to overcome their financial hurdles by reopening shops, they said. KVVES State general secretary K. Sethumadhavan, who opened the march, said many traders were unreasonably fined by the police in containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-protest-against-containment-zone-norms/article36508100.ece
17 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||1,792 fresh COVID-19 cases; many wards still under lockdown||Despite Kozhikode registering a decline in the number of wards under lockdown to contain the pandemic, it is still among the three districts in the State with the highest number of areas facing restrictions. According to the government data, 2,507 wards in 678 local bodies across the State are facing restrictions now. As many as 418 wards in Ernakulam district, 389 in Thrissur, and 263 in Kozhikode are among them. All these local bodies have a weekly infection population ratio of eight or above. Last week, Kozhikode had over 500 wards under lockdown. As many as 1,792 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from the district on Thursday. The District Medical Officer said there were 1,752 cases of locally acquired infections and 29 others with an unknown source. As many as 10,307 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation had 268 cases due to local transmission of the infection. With 2,930 people recovering, active caseload from the district dropped to 22,942.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1792-fresh-covid-19-cases-many-wards-still-under-lockdown/article36508092.ece
17 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IMCH to have a milk bank from today||The Institute for Maternal and Child Health (IMCH) attached to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, will have a milk bank from Friday. According to sources in the National Health Mission (NHM), breast milk will be collected and preserved there. Mothers who do not have enough breast milk can get it for their children there. The facility could also be utilised if children are not able to suck milk properly or if mothers’ breast milk production stops after delivery. Women who are not able to feed because of other health reasons can also make use of it. The facility will come up in the building adjacent to the newborn section of the hospital. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Veena George will open the facility on Friday. The NHM has allocated Rs. 38.62 lakh for the project. A similar facility, titled ‘Nectar of Life’, was opened at the Ernakulam General Hospital earlier this year. The milk bank at the IMCH is reportedly the first of its kind in government medical college hospitals in the State. The Minister will also declare open some other facilities in the district. A regional family welfare store to keep vaccines for Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod too will be inaugurated on Friday. Community Health Centres at Ulliyeri and Orkkatteri will get disability management centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/imch-to-have-a-milk-bank-from-today/article36508091.ece
17 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Three held on rape charge||The Elathur police have arrested three youths on the charge of raping a 15-year-old girl whom they had known through social media. The suspects, Ashin, 21, Jithin, 25, and Ajay, 21, charged under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, were remanded in judicial custody on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-on-rape-charge/article36508098.ece
17 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Special cover on IIM-K released||India Post and the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode on Thursday released a special cover to mark the silver jubilee of the institute. IIM-K Director Debashis Chatterjee and T. Nirmala Devi, Post Master General, Northern Region, India Post, released the cover. The Director also unveiled the IIM-K ‘Gurukul’ learning centre. He said Gurukul was an experiment in open learning and uninhibited thinking. “By creating ‘Gurukul’, we want to offer a free and holistic space for unhindered exchange of ideas for the next generation of thought leaders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-cover-on-iim-k-released/article36508095.ece
17 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||From Kinassery to Nepal on foot||An expatriate from Kinassery near here is a long journey on foot with the message of communal amity. Noushad Kinassery began his pan-India journey on September 10 and was given a reception at Kondotty in Malappuram district on Thursday. He was received at Kondotty by the Noushad Association. Mr. Noushad has set his goal to cover 7,000 km on foot. He will be crossing Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, Mumbai and Dehradun before setting foot in Nepal. An expatriate who returned from Abu Dhabi, Mr. Noushad was anguished by the developments across the world, particularly in India. He said religion was to unite peoples, and not to divide them. He was given shelter and food by altruists at different places. The Noushad Association offered him jerseys and a small fund during their reception at Kondotty. “We are proud that one of our members has ventured out on a noble mission. We will be monitoring his journey, and will offer all help possible to ease his trip on foot,” said Noushad Mambra, district general secretary of the Noushad Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/from-kinassery-to-nepal-on-foot/article36508212.ece
17 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||‘Chappal salute’ by Youth Cong.||Youth Congress activists staged a unique protest against film actor and BJP MP, Suresh Gopi by enacting a symbolic ‘chappal salute’ here on Thursday. On Wednesday, Mr. Gopi had evoked criticism by asking a Police Sub Inspector to salute him at Thrissur. In a jovial manner, Mr. Gopi had asked the Sub Inspector to salute him as he was an MP. The actor later defended his action saying that it was perfectly in tune with the protocol. Youth Congress protestors used their chappals at the symbolic ‘chappal salute’ and termed the function ‘cheripute’ by clubbing cheripu (chappal) and salute. Palakkad parliamentary committee president Saddam Husain presided over the function. Youth Congress district general secretary Vinod Cheratha inaugurated the protest. Youth Congress State executive member M. Prasobh, M. Arun, S. Deepk, Subin, K. Navas, Shameer, Hakeem Kalmadapam, Rajesh, Tintu Ravi, Najmuddin, Akbar Ali, and Sahadak were among those who took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chappal-salute-by-youth-cong/article36508209.ece
17 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Award for actor Aisha Sultana||The Other Backward Communities (OBC) Department of the Congress has selected cinema activist from Lakshadweep Aisha Sultana for its second Atmabhiman Puraskar. The Congress is giving the award for those holding their dignity and integrity high above power and other social, religious or politicalpressures. The Atmabhiman Puraskar award was instituted in memory of ICS officer Pulikkat Ratnavelu Chetty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-actor-aisha-sultana/article36508210.ece
17 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Jeweller surrenders||The jewellery owner who bought the gold stolen from Marutharoad Rural Credit Society Cooperative Bank at Chandranagar surrendered before the police here on Thursday. Rahul Jalindar Ghadge, 37, from Satara in Maharashtra, had evaded the police after he bought the stolen gold from Ashok Joshi. Joshi had stolen 7.5 kg gold by breaking open the bank in a carefully planned operation. A special investigation team led by DySP P. Sasikumar arrested Joshi from Satara and recovered 2.436 kg of stolen gold. The efforts to recover the remaining gold were on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jeweller-surrenders/article36508213.ece
17 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Wanted man arrested||Marad Aneesh, wanted in connection with several cases, was arrested by the police along with a few of his friends here on Thursday. A police team picked them up at Walayar while conducting a vehicle check. He was handed over to Hemambika police station in connection with a highway robbery case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wanted-man-arrested/article36508214.ece
17 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. flags bid to subvert public peace||A top-level Home Department meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday flagged “multiple attempts from unnamed quarters” to vitiate the communal atmosphere in the State. The meeting reportedly noted with concern that hate speech, particularly against Christian and Muslim minorities, had abounded on social media. The immediate provocation appeared to be Pala bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt's “cautionary sermon” on radical Islamists purportedly using lethally addictive narcotic drugs to corrupt the Catholic and non-Muslim youth. Provocative messages Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan had sought the government’s attention to the torrent of provocative messages online. He said if unchecked, the destabilising invective disseminated, widely using the ubiquitous social media, could polarise society deeply. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran accused the government of doing little to curb the hate speech. A senior police officer pointed out that a largely anonymous online campaign against the infamous Kathua rape incident had manifested as a flash hartal that put communities on edge and disrupted life in some measure in the State in April 2018. The mobilisers had organised the disruption via social media groups. He said two opposing sets of “hardliners” had used a similar technique to organise spirited demonstrations for and against the Pala bishop in the wake of the controversial pastoral speech. The police were working below the radar to reduce social tensions. The emphasis was on conflict resolution. Mr. Vijayan had indicated on Wednesday that the government would hold a round table of all stakeholders, including political parties, to pre-empt the issue from boiling over. Fake accounts The State Police Cyberdome routinely identified and removed hate speech on social media. It had shut down fake accounts used to create COVID-19 vaccine reluctance in society by propagating false theories. An official said the police would prosecute those who attempted to create communal discord based on specific complaints. The line between free speech and hate speech was often blurred, he said. Mr. Vijayan ordered the police to identify and prosecute those who imperilled public peace and communal harmony. Chief Secretary V.P. Joy; Additional Chief Secretary, Home, T.K. Jose; State Police Chief Anil Kant; Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, Vijay Sakhare; ADGP, Intelligence T.K. Vinod Kumar; and ADGP, Cyberdome, Manoj Abraham were present.  The police are working below the radar to reduce social tensions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-flags-bid-to-subvert-public-peace/article36508139.ece
17 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A shift to safety from the shore||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has reiterated that the government will not acquire the land of coastal residents who choose to relocate to safer locations under the Punargeham rehabilitation scheme. Formally inaugurating the handing over of keys to 276 flats and 308 individual houses constructed under the programme through videoconference on Thursday, Mr. Vijayan said the government hoped that more of the 18,985 families who resided within 50 metres of high tide line would opt for the scheme. Currently, 7,716 families have registered for the scheme being undertaken by the Fisheries Department. Why the project Elaborating on the rationale behind the State-wide scheme, he said numerous families faced the threat of their houses being destroyed by inclement weather and high tide. As many as 403 houses were fully and 564 houses partially damaged along the coast between 2016 and 2019. The government aimed at converting such areas as buffer zones and erecting bio-fences for coastal protection. Under the scheme beneficiaries can avail themselves of assistance of up to Rs. 6 lakh to purchase plots of 2-3 cents and another instalment of Rs. 4 lakh for constructing houses. The government is mulling options to exempt beneficiaries from paying registration fees in advance, Mr. Vijayan said. Karode, Beemapally While the 276 flats have been developed in Karode, Beemapally and Ponnani, another set of flats is nearing completion at QSS Colony in Kollam. The 308 houses have been constructed in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur. Works on 898 housing complexes at an outlay of Rs. 89.8 crore are underway in various coastal districts in the State, he added. Under the project, 2,363 more beneficiaries have identified the land required for constructing houses. As many as 601 people have constructed houses thus far. In Thiruvananthapuram, General Education Minister V. Sivankutty handed over the keys at a function in Karode on Thursday.  The land of coastal residents who choose to relocate under Punargeham will not be acquired, says CM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/punargeham-beneficiaries-get-house-keys/article36508217.ece
17 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Register retirement home projects mandatorily: K-RERA||Retirement home projects, which are becoming popular across the State, also need to be registered with the Kerala Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA), officials said on Thursday. K-RERA has issued show-cause notices to projects that have failed to make registrations. The authority is also planning to initiate action against developers who fail to register their retirement home projects, said K-RERA chairman P. H. Kurien. Retirement home projects are coming up across the State. Many of these collect money in advance from prospective buyers and transfer the ownership, Mr. Kurien said. Check urged The authority has urged the public to make sure that a project has proper registration before engaging in real estate transactions. The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, passed by the Parliament, requires ongoing real estate projects and real estate agents to be registered with the State-level regulatory authority. K-RERA was formally established on January 1, 2020. So far, around 563 projects, mostly residential apartments, have been registered. Over 130 agents also have registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registration-must-for-retirement-home-projects/article36508216.ece
17 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,135 new cases in district||The district recorded 2,135 COVID-19 cases and 2,446 recoveries as the number of active cases slid to 16,413 on Thursday. The test positivity rate stood at 17.4%. As many as 44,327 people were undergoing quarantine in the district. These included 5,203 people who entered self-isolation in 24 hours. District Collector Navjot Khosa has declared Karikkottukuzhy in Aryancode grama panchayat and Ambalathinkala in Kattakada grama panchayat as containment zones. The containment zones in Karumthali in Nandiyode grama panchayat and Manithookki in Vithura grama panchayat, and micro-containment zones in Pannikkuzhy in Peppara and Pannikkuzhy in Memala, both in Vithura grama panchayat have been withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2135-new-cases-in-district/article36508432.ece
17 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Festival on Pedals’ to help students unwind||Cyclolsavam, an online international bicycle cultural festival, is back with its second edition. ‘Cyclolsavam – Festival on Pedals’ will be held from October 2 to 5. It is aimed at giving school and college students around the world a break from the monotony of lockdown and COVID-19 pandemic that kept them away from school for extended periods. The festival will provide a platform for them to showcase their talents and draw them towards cycling. Contests for students Besides competition events such as essay writing (Malayalam, English, Hindi), elocution (Hindi, Malayalam, English), painting, and poster-making, competitions such as bicycle flower arrangement, video-production, and bicycle anthem will also be held. Reflecting its international character, elocution and essay competitions in languages such as French, German, Tamil, Kannada, Marathi, Punjabi, Assamese, and Garhwali have also been lined up. There is a book review competition in which contestants in the Malayalam event have to review a book titled ‘Aamsterdamile Cyclelukal,’ penned by Raju Raphael. The four-day event will include a seminar on ‘Women, environment, and cycling.’ Talks by cyclists Cyclists from across the country and the world will also talk on topics such as ‘Cycling and sustainability,’ ’Sustainable cities,’ ‘Cycle chalao city bachao,’ ‘Carefree Sundays,’ Bicycle architecture biennale,’ and ‘Amsterdam the cycling capital of the world’. The festival that attracted 458 participants last year is expecting to draw many more this time. Mayor Arya Rajendran recently released the logo of Cyclolsavam 2.0. For details, contact 8304914485.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-on-pedals-to-help-students-unwind/article36508429.ece
17 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Film fete postponed||The 13th edition of the International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK) scheduled be held in Thiruvananthapuram from September 25 to 30 has been postponed. The revised dates will be announced as per government instruction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/film-fete-postponed/article36508434.ece
17 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Transmission intensity coming down in State||The State logged 22,182 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 1,21,486 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Now that the intensity of COVID-19 transmission has substantially come down and vaccination coverage has increased, the State has reached a critical point when transmission will continue at a low level in the community with occasional surges. This has now prompted the authorities to do away with the focus on testing and test positivity rate as an epidemiological indicator of disease transmission. The State’s active case pool is coming down steadily and on Thursday it went down further to 1,86,190. The number of persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day was 26,563. The official cumulative fatality now stands at 23,165 with the State adding 178 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list. Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases at 3,252, followed by Ernakulam 2,901, Thiruvananthapuram 2,135, Malappuram 2061, Kozhikode 1,792, Palakkad 1,613, Kollam 1,520, Alappuzha 1,442, Kannur 1,246, Kottayam 1,212, Pathanamthitta 1,015, Idukki 973 Wayanad 740 and Kasaragod 280.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/transmission-intensity-coming-down-in-state/article36508138.ece
17 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Official’s daughter falls to death from apartment||Bhavya Singh, 16, the daughter of Public Works Secretary Anand Singh, died after falling from the ninth floor of an apartment at Jawahar Nagar in the city on Thursday. The incident occurred around 1.45 p.m. when the bureaucrat had returned home for lunch. Despite being rushed to a private hospital nearby on Mr. Singh’s official vehicle, her life could not be saved. The body was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital where post-mortem examination was conducted later in the day. The Museum police have registered a case of unnatural death. A senior officer said that the circumstances that led to Bhavya’s fall from the balcony were unknown. Evidence collected The statements of the family members were yet to be recorded. Fingerprint and forensic experts collected evidence from the flat. Bhavya was a Class 11 student at the Kendriya Vidyalaya in Pattom. She was the elder of two daughters of the bureaucrat who hails from Uttar Pradesh. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan visited the grieving family and condoled the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/officials-daughter-falls-to-death-from-apartment/article36508433.ece
17 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Local bodies get award for waste management||The Nava Kerala Award for local bodies that facilitated effective management of solid waste was presented to Attingal municipality and Poovachal grama panchayat in the district on Thursday. The award is given by the Haritha Kerala Mission and the Suchitwa Mission to one grama panchayat and one municipal body in each district. The award for Attingal and a cheque for Rs. 2 lakh was given away by MLA O.S. Ambika and Assistant Collector Shweta Nagarkoti to Attingal municipal chairperson S. Kumar. The award for Poovachal was given away by district panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar to grama panchayat president T. Sanal Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-get-award-for-waste-management/article36508430.ece
17 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ISRO to hold painting contest for students||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) units here are organising an all-Kerala inter-school painting competition in connection with the World Space Week celebrations 2021. The event is being jointly organised by the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), the Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre and the ISRO Inertial Systems Unit. The competition, to be conducted online on October 2 and October 3, is open to all students in the State from Classes I to XII. The theme of the competition will be related to space technology. Upload entries Contestants can participate from their houses on the day of the event and upload the entries through a link that will be provided upon registration, which is free. Registration will open on September 17 (Friday) and will close on September 30. For details, visit https://wsweek.vssc.gov.in or call 9188954965, 9188954966.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isro-to-hold-painting-contest-for-students/article36508435.ece
17 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sports policy by January||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the State’s sports policy would be formally launched next January. Inaugurating the football academies established by the Sports Department in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kannur on Thursday, Mr. Vijayan said the government had decided to go ahead with its efforts to establish playgrounds in each grama panchayat. Two of the three football academies in Kannur and Ernakulam were exclusively for girl students and women. While the academies in Kannur and Thiruvananthapuram will be under the Directorate of Sports and Youth Affairs, the State Sports Council will oversee the operations of the academy in Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sports-policy-by-january/article36508141.ece
17 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poonthura Siraj dead||People’s Democratic Party (PDP) vice chairman Poonthura Siraj, 56, passed away on Thursday. He was under treatment for cancer at a private hospital here. Mr. Siraj, who hails from Poonthura in the district, was a three-time councillor of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. In 1995 and 2000 he won as PDP candidate, and as an independent in 2005. Aide to Maudany A relative and aide to PDP leader Abdul Nasir Maudany, Mr. Siraj was expelled from the party in 2020, but was reinstated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poonthura-siraj-dead/article36508142.ece
17 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One: last day for changes||The last date for perusing the trial allotment list for Plus One higher secondary admission and making changes, if any, has been extended till 5 p.m. on Friday, a statement from the Director of General Education has said. The trial allotment results were published on September 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-last-day-for-changes/article36508140.ece
17 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||JEE (Main) State topper sets sights on IIT||C. Sreehari, Kerala topper in JEE (Main), aspires to join an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) for higher studies. A student of Vivekodhayam Higher Secondary School, Thrissur, Sreehari, son of R. Chandran, Chief Manager at Dhanlaxmi Bank, Tiruppur, and P.R. Sudhadevi, scored 99.99 in JEE (Main). Though Sreehari got admission at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, he aspires to join an IIT. On preparations About preparation and examination during the COVID-19 time, he said: “Pandemic lockdown situation was stressful. It deprived us of face-to-face interaction with teachers and stopped us from meeting friends. However, there were advantages too. A lot of time for travelling was saved and there was less distraction. I could study at my own pace.” Cricket and chess too A diehard cricket fan, Sreehari was a member of the Under-14 district cricket team. He plays chess too. He got the second rank in the Maths Talent Search Examination conducted by the State Education Department while he was in Plus One. Sreehari is now preparing for JEE (Advanced) to be held on October 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jee-main-state-topper-sets-sights-on-iit/article36508146.ece
17 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Girl topper lays stress on balanced learning routine||Nivedya V. Nair, State topper among girls in JEE (Main), believes in a balanced learning routine. A student of Placid Vidya Vihar, Chethippuzha, Changanassery, she scored 99.64 to become the topper among girls in JEE (Main). Nivedya, who prefers to clear doubts on her own by referring to learning materials, seeks help from teachers only when she fails to find answers by herself. “One will fall in love with a topic if one understands the concept. The pandemic-induced lockdown stopped us from going to classes but we could save a lot of time.” Daughter of Vineesh V. Nair, Professor, Rajeev Gandhi Institute of Technology, Pampady, Kottayam, and Sandhyarani, teacher at NSS Higher Secondary School, Kunnamthanam, Nivedya aspires to take up Computer Science at an IIT. Avid reader Busy in preparation for JEE (Advanced), she balances her studies with sports activities like tennis. She loves to listen to music and read a lot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girl-topper-lays-stress-on-balanced-learning-routine/article36508148.ece
17 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Jayaprakashan Namboodiri new Guruvayur Melsanthi||Kavalappara Thekkeppatt Jayaprakashan Namboodiri (52) has been chosen as the new Melsanthi of the Guruvayur Sreekrishna temple. He was selected by a draw of lots at the temple on Thursday from 36 candidates shortlisted. Outgoing Melsanthi Sankara Narayana Pramod Namboodiri drew the lots. The six-month term of the new Melsanthi will begin from October 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jayaprakashan-namboodiri-new-guruvayur-melsanthi/article36508136.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||No magic bullet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-magic-bullet/article36508127.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||KSRTC on a new journey||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-on-a-new-journey/article36508094.ece
17 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Singanamala TDP activists ransack party office||The bickering among the TDP cadres in the district came out in the open on Thursday as about 25 party activists from the Singanamala (SC) Assembly constituency ransacked the party’s district central office at Ramnagar in the city. Later, they held a press conference, criticising the alleged clipping of wings of the constituency in-charge Bandaru Sravani by appointment of a two-man coordination committee. TDP State president K. Atchannaidu recently appointed Keshav Reddy and Anala Narsa Naidu as the coordinators to carry out the party’s programmes in the constituency, with Ms. Sravani as in- charge, but it apparently did not go down well with some leaders as they saw it as curtailing the importance of Ms. Sravani. Those who ransacked the party office by throwing chairs on the floor in the main hall, while party’s district president Kalava Srinivasulu was talking to them, alleged that it was part of the group politics as Tadipatri Municipal Chairman J.C. Prabhakar Reddy had raised the issue last week. Ms. Sravani, who had participated in the party programmes along with the JC brothers, was being punished, they alleged. Mr. Srinivasulu said he had called the party activists after they spoke against the party at a press conference and asked them to represent to TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, if they had any grouse. “They should not have spoken like this in public. There is no tension and all the party workers from Singanamala have been pacified,” he said. Mr. Atchannaidu, in a release, condemned the party workers’ speaking in public. “They should represent the to the party president if they have some issues,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/singanamala-tdp-activists-ransack-party-office/article36508181.ece
17 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cabinet nod for Ekalavya Model Residential School in Vizag Agency||The Cabinet has decided to transfer 15 acres of government land at Ajjivalasa village of Araku Valley mandal in Visakhapatnam district in favour of the Tribal Welfare Department for construction of Ekalavya Model Residential School, according to I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah. Informing this to the media after the Cabinet meeting here on Thursday, Mr. Venkataramaiah said that the Cabinet also decided to allot 53.45 acres of land at Masapeta village of Rayachoti mandal to Yogi Vemana University for its Post-Graduate Centre. The Cabinet also approved allocation of 4.59 acres of land at Putlampalli village of Kadapa mandal to the L.V. Prasad Eye Institute, two acres of land at Adavitakkellapadu of Guntur West mandal to a renowned badminton player for setting up a badminton academy. He said the Cabinet also approved allotment of 223 acres at Edavalli village of Chilakaluripeta mandal to the AP Mineral Development Corporation Limited and 0.31 acres in Rajamahendravam Urban limits to the Minority Welfare Department for construction of a community hall and educational institution. The Cabinet also put its stamp of approval to the A.P. Forster Care Guidelines-2021. Canal widening The Minister further said that the Cabinet gave its nod to the widening of the Punganuru Branch Canal from 79.600 km to 220.350 km as a part of the Rayalseema Drought Mitigation Project at a cost of Rs. 1,929 crore in relaxation of the FRBM norms. He said the Cabinet approved the setting up of a new Law and Order Police Station in Kasinayana mandal of Kadapa district and an agriculture polytechnic college at Thogaram village of Amadalavalasa mandal in Srikakulam district. It also decided to set up an AP State Organic Certification Authority. The other decisions included creation of a new revenue division for Badvel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cabinet-nod-for-ekalavya-model-residential-school-in-vizag-agency/article36508196.ece
17 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sajjala hails verdict on parishad polls||Adviser (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has welcomed the judgment of the Division Bench of the A.P. High Court, giving its nod for the counting of votes of the ZPTC and MPTC elections and declaration of results. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy alleged that the opposition parties had conspired to obstruct democracy and go against the people’s mandate. “The ZPTC and MPTC elections should have been conducted by the TDP government headed by N. Chandrababu Naidu during 2018 and 2019. But Mr. Naidu had postponed the elections fearing defeat. However, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy initiated the exercise soon after forming the government. But it was postponed following the issue of reservations and the opposition’s conspiracy,” Mr. Reddy said. Former SEC N. Ramesh had in March 2020 postponed the elections citing COVID-19 when there were only six days left for completion of polling, he said. Every time the government was keen on conducting the elections, an attempt had been made by the TDP to obstruct the process, he alleged. He expressed the confidence that the YSRCP would win any election with 85% positive vote as people were on its side. Lokesh criticised Referring to TDP leader N. Lokesh burning the copies of Disha Bill, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said he had no concern for women;s safety. “Though it has not yet become a law, the Bill has boosted the confidence of women. Instead of providing suggestions, it is outrageous to hold back such a novel initiative,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sajjala-hails-verdict-on-parishad-polls/article36508197.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dictatorial regime in Telangana: YSRTP||YSR Telangana Party president Y.S. Sharmila has said the K. Chandrasekhar Rao government is adopting dictatorial policies in quelling the protests by opposition parties. This was evident from the manner in which a large contingent of the police disrupted her peaceful dharna seeking justice to the family of the six-year-old victim who was brutally raped and murdered recently. Over 200 uniformed personnel raided the dharna venue and forcibly lifted the peacefully agitating YSRTP leaders and cadre from the spot and confined them in the name of house arrest. “There is no democracy in Telangana. What we see is the dictatorial regime unleashed by this government,” she alleged at a press conference here on Thursday. Ms. Sharmila who launched an impromptu protest after calling on the victim’s family faulted the way in which police raided the premises in the midnight. She said the situation in Telangana was akin to that of Afghanistan where Taliban took the reins. The government was resorting to house arrest of leaders and people who intended to stage protest against the government while those planning serious protests were being put behind the bars. “Is it the way the government deals with people who want to peacefully stage protests to express their dissent?” she asked, adding that the Chief Minister owed an explanation for the developments that followed the incident. The YSRTP, she said, launched the protest against the “police inaction” into the heinous crime. The machinery responded only after the party launched the protest and Home Minister Mohd. Mahmood Ali gave instructions to police officials while the Chief Minister on his part directed the Home Minister and Minister Satyavati Rathod to visit the affected family. Referring to the suicide committed by Raju, who committed the offence, she said the government’s failure to take stringent action against such persons was resulting in crimes being perpetrated against women. “It is nothing but failure of the Chief Minister and the government,” she said. Ms. Sharmila attributed the increasing incidents of atrocities against women to rampant sale of liquor and drugs even as the government remained indifferent to the development. “Atrocities against women increased ever since Mr. Rao took over as Chief Minister. Crime against women increased by 300 per cent in the past few years,” she alleged. At the same time, revenue through liquor had increased from Rs. 10,800 crore in 2014-15 to Rs. 27,280 crore in 2020-21. She stressed the need for creating awareness among people about the present state of affairs in the State and the government should at least now initiate steps to check occurrence of such incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dictatorial-regime-in-telangana-ysrtp/article36507699.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘How can we believe he is Raju?’||“Until and unless we see Raju’s body with our eyes, we won’t believe he is dead,” said the parents of the six-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered by Pallakonda Raju last week. They said that the face in the photos, which were shown to them by the local police and media, was smashed beyond recognition. “How can we believe that he is Raju? We are unable to see his face,” the couple said. The couple along with the locals demanded that the authorities get Raju’s body to their locality for ‘confirmation’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/how-can-we-believe-he-is-raju/article36508192.ece
17 September 2021||NALGONDA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police killed Raju, say kin||“When they picked us up last week, the police said they would leave us only after Raju is nabbed. On Wednesday evening, they just dropped us near Uppal bus station, giving us ticket charges, and left,” family members of suspect Pallakonda Raju said on Thursday. Wailing family members, moments after the news of Raju’s body being found on the Station Ghanpur railway track became a sensation, said: “He didn’t die by suicide, the police killed him.” Family members of Raju, suspect in the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl in Singareni Colony last week, were connected to undivided Nalgonda district. Although the family hails from Jangaon, his sister’s family resides in Addagudur mandal in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri and his wife’s family is from Tirumalagiri mandal’s Jalalpuram in Suryapet. “One officer even told my father, to take care of me and my daughter and not to neglect us for what Raju had done,” Mounika, the deceased’s wife sobbed. According to Veeramma, the 30-year-old suspect’s mother, “We overheard the police conversations, which said Raju was caught near a railway station earlier this week and as per orders from the top he should be killed in an encounter.” Yadamma, Raju’s mother-in-law at Jalalpuram, had a different view. “He has no right to live after committing such an act,” she said, speaking to media persons. Raju was with the in-laws in August, around the time of Rakshabandhan. He was reportedly involved in an altercation with them during that visit. For Anitha, the suspect’s sister in Addagudur, the government should extend assistance to the victims - Raju’s wife Mounika and her under-one-year child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/murder-by-police-say-kin/article36508075.ece
17 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP misleading ryots for political mileage: YSRCP||The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders on Thursday accused the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) of misleading farmers for political gains. “TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, during his Chief Ministerial tenure, had deceived farmers by not waiving loans to the tune of Rs. 87,000 crore which he had promised ahead of 2014 Assemble elections. Now, he has no moral right to speak on behalf of farmers,” said YSRCP district president Kakani Govardhan Reddy. ‘Farmers happy’ He said that farmers were happy with the YSRCP government that had earmarked Rs. 3,000 crore for market intervention when the prices of farm produce fell below the minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-misleading-ryots-for-political-mileage-ysrcp/article36508184.ece
17 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 claims three lives in South Coastal A.P.||The number of coronavirus active cases dipped to 5,009 as the recoveries outnumbered single-day infection tally in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours, ending 9 a.m. on Thursday. Three more patients —two in SPSR Nellore district and one in Prakasam district—succumbed to the infection, taking the toll rose to 2,106 in the region. Prakasam district accounts for 1,078 deaths till date while the same for SPSR Nellore district is 1,028, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The region reported 276 infections during the period, including 135 in SPSR Nellore district, taking the cumulative cases count past the 2.78-lakh mark. Reversing the negative trend, the recoveries outnumbered single-day infection tally by 15. As many as 291 patients recovered of the infection in the region, including 163 in SPSR Nellore district. As a result, the active cases declined to 2,492 in SPSR Nellore district while the same for Prakasam district was put at 2,517.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-three-lives-in-south-coastal-ap/article36508185.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC allows idol immersion in Hussainsagar||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed the immersion of Ganesha idols in the Hussainsagar lake in Hyderabad city “one last time” for Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations this year. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana passed the order on a petition filed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). The civic body had sought a stay of a September 9 order passed by the Telangana High Court banning the immersion of Ganesha idols made of Plaster of Paris (PoP) in the lake. The court said the immersion was a recurrent problem despite fears of pollution of the lake water. The government ought to have prohibited the immersion of PoP idols on its own. The court stated that it was not supporting the government by staying the High Court order. The stay was given on the undertaking given by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Telangana, that there would be no immersion of PoP idols from next year. The court noted that “lakhs of people” were geared up for the celebrations this year. “But this is the last time,” Chief Justice Ramana cautioned the State government. The court asked the government to state this assurance in an affidavit before it. “Once upon a time, the water in the lake was used for drinking. That time passed long ago. Now, I believe, a lot of money was spent on beautification... If the water is polluted again, won’t it be a waste of the money spent on the beautification,” Chief Justice Ramana asked Mr. Mehta. Cranes deployed The Solicitor General said cranes have been deployed by the government to remove the immersed idols from the lake and transport them to solid waste dumping sites. The State argued that the well-intentioned but unexpected ban on the immersion of PoP idols by the High Court would hit thousands of artisans hard. Besides, arrangements for the celebration were already well underway and the GHMC had taken precautions, including positioning cranes to pull out the idols from the lake within hours of their immersion. The State said the immersion celebrations were due on September 18. “The idols will be removed within 24 hours of immersion. They will be transported to solid waste dumping sites. The GHMC has also created 25 baby ponds and also distributed 50,000 small environment-friendly clay Ganesha idols…” the GHMC petition, filed through advocate Venkat Reddy, said. The local body had pointed out that the preparations for the festival had begun in March. “The directions issued by the High Court at this point of time would cause huge public outcry and also lead to administrative difficulties,” it had stated. “GHMC will ban the immersion of POP idols from the next year in light of the guidelines issued by Central Pollution Control Board. However, for this year the GHMC seeks an exemption,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-allows-idol-immersion-in-hussainsagar/article36507707.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jayalalithaa death: 4 more witnesses to be examined||The Justice (retired) A. Arumughaswamy Commission of Inquiry into the death of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa told the Supreme Court on Thursday that only four witnesses remain to be examined and it should be allowed to complete its work and place its fact-finding report before the State Legislative Assembly. A Bench headed by Justice Abdul S. Nazeer assured the Commission, represented by senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, that its submissions in this regard would be heard in detail on September 23. The proceedings before the Commission were stayed by the Supreme Court in April 2019 on the basis of a plea by Apollo Hospitals in Chennai, where Jayalalithaa died in 2016, that the inquiry panel’s functioning was “replete with bias”. “Only four witnesses are left to be examined. A fact-finding inquiry report should be presented in the House. The House will then decide… 155 witnesses have been examined… only four more. The inquiry has been pending since 2017,” Mr. Kumar submitted. The State government, represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Joseph S. Aristotle, said the Commission needed to complete its work. Senior advocate Aryama Sundaram, for Apollo, agreed with the court’s decision to schedule the case for hearing next week. In 2019, the court stayed the inquiry after Apollo alleged that the Commission, instead of conducting an impartial inquiry, had transformed itself into an adversary. Mr. Sundaram had then argued for the hospitals that the proceedings before the inquiry panel was causing “grave prejudice” to the hospital’s reputation. Mr. Sundaram at the time informed the court that the Commission was even filing applications “on its own behalf before itself” alleging that the hospital had shown negligence in the treatment of Jayalalithaa. Apollo had submitted that the Commission, instead of conducting an impartial probe, had filed a pleading alleging “criminal intent” on the part of the hospital and its doctors. Mr. Sundaram had contended that the Commission had even asked for the medical reports of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran, who died in 1987.  Apollo had submitted that the elaborate medical reports about the circumstances leading to the death of Jayalalithaa were released in March 2017 to end speculations. In 2019, Tamil Nadu urged the court to not stay the Commission proceedings. However, the Bench had refused to oblige the State and proceeded to freeze the inquiry. The State had appointed the commission on September 25, 2017. Its reference was to examine the circumstances that led to the hospitalisation of Jayalalithaa on September 22, 2016, and the nature of treatment given in order to determine the cause of hospitalisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jayalalithaa-death-4-more-witnesses-to-be-examined-probe-panel-tells-sc/article36508044.ece
17 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||MSP eluding farmers, allege TDP activists||TDP activists staged demonstrations across Prakasam district on Thursday, alleging that farmers were not getting remunerative prices for their produce. Leading the protest titled as ‘Rythukosam Telugu Desam’ at Kothapatnam, TDP State vice-president Damacharla Janardhana Rao said minimum support price for all crops including fruits and vegetables remained elusive. “Chief Minister Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy has reneged on his poll promise of setting up a Rs. 5,000-crore market stabilisation fund at times of market crash,” he said. The Ongole former MLA who came in bullock cart said the TDP would fight against the government’s decision to fix meters to farm pumpsets. Similar protests were organised at Markapur, Anigiri, Darsi, Kondepi, Kandukur and Yerragondapalem among other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/msp-eludes-farmers-alleges-tdp/article36508183.ece
17 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhumana and Chevireddy take oath of office||Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy on Thursday took oath as the ‘special invitee’ of the newly constituted TTD board of trustees. At a brief ceremony inside the temple of Lord Venkateswara, TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy administered him the oath. After ‘vedasirvachanams’, he was presented the Lord’s ‘prasadam’. Addressing the media outside the temple, Mr. Karunakar Reddy thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for bestowing on him the opportunity to serve the devotees for the second time in a row. Earlier, Chandragiri MLA and Chairman of the Tirupati Urban Development Authority (TUDA) Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy took oath as ex officio member of the trust board. Meanwhile, the G.O. stipulating that the local MLA, Mr. Karunakar Reddy, will not have voting rights in the board meetings has raised many an eyebrow. The lives of 22,000-odd strong TTD workforce and the people of both Tirumala and Tirupati are directly or indirectly entwined with the prestigious institution. While so, divesting the local MLA of voting rights will have a direct impact on solving their issues, it is feared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhumana-and-chevireddy-take-oath-of-office/article36508201.ece
17 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||N. Srinivasan nominated for the fourth time||Vice-chairman and managing director of Chennai-based India Cements Limited N. Srinivasan has become the first person to be nominated to the TTD Trust Board for the fourth time. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy approved the names of 30 members on Wednesday. While 24 of them, including Mr. Srinivasan, were nominated as members, four were appointed as ex-officio members, and two as special invitees without voting power. The tenure of the members would be coterminous with that of the Chairman of the TTD under Section 99 of Act 30/1987. Special invitees The government has also nominated 50 members as special invitees, who would be given privileges on a par with members of the TTD Trust Board regarding darshan. Mr. Srinivasan was first nominated to the board in 2004 and again in 2006 and 2019. He had contributed over Rs. 3 crore for the construction of a boondi making complex at the temple and also played a key role in enhancing the quality of laddus. Jupalli Rameshwar Rao, Parthasaradhi Reddy, Vemireddy Prashanti Reddy, Mooramsetty Ramulu and Lakshminarayana have been nominated for the second time in a row. The other members include Pokala Ashok, Malladi Krishna Rao, Tanguturi Maruti Prasad, Manne Jeevan Reddy, Rajesh Sharma, Bora Saurabh and K. Vidya Sagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/n-srinivasan-on-ttd-trust-board-for-fourth-time/article36507702.ece
17 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD sub-enquiry offices to get battery operated cars||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Thursday asked the officials to provide battery operated cars to all the sub-enquiry offices. There are various sub-enquiry offices atop the temple town where the allotment of cottages and rest houses are made. Pilgrims make the bookings at these offices as the rental tariff is cheap. “Provisions of battery operated cars at these officers can serve a large section of devotees,” said Mr. Jawahar Reddy. At a high-level meeting with heads of various departments at Annamaiah Bhavan, Mr. Jawahar Reddy and TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy reviewed the functioning of the complaint tracking system and asked the officials concerned to record every complaint online and address them in stipulated time. The TTD EO wanted that attenders working at various rest houses be referred to as ‘Bhaktha Sahayaks’ and their duty should be to assist pilgrims. Mr. Jawahar also paid a visit to the S.V. Museum, Gosala, Bata Gangamma temple and the rest house for the potu workers. CVSO Gopinath Jatti, in-charge chief engineer Nageswar Rao accompanied Mr. Jawahar Reddy during his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-sub-enquiry-offices-to-get-battery-operated-cars/article36508188.ece
17 September 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cow worship to be part of Tirumala itinerary soon||Pilgrims now can perform ‘Go Pradakshina’ as a ‘Saptha Gopradakshinashala’ is coming up in a four-acre site at the Tirumala foothills. Cow worship has been considered a sacred activity in temples. For the first time, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is making it an integral part of the trip to the abode of Lord Venkateswara. Resonating with the ‘seven hills’ of Tirumala, seven cows will be sheltered at the Mandapam, which the devotees will perambulate (‘Pradakshina’) as part of the fulfilment of their vows. The facility is expected to be inaugurated by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during the Tirumala Brahmotsavam on October 11. ‘Go Thulabaram’ The TTD is also coming up with ‘Go Thulabaram’, akin to the huge balance seen in temples where a devotee weighs himself against any product of his choice for donation. “A huge balance made of cast iron is being installed here, where a cow made to stand on one side to be weighed against products such as sugarcane, haystack, nuts and rice bags among others. The same will be donated to the Goshala,” former TTD board member and donor for this project J. Sekar Reddy told The Hindu . He feels that the step will also make the centre self-sufficient as care of the cows will be taken with the donations. A grazing ground and a cattle shed to house 30 cows are also coming up near the facility. The other features are a meditation hall, children’s play area and a gallery to display the TTD’s initiatives on cow protection. The project was envisaged in 2016 when Mr. Sekar Reddy was in the TTD trust board, but its execution got delayed due to several reasons. Even as the coronavirus pandemic is largely to blame, the extension of the concept to include the ‘Go Thulabaram’ and other amenities made it miss several deadlines. Project cost The project cost that was originally estimated to be Rs. 7 crore has now touched Rs. 13 crore, with more facilities being planned. The TTD will depute animal keepers, security personnel and gardeners at this facility. Mr. Sekar Reddy has come forward to meet the maintenance expenses. Apart from erecting electric fencing, Mr. Reddy is also seeking guards with light arms to scare away the wild animals, which may sneak into the compound from the forest nearby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cow-worship-to-be-part-of-tirumala-itinerary-soon/article36508179.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jumbo board’ for TTD comes in for criticism||Parties across the political spectrum on Thursday came down heavily on the State government for forming a “jumbo body” for the TTD trust board with 80 members. BJP State spokesperson G. Bhanuprakash Reddy criticised it as an attempt to accommodate the ruling party’s politically unemployed lot in coveted positions. “Even if one member gets a quota of 50 tickets, there will be 4,000 ticket- holders scrambling for darshan. When will the common man get his turn?” he questioned. Mr. Reddy appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to roll back the decision if he had any respect for the religious sentiments of the Hindus. Congress leader P. Naveen Kumar Reddy questioned the rationale behind appointing so many special invitees without voting right, and sought to know their impact on the decisions taken in the board meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jumbo-board-for-ttd-comes-in-for-criticism/article36508202.ece
17 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||18 arrested in Kalikiri bank scam||Bringing curtains on the spate of scams happening in the Kalikiri branch of Bank of Baroda for the last three years, the Chittoor police have arrested 18 persons, including some staff members, in the case that involved alleged siphoning off of over Rs. 1 crore from several accounts. The prime accused Mulla Syed Ali Khan (34), working as a messenger in the bank, was picked up along with some of his relatives on Thursday near Indiramma Colony arch and Rs. 20 lakh cash and documents pertaining to six gold loan accounts were recovered from their possession. The accused, in connivance with the bank staff, had allegedly diverted money to the tune of Rs. 1 crore from the accounts of several individuals and also Sanghamitra members. Zeroing in on the user identity and password of some bank staff, the police confirmed their involvement in creation of fake loan documents by forging signatures. The staff had allegedly played an instrumental role in preventing SMS alerts to the original customers and diverted the sanctioned loan amount to the accounts of Ali Khan’s relatives, which was reportedly shared by all of them. The bank management and the police arranged to freeze the gold loan account opened by Ali Khan by pledging the 1,120 grams of gold bought with the ill-gotten money. Additional SP (Chittoor) D.N. Mahesh and Deputy Superintendent of Police (Madanapalle) C. Ravi Manoharachary produced the arrested accused, including Ali Khan’s relatives Gurramkonda Chandini (24), Shaik Khadirunnisa (39), Syed Arifunnisa (28), Moghal Hazirunnisa (22), along with the bank’s Joint Manager Karanam Jayakrishna (34), head cashier Shaik Moulali (32), agriculture officer Ramaswamy Eswaran (24), officer Patan Abida Mubin (32), clerk Payyavula Teja Sai (27), operations officer Burransetty Ramachandrudu (35), clerk Challapalli Eelu (28), officer Dudekula Sharif Basha (28), business associates B. Surendra Naik (33) and Masool Mohammad Sharif (43). A retired bank officer Singanamala Chinnaiah (62) was also arrested for alleged complicity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-arrested-in-kalikiri-bank-scam/article36508190.ece
17 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CREDAI urges govt. to slash registration charges||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India State chapter representatives have urged the government to reduce the registration charges by two percent in the State until the real estate sector recovers from the pandemic impact. CREDAI State unit vice-president Y.V. Ramana Rao, treasurer D. Rambabu and others met Minister for Revenue Dharmana Krishna Das here on Thursday and submitted a representation on the issues being faced by the realty sector. They appealed to the government to consider bringing down the 7.5% registration charges to 5.5% and continue it for some time until the realty sector is free from the pandemic. They recalled that during the 2009 financial crisis the then Chief Minister of combined Andhra Pradesh Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had saved the sector by cutting down registration charges. They said Maharashtra and Karnataka had already reduced the registration charges which would benefit the government as the number of registrations would go up. The representatives also urged the Minister to continue the 2% land conversion charge in urban areas without making any changes. They said conversion charge in rural areas had been increased to 5% from 3% but there was no clarity on the same in urban areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/credai-urges-govt-to-slash-registration-charges/article36508439.ece
17 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vanijya Utsav’ to boost trade and exports: Minister||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will inaugurate the two-day ‘Vanijya Utsav-2021’ at S. S. Convention Hall in Vijayawada on September 21. At a press conference on Thursday, Minister for Industries, Commerce and Information and Technology Mekapati Goutham Reddy said the objective of the trade and export carnival was to boost the exports by enhancing commercial production and showcase the State as a ‘rising economic force’. He said the Centre had kicked off the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to mark the 75th year of the Indian Independence, and as part of the drive, the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry was organising a ‘Vanijya Saptah’ from September 20 to 26. All State governments were organising their independent ‘utsavs’, he said, adding that the event would be organised in collaboration with the Plastics Export Promotion Council. Similar programmes would be organised in the district headquarters across the State on September 24 and 25. Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu said that the government wanted to utilise this platform to promote agricultural products in a big way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vanijya-utsav-to-boost-trade-and-exports-minister/article36508445.ece
17 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 more persons succumb to COVID-19 in State||The State reported 14 COVID-19 deaths and 1,367 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the cumulative toll to 14,044 and the tally to 20,34,786. The total recoveries increased to 20,06,034 as 1,248 patients recovered in the past one day. The number of active cases slightly increased and reached 14,708, while the recovery rate remained at 98.59%. The positivity rate of the 61,178 samples tested during the period was 2.23% and the overall positivity rate of the 2.75 crore tests done so far was 7.39%. Chittoor and Guntur reported three deaths each in the past one day. They were followed by Krishna, Prakasam and West Godavari (two each) and Nellore and Visakhapatnam (one each). There were no deaths in six districts. East Godavari reported 288 infections in the past one day. It was followed by Chittoor (217), Krishna (155), Prakasam (141), Nellore (135), West Godavari (126), Kadapa (108), Guntur (101), Visakhapatnam (55), Anantapur (20), Srikakulam (10), Vizianagaram (8) and Kurnool (3). The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,88,591), Chittoor (2,41,424), West Godavari (1,76,324), Guntur (1,74,402), Anantapur (1,57,461), Visakhapatnam (1,56,000), Nellore (1,43,108), Prakasam (1,35,533), Kurnool (1,23,958), Srikakulam (1,22,489), Krishna (1,15,906), Kadapa (1,14,054) and Vizianagaram (82,641).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-more-persons-succumb-to-covid-19-in-state/article36508194.ece
17 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court moved against new property tax system||Civil society organisations have moved the High Court against the new property tax regime based on the capital value of a property adopted by the urban local bodies across the State. The move follows a resolution by the Pattana Pourasanghala Aikya Vedika or Urban Civil Societies United Front comprising civil society organisations from across the State. At a press conference here on Thursday, Tax Payers’ Association representatives and State Bar Council member Sunkara Rajendra Prasad and senior advocate Narra Srinivas said that a writ petition had been filed on September 14 against the new tax regime, which they described as unconstitutional. Mr. Rajendra Prasad said the writ petition had been registered as WP SR No. 27335/2021 with the High Court. “The capital value of a property becomes a reality only when it is sold and property owner loses the property upon selling it. Levying tax on such a component is against any taxation principle,” he pointed out. TPA secretary M.V. Anjaneyulu said that the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) did not pay heed to requests to extend time and receive objections through e-mails. He said that several objections submitted were not discussed by the municipal corporation. AP Urban Citizens’ Forum convenor Ch. Babu Rao said the civil society organisations sought a stay against the new regime until the writ petition is disposed of. TPA president V. Sambireddy, treasurer V.S. Rama Raju and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-moved-against-new-property-tax-system/article36508440.ece
17 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. nod for transfers||The government has given permission to the Commissioner of Collegiate Education to effect the transfer of the department employees and directed the officials to complete the process by September 30 as per the guidelines through web-counselling. The Special Chief Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Satish Chandra, in an order, said keeping the significant number of vacancies in remote colleges in view and duly considering the subject-wise workload requirement, the minimum requirement of lecturers for each college would be analysed first. Based on such analysis, college-wise vacancies would be notified, irrespective of the actual vacant posts. Accordingly, the posts would be filled through transparent web-counselling following the prescribed guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-nod-for-transfers/article36507758.ece
17 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 5 lakh skip II Inter English betterment exam||Secretary of the State Intermediate Board of Education (IBE) V. Ramakrishna on Thursday made a surprise inspection at a few examination centres at Eluru in West Godavari district and expressed satisfaction over the arrangements made for the smooth conduct of the ongoing advanced supplementary tests. He examined the arrangements made at the exit and entrance points of the exam centres, seating arrangement made as per the COVID-19 protocol and availability of equipment like face masks and thermal scanners. Meanwhile, a total of 6,893 students of Intermediate second year wrote the betterment exam in English (Paper-II) at 1,452 exam centres on Thursday. Of the 5,10,104 students who had applied, 5,03,211 did not show up for the exam. The first year students took the test in English (Paper-I). Of the 5,21,908 who registered 3,68,134 wrote the test. Meanwhile, the Commissioner, Department of Medical and Health, K. Bhaskar urged teachers and students to strictly follow COVID-appropriate behaviour on the campuses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-5-lakh-skip-ii-inter-english-betterment-exam/article36507760.ece
17 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Annavaram temple to get a facelift under Central scheme||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Thursday said that the Annavaram temple would be given a facelift under the Centrally-sponsored Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) at a cost of Rs. 48 crore. At a press conference, the Minister said that under temple tourism, development of Srisailam temple had been taken up at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh and another Rs. 50 lakh was sanctioned under the Central scheme for development of the Simhachalam temple. Now, the famed temple at Annavaram was selected for implementation of the PRASAD scheme, he informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/annavaram-temple-to-get-a-facelift-under-central-scheme/article36508441.ece
17 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahila Police merger move discussed||Chief Secretary Adityanath Das has asked officials to chalk out the policy and guidelines for integration of Mahila Police into the Police department. He discussed in detail the proposal of absorbing the Mahila Police working in the ward secretariats across the State into the police department at a review meeting with the DGP Gautam Sawang and other officials on Thursday. Director General (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar, Special Chief Secretary Ajay Jain, Principal Secretaries Kumar Viswajith, A.R. Anuradha, Sashi Bhushan Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahila-police-merger-move-discussed/article36507759.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time to rally against BJP’s anti-people policies: Brinda||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat has said that the COVID-19 pandemic, which has caused the greatest humanitarian crisis in history, has also shown how socialist and capitalist nations handled it. She was speaking at a public meeting on ‘Oppose BJP polices, Save Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Save Nation’, organised by the party at the Convocation Hall of Andhra University here on Thursday. Ms. Brinda Karat said, while the socialist countries handled the crisis in a better way, America, a capitalist nation, had registered 26% of the world’s COVID-19 deaths. “China, which consists of 18% of the world’s population, has reported only 6% deaths,” she claimed. Referring to the situation in India, she said it was a shame that Delhi had run out of oxygen supply during the pandemic surge. Migrant workers had been forced to walk thousands of km due to the “callous attitude” of the Union government, Ms. Brinda Karat alleged. She ridiculed the Union government for spending crores of rupees on hoardings with a picture of the Prime Minister on them boasting of free COVID-19 vaccine for all after 4.43 lakh people succumbed to the virus. ‘Historic agitation’ Describing the agitation of the workers of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) as historic, Ms. Brinda Karat said it was symbolic of the struggle of the people of India to defend the “self-reliance” of the nation by saving the PSUs, which were national assets. Recalling the statements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on ‘self-reliance’ and ‘Make in India’, she likened the policies of the Centre to “termites eating into the core values of the Constitution.” “The PSUs are being sold to corporates,” she alleged. Quoting the findings of a survey conducted by AIDWA, Ms. Karat said women, who bore the brunt of the economic policies, had to sell, or mortgage their gold chains to support their families as men lost their jobs. “The steep hike in excise duty on petrol and diesel is triggering the price rise,” she observed. Dig at Jagan Lashing out at the Centre for “failing” to implement the assurances given in the AP State Reorganisation Act, 2014, such as granting Special Category Status, Ms. Karat also found fault with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for “failing” to question the Centre on it. The Union government also failed to operationalise the Visakhapatnam headquartered South Coast Railway Zone so far, she said. Ms. Karat urged people to make the Bharat bandh called on September 27 to protest against the “anti-people policies of the BJP” a huge success. CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao, CPI State assistant secretary J.V.S.N. Murthy, CPI-ML (New Democracy) leader Kondayya, CPI(M) city secretary Ganga Rao and district secretary K. Lokanadham were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/time-to-rally-against-bjps-anti-people-policies-brinda/article36508204.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Afghan students at AU protest against Taliban||Students from Afghanistan in Andhra University on Thursday staged a protest near the university main gate against the Taliban takeover of their country. Holding the Afghanistan flag and placards reading ‘Afghanistan Deserves Freedom’, they sought that all countries of the world raise their voice against the Taliban, and support the people of Afghanistan who had been suffering for the last several weeks. They raised slogans that the rights of women in Afghanistan matter, and demanded that Pakistan withdraw their support to the Taliban. A student from Afghanistan said that their country was bleeding after being taken over by the Taliban. “The Taliban is killing innocent civilians. Today, as the younger generation from Afghanistan, we are trying to raise our voice against it ,” said the protester, who did not want to be named. The students demanded that the United Nations (UN) should not legitimise the Taliban, they said. “We know how the Taliban are against the freedoms of people and the rights of women. They have destroyed schools and universities, and are torturing people, and not allowing women to go to work. They are claiming that women are free to work, but we do not believe them. Their atrocities are continuing as before,” said a girl who participated in the protest. The students said that they would support the anti-Taliban movement from Panjshir valley and urged all nations to support the movement and unseat Taliban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/afghan-students-at-au-protest-against-taliban/article36508177.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elocution, poster design contest marks Ozone Day||The Hindu FIC and Arcelor Mittal Nippon Steel (AMNS) jointly held an online elocution competition and poster design contest for schoolchildren in Visakhapatnam on the occasion of International Ozone Day, here on Thursday. Over 96 students from 40 schools participated in the poster design contest while 86 students took part in the elocution competition. In the senior category for elocution, the top honours were bagged by Tanushree from Little Angels School, MVP Colony, Ch. Aditya Srinivas from Siva Sivani, Marripalem and Sai Praneeth from Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan. In the poster design category, the first three prizes were bagged by P. Gowri Sudhakar of De Paul School, Ukkunagaram, Nandita Pradhan of Siva Sivani, Marripalem, and P. Hasini from Kendriya Vidyalaya, NAD. In the junior category elocution, the first three prizes were bagged by Avanish Yashuday from De Paul, Kankshitha and Manaswi, both from Sri Satya Sai School, MVP Colony. In the poster design competition, the top prizes were won by Anchal Patra of Little Angels, G. Sradha Lakshmi of Sri Satya Sai School and Ch. Bhavagnya of Sri Prakash Vidyaniketan, Seethammadhara. M. Ravindranath, Executive Director of AMNS, spoke about the importance of the ozone layer and how its depletion can affect civilisation and flora and fauna on earth. He urged the young minds to contribute their bit in improving the environment by planting trees, which would help in improving the health of the ozone layer. Head HR and Administration of AMNS D.S. Varma said that the company has always been striving to improve the environment and reduce pollution by planting trees. “Our plant is set up on 110 acres of land of which 47 acres caters to green cover,” he said. The topic for the elocution competition was: ‘Ozone for Life: 36 years of Ozone Layer Protection.’ The topic for the poster design competition was ‘Earth 2040’. Prizes and certificates were given away by Mr. Ravindranath and Mr. Varma. Later, an exhibition of the prize-winning posters was displayed at the Visakha Public Library, where the programme was held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elocution-poster-design-contest-marks-ozone-day/article36508454.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakha Dairy growing from strength to strength||Farmers and milk suppliers affiliated to Visakha Dairy will attend a general body meeting of the cooperative society on September 17, where they will celebrate the long tenure of Adari Tulasi Rao who has served as chairman of the dairy since 1986. Visakha Dairy has come a long way under Mr. Tulasi Rao’s stewardship, growing from a 7,000 litre-a-day plant to generating over five lakh litres a day now. Its annual turnover has increased from a mere Rs. 11 crore to around Rs. 1,500 crore today. Farmers of north-coastal districts will attend the general body meeting. Mr. Tulasi Rao was elected chairman on August 29, 1986. Due to his untiring efforts, the dairy has been continuously making profits and declaring bonus for farmers ever since he assumed charge as its chairman. During his tenure at the helm of the dairy, a training centre was established to impart training to farmers in the areas of milching, cattle feeding, fodder development and animal healthcare; 100 bulk milk cooling centres with a storage capacity of 10 lakh litres a day were established; a milk powder plant, with a capacity of 13 metric tonnes a day, was established in 1998; and marketing activities were extended to several States.  Mr. Tulasi Rao had started Milk Producers Employees Educational Health & Medical Welfare Trust in 1989 to extend education and employment opportunities to the children of farmers and medical facilities to farmers. A multi-speciality hospital with state-of-the-art facilities (Krushi Hospital) was inaugurated in 1998.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakha-dairy-growing-from-strength-to-strength/article36508446.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fulfil poll promises, urge Archaka JAC leaders||The A.P. State Archaka JAC leaders and Archaka Sangam leaders have appealed to the Endowments Commissioner to initiate immediate action to implement the assurances given by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy regarding the welfare of Archakas. On the advice of Deputy Speaker Kona Raghupati, JAC leaders Nandeeswarlu, Seshacharyulu, Rambabu, Ramalingeswar Rao and Murali Krishna met the Endowments Commissioner and submitted a memorandum seeking early implementation of the hereditary Archaka system and consideration of JAC leaders in the appointment of various committees. JAC leader Muralikrishna said that the Chief Minister had promised to implement the hereditary archaka system, which was introduced by former Chief Minister, the late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. On August 10, Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas and Endowments Commissioner Vani Mohan had conducted a meeting with officials, State Archaka JAC leaders and Archaka associations and discussed implementation of the promises made in the YSRCP election manifesto regarding the archaka system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fulfil-poll-promises-urge-archaka-jac-leaders/article36508457.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police and Maoists exchange fire in AOB||An exchange of fire took place between the security forces of Odisha and the banned CPI (Maoist) near Kumikhari and Badli Pahad reserve forest area under the Boipariguda police station limits on the Koraput-Malkangiri border in Odisha on Thursday. Weapons seized There were no casualties on either side. But the security forces recovered at least one 303 Lee Enfield rifle, some ammunition, Maoist literature, uniforms, medicines, 11 kit bags, a few knives, four detonators, two hand-held VHF sets, one portable welding machine and a few other things from the site of encounter. The operation was undertaken based on specific intelligence inputs on the movement of armed Maoist cadres. The operation involved personnel from the SOG, DVF and BSF. Setbacks It may be recalled that on Tuesday Dubashi Shankar alias Mahender was arrested somewhere close to that area and Sonal Madvi alias Kiran had surrendered in Koraput. In April, Muttannagari Jalandhar Reddy alias Krishna, a Special Zonal Committee Member surrendered, followed by the surrender of Chikkudu Chinna Rao alias Sudheer, a divisional committee member, in August. Six Maoists, including top leaders Ranadev, Ashok and Nachike, and three women cadres, were killed at Teegalametta on June 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-and-maoists-exchange-fire-in-aob/article36508205.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mega vaccination drive today, says Collector||The district administration will be conducting a ‘mega vaccination drive’ in the district on Friday, Collector A. Mallikarjuna said. The drive will be held at all primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs) from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., he informed. The Collector organised a video-conference to review the arrangements being made for the drive. He said that in the last two vaccination drives, only 50% of people in the age category of 18 to 44 years were vaccinated. In this mega vaccination drive on Friday, we have decided to vaccinate around 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh people, he said. Meanwhile, the district recorded 55 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, ending Thursday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,510. The district reported one death for the third day in a row, taking the toll to 1,081. This is the seventh COVID-19 death this month. Fifty-seven people undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the recovery rate is 98.6 %. The number of recoveries and active cases are 1,54,347 and 1,082 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mega-vaccination-drive-today-says-collector/article36508449.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crackdown on errant auto drivers continues||The traffic police continued their drive against erring auto-rickshaw drivers, leving fines on those carrying more than the specified number of passengers, across the city on Thursday. In a span of six days, police teams have booked 630 cases against erring auto-rickshaw drivers. The traffic police had initiated a special drive against six motor vehicle violations including overloading of auto-rickshaws, which is a common sight in most areas of the city. Traffic police teams have been conducting drives at around 33 identified places covering all major junctions in the city police station limits. According to police, most of the overloaded auto-rickshaws were found in Gajuwaka, followed by Kancharapalem, Gopalapatnam and Dwaraka Nagar. “Most of the auto-rickshaws were found to be ferrying construction workers or other labourers. In some areas, 10 to 14 passengers were being ferried in a vehicle, which is a serious violation. Some auto-rickshaw drivers are not only violating COVID-19 protocols, but also risking the lives of passengers by ferrying them in a jampacked vehicle and driving at high speed,” said a traffic police officer involved in the enforcement drive. ADCP (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said that as per norms, only three people are allowed to travel in an auto-rickshaw apart from the driver. Police are imposing fines of Rs. 100 per head on every extra-passenger .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crackdown-on-errant-auto-drivers-continues/article36508452.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sudhir Kumar Gupta takes over as new ADRM||Sudhir Kumar Gupta, an officer of Indian Railway Services Engineers (IRSE) of the 1997 batch, assumed charge as Additional Divisional Railway Manager (Infrastructure) of Waltair Division of East Coast Railway on Thursday. Outgoing ADRM Akshay Saxena has been transferred to the East Coast Railway headquarters in Bhubaneswar. Mr. Gupta completed his graduation in Civil Engineering and Masters in Structural Engineering. He joined the Railways in June 2000 as Assistant Divisional Engineer/ Mysore Division. He has varied experience of over 24 years in the Railways and served in various positions over South Central Railway, South Western Railway, East Central Railway, South Eastern Railway and East Coast Railway in open line as well as in construction in various capacities. He also worked in General Administration as Secretary to GM/ South Western Railway. Prior to this posting, he was Chief Project Manager-II of East Coast Railway, since December 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sudhir-kumar-gupta-takes-over-as-new-adrm/article36508456.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brinda decries removal of Valmiki tribe from website||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat has termed the removal of the Valmiki tribe from the list of Scheduled Tribes on the Government of Andhra Pradesh website ‘a violation of the Constitution’. The CPI(M) national leader visited the dharna camp being organised by the Tribal Employees Union at Gandhi Statue near the GVMC building on Thursday and expressed solidarity with them. Ms. Karat wondered as to how could the government deprive the Valmiki tribe of the right given to them by the Constitution. She demanded that the officials responsible for the deletion of the Valmiki tribe from the ST list be terminated from service. She also assured the employees that she would take up the matter in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brinda-decries-removal-of-valmiki-tribe-from-website/article36508447.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||18-year-old held for ‘rape’||An 18-year-old youth was arrested by the III Town police on charges of impregnating his 21-year-old girlfriend after promising to marry her and later abandoning her, on Tuesday. Police said the duo met online. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-year-old-held-for-rape/article36508448.ece
17 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU to offer yoga classes on obesity||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University will be conducting offline Obesity Yoga classes from September 20 at the Yoga Village. Head of the Department Dr. K. Ramesh Babu in a press release issued on Thursday said that the programme will be held from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. Interested persons may contact 9494401919/8008486999 for further details, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-to-offer-yoga-classes-on-obesity/article36508458.ece
17 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BJP-JSP alliance will form next govt. in State’||BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao has exuded the confidence that the BJP-JSP alliance will form the next government in the State as people are “fed up” with both the regional parties – the TDP and the YSRCP. “The BJP and the JSP have been working in tandem to highlight the corruption and poor administration of the YSRCP government in the State,” Mr. Narasimha Rao told The Hindu on Thursday. Mr. Narasimha Rao was here to participate in a roundtable on issues pertaining to the North Andhra region. “There is huge scope for the BJP to gain political strength before the 2024 elections as people are looking at the national party,” he said. “The BJP has always been in the forefront in in highlighting people’s grievances. We will certainly win their hearts and emerge as a force to reckon with in the State soon,” Mr. Narasimha Rao asserted. Mr. Narasimha Rao said the BJP would strive for the development of all the backward regions in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jsp-alliance-will-form-next-govt-in-state/article36508199.ece
17 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP opposes fixing meters to pump sets||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) will hold an agitation at the Tahsildar’s office in Vizianagaram on Friday to oppose the fixing of electricity meters to agriculture motor pump sets. The party leaders says that it would lead to collection of electricity charges and put an additional financial burden on the farmers who are already facing untold miseries. Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju and TDP Vizianagaram in-charge Aditi Gajapathi Raju directed all the party workers to attend the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-opposes-fixing-meters-to-pump-sets/article36508226.ece
17 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alert locals foil ‘kidnap’ bid||Alert locals swung into action and reportedly prevented three girls from being kidnapped, at Vutapalli village in Merakamudidam mandal of Viziangaram district on Thursday. The three girls, who were on bicycles, were allegedly forcibly stopped by three miscreants who tried to kidnap them. The miscreants fled as villagers rushed to the spot on hearing the girls’ shouts for help. Vizianagaram SP Deepika Patil ordered an inquiry into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alert-locals-foil-kidnap-bid/article36508227.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eye on target||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eye-on-target/article36508207.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mother in the making||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mother-in-the-making/article36508443.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Did the Nizam have a secret deal before Hyderabad’s accession?||As Indian forces surrounded Hyderabad and moved in on five fronts in September 1948, the United States and British diplomats suspected that the Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan, and the Government of India had choreographed the operation. “Embassy feels, although it has no definite evidence in support of its conclusion, that the whole military campaign and consequent capitulation (of) Nizam was to (a) certain degree (a) prearranged plan between Nizam and El-Edroos (Maj. Gen. Syed El Edroos commander of Hyderabad forces) on one hand and GOI officials on the other,” was the secret telegram sent to US Secretary of State George Marshall by Charge in India Howard Donovan in those crucial days. While Indian Independence on August 15, 1947, was a heady affair for the rest of the country, Hyderabad under Osman Ali Khan hedged his bets. Hyderabad had to deal with a fog of war for 13 months before the ‘Police Action’ began on September 13, 1948. What will the Muslim ruler with a majority Hindu population do in the heart of India? That was the big question. The Nizam’s Dominion sprawled over 82,698 square miles, area bigger than Scotland and England together. The inevitability of the accession of Hyderabad was correctly read by the British diplomats. “…to say that the vast majority of disinterested opinion, both in this sub-continent and outside, accepted the GoI’s contentions that Hyderabad’s accession to the Indian Union was not only inevitable but an indispensable pre-requisite to the consolidation and welfare of the Union as a whole,” A.C.B. Symon, British Deputy High Commissioner in India, told his diplomats. While the cable appears guarded in its outline, in a private conversation with his American counterpart, Symon spelled out his understanding of the situation. Based on this conversation, the US diplomat sent a telegram to Marshall on September 15 at 2 p.m.: “UK High Commissioner said today he did not consider it beyond bounds of possibility that there was “a deal” between Bucher (Chief of Army Staff Gen. Roy Bucher) and El-Edroos. Bucher told Symon that to date Hyderabad State troops; had withdrawn when GOI forces appeared. However, Symon emphasises his comment is pure speculation. He agrees with Embassy that the next 48 hours will be critical and that unless Hyderabad resistance increases there will probably be very little trouble.” The role of Edroos in reaching an understanding without much violence is borne out in his biography. “According to my instructions, the Hyderabad Armed Forces had fallen back without offering any resistance and had done so in an orderly fashion,” wrote Syed Ahmed El Edroos as the war wound down. This was perhaps the reason why the war toll was low with Hyderabad losing about 1,400 soldiers and India’s toll, never revealed, but said to be in low double digits. “Publicly, Nehru was very much against military action in Hyderabad. But he was writing letters to Defence Minister Baldev Singh to prepare troops and weapons for action,” says historian Narayani Basu, who has written a biography on V.P. Menon. Menon was a key player in integration of Indian States. Nehru admitted as much when he separated the Nizam from the claque surrounding him. “For over ten months, Government tried to bring about an amicable settlement. But there were certain forces that were in power, which consistently thwarted all attempts at bridging the gulf of difference between the Nizam and the Government,” Nehru said, while addressing a large gathering at Chowpatty on September 15. By September 17, independent existence of Hyderabad Dominion was over.  Hyderabad had to deal with a fog of war for 13 months before the ‘Police Action’ began on September 13, 1948.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/did-the-nizam-have-a-secret-deal-before-hyderabads-accession/article36508071.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet nod for lift irrigation schemes||The Cabinet on Thursday approved Sangameswara and Basaveswara lift-irrigation schemes over Singur reservoir to irrigate 3.84 lakh acres in Sangareddy, Andole, Zaheerabad and Narayankhed Assembly constituencies. The Sangameswara scheme on the right canal of the reservoir contemplated lifting 12 tmc ft water to irrigate 2.19 lakh acres in Zaheerabad, Andole and Sangareddy constituencies. It will irrigate 231 villages of eleven mandals in the three constituencies. The Cabinet gave administrative sanction of Rs. 2,653 crore for the project, a release said. From the Basaveswara scheme on the left canal of the reservoir, it was proposed to lift 8 tmc ft water to irrigate 1.65 lakh acres in Narayankhed and Andole constituencies. As many 166 villages in eight mandals will get irrigation facility. Administrative sanction of Rs. 1,774 crore was given for the project, the release added. The Cabinet authorised Irrigation Department to raise loan from NABARD for both schemes. The department was also authorised to avail a loan of Rs. 2,051.14 crore from NABARD for the construction of Narasimhasagar project in Bhongir district under packages 15 and 16 of Kaleswaram project. By other decisions, the Cabinet allotted 1,261 sq yds of land on nominal rate for the construction of a hostel for girls by Rajabahadur Venkatram Reddy Educational Society at Narayanguda. An additional Rs. 100 crore was allotted to the Panchayat Raj Department for repairs to rural roads damaged in recent rains. Already, Rs. 300 crore was allotted to the department this year.  As promised by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao earlier, members of Goud community will get a reservation of 15 per cent, SCs 10 per cent and STs 5 per cent in allotment of liquor shops from next year. The Cabinet mandated the Roads and Buildings Department to complete construction of four new super speciality hospitals in Hyderabad on a war-footing. The R & B and Health departments were asked to make all arrangements to start new medical colleges in the State for next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cabinet-nod-for-lift-irrigation-schemes/article36508268.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Quota for Gouds, SCs/STs in liquor outlets||In keeping with the promise by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao earlier, the State Cabinet on Thursday approved 15% reservation for members of Goud community, 10% for SCs and 5% for STs in allotment of liquor shops from next year. By other decisions, the Cabinet cleared Sangameswara and Basaveswara lift-irrigation schemes over Singur reservoir to irrigate 3.84 lakh acres in Sangareddy, Andole, Zaheerabad and Narayankhed Assembly constituencies. The Sangameswara scheme on the right canal of the reservoir contemplated lifting 12 tmc ft water to irrigate 2.19 lakh acres in Zaheerabad, Andole and Sangareddy constituencies. It will irrigate 231 villages of eleven mandals in the three constituencies. The Cabinet gave administrative sanction of Rs. 2,653 crore for the project, a release said. From the Basaveswara scheme on the left canal of the reservoir, it was proposed to lift 8 tmc ft water to irrigate 1.65 lakh acres in Narayankhed and Andole constituencies. As many 166 villages in eight mandals will get irrigation facility. Administrative sanction of Rs. 1,774 crore was given for the project, the release added. The Cabinet authorised Irrigation Department to raise loan from NABARD for both schemes. The department was also authorised to avail a loan of Rs. 2,051.14 crore from NABARD for the construction of Narasimhasagar project in Bhongir district under packages 15 and 16 of Kaleshwaram project. The Cabinet allotted 1,261 sq yds of land on nominal rate for the construction of a hostel for girls by Rajabahadur Venkatram Reddy Educational Society at Narayanguda. An additional Rs. 100 crore was allotted to the Panchayat Raj Department for repairs to rural roads damaged in recent rains. Already, Rs. 300 crore was allotted to the department this year. The Cabinet mandated the Roads and Buildings Department to complete construction of four new super-speciality hospitals in Hyderabad on a war-footing. The R&B and Health departments were asked to make all arrangements to start new medical colleges in the State for next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/quota-for-gouds-scssts-in-liquor-outlets/article36508379.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Activists seek independent autopsy and probe||A delegation from the Women and Transgender Organisations Joint Action Committee (WT-JAC) and human rights organisations submitted a memorandum to the Acting Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court M. S. Ramachandra Rao on Thursday, seeking his immediate intervention in the suspicious disappearance and death of the rape and murder accused Pallakonda Raju. The delegation sought directions ensuring legal action as per orders of the Supreme Court and National Human Rights Commission, which includes autopsy by independent panel of surgeons and a halt to cremation until then, along with court monitored investigation. Expressing concern about the run-up of events to the death of the accused on the rail track in Jangaon district, which includes the accused going missing, followed by a manhunt with a reward, the delegation requested the acting CJ to ensure speedy action.. The letter requested for immediate directions to the Principal Secretary, Home, to halt the cremation and preserve the body of the accused till further orders, and to submit the CCTV footage of the scene of death to the court. A special team of forensic experts and autopsy surgeons from outside the Telangana State, preferably from AIIMS should be formed, to undertake an independent post-mortem, and the procedure should be video-graphed as per the NHRC guidelines. An immediate inquest of the deceased person should be conducted by a judicial magistrate, and the Principal Secretary, Home, should be directed to transfer the investigation into the rape and murder of the six-year-old girl to a specially constituted independent team of police officials, the letter said, further requesting that both investigations should be monitored by the High Court. The delegation, which included activists V.Sandhya, K.Satyavathi, K.Sajaya, Devi, Syed Bilal, S.Deepthi, and Suneetha, had, a day before, submitted a memorandum to Justice Ramachandra Rao seeking contempt action against political leaders issuing open calls for “encounter killing” of accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/activists-seek-independent-autopsy-probe/article36508254.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rape-accused last seen by railway keyman, ryots||Though Pallakonda Raju, the 30-year-old rape-and-murder suspect, managed to evade electronic surveillance and police vigil for almost a week, he finally landed in the eye of a circumspect railway keyman and two farmers near Naskhal railway station in Jangaon district on Thursday morning. Minutes later he allegedly ended his life. While the eyewitnesses recapitulated that upon seeing them Raju ran and hid in the bushes, and later he came running towards the Konark Express. All this happened in a split second. Before they could reconcile what was happening, he was killed by the train. The incident took place around 8.40 a.m. The police suspect that Raju had walked along the railway track for six days from the city and reached Ghanpur area. According to keyman Kumar, he along with another keyman Sarangapani met at bridge number 309/53 and were proceeding to work when they noticed a man running into the bushes on seeing them. “We waited at the bridge for nearly 10 minutes assuming he would come out of the bushes. But, when there was no movement we went back to work,” he said.After they walked for nearly 200 metres, Kumar and Sarangapani heard nearby farmers shouting about a man jumping before Konark Express and rushed to the spot. “Going by the features and two tattoos on his hands, we could confirm that he was the same person who raped,” Mr. Kumar said. Further, with the hope to get the announced cash reward of Rs. 10 lakh, keyman Sarangapani alerted police on Dial 100. “Soon they came here, confirmed that it was Raju’s body and started the procedure,” he said. A farmer who was an eyewitness to the incident recollected the suspicious movements of a man, looking like the ‘Wanted’ rape-and-murder suspect while the train was chugging its way very fast. “We started yelling asking the man not to move further... Then we immediately informed the keyman passing by,” Suresh said. The farmer was on his way to his agricultural fields to spray pesticides when he noticed a man moving on the railway track and hiding in the bushes. Meanwhile, Warangal Commissioner of Police Tarun Joshi said that they were verifying on how and from where Raju reached the railway track. “There is no proper route to reach railway track. Will examine the CCTV cameras in the route. He could have come by train and got down at Station Ghanpur,” he said, adding that eyewitnesses tried to stop him. Police suspect that Raju could have walked on the track before ending his life by jumping in front of running train.    (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rape-accused-last-seen-by-railway-keyman-farmers/article36508078.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘COVID protocols mandatory to keep new dangerous variants away’||People should continue wearing face masks and practice COVID appropriate behaviour of avoiding gatherings for a ‘long time’ to not give a chance for more virulent immune escape strains of SARS-CoV-2 to emerge, said director of Tata Institute of Genetics & Society (TIGS) and former director of CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) Rakesh Mishra on Thursday. “Looks like we have an upper hand over the virus in most parts of the country due to natural infection induced sero-positivity with vaccines also helping. We should continue to try as much as we can not to give a chance for new dangerous variants to come in. It is not just about the governments. The society too, should contribute as, if we keep getting infected, vaccines may not respond,” he warned. Dr. Mishra was addressing scientists, students and others virtually during a webinar organised by TIGS on “Challenges & Advances in SARS-CoV-2 research”. He said none should forget the origin of the pandemic, even if the ‘very beginning’ is not clear. “If we are not going to respect wildlife, we are going to be in trouble. We should learn to respect nature and live with it,” he asserted. The manner in which scientific institutions had collaborated ever since the pandemic broke out has been “tremendous and impactful” in terms of data, research and communication, he said. “SARS-CoV-2 has about 3-4 mutations a month and there are about 32-35 Delta variants circulating. By keeping a continuous watch through genome sequencing, it is quite possible to warn policy makers about any major outbreak due to super-spreader events like markets, meetings or marriages,” said CSIR-Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology (IGIB) principal scientist Vinod Scaria. In fact, the Delta variant spike, which caused such devastation during the second wave throughout the country, was first noticed in Amaravati and Yavatmal in Maharastra in October last year, he disclosed. Kerala’s high numbers could be due to ‘effective’ testing where asymptomatic cases are being detected and also because the susceptible population is high as it could halt the first wave, he explained. University of California-Los Angeles associate professor V. Arumugaswami said the chances of another pandemic whether vector-based or RNA-based was very high and it could be dengue, chikungunya or a more virulent form of Nipah. “It is a ticking time bomb and it is matter of when, as we go deep into forests and cause more pollution,” he said. National Institute Of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences’ Chitra Pattabhiraman said that apart from challenges of genome sequencing in substantial numbers, data interpretation too, should be quick enough for policy makers to take action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-protocols-mandatory-to-keep-new-dangerous-variants-away/article36508062.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Amit Shah to address public meeting near Nirmal today||When Home Minister Amit Shah addresses the public meeting near the historic ‘Banyan Tree of 1,000 hangings’ ground near Nirmal, Adilabad, he will be the third Home Minister, continuing a tradition initiated by senior leader and another ex-Home Minister L.K. Advani. It was in 1998 in the Nizam College Grounds that Mr. Advani took up the cause when he was the Home Minister and had demanded the State government celebrate the Telangana Liberation Day officially. The tradition was later continued when the then Home Minister and now Defence Minister Rajnath Singh raised the issue yet another time in 2017 when he addressed a public meeting in Nizamabad held as part of an ongoing ‘bus yatra’ by the then State president and now national OBC morcha president K. Laxman. The party is pulling no stops to make it a grand success with party president and Member of Parliament Bandi Sanjay Kumar making it a point at every stage of his ongoing ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ to exhort the cadre about the importance of the public meeting in the context of the prevailing political scenario. He has been having teleconference with leaders of Nizamabad, Karimnagar, Adilabad, Medak and Hyderabad from where people are expected to attend. Senior leaders including G. Narayan Reddy, NVSS Prabhakar, Mr. Rao and others have been touring villages in Nirmal constituency to urge people to attend and send a strong message to the government here. Symbolic site The meeting site is also symbolic as about 1,000 freedom fighters were said to have been hanged by Razakars during the erstwhile Nizam regime on the tree. Senior party leaders stated that Mr. Sanjay Kumar had personally requested the Home Minister to participate in his ongoing ‘padayatra’, which entered the 20th day, and then it was decided that Sept.17 will be ideal day. KCR faulted “TRS chief and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao lashed out at the then governments for not celebrating the liberation day officially even in the Legislative Assembly, but kept silent on coming to power to please the Majlis party. We will definitely highlight this issue apart from taking the Government to task for its lacklustre performance,” they said. Apart from Mr. Shah and Mr. Sanjay Kumar, Union Minister for Culture and Tourism G. Kishan Reddy, party MP Soyam Babu Rao will be among those present as also national general secretary Tarun Chugh, P Muralidhar Rao, Raja Singh, P. Sudhakar Reddy, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amit-shah-to-address-public-meeting-near-nirmal-today/article36508264.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Impressive revenue growth continues||The State’s revenue receipts registered an impressive growth for the second consecutive month in July with State’s tax revenue for the month pegged at Rs. 8,365.49 crore. This is Rs. 1,300 crore higher than the previous month’s Rs. 7,027 crore. The State’s tax revenues in the first four months crossed the Rs. 28,000 crore mark to reach Rs. 28,591 crore in the process. The State registered Rs. 18,481.75 crore during the same period last financial year when the COVID-19 pandemic started peaking. According to senior officials of the Finance department, the State reported non-tax revenue of Rs. 990 crore during the month with revenue from mines pegged at Rs. 136 crore and other non-tax revenue at Rs. 854 crore. Monthly key indicators submitted to the Comptroller and Auditor General of India indicate that the total tax revenue till July was Rs. 28,591 crore against the budget estimates for the current year of Rs. 1,06,900 crore. GST collections Of these, GST collections up to July stood at Rs. 9,152.44 crore against the estimated Rs. 35,520 crore for the year, Sales Tax Rs. 8,218crore (Rs. 26,500 crore), Excise Rs. 4,790 crore (Rs. 17,000 crore), Registration and Stamps Rs. 2,872 crore (Rs. 12,500 crore) and other taxes and duties Rs. 1,379.5 crore (Rs. 6,652.14 crore). This was in addition to the share of union taxes Rs. 2,178.14 crore (Rs. 8,721 crore for FY 2021-22) and Grants in Aid and Contributions Rs. 3,544 crore (Rs. 38,669 crore). The increase in the revenue was partly because of the borrowings and other liabilities which reached close to Rs. 15,000 crore (Rs. 14,983 crore against the budgeted Rs. 45,559 crore) with the State opting for borrowings to the tune of Rs. 2,075.9 crore during the month. Senior officials said revenue during August too was by and large good with State’s own tax revenue pegged at Rs. 7,667 crore while the non-tax revenue was Rs. 164 crore. The total receipts up to August were tentatively placed at Rs. 35,067 crore and officials were still in the process of reconciliation of the accounts. This included borrowings of Rs. 3,601 crore taking the total borrowings during the current fiscal to Rs. 20,404 crore. Grants The State also received Finance Commission grants of Rs. 410 crore during August. Non-tax revenue saw a steep fall in August to Rs. 46 crore from Rs. 854 crore in July thereby impacting the overall revenue. Though there was fall of Rs. 300 crore in revenue through Registration and Stamps to Rs. 920 crore in August against Rs. 1,201 crore of July, the SGST/IGST revenue have shown an increase of Rs. 500 crore during the month to Rs. 2,619 crore against Rs. 2,189 crore of July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/impressive-revenue-growth-continues/article36508080.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Razakar leader sought money to take his ‘essential’ puff||S M Qasim Razavi, the infamous leader of the Razakars, who was imprisoned in Trimulgherry Jail, a British prison in Secunderabad constructed in the 1850s, was initially confined for 20 hours a day in his cell. It was a time he was facing two important trials, the Shoebullah Khan murder and Bibi Nagar cases. Wielding immense influence only a couple of years before, Razavi during imprisonment in 1950 had requested the authorities that he be allowed to draw money from his frozen bank accounts for cigarettes. In a letter handwritten in 1950, Razavi informs the jail superintendent, “I have some money deposited in the Hyderabad State Bank. The exact amount I do not remember, nor have I any papers or cheque with me. This much I remember that there is money enough to meet my petty expenses in jail, such as cigarettes and other needs.” He proceeds to register an appeal, “Will you be kind enough to inform me whether I will be able to withdraw some money and have it deposited in jail books. If so please do the needful for the same and oblige.” For about a couple of months, Razavi’s request finds its way on to the desks of the Home Department, Finance Department and the Hyderabad State Bank officials. Documents reflect officers deliberating whether his frozen bank accounts should be made operational, and how much money he should be permitted to withdraw each month. At one point, it was decided that Razavi should receive per month ‘no more than Rs. 15’. In a confidential communication to the Managing Director of the Hyderabad State Bank, Assistant Secretary of the Finance Department A L Kantha Rao sought to know the balance in Razavi’s account. In another confidential letter dated April 10, 1950, Mr. Rao informs the Government of Hyderabad - Dn that Razavi’s money has been credited twice, once on the 31st of Ardibehisht and then on the 10th of Thir in 1357 Fasli, with a balance of Rs. 848. It was later that the President of Special Tribunal IV, Trimulgherry, J A Pinto stepped in and stated that Razavi should be permitted to withdraw Rs. 40 per month, instead of Rs. 15, as suggested earlier. The same letter records that Razavi, and two others, were confined to cells for a large part of the day, the exceptions being two hours each in the morning and evening. He lifted this confinement. Documents indicate that the Indian Army and the Hyderabad - Dn government took note of Razavi’s heavy smoking, and acknowledged it as a habit that he could not do away with. It thus described his smoking as ‘essential’. “Accused 1 wants a recurring allowance of Rs. 40/- from his funds. He is a heavy smoker. Capt. Dr. Choudhuri when he was attending on him certified that smoking was essential to him. This is also the opinion of Col. Damle, his former medical Superintendent. I think cigarettes will cost him nearly Rs. 25/- a month,” an excerpt reads. An apparent intercepted letter in Urdu from Razavi, later translated into English, to his wife who was then living at Robson Road in Karachi, Pakistan, reveals that he was initially given Rs. 200. In fact, cigarettes seem to be a subject of importance, as Razavi mentions it in the very first sentence. “My dear, I received Rs. 200/- and a cigarette tin through the solicitor,” he writes. He then proceeds to inform her that it was the second hearing of the Shoebullah Khan murder case. Khan was the editor of the Urdu publication Imroze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/razakar-leader-sought-money-to-take-his-essential-puff/article36508073.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccinate 3 lakh people daily, says Cabinet||The Cabinet on Thursday directed officials and public representatives to take steps to administer three lakh doses of vaccine daily in a special vaccination drive that commenced across the State on Thursday. Health officials informed that 2.26 crore doses were already administered by now, which included 1.45 crore first doses and 55 lakh second doses. They also said that Rs. 133 crore was spent to procure beds, medicines and other material for treatment of COVID patients. As part of advance measures for treatment of infection among children, as many as 5,200 beds were arranged. The Chief Minister also inquired about the situation in adjoining States and measures taken to check the infection. Meanwhile, Health department officials said that 4.01 lakh COVID vaccine doses were administered as part of a special drive on Thursday, which is the highest coverage in a day. Of them, 2.69 lakh were given the first dose, and 1.32 were administered second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccinate-3l-daily-cabinet/article36508064.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TRS pushed budget surplus State into debt’||Telangana BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday said he is willing to go with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to Delhi and ascertain the facts of Centre's funds to the State with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The Centre has given Rs. 2,52,908 crore to Telangana in the last seven years. Minister K.T. Rama Rao should quit if he has any morals for spreading falsehoods. There is a bid to provoke regional sentiments. If Telangana has been denied legitimate share of funds, why didn't the TRS MPs raise the issue in the Parliament,” he questioned. Addressing a press conference on the 20th day of his 'Maha Sangrama Yatra' in Kamareddy district, he gave a detailed breakdown of the Centre funding for various social welfare and development schemes. Telangana has been getting Rs. 1,04,717 crore as its share of taxes and another Rs. 1.22 lakh crore for welfare schemes. The Centre has allotted Rs. 40,000 crore for highways development of which Rs. 21,000 crore was released, another Rs. 23,491 crore has been earmarked for railways and other projects. The free COVID vaccine being given to those above 18 years is costing about Rs. 2,700 crore, he said. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said he had not calculated the amounts being spent on providing national security, civil aviation, space technology, disaster management and the likes. “I am ready to give these details to the Chief Minister also and if he’s ready, we can take up the issue to the Prime Minister,” he maintained. If the TRS MPs had sought the same information in the Parliament, the facts would have come out and they would have been thoroughly exposed. The Modi government had also enhanced the States taxes share from 32% to 41% following the recommendations of the Finance Commission. “In Telangana, Hyderabad generates the most revenue, isn’t the government spending money on backward regions for development? Criticising the Centre is bankrupt politics,” he charged. “The real issue is the TRS Government has pushed a budget surplus State into debt whereas the first family assets have increased by leaps and bounds. I am witnessing the suffering of the people and the opposition to this regime is apparent in my interactions with them,” he said. About Home Minister Amit Shah public meeting on Friday in Nirmal to commemorate the Telangana Liberation Day, he said, Mr. Shah will reach the meeting venue by a helicopter from Nanded. The BJP has been consistent in demanding that it should be celebrated officially. The TRS had changed its stance on coming to power, bowing to pressure from the Majlis party, which was against the very formation of Telangana, he said. The BJP chief also criticised the police for not arresting those responsible for the murder of a party worker in Mahabubnagar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-pushed-budget-surplus-state-into-debt/article36508262.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three Cabinet sub-panels constituted||The Cabinet on Thursday constituted three sub-committees, one of them to study setting up of traffic police stations in the new districts and also go into the problems in the existing police stations. It will be headed by Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali and have as members T. Harish Rao, G. Jagdish Reddy, Koppula Easwar, V. Prashant Reddy, V. Srinivas Goud, A. Indrakaran Reddy, P. Sabita Indra Reddy and P. Ajay Kumar. Another sub-committee was also constituted by the Cabinet to study problems related podu lands and explore solutions. It will be headed by Tribal Affairs Minister Satyavathi Rathod and include members G. Jagdish Reddy, A. Indrakaran Reddy and P. Ajay Kumar. A Cabinet sub-committee to resolve issues arising in Dharani portal was constituted with T. Harish Rao, V. Prashant Reddy, T. Srinivas Yadav, G. Jagdish Reddy, S. Niranjan Reddy and P. Sabita Indra Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-cabinet-sub-panels-constituted/article36508266.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||International award for Telugu cartoonist||Telugu political cartoonist Pamarthy Shankar has been conferred international recognition by winning prizes at the 23rd Porto Cartoon World Festival for his caricatures on Martin Luther King and Maria João Pires. The festival was organised by Portuguese Printing Press Museum on the theme ‘Health’. This year’s edition included two special caricature awards about Noble peace prize winner and rights activist Martin Luther King, assassinated in 1968, and Maria João Pires, whose “way of playing the piano has often been described as magical, captivating and profoundly poetic”. A statement said that Shankar has won first prize in the competition on Martin Luther King and second prize in the ‘CatoMaria João Pires Special Caricature Award.’ He will receive these awards at a ceremony to be held in Portugal next month. Mr. Shankar is presently the president of The Forum for Political Cartoonists, Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/international-award-for-telugu-cartoonist/article36508066.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||259 more test positive in State||Telangana recorded 259 COVID cases on Thursday, taking the total to 6,62,785. While 58,261 samples were examined, results of 1,633 were awaited. One more COVID-19 patient died on Thursday. The new cases include 72 from GHMC, 22 from Khammam, and 16 from Warangal Urban. No case was detected in Mulugu, Jogulamba Gadwal and Jayashankar Bhupalapally. From March 2, 2020, to September 16 this year, 2.57 crore samples were tested and 6,62,785 people were found coronavirus positive. Of the total cases, 5,282 were active cases, 6,53,603 have recovered, and 3,890 people died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/259-more-test-positive/article36508059.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||638 TSWREIS students qualify for JEE Advanced exam||Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) has created a record with 638 students securing top marks and qualified for JEE (Advanced) 2021. Among them, 44 students secured above 90 percentile in JEE (Mains), and these children hail from the most disadvantaged and poor sections of the society with most parents involved in physical labour. J. Gayatri, Social Welfare Residential Gowlidoddi College, who secured 96.1 percentile, said: “I lost my father at a young age and my mother works as a labourer. I am from a Scheduled Caste (SC) community from Parkala village, Hanamkonda (dist). My goal is to secure a seat in IIT and pursue computer science course. My ultimate aim is to become an IAS officer and serve poor people”. Another topper is E Kavya, also from the same college who secured 97.2 percentile. “Thanks to the government for providing free coaching for a poor girl like me. My father is a farmer and could not have afforded exorbitant amounts for private coaching. My aim is to become an IAS officer. I will dedicate my life for the empowerment of poor women from marginalised communities. I belong to BC community”. Since 2015, a total of 615 social welfare residential students secured seats in IITs and NITs proving that poverty is not an impediment to success, if dreams are nurtured and quality education is provided. “Entire credit goes to teachers for their commitment and working beyond call of duty in helping poor students achieve their dreams,” said secretary Ronald Rose. While congratulating the toppers, he also thanked the government for launching coaching programs on par with the corporate coaching institutions, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/638-tswreis-students-qualify-for-jee-advanced-exam/article36508260.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man kills wife and her mother||A nurse at Military Hospital, Trimulgherry and her mother, were killed by her husband at their official residence here on Thursday morning. The accused, Chinna Babu (39), an electrician (outsourcing) at Military Hospital, suspected the fidelity of his wife Pushpalata (29) and started harassing her. Recently, Pushpalata’s mother Kumari came to the city and started living with them. “Babu and Pushpalata also frequent disputes,” Begumpet ACP Naresh Reddy said. As part of his plan, on Wednesday Babu purchased a gardening sickle and hid it in the house. On Thursday morning around 10.30 a.m. he picked up an argument with his wife and sent his children out. “He bolted the door from inside and attacked Kumari, later he attacked his wife. They suffered severe injuries and died on the spot,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-wife-and-her-mother/article36508375.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||PG entrance exams for TS varsities from tomorrow||A total of 78,252 candidates will be testing their luck in the Common Post Graduate Entrance Tests (CPGET) – 2021 to be held from September 18 to 27 for admissions into M.A., M.Sc., M.Com, M.Li.Sci, M.Ed and other related courses, P.G. Diploma and 5 years integrated programmes of Campus, Constituent and affiliated colleges of Osmania, Kakatiya, Telangana, Palamuru, Mahatma Gandhi, Satavahana and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad. The entrance tests will be conducted through Computer Based Test (CBT) mode for 42 different subjects, 4 P.G. Diploma courses and 4 five-year integrated programme courses. Candidates can download their hall-tickets by logging in to the websitewww.tscpget.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pg-entrance-exams-for-ts-varsities-from-tomorrow/article36508376.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Raju’s body cremated||The body of Raju was cremated in Warangal after post-mortem examination at MGM Hospital on Thursday evening. The post-mortem was conducted after Raju’s mother and wife arrived from their village near Suryapet. Earlier in the day, angry protestors obstructed the convoy of Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali when he went to call on the family of the six-year-old girl who was killed at Champapet. Mr. Mahmood Ali and Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod who also reached the venue faced an angry crowd which protested that the VIPs turned up without prior intimation. Ms. Rathod left a cheque for Rs. 20 lakh as ex gratia of the government on a table in the house when the family refused to take it. She promised a double bedroom house for the family and free education for the siblings of the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rajus-body-cremated/article36508074.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSRTC fully vaccinates its 48,214 workers||The TS Road Transport Corporation on Thursday fully vaccinated its workforce of 48,214 staff. Two doses of Covishield were administered to 20,214 employees between ages 18 and 45 years, and also to 28,000 above the age of 45 years. As many as 17,649 drivers, 19,722 conductors, 2,380 mechanics, 1,603 helpers, 1,199 artisans, and several others were vaccinated. The staff includes as many as 5,034 women, of whom 4,486 are women conductors. TSRTC Managing Director V.C. Sajjanar assured the public that with fully vaccinated staff, travelling in buses is much safer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-fully-vaccinates-its-48214-workers/article36508258.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Augmentation mammoplasty at OGH||For the first time in Osmania General Hospital, doctors had performed augmentation mammoplasty on a young girl on September 1. Plastic Surgery department’s doctors said that they performed the procedure using silicone gel implant and fat grafting. The patient has recovered and was discharged without any complications. This procedure costs around Rs. 3 lakh at private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/augmentation-mammoplasty-at-ogh/article36508060.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bajireddy Goverdhan is TSRTC chairman||TRS legislator of Nizamabad (Rural) Bajireddy Goverdhan has been appointed chairman of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC). The post had been vacant for nearly three years after another TRS legislator from Ramagundam, Somarapu Satyanarayana, resigned following his defeat in the 2018 Assembly elections at the hands of Independent candidate Korukanti Chander.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bajireddy-goverdhan-is-tsrtc-chairman/article36508265.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Brief (page 3)||An octogenarian has offered to adopt a Lion Tailed Macaque from the Nehru Zoological Park for a period of six months. The person named A. Krishna Murthy, a retired army man aged about 84 years, presented a cheque for Rs. 15,000 to curator V.V.L. Subhadra Devi towards the adoption of the primate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brief-page-3/article36508271.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad/Siddipet,TELANGANA||Congress to ‘charge sheet’ TRS in Gajwel meeting||To tame the lion in its own den, the Telangana Congress will hold the much anticipated Dalita Girijana Dandora in Gajwel, the constituency represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao, on Friday. This will be the first major programme of the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) in Gajwel where the party has also lost its own candidate to the TRS with Vanteru Pratap Reddy, who contested against the Chief Minister as a Congress candidate shifting his loyalties to the ruling party. However, the new TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy has decided to send a strong message to the Congress cadre that the party wants to fight organising a public meeting on the dalit and tribal issues at a time when the Chief Minister has launched the unique Rs. 10 lakh cash transfer programme for the Scheduled Castes (SCs) under the Dalita Bandhu scheme. This will be the last of the series of Dalita Girijana Dandora meetings organised by the Congress party accusing the TRS government of deceiving dalits and girijans with unfulfilled promises. The first of such meeting was held at Indervelli village in deep forests of combined Adilabad district on August 9. The village has a significant place in Telangana’s history where a martyrs memorial was erected in memory of people who were killed in police firing in 1981 for their struggle against encroachment of lands. The first meeting turned out to be successful given the location and pepped up the fighting spirit of the Congress cadre. The second meting at Raviryala on the outskirts of Hyderabad too was a grand success considering the response it evoked from the party cadre. At Gajwel, the party doesn’t want to confine itself to speeches but release a document, which it calls a ‘charge sheet’ against the TRS government. The ‘charge sheet’ will highlight the promises made to dalits and tribals by the TRS party and the government -- but not fulfilled. The first Dalit Chief Minister for Telangana, a promise made by Mr. Rao during the agitation days and subsequently ignored will be yet again be taken to people’s notice apart from providing three acres land to each Dalit family. The ‘charge sheet’ being prepared by former Deputy CM Damodar Rajnarsimha, AICC secretary Madhu Yaskhi Goud and CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka also alleges that five lakh acres of land given to Dalits was taken away by the government in the name of projects. The Cong. has given 24 lakh acres to Dalit families of which 5 lakhs were taken away, alleges the ‘charge sheet’. Diversion of funds from the SC/ST sub plan and 60,000 unfilled vacancies have actually caused enormous loss to dalits, it alleges. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge will release the charge sheet along with other senior leaders. The Gajwel meeting, incidentally on Telangana Liberation Day (Telangana Vimochana Dinotsvam), has been taken quite seriously. Mr. Damodar Rajanarasimha and former minister J. Geeta Reddy took up the responsibility and visited villages to mobilise party workers. In a related development, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) is making all efforts to scuttle the meeting reportedly getting in touch with local public representatives at village level and trying to desist any move of public being mobilised for the public meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-to-charge-sheet-trs-in-gajwel-meeting/article36508269.ece
17 September 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Elevation of Adivasi academic hailed||Various student unions and Adivasi organisations hailed the elevation of Gummadi Anuradha, the first Adivasi female Assistant Professor of Law in the State, from Tekulagudem village in Karepalli mandal, as the principal of the prestigious Post-Graduate College of Law, Basheerbagh, Hyderabad. Ms Anuradha, the youngest daughter of former five-time MLA from Yellandu, Gummadi Narsaiah of the CPI (ML-New Democracy), known for his simple lifestyle and untiring efforts to defend the rights of tribal people, rose to the coveted position of principal of one of the premier law colleges in India through sheer hard work and diligence. After completing her undergraduate studies in Yellandu, she pursued her higher education in law in Osmania University and joined the PG College of Law, O.U, as an Assistant Professor in 2017. Congratulations poured in from various quarters as Ms Anuradha assumed charge as the new principal of the more than 115-year-old historic PG College of Law in Hyderabad on Wednesday. In a statement, the PDSU Khammam district president N Azad and secretary Venkatesh said Ms Anuradha’s elevation to the coveted post in the prestigious law college will inspire students from the remote tribal areas across the State to pursue undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programmes in the field of legal education. She brought laurels to the district through her perseverance, they remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/elevation-of-adivasi-academic-hailed/article36508275.ece
17 September 2021||Khammam,TELANGANA||CPI(M) rally||The CPI(M) has made elaborate arrangements to hold bike rallies in various parts of the district and a public meeting in Khammam town on Sept. 17 to mark the anniversary of the Telangana Peasants’ Armed Struggle (1946-51). The bike rallies will start from different corners of the dist. on Friday morning and reach Khammam in the afternoon where they will culminate in a public meeting at Pavilion Grounds at 4 p.m. Party State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram, secretariat member Pothineni Sudarshan Rao and others will address the public meet to pay tributes to the martyrs of Telangana armed struggle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpim-rally/article36508272.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,TELANGANA||Revanth Reddy’s comments unwarranted: Shashi Tharoor||Telangana Information Technology (IT) Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Thursday accused Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chief Revanth Reddy of using derogatory language against Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor for commending the State government’s work. Mr. Tharoor told The Hindu that such a reaction from Mr. Reddy was “unwarranted” and could have been based on “inaccurate information”. Mr. Reddy, who is perceived as close to former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, said Mr. Rao was spreading “fake news”. Earlier, Mr. Rao, who is also the working president of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), had tweeted, “As the chairman of the IT standing committee, Shashi Tharoor Ji had paid some compliments to the efforts of the Govt of Telangana recently.” Last week, Mr. Tharoor visited Hyderabad where he is supposed to have appreciated the efforts of the State government. “I was in Hyderabad leading the Parliamentary Committee on Information Technology and my comments were confined to appreciating the government’s work in the information technology sector,” Mr. Tharoor said. “Such a reaction was totally unwarranted and may have been based on inaccurate information about what I said and the circumstances in which it was said.” Sources close to Mr. Reddy said the Telangana Congress chief did not use any derogatory language against Mr. Tharoor. Tagging Mr. Reddy, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari tweeted, “Dr @ShashiTharoor is a valued colleague of yours & mine. It would have been better if you would have spoken to him if you had some misgivings about a purported statement of his. Grace & Propriety demands you withdraw your words.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-reddys-comments-unwarranted-shashi-tharoor/article36508381.ece
17 September 2021||Staff Reporter,TELANGANA||Despite disfigured face, body was identified||A disfigured face did not deter policemen from identifying the body of 30-year-old Pallakonda Raju. The cops quickly noticed two tattoos ‘Mounika’ (one in Telugu and another in English) on his forearms and his shaggy hair was was key to recognising him. Later, even the family members of Raju confirmed that it was his body. Local police who went to the spot upon getting information about the ‘forced killing’ of a man on the railway track near Naskhal railway station in Jangaon district could confirm that it was Raju by analysing his physical features with the ‘Most Wanted’ posters, and by comparing his clothes, two tattoos on his forearms, and the shaggy hair. “Our people went there and based on the available details they confirmed it was Raju. Later, we got confirmation from his family members too,” Warangal Commissioner of Police Tarun Joshi said. Even the eyewitnesses maintained that they recognised it was Raju after noticing the tattoos on his both arms and alerted police. On Tuesday, Hyderabad city police had released his photograph announcing a reward of Rs. 10 lakh that was announched for giving any information about the suspect and had also mentioned that he had tattoos on two arms. The photograph and identification marks were circulated widely by police and people on social media platforms. The cops also released the rendered images of the suspect with a shaved head and trimmed beard. Even the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation staff were alerted about Raju. “He used to consume alcohol and sleep on pavements and bus stands. The public is hereby requested to share any information about the accused to 9490616366, 9490616627 immediately,” Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) Managing Director VC Sajjanar said in a message to the employees of the corporation. The TSRTC had also displayed lookout notices for Raju all over the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/despite-disfigured-face-the-body-was-identified/article36508076.ece
17 September 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||DPO surrendered to Commissioner’s office||District Collector Pamela Satpathy on Thursday passed orders surrendering the district panchayat officer (DPO) to the Commissioner’s office. According to a statement from her office, Mr. Sai Baba failed to achieve targets and did not show improvement in work, particularly in the government’s top priority programmes. Choutuppal’s divisional panchayat officer Sadhana was given the additional and in-charge duty of the DPO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dpo-surrendered-to-commissioners-office/article36508259.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Body of youth retrieved from sand; 2 held||The body of a 21-year-old youth was retrieved from the sand at an under-construction building in Chittaranjan Park, police said on Thursday. The accused, identified as contractor Shankar Vishwas and supervisor Chandan Singh Bisht, have been arrested. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said that a PCR call was received regarding a youth being pressed under sand. “On reaching the spot, the body of Roze (21) from West Bengal was extracted by removing the sand and taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he was declared dead,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/body-of-youth-retrieved-from-sand-2-held/article36507919.ece
17 September 2021||Mumbai,||BJP to hold campaign on PM’s birthday||While the State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to hold a service and dedication campaign on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17, the Youth Congress will celebrate the day as ‘National Unemployment Day’ to highlight the rising joblessness in the country. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi mobilised various Central government schemes for the welfare of the people. Hence the campaign will focus on providing service to the people,” chief of the campaign, Raj Purohit said. Satyajit Tambe, State president of Youth Congress, said, “The Modi government destroyed the lives and dreams of the youth of this country. The protests will be our gifts to the PM.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-to-hold-campaign-on-pms-birthday/article36507935.ece
17 September 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Man who killed friend arrested||Two days after dismembered body parts of a man were found in a drain in Navi Mumbai, the APMC police have identified the victim by a tattoo and have also arrested one person. During investigation, it was found that a missing person’s complaint with a similar description was filed by one Jyoti, wife of Ravindra alias Ravi Mandotiya (30), at Koparkhairane police station on September 11. “The accused, who was Mandotiya’s friend and colleague, was arrested on September 14,” Navi Mumbai Police Commissioner Bipin Kumar Singh said. Sumeetkumar Harishkumar Chouhan (27) and Mandotiya worked as sweepers at housing societies. On September 9, Mr. Chouhan slit his throat and chopped the body into three parts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-who-killed-friend-arrested/article36507932.ece
17 September 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases see marginal rise yet again||Maharashtra’s active case tally rose slightly on Thursday with 3,595 new COVID-19 cases as against 3,240 recoveries. The active cases now stand at 49,342. As many as 45 deaths took the cumulative fatalities to 1,38,322. The case fatality rate remains constant at 2.12%. The total cases now stand at 65,11,525 while the State’s cumulative recoveries have climbed to 63,20,310 with the recovery rate at 97.06%. “Of a total 5,65,29,882 laboratory samples tested thus far, 65,11,525 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 11.52%) have returned positive with over 1.68 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported nearly 900 new cases, taking its total case tally to 11,33,113, while three deaths pushed the toll to 18,820. As per district authorities, the active cases have declined to around 7,400. Mumbai recorded 446 fresh cases to take its total tally to 7,36,728, while the active count rose to 5,589. Two deaths took the city’s fatality figure to 16,039. Ahmednagar registered 618 new cases and seven deaths, taking its total cases to 3,21,940 of whom 6,575 are active. The district’s death toll went up to 6,707. Satara added 236 new cases and six deaths, taking the total case tally to 2,44,686 of whom 4,256 are active, while the fatality count touched 6,179. Neighbouring Sangli logged 229 fresh cases and a single death. The total tally stands at 2,06,125 with the active cases climbing to 2,321 while its death toll reached 5,539. Kolhapur reported just 60 new cases and two fatalities, taking its total cases to 2,05,718. The active cases dropped to 1,007.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-active-cases-see-marginal-rise-yet-again/article36507934.ece
17 September 2021||Pune,||Focus more on resolving farmer issues than securing Council seat, says Shetti||Amid speculation of a strain in ties between the farmer-centric Swabhimani Paksha and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over Swabhimani Paksha chief Raju Shetti’s nomination to the Council, Mr. Shetti clarified that his focus was on farmer issues and not on whether he secured a seat in the Council or not. Mr. Shetti said he did not have any particular interest in the matter at this date though Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar had promised him a berth in the Council and that his name was indeed there in the list of 12 names submitted by the tripartite MVA leadership to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Earlier this month, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had hinted that Mr. Shetti’s name may have been dropped from the list submitted to Mr. Koshyari, who has yet to take a decision to fill the MLC seats from the Governor’s quota. “I have lost interest in this affair now… the Governor can take whatever decision he wants. However, the fact that Mr. Koshyari has taken no step in this regard even after a nearly a year smacks of unconstitutional behaviour on his part,” the farmer leader told The Hindu from Kolhapur. The former MP, who is an influential leader in Kolhapur and other parts of Maharashtra’s sugar heartland, said he was more involved at the moment in sorting out the pressing issue of the payment of fair and remunerative price (FRP) for sugar cane farmers and planned to take on both the Centre and the State government who were mulling paying the FRP to farmers in instalments instead of at one go.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/focus-more-on-resolving-farmer-issues-than-securing-council-seat-says-shetti/article36507937.ece
17 September 2021||Pune,||One killed in blaze in Pune industrial estate||One person was killed and at least one other was injured after a fire broke out at a small cake sparkler manufacturing unit at an industrial estate in Pune district on September 16 morning. The blaze, which erupted at the Bhau Industrial Estate in the Sinhagad Road area, was brought under control after more than an hour of efforts, said officials. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) fire chief Prashant Ranpise said the unit produced crackers of the kind used in small functions like birthday parties. The industrial unit was gutted following a loud explosion followed by a series of explosions a little after 10 a.m. According to police, 16 labourers were working in the unit and all but one managed to escape. While the exact cause of the blaze is yet to be ascertained, authorities said the deceased labourer was reportedly mixing chemicals in cake candles when a bulb which was lit over the mixture could have generated heat, resulting in the first major blast. This in turn is said to have set off other explosions owing to the chemical material lying around the unit, say officials. The Fire department said it rushed eight fire tenders to the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/one-killed-in-blaze-in-pune-industrial-estate/article36507936.ece
17 September 2021||Pune,||Eight held with leopard, tiger skins in Pune||At least eight people have been arrested for alleged possession and smuggling of skins of two leopards and a tiger in Pune district, an official said on Thursday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/eight-held-with-leopard-tiger-skins-in-pune/article36507931.ece
17 September 2021||Wellington,||AUKUS seeks to reshape Indo-Pacific ties||Australia, the U.K. and the U.S. (AUKUS) have announced they're forming a new security alliance that will help equip Australia with nuclear-powered submarines. The alliance will see a reshaping of relations in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond. Here's what it might mean for various players: United States Ten years ago under President Barack Obama, the U.S. began discussing the need to focus more attention on the Indo-Pacific region while pivoting away from conflicts in West Asia. Under President Joe Biden, the U.S. has now withdrawn its troops from Afghanistan while finding that tensions with China have only grown. In the Pacific, the U.S. and others have been concerned about China’s actions in the South China Sea and its antipathy toward Japan, Taiwan and Australia. Britain In announcing the deal, none of the three leaders mentioned China. The U.S. had previously only shared the nuclear propulsion technology with Britain. Mr. Biden said it was about ensuring peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific over the long term. Leaving the EU under Brexit has left Britain seeking to reassert its global position. Part of that has been an increased focus — or tilt — towards the Indo-Pacific. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the new alliance would allow the three nations to sharpen their focus on an increasingly complicated part of the world. Australia Under the arrangement, Australia will build at least eight nuclear-powered submarines using U.S. expertise, while dumping a contract with France for diesel-electric submarines. Experts say the nuclear submarines will allow Australia to conduct longer patrols and give the alliance a stronger military presence in the region. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said he had called the leaders of Japan and India to explain the new alliance. Japan, India, Australia and the U.S. already have a strategic dialogue known as ‘the Quad’. Mr. Biden is set to host fellow Quad leaders at the White House next week.  France Australia told France it would end its contract with state majority-owned DCNS to build 12 of the world’s largest conventional submarines. The contract was worth tens of billions of dollars. France is furious, demanding explanations from all sides. “It was really a stab in the back. We built a relationship of trust with Australia, and this trust was betrayed,” said French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian on France-Info radio. New Zealand Left out of the new alliance is Australia’s neighbour New Zealand. It has a long-standing nuclear-free policy that includes a ban on nuclear-powered ships entering its ports. That stance has sometimes been a sticking point in otherwise close relations with the U.S. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said New Zealand wasn’t asked to be part of the alliance and wouldn’t have expected an invitation. Still, it leaves New Zealand out of a deal to share a range of information, including artificial intelligence, cyber and underwater defence capabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/aukus-seeks-to-reshape-indo-pacific-ties/article36507469.ece
17 September 2021||Beijing,||China fully vaccinates more than 1 billion people||China has fully vaccinated more than one billion people against the coronavirus — 71% of its population — official figures showed on Thursday. The country, where the virus was first detected, has mostly curbed the virus within its borders, but is racing to get the vast majority of its population vaccinated as a new outbreak flickers in the southeast. “As of September 15, 2.16 billion vaccine doses have been administered nationwide,” said National Health Commission spokesman Mi Feng at a press briefing. The Chinese health authorities said late last month that 890 million people in the country had been fully vaccinated, and two billion doses administered. The government has not publicly announced a target for vaccination coverage, but top virologist Zhong Nanshan said last month that the country is likely to have 80% of its population inoculated by the end of the year, reaching herd immunity. China is currently battling an outbreak of the Delta variant in the southeastern province of Fujian that has infected almost 200 people so far in three cities, dozens of whom are schoolchildren. The Fujian cluster is the biggest rebound in weeks and comes after the country declared the Delta variant under control, in a test of China's “zero-case” approach to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-fully-vaccinates-more-than-1-billion-people/article36507459.ece
17 September 2021||Moscow,||Putin says dozens in Kremlin inner circle have COVID-19||Dozens of people in Vladimir Putin’s entourage have tested positive for the coronavirus, the Russian leader said on Thursday, as his country struggles with high infection rates and a vaccine-sceptic population. Earlier this week, 68-year-old Putin cancelled all in-person events and said he was self-isolating after announcing an outbreak in the Kremlin. “Cases of the coronavirus were detected in my inner circle. Not just one or two but several dozen people,” Mr. Putin said, speaking via video link at a meeting of a Moscow-led security alliance. Mr. Putin had been due to attend the meeting of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) in Dushanbe in person, but said on Tuesday he would instead join remotely. Mr. Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that the outbreak was mainly among members of the security detail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-says-dozens-in-kremlin-inner-circle-have-covid-19/article36507461.ece
17 September 2021||Dushanbe,||Russia-led bloc to hold military drills on Afghanistan border||A Russia-led security bloc said on Thursday that it planned to hold large military drills in Tajikistan next month, amid what it described as a deteriorating situation in neighbouring Afghanistan. Moscow has moved to cement its position as a key player in the region after the United States’ hasty retreat from Afghanistan and the Taliban’s takeover of the country. The general secretary of the Moscow-led Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) Stanislav Zas said the group would hold several “largescale exercises” in the ex-Soviet state. ‘Largest exercise’ Tajikistan is the only country out of the six-member bloc led by Russia that shares a border with Afghanistan. The series of drills will include “our largest exercise this year,” Mr. Zas said. The group has taken “collective measures” to ensure Tajikistan’s security in case of an “aggravation” on its border with Afghanistan, he added. The CSTO said in a joint statement that it was alarmed by the deterioration of security in Afghanistan. Mr. Zas announced the drills after Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov put the Taliban on notice on Wednesday, noting that Moscow was monitoring the group’s fulfilment of promises to prevent radical groups from launching attacks on Afghanistan’s neighbours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-led-bloc-to-hold-military-drills-on-afghanistan-border/article36507462.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Australia, U.K., U.S. pact will undermine regional peace’||China on Thursday hit out at the new partnership announced by Australia, the U.K. and the U.S., saying it would “undermine” regional peace and “intensify” an arms race. Beijing particularly slammed the announcement of provision of nuclear-powered submarines to Australia under the military pact, which has been seen by many observers as being aimed, at least in part, to respond to China’s growing military footprint in the region. “The nuclear submarine cooperation between the U.S., the U.K. and Australia has seriously undermined regional peace and stability, intensified the arms race and undermined international non-proliferation efforts,” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Thursday. “The export of highly sensitive nuclear submarine technology to Australia by the U.S. and the U.K. proves once again that they are using nuclear exports as a tool for geopolitical game and adopting double standards. This is extremely irresponsible,” he said, adding that “The international community, including Australia’s neighbouring countries, has full reason to question whether Australia is serious about fulfilling its nuclear non-proliferation commitments.” Closed clique Mr. Zhao hit out at the three-country pact, describing it as “seeking a closed and exclusive clique”. Beijing has used similar language to hit out at the India, U.S., Australia and Japan Quad grouping. Mr. Zhao said China believed regional mechanisms “should not target any third party or undermine its interests”. “Seeking closed and exclusive clique runs counter to the trend of the times and the aspirations of countries in the region, which finds no support and leads nowhere,” he added. While China has criticised these groupings, Indian officials point out Beijing itself is part of a number of similar groupings with select countries, including on the Afghanistan issue, on cooperating in South Asia with countries there except India, Bhutan and the Maldives, as well as through the BRICS and SCO multilateral groupings that both India and China are a part of. Mr. Zhao said, “Relevant countries should abandon the outdated Cold War zero-sum mentality and narrow-minded geopolitical perception, respect the will of the people of regional countries and do more to contribute to regional peace, stability and development.” “Otherwise,” he said, “they will only end up shooting themselves in the foot.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/australia-uk-us-pact-will-undermine-regional-peace/article36507471.ece
17 September 2021||AL-AIN,||Hezbollah brings Iranian fuel to Lebanon||A convoy of tanker trucks carrying Iranian diesel crossed the border from Syria into Lebanon early on Thursday, the first in a series of deliveries organised by the militant Hezbollah group to ease crippling fuel shortages in the crisis-hit Mediterranean country. The delivery violates the United States’ sanctions imposed on Tehran after former President Donald Trump pulled America out of a nuclear deal between Iran and world powers in 2018. Victory for Hezbollah It was portrayed as a victory by Hezbollah, which stepped in to supply the fuel from its patron, Iran, while the cash-strapped Lebanese government grapples with months-long fuel shortages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hezbollah-brings-iranian-fuel-to-lebanon/article36507467.ece
17 September 2021||Moscow,||Russian parliament votes without main opposition||After a few weeks of desultory campaigning but months of relentless official moves to shut down significant opposition, Russia is holding three days of voting this weekend in a parliamentary election that is unlikely to change the country’s political complexion. There’s no expectation that United Russia, the party devoted to President Vladimir Putin, will lose its dominance of the State Duma, the elected lower house of Parliament. The main questions to be answered are whether the party will retain its current two-thirds majority that allows it to amend the Constitution, whether anemic turnout will dull the party’s prestige, and whether imprisoned opposition leader Alexei Navalny’s Smart Voting initiative proves to be a viable strategy against it. “There is very little intrigue in these elections,” Andrei Kolesnikov, an analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russian-parliament-votes-without-main-opposition/article36507470.ece
17 September 2021||Geneva,||‘Immediate action needed to limit global warming’||A new climate change report out on Thursday shows that limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius will be impossible without immediate, largescale emissions cuts, the UN chief said. The ‘United in Science 2021’ report, published by a range of UN agencies and scientific partners just weeks before the COP26 climate summit, said that climate change and its impacts were accelerating. And a temporary reduction in carbon emissions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic had done nothing to slow the relentless warming, the report found. United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said the report’s findings were “an alarming appraisal of just how far off course we are” in meeting the Paris goals. COP26will be held in Glasgow from October 31 to November 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/immediate-action-needed-to-limit-global-warming/article36507457.ece
17 September 2021||BERLIN,||EU--Germany-Synagogue Threat||A 16-year-old boy and three other persons were detained on Thursday in connection with a suspected plan for an Islamic extremist attack on a synagogue in the German city of Hagen. The detentions took place on Yom Kippur, the holiest day in Judaism, and two years after a deadly attack in another German city on the Yom Kippur holiday. A worship service planned for Wednesday evening was called off.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-germany-synagogue-threat/article36507466.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Is the BJP high command calling the shots in States?||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has changed five Chief Ministers in four States this year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home State, Gujarat, is the latest to see a change of guard. Are these changes a sign of anti-incumbency in these States or are they a sign that power is concentrated in the hands of the Central leadership? Harish Khare and Sudheendra Kulkarni debate this in a discussion moderated by Sandeep Phukan . Edited excerpts: By changing Chief Ministers before the end of their tenures, is the BJP admitting that there is anti-incumbency? Or is this an adoption of the high command culture that the Congress was once known for? Harish Khare (HK):I am not very comfortable with this concept of anti-incumbency. Anti-incumbency is a word made respectable by L.K. Advani after the Rajnath Singh government was voted out of power in Uttar Pradesh in 2002. The concept implies that it doesn’t matter how well a government performs; that after four-five years, negativity will accumulate, and the voters will vote out the government. But the record right now belies this. We have this extraordinary phenomenon of Naveen Patnaik [Chief Minister of Odisha] ruling the State for 20 years without any song and dance, without any extravagant claims to national or global glory. I mean, a government is voted out because the ruling party is not able to do as smart a politics as it should do and those who are in the Opposition do a better job of galvanising the voters. By the same reckoning, the ruling party does well if it marshals resources well and the BJP has done that in Gujarat for 20 years. So, where is the question of anti-incumbency? As far as I am concerned, there is nothing called anti-incumbency in Gujarat. The issues that need to be analysed in detail are whether the Central leadership wants to [be in] control or how much it can and should control. Sudheendra Kulkarni (SK):What it shows is that at a time when the BJP accuses the Congress of having a high command culture, where whatever fatwa is issued by the high command in New Delhi is unquestioningly followed by the satraps in the States, the same is happening now in the BJP. It’s not just high command culture, it is super high command culture that has set in, in the BJP. There was a time when the BJP used to talk of a ‘Congress-mukt Bharat’ [Congress-free India]. What we are seeing is ‘Congressisation’ of the BJP units and the democratically elected governments in various States. So, there is both anti-incumbency and, more importantly, concentration of power in New Delhi that is at work. Why am I saying that anti-incumbency is at work? Look at Gujarat: after Narendra Modi ceased to be Chief Minister of Gujarat and went to Delhi to become the Prime Minister, his trusted colleague Anandiben Patel became the Chief Minister. But before the 2017 Assembly election, she was replaced because there was chief ministerial anti-incumbency, not anti-incumbency against the BJP. The party felt that it cannot perhaps come back to power with the same person at the helm. The same pattern is being repeated now. Elections are due in Gujarat in 2022 and Vijay Rupani has been replaced. There was no confidence in the BJP that it can come back to power in 2022 with Mr. Rupani as the Chief Minister and so it has brought in Bhupendra Patel, a total nobody. He is a first-time MLA, not known outside Ahmedabad, and is hardly a leader of Gujarat. But because the high command or the super high command wanted to control Gujarat and wanted to continue to govern Gujarat from New Delhi, they installed a person who is a nobody but is answerable to the two top leaders of the BJP. It is ironical that when Mr. Modi was the Chief Minister, he used to talk about Gujarat’s asmita or self-pride. That is, ‘We will not let New Delhi dictate terms to Gujarat. Gujarat’s asmita is supreme for us’. It is now blindly following diktats from New Delhi even though it’s from the same party’s leadership. But this is yet another instance of how the concentration of power in New Delhi is undercutting democracy in State after State. The sole purpose of bringing in Mr. Patel as Chief Minister now, with less than a year to go before the Assembly election, is to have a particular person from a dominant caste. And from what I hear from political observers in Gujarat, the reason for making this particular person as the Chief Minister is also that he is not someone very popular and therefore, he lends himself very easily to be dictated by New Delhi. Is weak leadership in the States a natural corollary of having a powerful and strong leader at the Centre? This used to be the Congress template during Indira Gandhi’s time. Many argue that, in any case, it is the Prime Minister who gets votes and that is why the Central leadership has the moral authority to make changes the way it likes. HK:If we remove the personalities, we look at how to govern a continental polity like ours. That is a fundamental issue; in a way, we are trying to run a democratic empire. I have always believed in that. Except once, no political party has got more than 50% of the vote share. Those who come to power at the Centre have to find a way of running this vast country. The Indian National Congress was at its best because it became a political instrument of the Indian state. The BJP is today facing the same structural problem. It is running the country and has more than 300 seats in the Lok Sabha. It has to decide how much to control and how much initiative to leave to the States. If we leave out the Nehruvian years, then we have three distinct phases: the Indira Gandhi phase, the Rajiv Gandhi phase and the Narendra Modi phase where the Prime Minister is the principal vote-getter. The Prime Minister does not depend on State allies or on other parties to make up the numbers. So, the Prime Minister wants to control his State. This is basic given the political realities of life. So, in many ways, the BJP was being hypocritical when it accused the Congress; it is no longer entitled to ride on a moral high horse by claiming that it has no high command culture. The high command culture gets built into the need for directly controlling and operating the politics of a continental polity like ours. SK:Now, this is precisely what the BJP used to criticise the Congress for. When the Congress was led by Mrs. Gandhi, there was a popular saying those days that even if the Congress puts up a pole as its candidate, that lifeless pole would get elected. People voted for Mrs. Gandhi and not for the candidate. And as someone who worked for the BJP for 16 long years, I often heard our two top leaders, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani, say that there are only two parties in India in which there is inner party democracy. That is the BJP and the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M). Where is the inner party democracy in the BJP now? The BJP is also justifying all these happenings by arguing that people vote for Mr. Modi and not for the party and even less for the candidate. This is a severe threat to the structure of the party system that is at the base of democracy in India. Personality-based politics has replaced party politics. We are moving towards one-man rule. In Hindi, there is a saying that translates into: I am only the leader and there cannot be, there is not, and there must not be a second leader. Is this good for Indian democracy? It’s a matter to be very seriously debated by the political establishment and also by the people. Because when the lights dim inside political parties, lights will also dim for democracy in the country. And that’s precisely what is happening. We are seeing democratic institutions come under attack one by one, including the Supreme Court. So, it’s not just a matter of a Chief Minister being replaced by another Chief Minister. This is all part of a much larger malaise that is spreading in India’s polity and society. The BJP keeps attacking the Congress by calling it a family enterprise. Only a person with a certain surname can become the party president, it says, while the BJP prides itself on its internal democracy. Do you think that the party can claim the same legacy with the changes in its style of functioning now? HK:That was a good propaganda point for the BJP. There is a certain relevance as well as far as the Congress is concerned. But power within the BJP has always also been concentrated among a handful of people even though the party has been careful and wise in giving the impression of having a collective leadership. The party has had very nameless people as party presidents but that doesn’t mean that they exercised power. Power was exercised by Vajpayee, Mr. Advani and [Murli Manohar] Joshi. These three people ran the party. But again, there was a certain subtlety to it and a certain pretence was maintained that there is a party president who should be deferred to. SK:I won’t say that there was 100% collective leadership even when the party was led by Vajpayee and Mr. Advani, but most certainly there was a far higher degree of internal democracy, internal consultation and consultation between the Central leadership and the State leadership then. Now, there is nothing of the kind — either at the State level or at the Central level. The party is entirely led by two people. And this is why people inside the BJP should really worry about the post-Modi era. What will happen to this party? Nobody is permanent and once the leadership of Modi is no longer there, I am afraid the BJP will face very swift, serious disintegration. This is something that the BJP should really worry about. One of the reasons the Congress got so marginalised was because it promoted and practised high command culture. It could replace Chief Ministers of even major States without any regard for the people’s aspirations. I come from Bombay. On Marine Drive, there used to be a very witty billboard, run by Nana Chudasama [former Mumbai Sheriff]. When A.R. Antulay was replaced by Babasaheb Bhosale and later, after Shankarrao Chavan became Chief Minister, he [Chudasama] put up a billboard that said the Congress high command determines who the Chief Minister of Maharashtra should be in alphabetical order: A, B and then C (Antulay, Bhosale, Chavan). That is how ridiculous it had become, and this kind of high command culture weakened the Congress. The BJP is going to suffer the same fate in the years to come. We are seeing some very serious signs of authoritarianism and it will only get worse unless the democratic forces in the country come together and work for a real, decisive change in 2024.  The BJP was being hypocritical when it accused the Congress [of high command culture]; it is no longer entitled to ride on a moral high horse by claiming that it no such culture. Harish Khare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/is-the-bjp-high-command-calling-the-shots-in-states/article36507456.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Two democracies and their vigilante problem||In the world’s largest democracy, the word ‘vigilante’ evokes unsavoury images of goons stopping cattle trucks and lynching drivers, or video filming themselves assaulting men accused of love jihad, or beating up couples celebrating Valentine’s Day. A vigilante in India is both bad news and a bad word. Vigilantes are anti-democratic. They lack the values of a constitutional democracy. A consensus has emerged in India to demand that the law-and-order machinery comes down heavily on such vigilante behaviour. A respectable garb in the U.S. So, imagine my shock when I discovered that in the world’s oldest democracy, the word ‘vigilante’ receives only half the opprobrium that we heap on it in India. The other half is suppressed by a law that makes vigilantism respectable. One form of the vigilante, in the United States, is the ‘citizen arrester’ who enjoys legal status and whose actions are protected by a law that permits him or her to pursue and arrest a person accused of breaking the law. Drawing on a legal convention that comes from the Common Law tradition in England, dating from the 12th Century, a citizen arrester can physically arrest a person, on behalf of the Monarch (now State) who is regarded by them as breaking or evading the law. There are procedures to be followed, and risks involved for wrongful arrest, but assuming that these are adhered to the citizen arrester is regarded as aiding the consolidation of a political system based on the rule of law. Because of its potential for abuse, in legal circles in the U.S., there is a debate on the need to circumscribe the scope, and eligibility, of who can be a citizen arrester. The ‘Heartbeat Bill’ But rather than diminish the place of the citizen arrester, the recent decisions of the Texas legislature are in fact encouraging the practice. Two cases are particularly noteworthy. The first is the latest innovation introduced in Senate Bill 8 (SB8) in Texas, known as the ‘Heartbeat Bill’, signed into law by the Texas Governor Greg Abbott in May 2021, that seeks to ban abortions after six weeks when the foetus registers a heartbeat. The passage of this law has produced an active debate in the U.S., between pro-abortion and pro-life groups, drawing on medical science, law, bioethics, and women’s rights, to refine the different elements of the Roe vs Wade judgment of 1973. There are five aspects worthy of attention. The first is it deprives women of the right over their own bodies by making abortion illegal after six weeks when many women do not even know that they are pregnant. This in effect means that abortions, when needed, are unavailable. The second is to include, in the applicability of the law, even women who are victims of rape and incest. Victims are thereby subjected to a second victimisation since now they will be compelled to carry the pregnancy to full term or seek termination in the dark alleys beyond the law. The third is to make culpable anyone associated with an abortion after six weeks and this could include the Uber driver who takes the pregnant woman to the clinic, the receptionist, the nurse and the doctor. The fourth is the declining, by the Supreme Court of the USA, in a five versus four vote, to hear the injunction challenging the Texas Anti-Abortion Law. In her dissenting note, Justice Sonia Sotomayor wrote: ‘Presented with an application to enjoin a flagrantly unconstitutional law engineered to prohibit women exercising their constitutional rights and evade judicial scrutiny, a majority of justices have opted to bury their heads in the sand… The Court should not be so content to ignore its constitutional obligations to protect not only the rights of women, but also the sanctity of its precedents and of the rule of law.’ This sandy terrain to which the court retired is, unfortunately, very familiar to us in India. And the fifth, on which I wish to comment here, is the legal device that blocks State officials from enforcing the law but outsources the enforcement to private citizens who can sue abortion providers from performing abortions and are entitled to collect $10,000 as a civil payout in addition to their legal fees. Such a person can even be someone from outside the state who can show any connection to the abortion. Enter the ‘bounty hunter’ or ‘citizen arrester’.  While each of the five aspects raises important ethical and legal issues I wish to highlight only the fifth since Republicans in Texas have used the legal device — call it a cunning innovation — of empowering and encouraging citizen arresters to perform the job of state officials who are thereby protected from being sued. The effect of this innovation is to deny women the rights given by Roe vs Wade . The case shows the length to which partisan groups in a democracy, even in one as mature as the U.S., will go to overturn settled law and redesign both the public discourse and the institutional order to make it consistent with their religious ideology. Linda Greenhouse commenting on the legislation in her article in The New York Times article (September 9, 2021) asked in exasperation: ‘Who let God into the legislative chamber?’ This is the same question we often ask in India. Voting ‘reforms’ The second case in Texas concerns the Reforms to the Voting Law in Texas which seek to reverse the gains of earlier years. SB1, the Bill recently signed by the governor, bans drive through voting, 24 hour voting, and distribution of mail-in applications. It requires new ID requirements for voting by mail, creates new rules for voter assistance, establishes monthly checks, etc. To block the passage of the Bill, the minority Democrats who felt the changes amounted to voter suppression and would disadvantage minority voters, flew out of the State to Washington DC so that the house could not convene for want of a quorum. The Republicans responded by relying on the law to compel voting and thus Speaker Dade Phelan signed warrants authorising the Sergeant-at-Arms to arrest and produce the missing representatives. The length to which the Speaker went is shocking to our democratic sensibilities. Some representatives stated that they were less worried of being arrested by officials and more by citizen arresters. In an overview article titled ‘Vilifying the Vigilante: A Narrowed Scope of Citizen’s Arrest’, Professor Ira P. Robbins discusses its historical origins, pitfalls, good application and reform. He argues for the scope of citizen arresters to be restricted to only a small category of people, such as shopkeepers, out-of-jurisdiction police, and private police forces, and being abolished in all other cases,. The trend, unfortunately, as shown by Texan laws, SB1 and SB8, is moving in the other way. Because of the opprobrium we have heaped on vigilantes in India, I hesitated to equate them with the citizen arrester till I read the phrase in a letter on SB8, by the Chairman of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee, Jerrold Nadler, to the Attorney General, Merrick B. Garland, to prosecute ‘would be vigilantes attempting to use the private right of action established by that blatantly unconstitutional law’. The oldest and the largest democracies, it seems, both have a vigilante problem today. Peter Ronald deSouza is the DD Kosambi Visiting Professor at Goa University. The views expressed are personal. He is the co-editor of the book, ‘Keywords for India’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/two-democracies-and-their-vigilante-problem/article36507445.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||E-Shram needs some hard work to get going||On August 26, 2021, the Ministry of Labour and Employment (MOLE) launched the E-Shram, the web portal for creating a National Database of Unorganized Workers (NDUW), which will be seeded with Aadhaar. It seeks to register an estimated 398-400 million unorganised workers and to issue an E-Shram card. However, it has come into existence more than a decade after the passage of the Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act in 2008; and if we consider inter-State migrant workers, the portal is a little more than four decades late. It has come about even after repeated nudging by the Supreme Court of India. Had the Central and the State governments begun these legally mandated processes on time, much of the distress of lakhs of vulnerable workers would have been avoided. It is the result of state apathy. No government — either the United Progressive Alliance or the National Democratic Alliance — can stake claim for this legally mandated measure. In fact, the political class owe an ‘apology’ to informal workers. A long process Given the gigantic nature of registering each worker, it will be a long-drawn process. It is natural that in the initial stages, the pace of registrations will be slower; at the time of writing this article, 0.61 million workers have been registered. Considering the estimated 380 million workers as the universe of registration — debatable as the novel coronavirus pandemic has pushed lakhs of workers into informality and the estimate also depends on the assumptions used for estimation — 6.33 million workers have to be registered for completion of registration in 60 days, and 4.2 million workers for 90 days. The Government has not mentioned a gestation period to assess its strategy and efficiency. Workers stand to gain by registration in the medium to long run. But the instant benefit of accident insurance upto Rs. 0.2 million to registered workers (https://bit.ly/3zbvDLv) is surely not an attractive carrot. The main point of attraction is the benefits they stand to gain during normal and crisis-ridden periods such as the novel coronavirus pandemic now which the Government needs to disseminate properly. Data security, other issues There is also another issue: why should small employers be incentivised to ask or require their workers to register even though the government reportedly requires them mandatorily to register their workers (https://bit.ly/3ChthwB). While the Government can appeal to them, any penal measure will hurt the ease of doing business. The apparent productivity gains arising out of social security assurances to these workers is a moot point. One of the vital concerns of e-portals is data security, including its potential abuse especially when it is a mega-sized database. The central government would have to share data with State governments whose data security capacities vary. There are also media reports pointing out the absence of a national architecture relating to data security. There are several issues concerning the eligibility of persons to register as well as the definitional issues. By excluding workers covered by EPF and ESI, lakhs of contract and fixed-term contract workers will be excluded from the universe of UW. Under the Social Security Code (SSC), hazardous establishments employing even a single worker will have to be covered under the ESI, which means these workers also will be excluded. The NDUW excludes millions of workers aged over 59 from its ambit, which constitutes age discrimination. Given the frugal or no social security for them, their exclusion will hurt their welfare. As such, SSC is exclusionary as ESC and EPF benefits will be applicable only to those employed in establishments employing 10 or 20 workers, respectively. Thresholds in labour laws segment the labour market. Many workers will not have an Aadhaar-seeded mobile or even a smartphone. Aadhaar-seeding is a controversial issue with political overtones, especially in the North-eastern regions. But it is necessary and the Government is right in insisting on it. The extent of definitional and systemic exclusions is vast and there may be other categories of exclusion due to possible procedural deficits. Complex identities The very identity of unorganised workers presents problems thanks to its complexity and ever-changing identities. Many are circular migrant workers and they quickly, even unpredictably, move from one trade to another. Many others perform formal and informal work as some during non-office hours may belong to the gig economy, for example as an Uber taxi or a Swiggy employee. They straddle formal and informal sectors. The nuances of the unorganised workers’ identity are so complex that one wonders whether the mechanical and assumptions-based portal registration will be able to capture the complexities and dynamics involved regarding them. Even though MOLE has included gig workers in this process, it is legally unclear whether the gig/platform worker can be classified first as a worker at all (the other three Labour Codes do not include these workers), and second as organised or unorganised workers — the definition of an “unorganised worker” in the Social Security Code ( vide . S.2(86)) does not specifically include them, unless they are declared ‘self-employed’ or ‘wage workers’. In fact, the NCO family code does not specifically include ‘gig/platform worker’ even though they may be registered under several categories of ‘drivers’ which will hide their unique identity. Of course, there is an all-inclusive miscellaneous category that will have to be intelligently used to expand the occupational categories. Other impediments The central government will have to depend on the State governments for this project to be successful. The main trouble points arise at the regional level for two primary reasons. It has been reported that in some States such as Maharashtra, the server was down for a few days. The incentive for multiple attempts on the part of registering workers will be weak. The helping stakeholders must make suitable interventions in these cases. In many States, the social dialogue with the stakeholders especially is rather weak or non-existent. The success of the project depends on the involvement of a variety of stakeholders apart from trade unions, massive and innovative dissemination exercises involving multiple media outlets of various languages, the holding of camps on demand by the stakeholders and on their own by the Government, efficiency of the resolution of grievance redress mechanisms, micro-level operations, etc. There is also the concern of corruption as middle-service agencies such as Internet providers might charge exorbitant charges to register and print the E-Shram cards. Therefore, the involvement of surveillance agencies is crucial. More importantly, the Government must publish statistics at the national and the regional levels of the registrations to assess the registration system’s efficiency. E-Shram is a vital system to provide hitherto invisible workers much-needed visibility. It will provide the Labour Market Citizenship Document to them. I would go one step further to argue for triple linkage for efficient and leakage-less delivery of all kinds of benefits and voices to workers/citizens, viz . One-Nation-One-Ration Card (ONOR), E-Shram Card (especially bank account seeded) and the Election Commission Card. Last but not least, registrations cannot be a source of exclusion of a person from receiving social assistance and benefits. K.R. Shyam Sundar is Professor, HRM Area XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur. The writer acknowledges the inputs from V.P. Deshpande, former Labour Department official, Government of Maharashtra, and Sonia George, Secretary, SEWA, Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/e-shram-needs-some-hard-work-to-get-going/article36507448.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Building a resilient economy||Amidst the hopes of a V-shaped recovery of the Indian economy, the National Statistical Office (NSO) had recently estimated that India’s economic growth has surged to 20.1% in the April-June quarter, despite a devastating second wave of COVID-19, while the gross domestic product (GDP) had contracted by 24.4% in the April-June quarter of 2020-21. Supporting these estimates, in its recently launched Trade and Development Report 2021, UNCTAD has estimated global growth to hit 5.3% in 2021 and growth in India to hit 7.2%. Growth prospects According to the report, India showed a strong quarterly growth of 1.9% in the first quarter of 2021, on the back of the momentum of the second half of 2020 and supported by government spending in goods and services. Meanwhile, a severe and broadly unanticipated second wave of the pandemic hit the country in the second quarter, on top of rising food and general price inflation, forcing widespread lockdowns and drastic consumption and investment adjustments. Given the inherent fragilities, India’s growth in 2021 as a whole is estimated at 7.2%, which is one of the fastest compared to most countries in the analysis, but is still not sufficient to regain the pre-COVID-19 income level. However, going forward, the economy is likely to experience a deceleration of growth to 6.7% growth in 2022. Beyond that, and even assuming the pandemic is fully under control, the situation is looking increasingly precarious for many emerging economies. To revive and sustain growth, action is needed both at the international and national levels. The report strongly supports India’s proposed temporary suspension of the World Trade Organization TRIPS waiver, which is considered as a necessary step to enable the local manufacture of vaccines in developing countries but is being resisted by some advanced economies. The need for the waiver increases in the face of the inability of COVAX and C-TAP schemes to mobilise the requisite resources from Northern governments and corporations. Building resilient growth also requires a global strategy that mitigates the threat of global warming whilst simultaneously addressing the inequities and fragilities of a financialised world. Given the existing constraints on developing countries, new sources of finance are required, including a significant scaling up of support from the international community in line with its commitment to common but differentiated responsibilities. A robust public sector At the national level, efforts are required to build resilience, which can only be delivered through public investment. COVID-19 has reinforced the idea that resilience is a public good and responsibility of the state. It has to be delivered through a robust public sector with the resources to make the necessary investments, provide the complementary services and coordinate the multiple activities that building resilience involves. Revisiting a theme that the report, now in its 40th year, has long been promoting, the challenge of mobilising financial resources for sustained growth is seen as too important to be left solely to market forces. A financial system that accords a more significant role to public banks, breaks up and guards against the emergence of megabanks, and exercises stronger regulatory oversight is less likely to generate speculative excesses and more likely to deliver a healthier investment climate. The report also warns against cutting wages to boost competitiveness. Wages are a critical source of demand and their growth can stimulate productivity and underpin a strong social contract. Minimum wages and related labour legislation are needed for appropriate protection against abusive practices. Policies targeting informality are of particular importance, especially for a country like India with a large informal economy. It is important to build a healthy, diversified economy. For this, a strong industrial policy focusing on building digital capacities is needed. A resilient economy goes beyond offering a residual category of safety nets designed to stop those left behind from falling further.  Rashmi Banga is Senior Economic Affairs Officer, UNCTAD||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/building-a-resilient-economy/article36507451.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Delaying the inevitable||The Union Cabinet’s approval on Wednesday of a relief-cum-reforms package for the financially stressed telecom sector, though verily a step in the right direction, is at best only likely to delay the inevitable. In a tacit acknowledgment of the extent of stress in the sector as well as the far-reaching economic consequences of protracted distress in the industry, the Government decided to offer telecom service providers the option of a four-year moratorium on the payment of outstanding AGR and spectrum purchase dues. This one measure alone is expected to ease the immediate financial pressure on the telcos, especially at Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel. The venture created by the merger of the Indian unit of the U.K.-based Vodafone Group Plc and billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s erstwhile Idea Cellular Ltd. had deferred spectrum payment obligations and AGR liabilities that exceeded Rs. 1.68-lakh crore as of June 30. The Government’s moratorium offer should, at least for now, relieve the burden of finding the funds to service these liabilities at the loss-making telco, giving it the space to focus on continuing to provide vital telecom services to about 27 crore wireless subscribers still with it. However, the woes at Vodafone Idea are deeper and symptomatic of the broader industry-wide maladies that have pared the once more-than-dozen-strong field to just three private players and one struggling state-owned company. The entry of a deep-pocketed newcomer five years ago and its ‘take-no-prisoners approach’ to tariffs triggered a price war that depressed average revenue per user and bled most legacy telcos operationally into the red. The after-effects of the bruising competitive plunge in call and data tariffs are still being felt by the surviving operators and the issue of a floor price is one among many that the latest reforms completely skirt. To be sure, the Government has sought to address several anomalies in the policy regime including the definition of AGR that had led to the large build-up of dues and protracted and ultimately pointless litigation. Non-telecom revenue will hereafter be excluded from the AGR, a long-standing demand from the telcos. The telcos would also not have to pay any spectrum usage charge for airwaves acquired in future auctions, could share spectrum without incurring any additional cost, and hold the airwaves acquired at an auction for 30 years instead of 20. Several procedural norms have also been simplified. Still, the prospects of the sector diminishing to a duopoly remain high. With Vodafone Group CEO Nick Read categorically telling analysts in July that the firm would not be investing any additional equity into India and Mr. Birla throwing in the towel last month, the Centre’s relief may be too little, too late.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/delaying-the-inevitable/article36507440.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Three is company||The U.S. has joined with the U.K. and Australia to announce a new trilateral security partnership, the AUKUS, that aims to ensure that there will be enduring freedom and openness in the Indo-Pacific region, particularly to “address both the current strategic environment in the region and how it may evolve”, according to President Joe Biden. Two dimensions are significant: first, that it complements several pre-existing similar arrangements for the region, including the Five Eyes intelligence cooperation initiative, ASEAN and the Quad, the last including India; and second, that it proposes to transfer technology to build a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines for Australia within 18 months. Australia has ratified the nuclear NPT and has vowed to abide by its tenets, notwithstanding the highly sensitive technology transfer implied in the latest proposal. Mr. Biden went to lengths to assure the world that AUKUS was “not talking about nuclear-armed submarines. These are conventionally armed submarines that are powered by nuclear reactors. This technology is proven.” Australia will become only the second nation, after the U.K., that the U.S. has ever shared its nuclear submarine technology with. The announcement of the partnership led to a minor kerfuffle with New Zealand, whose Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said that under her country’s 1984 nuclear-free zone policy, Australia’s nuclear-powered submarines would not be allowed into the former’s territorial waters. It also appeared to upset the political leadership in France, with whom Australia had struck a deal — now cancelled — for $90 billion worth of conventional submarines. The broader strategic question that the creation of AUKUS begs relates to the unstated challenge that the group poses to the regional hegemonic ambitions of China, particularly regarding how far the U.S., the U.K. and Australia, along with other regional powers, will go, to preserve a free and open Indo-Pacific, including the South China Sea. Will the operationalisation of this security partnership lead to closer coordination among the nations concerned in terms of joint military presence, war games and more in the region, signalling a new, “latticed” posture to Beijing? After all, undersea capabilities including the ability to patrol may be vital to deterring Chinese military coercion in the region. Although no explicit mention was made of China in any of the AUKUS announcements, it is clear, as one official later said to media, that the transfer of nuclear propulsion technology to an ally in this context was intended to “send a message of reassurance to countries in Asia”. Whether or not the purpose of AUKUS is to contain China’s aggressive territorial ambitions, the imperatives of the Indo-Pacific would be better served by broadening strategic cooperation initiatives of this sort to include other powers that are deeply invested in the region, including India, Japan, and South Korea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/three-is-company/article36507441.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Treatment of political prisoners||Lucknow, September 16: In connection with certain allegations made in an Allahabad paper the District Magistrate made personal enquiries as regards the treatment of political prisoners in Agra. His report which is published in the course of a cummunique contradicts the statements regarding Maulana Arif Haswa while suffering from illness and Malkan Singh and mentions special treatment accorded to political prisoners. Ranga Iyer and Swami Satyanand are confined in Central jail and Malkan Singh, Mahomed Harif Harsi and Rama Chandra in district jail. All prisoners spoke to District Magistrate of comfortable arrangements made for them and of kindly treatment by Superintendent and Ranga Iyer who is accommodated in European ward was full of praise at the treatment of jail authorities. Three prisoners in District jail, District Magistrate says, are lodged in a barrack which is more decent and comfortable than an average Indian hotel and is provided with various kinds of articles of furnitures, including books, Newspapers, Dumb bells, Indian clubs, etc. Wrestling area has also been provided close to barrack. They are given food worth Re 1-8 a day and selection of food depends on prisoners themselves. There is no prisoner in fetters and no manual labour is taken from them and they are allowed to interview friends and relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/treatment-of-political-prisoners/article36507449.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhatnagar award in chemical sciences||Five years ago, when there was an acute shortage of sulphur, the sugar industry was in a quandary as sulphur was one of the important substances needed in the process of making sugar. If to-day it is in the happy position of not depending upon sulphur to manufacture sugar, it is due largely to the work of Dr. Nanduri Atchuta Ramaiah, Professor of Physical Chemistry in the National Sugar Institute, Kanpur, who has been selected for the Bhatnagar Award for 1966 in the field of chemical sciences. Freeing the sugar industry from reliance on sulphur is only one of the many contributions of this 48-year-old scientist. He has developed new techniques and products that will improve the quality of sugar and prevent deterioration of sugar stocks in godowns. The coveted Bhatnagar Award of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research is one more feather in his cap. He had been honoured earlier by scientific bodies and the Invention Promotion Board for his contribution to sugar chemistry and technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bhatnagar-award-in-chemical-sciences/article36507450.ece
17 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Recovery on track: RBI’s Patra||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) deputy governor Michael D. Patra on Thursday said the economic recovery remained on track as reflected in the trend of production and order books. “RBI’s growth target of 9.5% for the full year is eminently achievable,” he said in an online speech at a CII Summit on Financial Markets. Noting that the current inflationary pressures were largely driven by supply shock with contributions to inflation emanating from a narrow group of goods like edible oil, LPG and petroleum products, the RBI deputy governor warned that the incomplete pass-through of imported price pressures to retail prices and rising staff costs in the organised sector would lend tail risks to the inflation trajectory. “With MPC remaining firmly committed to price stability, the RBI envisages a glide-path of CPI inflation printing at 5.7% or lower in the current year, to below 5% in 2022-23 and closer to the target of 4% by 2023-24,” Dr. Patra said. Underscoring the importance of the flexible inflation targeting framework as RBI’s monetary policy regime, he said the flexibility imparted by the monetary policy framework coupled with astute judgement healed the economy and helped it rebound from the pandemic. He added that the congenial financial conditions engendered by RBI policy had helped to revive the economy. ‘Surplus mode’  He said the economic rebound from the second wave was being supported by the monetary policy stance of ‘as long as necessary’ accommodation which was reflected in ample liquidity in the system. Dr. Patra clarified that the announcement of a graduated time path for variable rate reverse repo auctions could not be construed as a liquidity tightening measure. “The RBI will remain in surplus mode and the liquidity management framework will continue in absorption mode,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/recovery-on-track-rbis-patra/article36507420.ece
17 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Emerging macro scenario may bring headwinds: Tyagi||Head winds could likely come from the emerging macroeconomic scenario, which, in turn, would depend upon the extent of control over the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, SEBI chairman Ajay Tyagi said on Thursday. Stressing that the prevalent high price-to-earnings ratios reflected bets on earnings to improve in the future, he said a crucial factor would be how excess liquidity would be managed by central banks globally, including the timing and pace of unwinding. “Inflation is another factor to watch. Given the uncertainty, it is difficult to predict the inflection point,” he said, addressing a CII summit on Financial Markets. He said post the onset of pandemic, individual investors’ participation in India’s stock markets had grown manifold. In FY20, on average, 4 lakh new demat accounts were opened every month. This tripled to 12 lakh in FY21 and had further risen to about 26 lakh per month this fiscal. Holdings of individuals in listed companies has increased from 8.3% at the end of Q1 FY20 to 9.3% at the end of Q1 FY22, he added.He said funds raised via IPOs more than doubled in FY21 to about Rs. 46,000 crore. ‘IPOs on a roll’ “In just 5 months till August, the amount raised is already close to that raised during the entire previous financial year,” he said, pointing out that this year would likely see the highest raised in the past decade. Over the last 18 months, tech firms had raised about Rs. 15,000 crore via IPOs, Mr. Tyagi said, adding that the pipeline has about Rs. 30,000 crore worth of proposals.  Given the uncertainty, it is difficult to predict the inflection point||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/emerging-macro-scenario-may-bring-headwinds-tyagi/article36507425.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||FADA seeks clarity from Ford on compensation, disclosures||Left in a lurch following Ford’s announcement to stop manufacturing of vehicles in India, automobile dealers have written to the U.S. automaker seeking clarity on the compensation structures the company might be planning for them. The dealers have also asked for modifications in the non-disclosure agreement that the company had asked them to sign before taking forward any compensation-related talks. In a letter to Anurag Mehrotra, president & MD, Ford India, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) pointed out that following the announcement by Ford, customers had either sought cancellation of bookings or full refund for the vehicles they had purchased but were yet to take delivery of. This had hit the dealers hard, especially during the festive season. “The dealers are also worried about the amount of compensation which will be given by your company as there are many dealers who are not even five years old in the system and may not have even reached break-even point,” the industry body said in the letter, which was seen by The Hindu . FADA added that “the recitals to the non-disclosure agreement should carry a specific description of the nature of things which need to be kept undisclosed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fada-seeks-clarity-from-ford-on-compensation-disclosures/article36507428.ece
17 September 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Inflation shifting down more than anticipated’||The trajectory of inflation is shifting down more favourably than anticipated, central bank officials wrote in an article on the ‘State of the Economy’ in the RBI’s monthly bulletin for September. “As pandemic scars heal and supply conditions are restored with productivity gains, a sustained easing of core inflation can be expected, which will reinforce the growth-supportive stance of monetary policy,” they wrote in the bulletin. Updating the inflation outlook based on official high frequency data till September 13, they wrote: “[data] point to a further decline in cereal prices. On the other hand, prices of pulses, which have been on a downward trajectory in recent months, has reversed course in September, with a sharp increase in prices of masoor. Prices of all major edible oils have edged up further in September”. Prices of tomatoes, onions and potatoes had seen a decline, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/inflation-shifting-down-more-than-anticipated/article36507422.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tariff increase crucial for telcos’ survival: analysts||Though the telecom reforms approved by the Cabinet will benefit all telcos in the near term, especially in helping Vodafone Idea (VI) stay afloat, analysts do not see them as a ‘game changer’ that would materially improve the health of the industry since sustainability of the sector is still predicated on improved tariffs. “The current reforms only address the liquidity stress in the sector and do not solve the elevated leverage levels... with the crisis being postponed to FY26-27,” JM Financial said in a report. “Sustainability of the sector is still predicated on tariff revivals,” it added. BofA said the reforms removed temporary stress by freeing near-term cash flows but would not materially improve the health of the industry. “Lack of tariff hike is disappointing,” it added. “If VI does not manage any capital infusion and tariff hikes, the industry might move towards a duopoly,” Motilal Oswal’s analysts wrote in a research note, a view echoed by their counterparts at Edelweiss. As per Credit Suisse, VI needs break-even ARPU of about Rs. 240 or 2.3x of current levels by FY26 to meet Rs. 330 billion of annual spectrum payments and AGR dues that will need to be repaid over the remaining tenure. “This represents a 23% CAGR in ARPU for VI over next 4 years, assuming VI is able to retain 260 million subscribers,” it added. Double-edged sword On the moratorium of four years provided on spectrum and AGR dues, Nomura said it was a double-edged sword where liquidity improved but debt woes would expand. “A moratorium on GoI dues would likely provide Rs. 410 billion in annual cash-flow relief to the top 3 private telecos, easing VI’s liquidity concerns. However, with the accrual of interest during moratorium at relatively higher interest rates (8-10%), telcos’ future repayments and overall GoI debt would likely increase sharply,” Nomura said. Conversion to equity The government now also has the option to convert deferred dues, and also annual interest on deferred payment into equity. “In worst case, we believe this could pave way for VI to become majority owned by the government, thus, increasing going-concern visibility,” ICICI Securities said. It added that tariff increases should happen soon as the relief package entirely did not address VI’s cash-flow requirements, and even for raising funds, higher tariffs remained critical. “Bharti and Reliance Jio do not have much to gain from the relief package but improvement in spectrum norms will benefit them during 5G spectrum auction,” said ICICI Securities. “Indus Towers should see improved outlook with reduced going-concern risk on VI but growth prospects still remain weak.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tariff-increase-crucial-for-telcos-survival-analysts/article36507430.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘NFRA needs to have standalone legislation’||National Financial Reporting Authority (NFRA) Chairperson R. Sridharan on Thursday pitched for a ‘standalone legislation’ for the regulator in the interests of autonomy, and emphasisedall necessary penal provisions relating to financial reporting should be consolidated and vested with it. ‘Not comprehensive’ The NFRA may take action against auditors for professional misconduct but when it came to other functionaries of a company who have the responsibility for financial reporting, penal powers continue to be vested with the Centre, he said. “To enhance the effectiveness of the implementation of the law, it is necessary to consolidate... penal provisions relating to financial reporting and to vest them in NFRA. This will allow for integrated regulation of all participants in the financial reporting system,” he said.  Noting that the NFRA operated under a single section of the Companies Act, he said the section did not provide comprehensive coverage of all the functions and powers that are required to constitute the authority as a ‘corporate financial reporting regulator’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nfra-needs-to-have-standalone-legislation/article36507433.ece
17 September 2021||CHENNAI,||TVS acquires stake in Swiss e-bike firm||TVS Motor Co. Ltd., a leading maker of two- and three-wheelers, has acquired a majority stake in European e-bike brand EGO Movement for 16.6 million Swiss Franc (CHF). The partnership is in line with the TVS Motor’s commitment to building an aspirational product portfolio while nurturing sustainable and scalable brands, said Sudarshan Venu, JMD, TVS Motor Co. He said the Swiss firm was a profitable one with 40 workers. It had posted a revenue of 5 million CHF last year which it was planning to double this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-acquires-stake-in-swiss-e-bike-firm/article36507426.ece
17 September 2021||new delhi,||Hero Moto to raise prices from Sept. 20||The country’s largest two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp on Thursday said it will increase the price of its entire model range by up to Rs. 3,000 from next week in order to partially offset the impact of rising input costs. The company will make an upward revision in the ex-showroom prices of its motorcycles and scooters, with effect from September 20, Hero MotoCorp said in a statement. The price increase has been necessitated to offset the impact of steadily increasing commodity prices, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hero-moto-to-raise-prices-from-sept-20/article36507431.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Bharti will redirect cash to network’||Bharti Airtel will opt for payment moratorium, offered in the telecom relief package, and redirect the cash flow to aggressively build its network, Chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal said on Thursday. Telecom reforms would spur growth, and had paved the way for all players to come together and work as a team to unleash India’s telecom dream, Mr. Mittal said. Tariffs need to go up, and more needs to be done on GST, licence fee, high levies “but that’s a separate chapter”, he added. Bharti Airtel could take a lead in implementing tariff increases in some packs, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-will-redirect-cash-to-network/article36507432.ece
17 September 2021||Mumbai,||SBI cuts interest rates on home loans||State Bank of India (SBI) said it will provide credit score- linked home loans at 6.7%, irrespective of the loan amount, to home buyers during the festive season. Earlier, a borrower availing a loan of over Rs. 75 lakh had to pay interest at 7.15%, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-cuts-interest-rates-on-home-loans/article36507424.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,||England tour was a great experience: Siraj||A confident Mohd. Siraj will focus on being fit as he chases new goals. “Essentially, I will focus on my fitness following a strict diet to stay away from injuries. There is no better example than my captain in this regard,” he said with a big smile. The India pace bowler, who had a dream haul of eight wickets in the Lord’s Test in the recent England series was disappointed at missing the chance to play the T20 World Cup. However, he would like to be a match-winner whenever he gets the opportunity to represent the country in any format. Not in my hands “Well, selection is not in my hands. I would have loved to play in the T20 World Cup. But, again, that’s not the end of it. I have many more goals — the biggest is to play a lead role in helping the team win matches,” Siraj told The Hindu . “The England tour was a great experience. I am glad that I could repay the faith reposed in me by my captain,” said 27-year-old Siraj, who has 30 wickets in nine Tests so far. “Definitely, bowling in tandem with big names of Indian fast bowling attack is a huge learning curve for me. They were so supportive and always came up with invaluable tips to help me improve,” he said. “We were confident of winning, though not complacent, from the start of the Test series. It is a team with complete balance in all departments. And, personally, for me it is a joy to be part of such a unit led by such an inspirational leader like Virat bhai , who also advised me to improve my ability to bowl outswingers consistently,” Siraj said. “Obviously, playing at Lord’s and performing there is something which I cannot explain in words even now. As a child I came to know about it as the ‘Mecca of World cricket’. It was an unforgettable experience to play there and help the team win the Test,” he said. “To be honest, I didn’t think too much after missing a hat-trick twice in the Lord’s Test. Yes, I was disappointed at missing a five-wicket haul at that historic venue,” Siraj said. Reflecting on the second half of the IPL to be held in Dubai, the fast bowler, who plays for Royal Challengers Bangalore, said the team was confident and determined to win the trophy this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-tour-was-a-great-experience-siraj/article36507807.ece
17 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Kohli to step down as T20I skipper after World Cup||Virat Kohli has announced that he will relinquish India’s T20I captaincy at the end of the T20 World Cup in November. In his announcement through a social media post, Kohli cited “workload management” as the key factor in his decision. White-ball vice-captain Rohit Sharma is the front-runner to replace him. “Understanding workload is a very important thing and considering my immense workload over the last 8-9 years playing all 3 formats and captaining regularly for (the) last 5-6 years, I feel I need to give myself space to be fully ready to lead the Indian Team in Test and ODI Cricket,” Kohli wrote in a Twitter post. “I have given everything to the team during my time as T20 captain and I will continue to do so for the T20 team as a batsman moving forward. Of course, arriving at this decision took a lot of time. “After a lot of contemplation and discussions with my close people, Ravi [Shastri] bhai and also Rohit, who have been an essential part of the leadership group, I've decided to step down as the T20 captain after this T20 World Cup in UAE and Oman in October.” Ending speculation Kohli’s announcement thus ends the speculation over his future as limited-overs captain. The 32-year-old’s leadership has been under the radar, primarily due to the fact that he has not won an ICC title across formats or an IPL championship with Royal Challengers Bangalore, which he has led since 2013. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, in a statement, said the decision “has been made keeping in mind the future roadmap”. Secretary Jay Shah stated that he has been “in discussions with Virat and the leadership team for the last six months and the decision has been thought through”. Despite the suggestion of mutual understanding among all the stakeholders involved, it is learnt that the BCCI hierarchy’s recent directive to the selection panel to explore white-ball captaincy options may have forced Kohli's voluntary announcement. The selection panel, over the last couple of months, has been discussing the possibility of a change of guard. The fact that Shastri’s tenure as head coach ends with the T20 World Cup may also have been a contributing factor. Rohit has proven his calibre as an international captain — in Kohli’s absence — by helping India clinch the T20I tri-series in Sri Lanka and the Asia Cup in 2018. He has also led Mumbai Indians to five IPL titles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-to-step-down-as-t20i-skipper-after-world-cup/article36507722.ece
17 September 2021||WARANGAL,||Harmilan Kaur Bains runs to a new National 1500m mark||“I think it’s going to be a National record,” Harmilan Kaur Bains said in excitement as she waited for the 1500m results to appear on the giant screen at the 60th National Open athletics championships at the Nehru Stadium here on Thursday. And when they did, she collapsed in joy. For her gold-winning time of 4:05.39s broke Sunita Rani’s 19-year-old National record that came with the Busan Asian Games gold in 2002. Harmilan had been waiting desperately for something like this on the road to the Olympics for she was lying on the 49th spot in the Tokyo rankings with only 45 berths available. “That hurts me but okay, God’s plan. It took me almost a month to get out of it (missing the Olympics),” the 23-year-old told The Hindu after the victory. Delhi’s K.M. Chanda tailed Harmilan for a good part of the race but the Punjab runner broke away after the bell and won by nearly a 60m margin. “I didn’t expect this National record, not even my parents. I was like, it’s only two seconds from my personal best so I thought I must go for that. But I wasn’t very sure.” With next year loaded with major events, Harmilan feels she can go faster by another two seconds by improving her last lap. Her parents, Amandeep Singh Bains and Madhuri Saxena, were both international middle distance runners in their prime and Harmilan has had eye-popping progress in the last few years. Her best two years ago was 4:21.08, now she is a 4:05 runner. Meanwhile, Services champion Muhammed Ajmal made his 400m debut a winning one in a personal best 46.84s. That was just his second quartermile ever. “It has come in the right time since we have the Asian Games and Commonwealth Games next year. I’m going to focus on the 400m from now on, I hop I get a call to join the National camp,” said the 23-year-old Navyman from Kerala who was running the 100 and 200m earlier. Tamil Nadu’s R. Vithya Ramraj won her maiden National gold in the women’s 400m in a season-best 53.79s, beating Kiran Pahal who been consistently finishing runner-up to M.R. Poovamma in National meets early this year. AP’s Naresh Kumar (10.30s) and Delhi’s Taranjeet Kaur (11.50s) emerged as the fastest man and woman respectively. False starts The men’s 100m was called back thrice and top favourite K.S. Pranav, who won the Services title recently in a stunning 10.28s, was sent off with a false start. And Naresh, from Guntur, won in 10.30s to better Anil Kumar’s 20-year-old meet record. Taranjeet Kaur, who broke her collar bone in a scooter mishap a couple of years ago, shocked Tamil Nadu’s Archana Suseendran to take the women’s 100 gold in 11.50s, improving on her previous best of 11.70s.  The results (finals): Men: 100m: 1. K. Naresh Kumar (AP) 10.30s (MR, Old: 10.37, Anil Kumar), 2. Amlan Borgohain (Asm) 10.34, 3. Harjit Singh (Ser) 10.34; 400m: 1. Muhammed Ajmal (Ser) 46,84s, 2. Gajanand Mistry (Guj) 46.85, 3. Ayush Dabas (Har) 47.10. 1500m: 1. Parvej Khan (Har) 3:42.64s, 2. Ajay Kumar Saroj (Rlys) 3:44.05, 3. Rahul (Delhi) 3:44.57; 4x100m relay: 1. Railways (R. Swaminathan, Elakkiadasan, Sudhakar Chintha, Siva Kumar) 40.04s, 2. Tamil Nadu 40.44, 3. Services 40.88.   Long jump: 1. R Swaminathan (Rlys) 7.73m, 2. Jeswin Aldrin (TN) 7.67, 3. Nirmal Sabu (Rlys) 7.67; Javelin: 1. Sahil Silwal (Har) 77.79m, 2. D.P. Manu (Ser) 74.92, 3. Rohit Yadav (Rlys) 74.28; Decathlon: 1. Yaman Deep Sharma (Raj) 6757 pts, 2. Usaid Khan (Ser) 6702, 3. K.R. Gokul (Ser) 6618; 20km race walk: 1. Chandan Singh (Utk) 1:29:21.00s, 2. Devender Singh (Ser) 1:29:26.00, 3. Juned (Rlys) 1:29:38.00.   Women: 100m: 1. Taranjeet Kaur (Del) 11.50s, 2. Archana Suseendran (TN) 11.68, 3. N.S. Simi (Rlys) 11.78; 400m: 1. R. Vithya Ramraj (TN) 53.79s, 2. Nancy (Har) 54.41, 3. Kiran Pahal (Rlys) 54.80; 1500m: 1. Harmilan Kaur Bains (Pun) 4:05.39s (NR, Old: 4:06.03, Sunita Rani), 2. K.M. Chanda (Del) 4:18.24, 3. Deeksha (MP) 4:21.34. 4x100m relay: 1. Railways (A.T. Daneshwari, C. Kanimozhi, N.S. Simi, Himashree Roy) 45.84s, 2. Tamil Nadu 47.06; 3. Telangana 47.18.   High jump: 1. Swapna Barman (Rlys) 1.78m, 2, Gracena G. Merly (TN) 1.76, 3. Rekha (Har) 1.76m; Shot put: 1. Kiran Baliyan (UP) 16.99m, 2. Manpreet Kaur (Pun) 16.40, 3. Manpreet Kaur (Rlys) 16.35.   20km race walk: 1. Sonal Sukhwal (Raj) 1:42:15.00, 2. Ravina (Rlys) 1:44.17.00, 3. Payal (Utk) 1:48:12.00 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harmilan-kaur-bains-runs-to-a-new-national-1500m-mark/article36507435.ece
17 September 2021||Paris,||PSG’s star forwards fail to sparkle||Paris Saint-Germain was poor on Lionel Messi’s first start for the club in Champions League, while Liverpool was exposed by AC Milan before bouncing back and Jack Grealish had a great night for Manchester City. On Wednesday, coach Mauricio Pochettino lined up Messi, Kylian Mbappe and Neymar together for the first time. It did not turn out as hoped, as PSG was held to a 1-1 draw at Club Brugge despite Ander Herrera giving it the lead. Hans Vanaken levelled it for Brugge. Grealish showed he is ready for the biggest stage with a scintillating display that put RB Leipzig to the sword as City triumphed in a 6-3 goalfest. Liverpool got the better of another Champions League classic against AC Milan, coming from behind to win 3-2 at Anfield. Liverpool blitzed the visitors in a fast start, yet somehow found itself 2-1 down at half-time due to five minutes of meltdown before the break where Jurgen Klopp admitted it “lost the plot”. However, it stormed back to win. Rodrygo’s 90th-minute goal helped Real Madrid beat Inter Milan.  The results:   Group A: Club Brugge 1 (Vanaken 27) drew with Paris Saint-Germain 1 (Herrera 15); Manchester City 6 (Ake 16, Mukiele 28-og, Mahrez 45+2-pen, Grealish 56, Cancelo 75, Jesus 85) bt RB Leipzig 3 (Nkunku 42, 51, 73).   Group B: Atletico Madrid 0 drew with Porto 0; Liverpool 3 (Tomori 9-og, Salah 49, Henderson 69) bt AC Milan 2 (Rebic 42, Brahim 44).   Group C: Besiktas 1 (Montero 90+4) lost to Borussia Dortmund 2 (Bellingham 20, Haaland 45+3); Sporting Lisbon 1 (Paulinho 33) lost to Ajax 5 (Haller 2, 9, 51, 63, Berghuis 39).   Group D: Sheriff Tiraspol 2 (Traore 16, Yansane 62) bt Shakhtar Donetsk 0; Inter Milan 0 lost to Real Madrid 1 (Rodrygo 90).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/psgs-star-forwards-fail-to-sparkle/article36507713.ece
17 September 2021||Dubai,||Old Yuzi is back, asserts Chahal||One of the most notable omissions from India’s T20 World Cup squad, leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal on Thursday asserted that he would be his wily, old wicket-taking self in the upcoming second half of this year’s IPL. During a Royal Challengers Bangalore training session, a cheerful Chahal offered to bat, but only if the swashbuckling Glenn Maxwell was the bowler. Feeling good Reflecting on his first training session with the team, Chahal said, “Obviously, the feeling was good, it was okay and I’m happy with the way I bowled today. “I’m very pumped up, especially, you know, we’re good on the points table and we have a very good chance to stay at the top of the table and when you bowl well after a long time you always feel good. Today, I can say that the old Yuzi is back.” Chahal was far from his best in the first leg of the IPL. Despite his team playing on spin-friendly surfaces, the leg-spinner struggled for rhythm and could pick up only four wickets in seven matches at an economy rate of 8.26. During the training session, South African legend A.B. de Villiers was seen welcoming both Chahal and Maxwell back into the team before the net session commenced. Head coach Mike Hesson laid out the plans for the session and said, “In terms of practice today, we all know what the role is. We’ve all had those meetings for what we’re training for.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/old-yuzi-is-back-asserts-chahal/article36507717.ece
17 September 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Youngsters these days are mature’||With loads of competitive cricket — division leagues, age-group tournaments, invitational tournaments and so on — played all year round, youngsters who break into the senior Karnataka side are well equipped to hit the ground running. Karnataka bowling coach S. Arvind stated that the several newcomers in the Karnataka probables list for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy and the Vijay Hazare 50-over Trophy — pacers Nischith Rao and Vidyadhar Patil, batsmen Rohan Patil, K.V. Aneesh, Aqib Jawad and others — enter the big stage primed and ready for action. “Many of these young players have been playing a lot of competitive cricket. Youngsters these days are mature; they are just too good,” Arvind said after a training session here on Thursday. Arvind added that Nischith — the second highest wicket-taker in the recent KSCA Group I, Division I league — is a fine natural outswing bowler. “Nischith is working on his pace. His fundamentals are very good,” Arvind said. Vidyadhar, who has featured for the India under-19 side, is an effective bowler with loads of league cricket experience, Arvind said. “Vidyadhar has many variations, and is accurate too,” Arvind said. Workload management The rules of the bubble make it tough for teams to summon replacement players, in the event of injuries. This makes workload management, especially for bowlers, all the more crucial. “Workload management will be very important this season. We are looking at each player closely. We have data for all of them, which is used for their assessment. We hope to have them injury-free,” Arvind said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/youngsters-these-days-are-mature/article36507789.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||HFC ties up with Maidaan, a biopic on Rahim||Varun Tripuraneni, co-owner of Hyderabad FC which formally announced a tie-up with the movie Maidaan , a biopic on the legendary football coach S.A. Rahim from the City, said the whole idea of the partnership was to inspire the young generation to take up football in a big way. The Hindi feature film is presented by Zee Studios and Boney Kapoor, produced by Kapoor, Akash Chawla, Arunava Joy Sengupta and Zee Studios. Lead role Participating in a virtual interaction featuring the film producer Kapoor and film director Amit Sharma, among others, Varun hoped the film would take the sport to a new level and that the HFC was very keen to play a lead role in this process. Kapoor said the idea was conceptualised in 2018 since the late Rahim Saab was an unsung hero of Indian football. “Many of the young generation know more about the European and South American football than the rich legacy of Indian football in which Rahim Sir’s role was huge,” he said. “We came to know that the then Indian football team coached by him was referred to by the top brass of FIFA as the Brazil of Asia,” Kapoor said. “Maidaan brings forward the struggles and victories of Rahim Sir just the way Hyderabad FC has overcome various challenges to rise from where they were in the league with sheer grit and determination. This is the beginning of a great friendship and partnership between two distinct entities,” he said. Director Sharma said a lot of research had been done by spending plenty of time, especially talking to some of the greats who were members of the Indian team coached by Rahim Saab, including P.K. Banerjee, Chuni Goswami, T. Balaram, Tarun Gosh and S.S. Hakim (Rahim’s son). “The way these greats spoke so eloquently and with such reverence about Rahim was itself a huge revelation,” he said. “We remember meeting Balaram Sir alone at his residence in Kolkata and his walls were adorned with medals and the pictures of only Rahim Saab,” he said. On why Ajay Devgn for the role of Rahim as coach in the film, Sharma said he couldn’t have thought of making the film with anyone except Ajay. “He is an amazing actor with great commitment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hfc-ties-up-with-maidaan-a-biopic-on-rahim/article36508046.ece
17 September 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Mukesh, Nitesh score centuries||Centuries by M. Mukesh (120) for Cambridge XI and K. Nitesh Reddy (136 n.o.) for Budding Stars were some of the highlights of the A1-Division three-day league cricket championship here on Thursday.  The scores:   A1-Division three-day league: Continental 183 in 63.4 overs & 179 in 37.4 overs (A. Jayasuriya 49, Amol Shinde 4/39) lost to UBI 237 & 126/6 in 33.4 overs (Harsh Shankpal 38 n.o.).   BDL 335/9 in 90 overs (B. Revanth 58, M.S.R. Charan 70, P. Aravind 72, Aditya Javvaji 56, Amber Kumar 54) vs SCRSA.   SBI 171 in 54.2 overs & 175 in 38.5 overs (Anirudh Singh 61, Akash Bhandari 39, Rathan Teja 3/34) bt Sporting XI 99 in 34.3 overs (Akash Bhandari 5/21, Vishal Sharma 3/31) & 150/9 in 34.5 overs (Tanmay Agarwal 63, T. Pavan Kumar 3/8, Ahmed Quadri 3/32).   India Cements 160 in 58.1 overs & 213/4 in 40 overs (Suraj Saxena 56, Sai Pragnay Reddy 50 n.o.) drew with Combined District 294 in 80.2 overs (T.V.S. Narayana Teja 129, B. Kumar 78, A. Santosh 35, Syed Qursheed 3/47, Nitish Challa 5/54).   Cambridge XI 323 in 83.5 overs (K. Jairam 60, M. Mukesh 120, Nishanth 61, Aleem Dhanani 5/46, T. Santosh Goud 3/57) vs R. Dayanand.   Central Excise 140 in 57.4 overs & 206/9 in 38 overs (K. Sumanth 86 n.o., Chaitanya 39) vs Evergreen 184 in 66.2 overs (Sai Vikas Reddy 43, Rahul Buddhi 33, P. Akshath Reddy 38, Saketh Sairam 4/38, G. Sadhan 4/43).   MP Colts 227 in 60 overs & 62/2 in 10 overs vs Budding Star 245 in 74.5 overs (K. Nitesh Reddy 136 n.o., Raj Mishra 30, B. Sandeep 4/32).   Mahmood 219 in 65.1 overs & 193/2 in 40 overs (Y. Sai Varun 101 n.o., Vigneshwar 71) bt Sec’bad Nawab 103 in 30.4 overs & 159 in 34.3 overs (Jaidev Goud 58, Harish 40, S. Nikhil 3/29, K. Akhil 4/48).   Gouds XI 210 in 77.1 overs (D. Dinesh 3/52, M. Ritvik 3/41) drew with Rohit XI 155/8 in 72 overs (Akash Sana 3/26).   Charminar 255 in 62.4 overs & 193 in 39.3 overs (S. Akshay Goud 3/29) vs Apex CC 171 in 46.2 overs & 244/8 in 40 overs (S. Dheeraj Goud 103 n.o., K. Sri Harsha 48, Mudassir 3/36).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mukesh-nitesh-score-centuries/article36508053.ece
17 September 2021||Dubai,||Excited to have fans back: Morgan||Kolkata Knight Riders captain Eoin Morgan is excited at the prospect of fans returning to the stadiums after the lifting of the coronavirus-enforced restrictions and cheering them on when the IPL resumes in the UAE on Sunday. On Wednesday, it was announced that fans will be allowed to watch the matches in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah in limited numbers, keeping in mind the COVID-19 protocols and the UAE government regulations. “Incredibly excited to have fans back at the IPL this year. It’s been too long to hear that roar of the KKR fans at Eden Gardens. Unfortunately, it’s not at home but I cannot wait to hear it here in the UAE,” Morgan was quoted as saying by the KKR website.  Head coach Brendon McCullum too welcomed the move and believed that support from fans will spur them on as they seek a play-offs berth. “That’s actually fantastic. We were talking about it whether the fans would be back. Now that we know they’re going to be, it’s fantastic. Hopefully all of the stadiums will be jam-packed with KKR fans. “We can certainly use their support. We have got a big task in front of us and we will certainly rally when we get the support of our fans. So, hopefully we get plenty of it in the UAE.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/excited-to-have-fans-back-morgan/article36507715.ece
17 September 2021||Dubai,||Pant to continue as Delhi Capitals captain||Delhi Capitals on Thursday announced that wicket-keeper batsman Rishabh Pant will continue to lead the side for the remainder of the 2021 season of the Indian Premier League (IPL). “JSW-GMR co-owned Delhi Capitals today announced that Rishabh Pant will continue as captain for the remainder of the 2021 season of the Indian Premier League,” Delhi Capitals said in a statement. On top of table Delhi Capitals are currently on top of the points table with 6 wins from 8 matches and will take on Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) on September 22. On Wednesday, Delhi Capitals announced that left-arm orthodox bowler Manimaran Siddharth has been ruled out of the second half IPL due to an injury. The 23-year-old incurred a quadriceps strain during training in Dubai. Left-arm pacer Kulwant Khejroliya has been named as Siddharth’s replacement for the remainder of the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pant-to-continue-as-delhi-capitals-skipper/article36507719.ece
17 September 2021||DOHA,||Advani keeps crown||India’s ace cueist Pankaj Advani retained the Asian snooker title defeating former champion Amir Sarkhosh of Iran 6-3 here on Thursday. Advani, who won in 2019 before the 2020 edition got scrapped due to the pandemic, won 72(55)-42, 72(50)-0, 70-49, 41-66, 70-17, 30-68, 34-74, 50-12, 64(63)-44. Advani’s tally of Asian titles across both snooker and billiards now stands at 13, including two Asian Games golds in 2006 and 2010. “I’m glad to defend this title and pick up from where I left off before the onset of the pandemic. The gap only increased the drive and hunger to compete and do well on return,” said Advani.  The results: Final: Pankaj Advani bt Amir Sarkhosh (Irn) 6-3 [72(55)-42, 72(50)-0, 70-49, 41-66, 70-17, 30-68, 34-74, 50-12, 64(63)-44] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/advani-keeps-crown/article36507724.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Prajnesh to open proceedings against Virtanen||Prajnesh Gunneswaran will open India’s challenge against the 419th-ranked Otto Virtanen in the Davis Cup tie against Finland, on the indoor hard courts of the Espoo Metro Arena, on Friday. “We are happy that our No.1 player, Prajnesh will play the first match. If he plays to potential, we should have a 1-0 lead, which can put their No.1 player under pressure. We are happy with the draw,” said the Indian team captain Rohit Rajpal. There had been some injury worries about the 31-year-old Prajnesh, ranked 165th in the world, but coach Zeeshan Ali reiterated that Prajnesh was striking the ball well and in good shape. In good shape “Prajnesh has been hitting the ball well. There was some worry about his worry about his wrist two weeks ago when I spoke to him. After that he went to Chennai and did a rehab. He is moving and playing well,” observed Zeeshan. Ramkumar Ramanathan will take on the Finnish No.1, the 74th ranked Emil Ruusuvuori, in the second rubber on the opening day. Even though the 22-year-old Ruusuvuori has been playing in the big league, and has a win over Dominic Thiem in Davis Cup, it will be interesting to see how he handles the pressure in front of the home fans, albeit limited in number. Capable of a surprise In his last tie in March last year, Ramkumar had played a solid match against Marin Cilic before losing in two tie-breaks. The 26-year-old, ranked 187, has been playing well on the circuit, and it is not beyond him to cause a surprise. In the pivotal doubles, Asian Games champions Rohan Bopanna and Divij Sharan will take on Henri Kontinen, the former World No.1 doubles player, and Harri Heliovaara, in the first of three matches on the second day. The top eight-ranked winners of the 12 World Group-1 ties, based on the ranking to be released on September 20, will make the Qualifiers draw for next year. The other four winners will play a knock-out in November to decide two more teams for the Qualifiers. The losing nations will play the World Group play-off next year. For the record, India is ranked No. 6 among the 24 teams for the World Group-1 tie.   THE DRAW   Friday: Prajnesh Gunneswaran vs. Otto Virtanen (8.30 p.m. IST); Ramkumar Ramanathan vs Emil Ruusuvuori  Saturday: Rohan Bopanna & Divij Sharan vs. Harri Heliovaara & Henri Kontinen (4.30 p.m. IST); Prajnesh v Ruusuvuori; Ramkumar vs Virtanen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-to-open-proceedings-against-virtanen/article36507726.ece
17 September 2021||Karachi,||Focus is to win against New Zealand: Babar||Pakistan captain Babar Azam has brushed aside the talk on impending changes in the team’s leadership and said the focus is to win the ODI and T20 series against New Zealand. Babar told a virtual media conference on Thursday that he was completely backing the selected squad. Asked about his alleged dissatisfaction over the selected team, Babar said that he had given his input as captain as usual and insisted this was not any individual’s team. “I think the board officials and chief selector have also clarified the position on team selection so for me I am completely backing the side and expect it to do well against New Zealand.” Babar also made it clear he had been told nothing or heard anything about captaincy changes. He pointed out that it was a normal thing in the cricket world that a captain had to meet desired goals and live up to expectations. PCB Chairman, Ramiz Raja, in his first press conference had made it clear that his expectations for Babar as captain were the same as he had with Imran Khan. Ramiz said since he didn’t know Babar that well on an individual level, it was too early to make his assessment about his all format captaincy. Babar said when asked about captaincy change rumours: “I have no idea about it so far.” “We are not taking them lightly at all despite this being our home conditions. They as a nation have done extremely well in ODIs and T20 cricket in recent years and were also finalists of the last World Cup and the World Test Championship final so obviously their depth of talent is good.” He said if New Zealand had their main players, the series would have been more enjoyable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/focus-is-to-win-against-new-zealand-babar/article36507861.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||AICF awaits Humpy’s confirmation||The All India Chess Federation is awaiting a confirmation of spearhead K. Humpy for the upcoming FIDE World women’s team chess championship beginning at Sitges, Spain, on September 27. According to the AICF secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan, “since Humpy has taken Covaxin vaccine (and not Covishield, as preferred by European nations), she will be required to undergo a 10-day quarantine on arrival. “Humpy had expressed apprehension over the possibility of difficulties on arrival at the European port. In the event of Humpy opting out, Mary Ann Gomes will join the team, since first-choice replacement Padmini Rout, too, has taken Covaxin. I am awaiting some clarity in a day.” The other members of the team are D. Harika, R. Vaishali, Tania Sachdev, and Bhakti Kulkarni. League phase Twelve teams, divided into two groups of six each, will play the league phase. Top four teams from each group will qualify to the quarterfinals. In the knockout phase, each tie will consist of two sets of matches. Competitions will be held over four boards and the time-control is 45 minutes each for both players plus 10-second increment for each move. The final will be on October 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aicf-awaits-humpys-confirmation/article36507805.ece
17 September 2021||KOLKATA,||We expect Indian fans to visit Qatar in big numbers: Nuaimi||The 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar will see a sizeable presence of Indian football fans, feels Fatima Al Nuaimi, the executive director of communications, Supreme Committee of Qatar World Cup. “Qatar and India have centuries-old ties and we consider India as our strategic partner. Apart from the geographical proximity of the two countries, Qatar Airways connect a lot of Indian cities. This shows how close our ties are. We are anticipating a lot of fans from India to visit Qatar and enjoy the football festivity happening during the World Cup,” Nuaimi said during an interaction on Thursday. “Qatar had extended the goodwill allowing the Indian national football team to train ahead of the World Cup qualifiers (in June this year) in Doha,” she said while illustrating her country’s close ties with India. The pandemic has not been able to slow down Qatar’s preparations for the World Cup, which is now 98% ready for the Quadrennial event. “When it comes to stadium and infrastructure, we are 98% ready. I am hopeful that the World Cup will be the biggest sporting event after the COVID era. “We expect a 100% fan attendance and because of Qatar’s unique location, there will be a lot of attendance from Middle East and the rest of Asia. I am sure there will lot of fans from countries like India and China even though their teams are not participating,” Nuaimi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-expect-indian-fans-to-visit-qatar-in-big-numbers-nuaimi/article36507863.ece
17 September 2021||Geneva,||FIFA intensifies push to stage men’s World Cup every two years||FIFA intensified its push for hosting the men’s World Cup every two years on Thursday by garnering support from soccer fans around the world to help combat resistance from Europe and South America. The latest public relations tactic came in the form on an online survey commissioned by FIFA. The FIFA statement did not provide data, details of the polling methodology or questions asked, but claimed its findings showed “considerable differences between the so-called traditional markets and the developing football markets.” European soccer body UEFA and South American counterpart CONMEBOL oppose FIFA’s plan and have threatened to boycott additional World Cups. Europe and South America combine for 65 of the 211 FIFA members — fewer than the one-third total likely needed to block any proposal. The governing bodies of the six continental soccer federations all stage their own championships, with Europe hosting its tournament every four years halfway between the World Cups. Adding an extra World Cup in every four-year cycle would likely cut into the European event’s revenue stream. The women already have two major world tournaments in every four-year cycle because the top teams and best players compete at the Olympics as well as the Women’s World Cup. FIFA’s latest survey follows one week after it hosted about 80 former international players, including several World Cup winners, for a two-day meeting in Qatar — the 2022 World Cup host country. The players reported they all agreed it was a good idea to double the number of men’s World Cups in each four-year period. More opportunities FIFA president Gianni Infantino believes staging more tournaments would increase opportunities and enthusiasm in most of the 211 member countries, many of which never qualify to play at the World Cup. Expanding the World Cup from 32 teams to 48 starting at the 2026 tournament in North America was one of the biggest early decisions of Infantino’s presidency.  The latest public relations tactic came in the form on an online survey commissioned by FIFA The FIFA statement did not provide data, details of the polling methodology or questions asked||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fifa-intensifies-push-to-stage-mens-world-cup-every-two-years/article36507895.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Don’t mind being a T20 nomad: Livingstone||Rajasthan Royals’ English batsman Liam Livingstone aspires for a successful Test career but doesn’t mind being a T20 “nomad” either. He prefers to spend his time building his white-ball brand instead of losing sleep over whether he can make it big in Tests. The 28-year-old, one of the most sought after T20 freelancers in world cricket, having played in the Big Bash League and the Pakistan Super League, is now expected to shoulder the batting burden of Rajasthan Royals along with Sanju Samson during the Indian Premier League which resumes this Sunday in the UAE. Straight talk Unlike a lot of cricketers, who would try to give politically correct answers on questions regarding Test cricket, Livingstone has no hesitation in straight-talk. He has not yet made his Test debut. “Yes absolutely (on being a T20 nomad). In the world of cricket, you now have two routes. If you can’t make it as a red-ball cricketer, you still can travel the world and be part of a lot of franchise competitions,” Livingstone told PTI. Coming into the IPL after some smashing performances in The Hundred for Birmingham Phoenix, Livingstone aspires to create a brand and fanbase of his own. Playing to his strength “Hopefully in the next few years, I can travel the world and play in franchise league cricket. The best part is coming back again and again for the same franchises, creating a fanbase of your own and also friendships that last a lifetime,” he said. “My strength is white-ball cricket and, these days, you stick to your strength. Hopefully, one day I will fulfil my dream of playing Test cricket,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dont-mind-being-a-t20-nomad/article36507870.ece
17 September 2021||Luxembourg,||Sania in doubles quarterfinals||Sania Mirza and Shuai Zhang of China beat Tayisiya Morderger and Yana Morderger of Germany 6-2, 6-3 to reach the doubles quarterfinals of the €189,708 WTA tennis here. In the men’s Challenger in Rennes, Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan and Purav Raja made the doubles semifinals with a 3-6, 6-1, [10-5] victory over Teymuraz Gabashvili and Maxime Janvier. Losing out In the Istanbul Challenger, Sriram Balaji and Hiroki Moriya of Japan lost the doubles quarterfinals after being two points away from winning the match at 5-2 in the second set tie-break, against second seeds Jamie Cerretani and Fabian Fallert.  The results:   €189,708 WTA, Luxembourg: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Shuai Zhang (Chn) & Sania Mirza bt Tayisiya Morderger & Yana Morderger (Ger) 6-2, 6-3.   €189,708 WTA, Portoroz, Slovenia: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Lucia Bronzetti (Ita) & Nika Radisic (Slo) bt Emily Webley-Smith (GBR) & Rutuja Bhosale 6-4, 6-4.   €66,640 Challenger, Rennes, France: Doubles: Quarterfinals: Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja bt Teymuraz Gabashvili (Rus) & Maxime Janvier (Fra) 3-6, 6-1, [10-5].   $52,080 Challenger, Istanbul: Doubles: Quarterfinals: Jamie Cerretani (US) & Fabian Fallert (Ger) bt Hiroki Moriya (Jpn) & Sriram Balaji 3-6, 7-6(5), [10-7]. Pre-quarterfinals: Moriya & Sriram bt Chun-Hsin Tseng & Tung-Lin Wu (Tpe) 6-4, 6-1.   $25,000 ITF men, Madrid: Doubles: Quarterfinals: Roberto Ortega-Olmedo & Carlos Sanchez Jover (Esp) w/o Carlos Lopez Montagud (Esp) & Manish Sureshkumar.   $15,000 ITF, Monastir: Men: Pre-quarterfinals: Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam bt Guy Orly Iradukunda (Bdi) 6-4, 6-4.   First round: Abhinav bt Evgeny Philippov (Rus) 7-6(4), 6-4.   Women: Pre-quarterfinals: Olga Helmi (Den) bt Y. Sahaja 7-5, 6-4; Mariana Drazic (Cro) bt Zeel Desai 6-4, 6-4; Sravya Shivani bt Yuka Hosoki (Jpn) 6-2, 6-4.   First round: Sahaja bt Shelby Prince (US) 6-2, 6-0; Zeel bt Jennifer Luikham 7-6(6), 6-0; Sravya bt Lola Marandel (Fra) 6-3, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Melilla, Spain: Doubles: Quarterfinals: Enola Chiesa (Ita) & Sathwika Sama bt Nina Rudiukova & Anastasia Veselova (Rus) 6-4, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-shuai-in-doubles-quarterfinals/article36507815.ece
17 September 2021||Hyderabad,||Siraj to play in Mushtaq Ali trophy||India pace bowler Mohd. Siraj said he would be available to play for Hyderabad in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 cricket tournament to be held later this year. “It is one of my dreams to play a lead role in guiding the team to a major title win in domestic cricket,” he told The Hindu . “It was disappointing that we are not in the Elite Group of Ranji Trophy too. So, I want to give more than 100% and help my team script a few big wins,” the fast bowler said. When informed that Hanuma Vihari was coming back to Hyderabad, a pleasantly surprised Siraj said he was not aware but it was really good news. It would be interesting to see who will lead Hyderabad — Siraj or Vihari — in the coming season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siraj-to-play-in-mushtaq-ali-trophy/article36507814.ece
17 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Dazzlers beat Heroes||Abhishek Das and Abhishek Raman’s fine knocks and Aritra Chatterjee’s four-wicket haul guided Durgapur Dazzlers to a 31-run win over Kolkata Heroes in the Bengal T20 Challenge here on Thursday. Openers Das (60, 45b, 5x4, 1x6) and Raman (44, 40b, 2x4, 3x6) helped Dazzlers post 132/2 in 16 overs in the rain-marred game.  The scores: Durgapur Dazzlers 132/2 in 16 overs (Abhishek Das 60, Abhishek Raman 44) bt Kolkata Heroes 101/8 in 16 overs (Sougata Dutta 40, Aritra Chatterjee 4/20).   On Wednesday: Kanchenjunga Warriors 131/9 in 20 overs (Sumanta Gupta 44, Prayas Ray Barman 3/24, Sandipan Das Jr. 3/29) lost to Kharagpur Blasters 137/3 in 18.2 overs (Kazi Saifi 78 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dazzlers-beat-heroes/article36508167.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Deepak progresses||Asian silver medallist Deepak Kumar gave a fine account of himself to advance to the second round of the 51kg weight class at the National boxing championships at the Inspire Institute of Sport (IIS), Vijaynagar, on Thursday. Deepak produced a flawless performance to beat Bihar’s Aman Kumar 5-0.   Important results: 48kg: Barun Singh (SSCB) bt Doland Janumala (Tel) 5-0; 51kg: Bhim Pratap Singh (Raj) bt Rajasimha (Kar) 4-1; Ramakrishnan Balasundara (TN) bt Harish Singh Koranga (Utk) 5-0; 5 4kg: Sachin Siwach (RSPB) bt Kugan Kirubakaran (TN) 5-0; Shouryjeet Senapati (SPSB) bt Jitendra Yadav (Kar) 5-0.   57kg: Rohit Roy (WB) bt Manikandan Venugopal (TN) 3-2; 60kg: Varinder Singh (RSPB) bt Thengam Khaimnugan (Nag) RSC-R1; Kiran (Kar) bt Zakir Hussain (Lad) 5-0; Prabhu Murali (TN) bt Rajan Kumar (Bih) RSC-R1.   63.5kg: Dalveer Singh Tomar (SSCB) bt Praveen Kumar Mohan (TN) RSC-R3; 6 7kg: Rayyan (Kar) bt Bhupesh Ruhal (Del) 4-0; 7 1kg: Naveen Boora (SSCB) bt Raj Kumar Jalli (Tel) RSC-R2, Nishant Dev (Kar) bt Shivam Saini (UP) RSC-R2; 9 2kg: Sandeep Kumar (AIP) bt Anoop Naidu (Tel) 5-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepak-progresses/article36507710.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Russia wins||Top seed Russia defeated surprise finalist USA in two sets to retain the FIDE Online Chess Olympiad title late on Wednesday. Russia, joint-winner with India last year, won both sets by 3.5-2.5 margins. Unlike Kazakhstan and India, Russia did not allow USA to make a comeback from a one-set deficit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/russia-wins/article36507711.ece
17 September 2021||Lausanne,||AIBA to give prize money at World meet||In a first, the International Boxing Association (AIBA) on Thursday announced a $2.6 million prize fund for next month’s World championships in Serbia where the gold-winners will walk away with a cheque for $100,000. The marquee event starts on October 24 in Belgrade. India will be represented by the gold-winners of its ongoing national championships. “The prize money fund has been set at $2.6 million. The prize for first place is $100 000. Silver medallists will receive $50,000, and the bronzes in each weight category will get $25,000,” read an AIBA statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aiba-to-give-prize-money-at-world-meet/article36507894.ece
17 September 2021||KOLKATA,||10-man GKFC stuns HFC||Defending champion Gokulam Kerala FC played with 10 men to down Indian Super League outfit Hyderabad FC by a solitary goal in a group D encounter of the Durand Cup football at the Kalyani Stadium on Thursday. Forward Rahim Osumanu of Ghana scored the only goal immediately after the break. The Malabarians were a man down in the 48th minute when attacker Emil Benny was ejected following a second booking. The win helped GKFC tally four points and brighten its quarterfinal chances. HFC is third in the group with three points.  The result: Group D: Gokulam Kerala FC 1 (Rahim Osumanu 46) bt Hyderabad FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/10-man-gkfc-stuns-hfc/article36507436.ece
17 September 2021||TUNIS,||Swastika, Suhana, Dhaani make it a sweep||Swastika Ghosh (u-19), Suhana Saini (u-15) and Dhaani Jain (u-11) made it a sweep of girls’ singles crowns at the World Table Tennis Youth Contender here on Wednesday. On Tuesday, Yashaswini Deepak Ghorpade and M.R. Hansini had bagged the u-17 and u-13 titles.  The results (finals):   Girls: Under-19: Swastika Ghosh bt Yashwasini Deepak Ghorpade 6-11, 11-8, 6-11, 11-6, 11-8; Under-15: Suhana Saini bt Pritha Priya Vartikar 11-3, 9-11, 11-8, 9-11, 11-7; Under-11: Dhaani Jain bt M. Ananya 11-4, 11-6, 9-11, 10-12, 11-7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/swastika-suhana-dhaani-make-it-a-sweep/article36507730.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Goutham Krishna on song||Goutham Krishna top-scored with 120 as Seshadripuram College defeated Canara Union CC by 30 runs in the KSCA T20 tournament.  The scores: Government Science College 177/6 in 20 overs (Niranjan 25, Deepak 32, Shankar 32, Pandurang 51 n.o.) bt Young Boy’s CA 85 in 18.5 overs (Susheel 25).   Crescent CC (1) 139 in 19.3 overs (Sujith Nair 36, Sachin 43, Manjunath 4/22, Om Patel 4/27) bt Young CA 114/6 in 20 overs (Harish Karthik 35, Monish 29).   Seshadripuram College 188 in 19.2 overs (Goutham Krishna 120) bt Canara Union CC 158/7 in 20 overs (Jnanesh 39, Mohammad Azhar 26).   Vasanthnagar Cricketers 104/9 in 20 overs (Rushi Shetty 27, Benedict Raj 3/14, Deepak 3/21) lost to Vikram CC 108/3 in 12.5 overs (P. Ganesh 36, Akash 46 n.o.).   Friends CC, Kolar 139 in 19 overs (Adithya Poluri 30, H. Prajwal 34) by Star Cricketers XI 60 in 18.1 overs (C.N. Darshan 3/5).   Friends Cricket Team 167/7 in 20 overs (B. Santhosh 27, Nagaraj 38, Hari Vignesh 35, Asif 31 n.o., Vikas 3/12) bt Dolphin Cricketers 122/7 in 20 overs (Lakshan 70).   Star SC, Nelamangala 134/7 in 20 overs (Hanumanthraju 37, Udbhav 3/26) bt Southern Cricketers 124 in 18.4 overs (R. Prajwal 42, Pradeep 3/19).   Eminent Cricketers 154/3 in 20 overs (Tanmay Vaid 65 n.o., Sarvesh Naik 47) lost to Young Cricketers (1) 155/1 in 15.3 overs (Abhilash Nair 81 n.o., Ashwin Kumar 39).   Merchants CC (2) 160/8 in 20 overs (Sadiq 68) bt Gandhinagar Cricketers 76/4 in 20 overs (Krishna Kapil 35 n.o.).    Chandasi Krishnamurthy will lead the State under-19 cricket team at the women’s one-day trophy to be held in Jaipur from September 28 to October 4.  The team: Chandasi Krishnamurthy (Capt.), Roshini Kiran (Vice-capt.), Niki Prasad, Krishika Reddy, Pooja Dhananjay, Rakshitha Nayaka, Mithila Vinod, Sneha Jagadish, M. Pooja Kumari, G.R. Prerana, Soumya Verma, Savi Surendra, Reema Fareed, C.J. Nirmitha, P. Rohitha Chowdry, Nagma Unnisa, Annapurna G.Bhosale, P. Saloni, Harshitha Shekhar, and Anushree Samagond .      Laksh Chengappa and Rujula Ramu pocketed two trophies each at the Karnataka sub-junior (under-15) State-ranking badminton tournament.  The results (finals):   Boys: Singles: Laksh Chengappa bt Avi Basak 21-19, 19-21 21-12; Doubles: Laksh & P. Sankeerth bt Gowda Mayukh & Abhinav Garg 21-15, 21-19.   Girls: Singles: Rujula Ramu bt A.S. Mounitha 21-14, 17-21, 21-10; Doubles: Rujula & G.S. Meghashree bt Tanika Mohan & A.S. Mounitha 19-21, 21-19, 21-13.   Mixed doubles: Siddharth Gunturi & Mounitha bt Laksh & Diya Bheemaiah 22-20, 21-18 .    Myithili scored a hat-trick as Roots Football School thrashed GRK Girls FC 7-1 in the KSFA A-division football league on Thursday.  The results: Roots Football School 7 (Myithili 12, 37, 42, Sanjana 13, 60, Shravya 24, Trisha 54) bt GRK Girls FC 1 (Ruchi 59); Pass FC 3 (Gunjan 14, Rafiya 36, 44) bt United FC Kodagu 2 (Harsha-30+1, Tanu Vijay Gavade 42) .    Sehaj Singh came from a set down to beat boys’ top seed Aaradhaya Dwivedi 4-6, 6-1, 7-6(3) to enter the final of the Transform Tennis Academy AITA CS7 Under-14 tennis tournament.  The results (semifinals):   Boys: Sehaj Singh bt Aaradhaya Dwivedi 4-6, 6-1, 7-6(3); Leethaesh bt Abhradeep 6-3, 4-6, 6-3; Girls: Kashvi Sunil bt Shreenithi Chowdhury 6-2, 4-6, 6-0; Sushmitha Ravi bt Saanvi Misra 6-1, 6-4 .    Varshaa Sanjeev defeated P. Keerthana 3-0 (71 (49)-38, 70-42, 67-20) to enter the women’s snooker final of the State-ranking tournament at the KSBA. In the summit clash, she will take on Vidya Pillai, who beat M. Chitra 3-1 (50-47, 82-34, 25-49, 63-30).  Other results:   Men (quarterfinals): D. Rajkumar bt Md.Mueen 4-2 (79-44, 49-11, 57-60, 49-55, 56-42, 67-23); M.L. Lakshman bt R. Santosh 4-3 (00-134 (97), 89-24, 39-71, 73-24, 45-61, 82-07, 65-38); Adil Sherazi bt Sundeep Patil 4-3 (72-22, 49-56, 70 (59)-10, 82-16, 34-80, 46-48, 87-08); B. Bhaskar bt C. Kushal 4-3 (69-02, 83 (51)-08, 11-55, 57-69, 75 (58)-11, 00-99 (83), 56-17).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goutham-krishna-on-song/article36507790.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rain washes out play in AITA Championships||Heavy rain washed out play in the AITA Championship series under-18 tennis tournament on the clay courts of the Dhyan Chand National Stadium on Thursday. Referee Kulwant Singh has rescheduled the semifinal matches in the boys’ and girls’ sections for Friday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rain-washes-out-play-in-aita-championships/article36507897.ece
17 September 2021||WELLINGTON,||India’s ODI tour of NZ put off to 2022||India will not be touring New Zealand later in the year due to a packed calendar and COVID-19 related restrictions. India would have had to quarantine for 14 days to play three ODIs as part of the World Cup Super League. A New Zealand Cricket (NZC) spokesperson confirmed to Stuff that the India games will be played after the T20 World Cup in Australia next year. New Zealand is scheduled to tour India in November for two Tests and three T20s. New Zealand will be hosting Bangladesh, The Netherlands and South Africa in the summer besides the seven teams in Women’s World Cup in March-April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-odi-tour-of-nz-put-off-to-2022/article36507712.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 07:22 IST,||Sudoku — September 17, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-17-2021/article36508506.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Retro strokes||Seated comfortably in his room at a guest house in Vadapalani, just a stone’s throw away from AVM Studios, make-up artist Pattanam Rasheed is skimming through reviews of recently-released Thalaivii on his phone. One of them mentions the word ‘make-up’, which makes Rasheed sit up. He has been getting a lot of praise for the look of MGR, played by Arvind Swami in the Kangana Ranaut-starrer that is currently running in theatres. “I go a long way back with director Vijay, with whom I first worked with on Madrasapattinam (2010),” he recalls, “During that time, he had a lot of reference material for the British soldiers and locals featured in the film. Subsequently, I worked on most of his projects. It was during the shoot of GV Prakash-starrer Watchman that he showed me the title and details of Thalaivii and I was super excited.” Pattanam Rasheed, a National Award-winner, immediately began collecting material about MGR. “Everyone in Tamil Nadu knows MGR. I realised that this would be a big test for me, since I had the responsibility to bring him alive for audiences.” The biggest challenge for the artist was to arrive at the looks, covering all phases of MGR’s life: his entry into cinema and politics, and when he was not keeping well. “Arvind Swami is an actor who prefers less make-up, as he is fair in complexion. But for Thalaiivi , he had to apply a lot of make-up to get into character. The trend in make-up used during MGR’s time is not in vogue now, so the challenge was to re-create that using the products of today.” For the film, Rasheed used specially designed prosthetic teeth set on Arvind to ensure he resembled the matinee idol. “For the portions in which we show an aged MGR, we had to use a special shading technique on the actor’s skin, apart from the double chin and the prosthetics used near the neck,” he said. Rasheed has worked in multiple languages and genres, but prefers historical subjects. “It helps me put a lot of thought and effort,” he says, citing examples like Kaaviya Thalaivan and Kanchivaram , apart from mentioning Mohanlal’s Paradesi and Odiyan as among the toughest projects till date. Currently, he is working on multiple Tamil projects, including GV Prakash’s Jail, Suriya’s Jai Bhim and Karthi’s Sardar . Rasheed debuted as a make-up artist in 1985, and has since then kept his tryst with the profession. “New-age filmmakers sometimes do not prefer make-up. They state that it takes away from the natural texture of the actor. During such occasions, I have learnt to adopt techniques to ensure that make-up is so minimal that audiences will not even realise that it has been applied.” Change and evolve  Rasheed keeps to date with make-up trends across the world by browsing the Internet and reading magazines. His most prized possession is American special make-up effects artist Dick Smith’s book on professional make-up, which he considers a bible for anyone looking to make a mark.That book has prime place in his make-up academy in Ernakulam, Kerala, which he set up in 2010 with the prime intention of imparting his life experience and techniques to the younger generation. He is most happy when he hears of his students going places. They are mostly established artistes, like last year’s National Award winner Ranjith Ambady (for Helen ), one of his assistants. “It gives me great pleasure to see them doing well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/retro-strokes/article36508103.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Weaving a livelihood||The stark palm trees that ring the shore town of Pulicat (Pazhaverkadu) have witnessed the ebb and tide of history. The Portuguese came first, followed by the Dutch who made Pulicat the capital of the Dutch Coromandel until it passed into British hands in 1825. Over three centuries, the town, 60 kilometres north of Chennai — located on the fringe of a lagoon —has been peopled by fisherfolk and thousands of migratory birds. Another inalienable feature of Pulicat is the sight of many women weaving colourful baskets from locally-sourced palm fronds. A generation ago, basket weaving was popular, but with youth leaving their homes on the islands in the lagoon for more mainstream jobs, and political fallout between local communities, basket weaving was relegated to the bottom of the craft heap. Many NGOs have stepped in to help this beleaguered craft reclaim its popularity — Chenni-based Nonurban is the latest. “In 1959, the Palaverkadu women’s cooperative employed over 2,000 women and was instrumental in spreading the skill of palm-leaf weaving. But an earning of just Rs. 4,000 a month resulted in only 300 pursuing the craft. These women weave at home alongside other women in the family, to sell to buyers across the country. We work to bring them together and establish effective source and supply chains,” says Thein Manimekalai Sowrirajan, 29, founder-CEO of The Nonurban Foundation.  Thein, a planner-architect who schooled at Anna University and was involved in projects across Italy, the U.K. and Russia, is presently a research associate at MSSRF, Chennai. She says, “The COVID-19 pandemic saw a lot of market preferences towards healthier products, culture-driven narratives for sale, focus on sustainable production and a wide support for women-centric businesses. Rural areas have all the right ingredients; they just need a boost for their stories, skills and strengths.”  Nonurban was launched in June 2020 by Thein. Nethra Ganesan, who heads its advocacy, joined a little later. In October the duo organised an international competition for university students, inviting them to devise entrepreneurship models for farming, weaving, and indigenous art and craft sectors. “We initiated conversations and suggested a few non-urban contexts to be worked upon. They were asked to pitch ideas and identify stakeholders. We put in our own money to market it and broke-even,” says Thein, adding that within months “we became 33 members-strong — from multi-disciplinary backgrounds with an average age of 24”. Initially, the foundation was an online forum that supported grassroots organisations by suggesting creative names for home-grown brands, logos, and defining selling points... With students returning home due to COVID-19, the focus shifted to projects in their hometowns. “Right now, we are working with 100 women from Anakaputhur who make saris from banana fabric, 300 palm weavers from Pulicat and 1,000 women from Mannargudi in the coir mat business. Women empowerment is inextricably linked to our efforts towards rural entrepreneurship,” says Thein. The challenges in each of these places are different. Thein says that while the coir business had everything in place and Nonurban’s intervention was only in terms of design, non-rubberised base to increase the sustenance factor and adding gloves to the assembly line, progress in Pulicat has been slow as the foundation has had to rope in activists to get the women weavers on track again. The weavers reached out to Nonurban to help them find an international market for their products such as sari boxes, bottle holders and coasters. “The core team of seven people in Chennai meets every day and some of us work other jobs. We take the help of anyone who can help push our agenda to fortify the rural,” says Thein, adding “In Tamil Nadu we travel as a team and the biggest advantage is the common language.” “People in the rural areas know what they want. We help them with the next step. We only want to make the skill sector become lucrative so that any youngster from anywhere is propelled to take it up.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/weaving-a-livelihood/article36508104.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Small-town stories, big-time impact||Two of Hollywood’s most coveted actors, Jeff Daniels and Maura Tierney, now collaborate together to star in American Rust , the television adaptation of Philipp Meyer's acclaimed novel. The series, set in a Pennsylvania Rust Belt town, follows the life of chief of police Del Harris, who has to make a series of difficult choices, when the son of the woman he loves is accused of murder. Full of mutual admiration and respect for each other, Jeff and Maura talk to us about their experience filming the hotly-anticipated drama, how their stage and theatre background comes into play, and the almost-doomed romance their characters share on the show. Excerpts from an interview: Daniels, given that your early days were in somewhat similar setting, was it easier to resonate with the character of Del Harris? Jeff:I am one of these guys from the show. I grew up in small-town earlier and now I have moved back to a small-town, and my family is being tossed there. I was a working-class guy and several things rang true and was familiar to me. Sometimes these kind of characters are oversimplified or dumbed down. But in the book and series, they are represented, as complicated people. My character is dealing with a lot of things, including a broken heart...he is a police chief trying to solve many things, working for 60-70 hours without sleep. I hadn’t been offered or played anyone who goes through what he does, so it was a wonderful challenge. Your characters share an intriguing, almost doomed relationship throughout the course of the series. How did you interpret that? Maura:You know, the last character I played started off as this woman of means, whose parents and husband had always taken care of her, and then later had to figure out how to be independent. In American Rust , it is quite the opposite. Nobody has taken care of her so far, and she is trying to understand how to live in this world, and trust and love people. Jeff:For me, their relationship is almost like what you find in one of those paperback romance novels at the airport. He badly wants a relationship with her and goes all in, but she breaks his heart. But they are both still in each other’s lives, and then later she opens up to him. That is the beauty of the book and the writing in the show. It is, a romance novel that turns dark. Both of you are renowned for your work in film, television and also theatre...  Jeff:Well, they are all hard. Be it the stage and eight shows a week, or night shoots for a show or film where you have to hit it on the first or second take. But I still like the challenge of it, and I find it both dangerous and exciting — in this latent part of my career — to use and feed off the other actor. Maura:I have been a TV actor all my life, but quite late in life, I found experimental theatre and now work with a company in New York. And you know, being on stage doing that, is like no other feeling. I would like to explore that more. American Rust is currently streaming on Voot Select||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/small-town-stories-big-time-impact/article36508102.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Stretch it like Mr. Paws||When actor Anson Paul entered Pawga’s pet yoga workshop, most of the puppies had already chosen spots to cosy up in, as humans around them stretched and stretched (not half as deeply as the pups could, but good enough). Anson tried wooing a couple of them towards him, but gave up and started doing the asanas instead. And then, a tiny paw laid itself on him. By the end of the session, three puppies cuddled up on his lap, refusing to let him go home. The idea of Pawga is quite basic, says its co-founder Sinduja Krishnakumar. “You do beginner yoga, as the puppies run around you freely. Most of the time, they find a cosy corner to sleep while you practise,” she says. Founded last year by Sinduja, Swathi Renugopal and Subhashree Madhavan, Pawga is a pop-up pet yoga workshop that functions in association with the Blue Cross of India to encourage pet adoptions. “You feel refreshed when you spend time with animals, especially when coupled with yoga, it helps you calm down,” says Sinduja, adding, “And it is good for the animals too. Most of these shelter puppies hardly see humans. So this helps them socialise and be more active, which makes it easier for them to get adopted.” All the puppies at their workshops come from Blue Cross, and a portion of the ticket sales goes towards the animal welfare NGO. In each session, about a couple of pups get adopted. “Sometimes, someone will bond with a certain puppy, go home to think it over, and then come back to Blue Cross to adopt that particular pup,” she says. Friends since their college days, Sinduja, Swathi and Subhashree shared a love for animals and volunteered at shelters. After their graduation, it was only in 2020 that the three of them found themselves in Chennai again. They conceptualised Pawga pre-pandemic and held their first session in November, after the first set of unlocks. “Our first session was free. We wanted to test how the puppies would react to the people around them,” she says. Since then, they have been holding pop ups at places such as The Bark and Antispot. Sometimes, certain yoga instructors open up their studios for the sessions. “We sat down with the teachers to understand how their practice can be suited to this. They are mostly used to calm environments to practise yoga, but puppies can create a lot of distraction with their running around. So we had to figure out a way that would be beneficial to both the students and the puppies,” she says. Each session is open to 15 to 20 people, same as the number of puppies. “We don’t want to intimidate puppies by throwing in a lot of people. Plus, if there is one pup for each person, they bond better,” she says.  Pawga’s next yoga workshop, led by Pallavi Rajankar, is at Antispot in Anna Nagar on September 19, from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m., and 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. Tickets cost Rs. 1,199 for one, and Rs. 999 each for a couple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/stretch-it-like-mr-paws/article36508101.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||In the garden||Every weekend, Amar and his parents went house hunting. They were looking to buy a bungalow type house with a large garden. This Saturday was no exception. The estate agent had given them the directions and warned them that it was out of the way. Soon out of the town and winding their way through narrow mountain trails. “This place seems very remote,” said Amar’s mother. “The price is good, let’s see if it fits the bill,” replied his father. Finally, they came to a wooden gate. “Looks like we’ve arrived,” said Amar’s father. His mother was quiet. Amar felt a sense of excitement build up within him as they drove up the roughly hewn mud road between old, gnarled conifers that cut off the sunlight. As they took the last bend they got a glimpse of two chimneys between the trees. They drove into the porch and saw a large lawn with a few fruit trees at the edge. The estate agent was waiting for them. He wished them and took them for a tour of the house. The rooms were large and spacious and the roof high. Large windows (when cleaned) would afford them a good view of the valley and the mountains beyond. Amar was soon bored by all this adult talk. He wandered off and found a small door. When he tried it, surprisingly, it opened. Amar stepped through the door and found himself in a little garden. In a corner was tall tree that cast its shadow over most the green patch. Lovely flowering plants grew along the perimeter. He heard the sound of running water and when he turned around he saw a miniature waterfall and a pond. The water lilies danced gracefully in the ripples created by the falls. The scene was so serene and beautiful that Amar couldn’t help but smile. And then, the smile froze on his face for there on the garden bench beside the little pool sat a girl. She was about Amar’s age but she had none of the joys of childhood. Her face had about it an alabaster-like whiteness and her eyes blazed with anger. She fixed him with a cold, stony glare. A chill ran through his body and he found himself rooted to the spot. The girl got off the seat and glided towards him. Amar was scared but he was mesmerised. He could not move. As the girl drew closer he noticed her straw-coloured hair caught up in a blue ribbon. Her dress too was blue. She bared her teeth in a smile and he felt the hair stand up on the back of his neck. Then she stretched out her hand to touch him… “Ah! there you are Amar,” he heard his mother’s voice, as he snapped out of his reverie. “We were wondering where you had got to.” “Worried too…” said his father. Amar was silent. “What’s the matter?” asked his mother. “You look like you’ve seen a ghost!”  He wandered off and found a small door. When he tried it, surprisingly, it opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/in-the-garden/article36508344.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Furry facts||1. They are elusive in nature and are mainly found in the Eastern Himalayas and South-western China. 2. There are fewer than 10,000 in the wild, classifying them as endangered. 3. 50 years back, they were given the name ‘panda’ first. Today they are called firefoxes or red-cat-bear. 4. They have a false thumb which has developed over time to help them climb trees and eat bamboo. 5. They are vegetarian carnivores. They eat bamboo and maybe a few insects. However, their ancestors were carnivores. 6. Sharp, retractable claws helps them to grip branches and climb down tree trunks head first. Long tails help them keep their balance. 7. A red panda must eat 1-2 kg of bamboo per day for nutritional purposes. 8. Their red colour helps them camaflouge on Fir trees making them looking like reddish moss. 9. The Panda’s tail which is half its length, helps it during torpor when they sleep it off to survive the harsh winters. 10 Red pandas are arboreal, meaning they spend most of their time resting in trees||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/furry-facts/article36508374.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Pearl of Africa||Uganda is a country in east Africa. It shares its borders with the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the west, Kenya in the east, Tanzania and Rwanda in the south, and South Sudan in the north. The country is landlocked, which means it does not border the sea. Though it does not have a seashore, it has lake shores, as it is has access to Lake Victoria, Lake Albert and Lake Edward. The equator passes through the country, and so it is situated in both the northern and southern hemispheres. The capital of Uganda is Kampala and its currency is the Ugandan shilling. Uganda has an incredibly young population — around half of its people are under the age of 15. The official languages are English and Swahili, while Ganda is also commonly used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/pearl-of-africa/article36508316.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhuvan’s Secret A plan is made||Story so far: Lockdown is introduced and Bhuvan is expected to stay at home.  Thinking of Mrs. Miranda’s hungry kittens upset Bhuvan. “I am not sick. Why can’t I go out?” he pestered Baba. “There may be people who are ill on the road. You may fall sick if they touch you or sneeze on you,” replied Baba. “I won’t touch anyone. Promise!” Baba raised his voice. “Bhuvi!” Bhuvan ran to Aai, the only one who could save him from Baba’s wrath. “Stay home for now. I will take you to the beach when the lockdown ends,” said Aai. “We will have pani-puri and chaat .” Bhuvan cried until a loud altercation from the street diverted him. Ray of hope Dressed in a crisp white kurta and dhoti and seated on a bike was Dhanush’s uncle, Hasmukh. Six feet away was Popo Singh, who whacked his lathi on Hasmukh’s seat and asked, “Where is your mask?” Hasmukh rolled up his sleeves to show his bulging biceps. “Have you seen my muscles? Wrestlers like me don’t need one!” “Go back to your house!” thundered Popo Singh. “I have to go to the wrestling club and meet my fans.” “Nobody is waiting for you. The entire city has come to a standstill due to the dangerous virus.” “I am dangerous too,” said Hasmukh, flexing his arms. “Go back to your house!” “I will return home quickly.” Hasmukh revved his bike and zoomed right past Bhuvan’s house. Popo Singh followed him, waving his lathi . Bhuvan was laughing when a tiny figure with a towel cape jumped outside his window. “Dhanush!” he screamed. “What are you doing here?” “I was missing my friends.” Bhuvan lowered his voice. “Did you hear about Mrs. Miranda? She is in the hospital and there is nobody to feed the kittens in her shop.” “Let’s go now!” said Dhanush. Bhuvan looked inside the house. Baba was washing vessels, and Aai drying clothes. “I can’t come now,” he whispered. “We will go when your parents take their afternoon nap!” said Dhanush. “What are you doing here?” asked Stella, appearing at the window of her house. “I am superhero Dash Man, and can go wherever I want!” said Dhanush, striking a pose with the towel. “Where is your mask? Aren’t you scared of the coronavirus?” asked Stella. “Dash Man is brave. Nothing frightens him.” Stella pointed a finger towards the street. “Popo Singh!” “Hasmukh Maama!” screamed Dhanush, and scooted as quickly as he had come. Bhuvan glowered at Stella after finding the street empty. But she just laughed.  To be continued...   “Nobody is waiting for you. The entire city has come to a standstill due to the dangerous virus.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/bhuvans-secret-a-plan-is-made/article36508309.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Friends forever||“Jay!” Jayendra looked up startled. Glory ma’am, the class teacher, was glaring at him. “This is the third time I have caught you staring into space. Next time you do that, I’ll send you out of the class.” Jay nodded slowly. He was feeling miserable since Naanu had left him. No, Naanu wasn’t his grandfather. He had been the cook in their house. His name was Nanak Ram, but everyone called him Naanu. He had been with their family for many years now. Loads of fun Naanu had been more than just a cook; he had been Jay’s best friend. Every day, he dropped him to and picked him up from school, played cricket with him, gave him a bath, made the yummiest dishes, and told him exciting bedtime stories. They watched cartoons, jumped around in the rain, and sang stupid songs together. Naanu was terrible at singing and so was Jay. And they created such a racket that their neighbour Dolly aunty once even complained to Jay’s mum. Naanu was a tall and strong man with thick hair that had gone completely white. Though he was more than 60, he had more energy than Jay’s Papa who was 30 years younger. In summers, Naanu would take Jay to the garden and hoist him on his shoulders under the mango tree. And Jay would happily reach up and pluck green mangoes that they would then eat with salt and chilli powder. Naanu was also popular with all of Jay’s friends. On his birthday, he would decorate the house and make the best chocolate cake possible. Suddenly, one morning, he was gone. Papa had told him that Naanu had gone to heaven and would never come back. That had been more than a month ago but Jay missed him terribly. A new friend Jay was sleeping when he felt something soft and cool on his nose. Was it Naanu trying to wake him up? He opened his eyes and jumped up. A brown shape was wriggling and a pink tongue was licking him. It was a pup — the most adorable one he had ever seen. His tongue, waist and now tail moving in tandem, even as he uttered the tiniest of barks. Jay’s parents were standing by, watching. “Is he for me?” “Yes, son. He is all yours,” his mum said. “But you’ll have to help in taking care of him,” his Papa added. “Of course!” Jay shouted, and picking him up, rushed out yelling like mad. Settling in Soon, the new guest was given a saucer full of milk. He lapped it up, once again his tongue and tail moving in perfect rhythm. After taking four helpings, he circled the room a couple of times and promptly collapsed at mum’s feet falling asleep instantly. Soon the sound of gentle snores filled the room. Everyone roared with laughter. “What should we call him?” “Naanu!” Jay replied. “No, Jay. You can’t call a dog Naanu. Naanu was family.” “Papa, our new Naanu is also family. He is my baby brother.” Jay’s parents looked at each other. Papa patted him and said, “Okay, we’ll call him Naanu Junior.” Naanu Junior became Jay’s shadow. Jay took him everywhere, except to school. He fed him, gave him a bath, took him for walks, played with him and even told him stories at night. In most stories, Naanu Junior would be the hero and, whenever his name was mentioned, he would cock his ears and even wag his tail, if the tale was exciting. A year has passed. Jay’s baby brother is a baby no more. He is tall and sturdy and quite capable of carrying his ‘elder brother’ on his back, just like Naanu Senior used to.  Though he was more than 60, Naanu had more energy than Jay’s Papa...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/friends-forever/article36508339.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Monsoon Treats||Ingredients  Paneer (cubed) 1 cup Cooking Oil (to fry)  For the batter:  Gram Flour ( besan ) 1 cup Rice Flour 2 tbsp Salt To taste Asafoetida ( Hing ) A pinch Red Chilli Powder (optional) 1/2 tsp  Method:  1. Put all the batter ingredients into a bowl and add little water and mix to make a thick batter. 2. You will need an adult to help you with this step: Dip the paneer cubes into the batter and hand it over to an adult. They will fry it in hot oil and drain onto a kitchen towel. 3. Eat it hot with a side of tomato ketchup!  Note: You can also use vegetables like potato, onion, brinjal, raw banana, and cauliflower, along with the paneer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/monsoon-treats/article36508355.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on Vedic Maths||In a bid to help students explore the diverse world of Vedic Maths, SwifLearn, in association with The Hindu In School, is conducting workshops on Vedic Maths in over 250 schools across the country. These workshops are helping students by introducing them to tips and tricks to enhance calculation speed and accuracy. The workshops are completely free with interactive sessions to teach students skills to boost mathematical calculations and unleash their creativity through an amalgamation of interesting lectures, examples, and practice problems designed to help them improve their mathematical prowess. So far around 30,000 students have attended the workshops, which have helped them improve calculation speed and accuracy; enhance critical and logical thinking and increase concentration levels. Schools who would like to organise this workshop for their students can email reach.inschool@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/workshop-on-vedic-maths/article36508359.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Tools of the trade||Across 1 Used to hit a nail (6) 5 A covering for the hand (5) 6 Nail with thread and slotted head (5) 8 Connects computer networks (6) 10 A ____ tester checks for electric current (5) 11 Used to weigh things (6) 14 Spoon is a tool used to do this (3) 16 Tack (3) 18 An infuser is used to make this beverage (3) 19 Sand____ is used to smooth out surfaces (5) 20 A spirit ____ checks if a surface is horizontal (5) Down 1 Used to water the garden (4,4) 2 Pestle and ____: grinding tool (6) 3 Used to tie things (4) 4 A needle is used to do this (3) 5 Adhesive (4) 7 A spanner-like tool that can grip (6) 9 Traffic light that says ‘stop’ (3) 12 A machine used to shape metal (5) 13 Used for digging (5) 15 Used to measure lengths (4) 17 Used with a bolt to fasten things (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/tools-of-the-trade/article36508319.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||On a wild ride||A New Home for Ajiri  A heart-warming story based in Kachchh. Ajiri, a young chinkara fawn, is separated from its mother when it is attacked and injured by a pack of dogs. Ajiri is nursed back to health by a young boy, Shivam, and his father. The little one is later cared for by a young girl, Mitti. Slowly but surely, Ajiri learns to trust humans as she develops an unusual friendship with Shivam. Will she be reunited with her mother? How does she react when she meets a poacher? The story skilfully gives you a peek into Kachchh, its wildlife, people, their practices, and more, and is brought to life by Niloufer Wadia’s illustrations.   Waiting for Turtles  Samrat can barely contain his excitement. Along with his mother Seema, who is a sea turtle researcher, he is headed to Tarmugli Island in the hopes of observing nesting turtles. On a quiet, empty beach, under the stars, they wait. Will the turtles come? Stunningly illustrated by Vipin Sketchplore, Pankaj Sekhsaria’s story is a glimpse in to the lives of some of the world’s oldest mammals, and adroitly captures little Samrat’s excitement about getting a peek into turtle nesting. The book is also available in Hindi and Telugu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/on-a-wild-ride/article36508348.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are.||How was Mars formed?  Marswas formed at the same time as the rest of our Solar System around 46 billion years ago. A cloud of dust, hydrogen and helium gases in the galaxy, began condensing under its own gravity and formed a wide rotating disk, now known as the Solar System. Most of the material at the centre condensed into a sphere of gas, that finally became the Sun. Dust particles, rocky bits, and other matter came together to form asteroids and planets. Mars was one such planet. This is known as the core accretion model and most astronomers believe that this is how most planets in the Solar System were formed.   Howwas football invented?  Whilethere are many reference to ball games that used the feet in ancient times, modern football came into being when rules from various games were codified in England in the 19th century. As Victorian Britain became industrialised, the game became popular with the working class, who began to play and turn up to watch the matches. Slowly professionalism entered the field and the Football League was established in 1888. With the spread of the British colonial empire, the game spread across the world and regional variations were introduced. In the U.S., American Football developed in the mid-1880s and the man responsible for that was Walter Chauncey Camp, known as Father of American Football.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article36508304.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Who’s the deadliest of them all?||It’s been a long time — 66 million years to be exact — since anyone saw a real-life dinosaur. But even though they are extinct, we do get a glimpse of them in movies. But how close is it to reality? What Hollywood has got right is the size of the dinosaur and how dangerous it was. However, there’s so much more. Here’s a glimpse of five deadly dinosaurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/whos-the-deadliest-of-them-all/article36508300.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Whodunnit?||Inspector Danger’s Crime-Quiz was created by Werner Wejp-Olsen, a world-renowned cartoonist. It is intended to challenge armchair sleuths to activate their Sherlock Holmes-gene. Inspector Danger, a criminal’s worst nightmare, and Alfie, his dim-witted assistant and still a rookie after seven years, are the protagonists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/whodunnit/article36508360.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article36508293.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article36508334.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A play inspired by Bharati’s verses||September 11 marked the death centenary of poet Subramania Bharati (though it says September 12 on the official death certificate). His works, which spanned a wide range of subjects such as nationalism, philosophy and society, have inspired the world of arts and found representation as songs in movies and theatre productions, thematic dance presentations, and vocal performances. One of his most famous works was Panchali Sabadham , reproduced as a play by theatre legend S.V. Sahasranamam’s Seva Stage. Born in Singanallur in Coimbatore in 1913, Sahasranamam took to theatre at an early age, joining the Bala Shanmukhananda Sabha which in its later avatar would become the T.K.S. Nataka Sabha run by T.K. Shanmugam and his brothers. Making his movie debut with Menaka in 1935, Sahasranamam went on to have a film career spanning more than four decades, becoming one of Tamil cinema’s best known character actors. Theatre, however, remained a constant companion in his journey; he founded his drama troupe Seva Stage in 1952, ushering in an era of experimentation in Tamil theatre with social themes as its focus. Seva Stage’s first play The first play staged by the troupe was Kangal , which was the Tamil adaptation of Rabindranath Tagore’s short story Vision . This was followed by another experimental venture, Irulum Oliyum , which had four actors and four scenes. He experimented with a revolving stage for his next play Vaanavil , a novelty for Tamil theatre. Sahasranamam also got noted writers from the world of Tamil literature such as B.S. Ramiah and Thi. Janakiraman to write plays for the troupe, which had several well-known film actors such as Muthuraman, Devika, S.N. Lakshmi and Pandari Bai on its rolls. In 1957, he founded Seva Stage Nataka Nilayam, a drama school to teach theatre to aspiring artistes. In his memoirs, Thirumbiparkiren , Sahasranamam says he had great love for Subramania Bharati’s works and used to read Panchali Sabadham frequently. It occurred to him that the powerful language used in the work would make for an apt lesson in diction for the students of his drama school. So he worked on a version where he retained only the conversations between the various characters, eliminating the general portions of the work. With B.S. Ramiah’s inputs, the project took shape. Sahasranamam then introduced elements of acting into it to teach his students, along with the proper pronunciation of the verses. T.K. Shanmugam, a visiting faculty then, saw the training one day and suggested to Sahasranamam that it could well be made into a full-fledged poetry-drama performed by Seva Stage itself. Around this time, the Tamil Nadu Iyal Isai Nataka Mandram had decided to conduct a drama festival with four types of plays — historical, mythological, social, poetry-drama. Shanmugam proposed staging Panchali Sabadham under the last genre and was accepted. Useful sessions for actors The script with verses from Panchali Sabadham was written by B.S. Ramiah. During the rehearsals, Sahasranamam arranged for sessions where poet Tiruloka Seetharam addressed the actors and discussed the nuances of the verses. He also invited playwright S.D. Subramania Yogi to speak about how poetry-drama was performed abroad. All these sessions proved extremely beneficial to the actors. The play was inaugurated on February 15, 1959 at the Congress Grounds and was a huge success. Muthuraman played the role of Duryodhana, while A.K. Veerasamy, a senior troupe member, played the role of Dhritarashtra. N.R. Shanthini from Kerala played Draupadi, while Sahasranamam took on the character of Subramania Bharati. In later shows, Sahasranamam played Yudhishtra. After Shanthini, the role of Draupadi was played by film actor Gandhimathi for a long time. Justice M. Karpagavinayagam, former Chief Justice of Jharkhand, who was a member of Seva Stage in his student days, also acted as Bharati and Arjuna in subsequent shows. The play was staged across India. It was later recorded in Delhi Doordarshan Kendra, becoming the first Tamil play to be televised. It was also staged at the Tagore Centenary Celebrations in Calcutta. When Sahasranamam led a cultural delegation to Russia in 1960, he took with him an audio version of the play, which was given to the Moscow radio station. He later learnt that it was broadcast twice. In 1968, Sahasranamam was awarded the title of ‘Bharathi Kalaignar’ during a performance of the play in Tiruchi. Of all the awards and accolades that he received, this was the one he cherished the most till his death in 1988.  The writer is a heritage buff and amateur Tamil theatre artiste. Sahasranamam’s son S.V.S Kumar   gave inputs for this piece.   Sahasranamam founded his drama troupe Seva Stage in 1952, ushering in an era of experimentation in Tamil theatre with social themes as its focus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-play-inspired-by-bharatis-verses/article36507619.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The rise of the artivists||Recently, I received a message saying a seat had been ‘reserved’ for me at a Kathakali performance that would be held under Kerala’s strict COVID-19 protocol. It further requested me to send a copy of my vaccination certificate! That message, and its sender Nandakumar Cheramangalath, represent a nascent wave of art activism in Kathakali where individuals, informal groups, and organisations are trying to fill the vacuum created when the pandemic closed down the traditional platforms. Gone too were the corporate sponsors and the advertisements. In the pre-pandemic era, it was the temples in Kerala that kept the Kathakali artiste busy, especially in the festival season stretching from December to May. Several Kathakali clubs that held programmes every month across the State also helped ensure a decent living for the artistes, especially for the majority who are freelancers without a regular salary. The first lockdown, which came during the peak of the festival season in March 2020, struck an unexpected blow from which the performers and the arts community are yet to recover. A new wave It was this crisis that prompted a new wave of activism. Arts organisers are changing the current landscape in different ways — offering monetary help to poor artistes; arranging programmes with a limited audience and streaming them live; trying to equip artistes with the skillsets needed to survive in a tech-savvy world; and educating the audience to appreciate the nuances of this stylised theatre form. One of the first groups to render financial aid is Jeevamrutham@Chettikulangara, which has managed to distribute Rs. 25 lakh in about 15 months, according to a Facebook post. Jeevamrutham, which prefers to keep a low profile, raised the funds from its members both in India and overseas, and has helped more than 400 artistes. Different approach Nandakumar, who helms a group of ‘kalibhranthans’ or Kathakali maniacs who organised seven events in less than a year, says his group has a different approach: “We know that what artistes miss the most is their moment on the stage. And that’s what we strived to give them.” In July last year, even after the first COVID-19 wave had subsided, most of the membership-driven Kathakali clubs had no plans to resume, probably waiting for the situation to stabilise. “That was when we held our first programme in partnership with an arts organisation. We resorted to informal crowdfunding, making use of WhatsApp and Google Pay. Though audience numbers were limited, we got a professional outfit to stream the programme live. The response was gratifying, with people donating from as little as Rs. 100 to Rs. 5,000,” says Nandakumar. The seven programmes he organised featured about 75 artistes, and were all streamed live in high-definition over Facebook and YouTube, drawing a big viewership. There are those who contend that watching Kathakali on a laptop or TV is no substitute for the real thing. Even some artistes aren’t too happy performing to near-empty halls. But from the viewership numbers, it does seem that there is a new class of young viewers comfortable with digital platforms. Like it or not, streaming is here to stay, says Biju Thekkumpatt of Vazhenkada Kunjunair Memorial Trust, which has been in the forefront of Kathakali organisation for 34 years. Though streaming drives up costs substantially, the upside is that viewership runs into thousands, he adds. “For example, the Dakshayagam Kathakali that we recently hosted at our auditorium for an alumni group of the College of Engineering Trivandrum was watched by nearly 7,000 people, while the capacity of our hall is just about 300.” Biju says his group’s approach to the pandemic evolved as the situation demanded. “Initially, we had weighed in with monetary help for needy artistes; then we started staging programmes as and when the situation allowed. Now we also offer our auditorium and green room facilities, which are custom-designed for Kathakali, to like-minded organisers for free.” The new kid on the block, Sanjeevani, takes a more holistic view of the crisis. Its focus is not on financial aid or programmes. Says spokesperson Shailaja Kumar, “Though we have raised Rs. 8 lakh and have started paying a monthly stipend to 44 artistes for a few months, our long-term focus is on empowering the artistes, improving their knowledge base, and helping them realise their full potential.” For example, Sanjeevani organised a talk by a motivational speaker on how artistes can deploy their skillsets to the best advantage and explore new avenues. It is also conducting conversational English and French classes to help performers communicate with overseas students. Other promising initiatives include the mudra classes and appreciation courses run by artistes and organisations that aim to transform the lay viewer into a connoisseur. While the COVID-19 situation remains unpredictable, what is certain is that the changes being wrought will transform the arts landscape in the post-pandemic world.  The author, a retired journalist, writes on Kerala’s performing arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-rise-of-the-artivists/article36507634.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Odissi’s crowning glory||How does one distinguish Odissi from other Indian classical dance forms? Certainly because of its unique hair accessory, known as tahia, that is also the most striking aspect of Lord Jagannath’s annual Rath Yatra, when Jagannath and his two siblings, Subhadra and Balaram, don tahia as their crown. “It has been an integral part of the temple tradition and later became the most attractive feature of the Odissi costume,” says Rupashree Mohapatra, Puri-based Odissi dancer, known as the lone exponent of the reconstructed Mahari dance style. “Like the dance form, tahia has also evolved from Mahari, which originated in temples and was performed by hereditary dancers. They used to wear trisikha tahia (designed with three sticks),” she says. According to dancer and former president of Odisha Sangeet Natak Akademi, Priyambada Mohanty Hejmadi, tahia was a later addition to the Odissi dance costume. “It was not there when I started dancing,” she says. Odissi exponent Kumkum Mohanty, foremost disciple of Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra and former chief executive of the Odissi Research Centre, agrees. “Tahia replaced flowers as hair decoration initially out of necessity,” she says. “Guruji would himself pluck jasmines and string them together with a coconut stem. Later, the tahia, made of shola pith (Indian cork) flowers, came into use. My guru, who hailed from a traditional painter’s family of the Puri region, was the brain behind it.” Says Netrananda Moharana, the well-known Puri-based tahia-maker, whose late father Harihar Moharana is known as a pioneer in designing the headgear, “I have heard from my father that the design was finalised by three stalwarts — Guru Pankaj Charan Das, scholar Dhirendranath Patnaik, and Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra — after several rounds of modifications.” Tahia-making process Talking about the process of tahia-making, Moharana says that locally available shola pith reed is used to carve the intricate floral designs. “After the brown cover of the reed is peeled, the white rolls are cut into smaller blocks and shaped into different flowers. They are then strung together with a wire. A long twig, known as chuli, is placed atop the hair bun to signify the spire of the Jagannath temple. It takes two days to make a tahia.” Shola pith not only lends itself well to creating designs, it has significance for the dance form as the deities at Jagannath temple are also decorated with pith flowers. “Since it is part of temple tradition, experimentation is not allowed in the craft of tahia-making,” says Moharana. Sujata Mohapatra, another well-known disciple of Kelucharan Mohapatra, adds, “Tahia is the most sacred element of Odissi attire; the unique identity of this dance tradition. Its sanctity has to be maintained.”  The Bhubaneswar-based journalist writes on culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/odissis-crowning-glory/article36507649.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Hybrid concert||Madhuradhwani will host the following concerts at Arkay Convention Center, on September 16, 19 and 22, 6.15 p.m. They will be simulcast live on the Centre’s YouTube channel and Facebook page. Schedule: Today : Brinda Manickavasakan with M. Narmadha (violin), Manoj Siva (mridangam) and B.S. Purushotham (kanjira). Sep. 19: Venkatanagarajan will present a concert based on kritis by 20th century composers. Sep. 22: C.S. Sajeev will present a vocal concert accompanied by B. Raghavendra Rao, Mannargudi Eswaran and S. Karthick.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/hybrid-concert/article36507624.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Devi and dance||The National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) has organised a Bharatanatyam workshop by Priyadarsini Govind on September 17 on Zoom. Themed on Devi,it will focus on nritta (technique), nritya (expressions) and natya (dramatic storytelling) and will be conducted every Friday till October 1. The workshop will also highlight the impact of Shakti on the dance form. Those in the age group of 12 and above can enrol. For registration call, 88791 14939/ 98190 02515 Or email: sdasgupta@ncpamumbai.com or mdsouza@ncpamumbai.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/devi-and-dance/article36507626.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Collaborative sound||Carnatic vocalist Sandeep Narayan has teamed with percussionist- composer Tao Issaro for ‘Nirkaaya’, an album featuring T. Vaidhyanatha Iyer’s ‘Purvi Tillana’ composition. Keeping the format intact, the duo have lent a contemporary touch to the piece. The two musicians aim to reach out to young listeners through this album, to be launched on September 21, and spread a message of peace and hope.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/collaborative-sound/article36507632.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Melodious medley||Banyan Tree is hosting Barkha Ritu, the monsoon raga festival, in eight cities. The Chennai edition on September 18 (5 p.m.) features a fusion concert. It will be held , at Rukmini Arangam, Kalakshetra. The concert features Shashank (flute), Purbayan Chatterjee (sitar) and Sikkil Gurucharan (vocal). The accompanists are Ojas Adhiya (tabla), Vittal rangan (violin), N.C. Bharadwaj and Anantha R. Krishnan (mridangam) and S. Krishna (ghatam). Tickets and live streaming will be, Bookmyshow’s website. For details call 92232 31359/93241 43597.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/melodious-medley/article36507623.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Paalam webcast||As part of a weekly webcast hosted by Paalam TV, this week’s episode will feature Geetha Raja’s vocal concert on September 19, 6.30 p.m. The senior musician will be accompanied by Usha Rajagopalan on the violin, Kallidaikurichi Sivakumar on the mridangam, and Sai Subramaniam on the morsing. For further details, log on to Paalam’s website or Mudhra’s Facebook page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/paalam-webcast/article36507628.ece
17 September 2021||September 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Dance fest||‘Erasing Borders Dance Festival’, one of Indo-American Arts Council's flagship events, will take place virtually September 22-26. Participating artistes include Rukmini Vijayakumar, Preethi Athreya, Sonali Skandan, Kalamandalam Adithyan, Kaustavi Sarkar, Jyotsna Vaidee, Vaishali Trivedi, Bindu Rajendren and Meera Sreenarayanan. There will be Bharatanatyam, Rajasthani folk, Kathakali, Odissi and Mohiniyattam performances. A documentary on the Kalbeliya community of Rajasthan will be presented on September 23. Each evening will also include a panel discussion with the performers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/dance-fest/article36507642.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Appointment of Asthana done in public interest: Centre to HC||Defending the appointment of Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner, the Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that it was done in “public interest”, taking into account the Capital’s policing issues, which not only had national security but also cross-border implications. The Centre, in an affidavit filed before the High Court, said that best attempts were made to find a suitable Indian Police Service (IPS) officer having diverse experience of policing in a vast State or Central Investigating Agency or National Security or para-military force from the options available in AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa and Mizoram Union Territories) cadre. However, AGMUT cadre being a cadre comprising Union Territory and small north-eastern States, it was felt that requisite experience of working and supervising the central investigating agency/para-military force and police force of a large State having diverse political and law and order problem was lacking in the present pool of available officers, the Centre said. “Hence in public interest, a decision was made by the Central government to have an officer who had experience in all the above fields to supervise Delhi Police force,” the Centre said. Mr. Asthana took charge as the Commissioner of Delhi Police on July 28. His appointment came just days before his superannuation on July 31, and he will have a tenure of one year. This is one of the few instances when an IPS officer outside of the AGMUT cadre has been appointed as Delhi Police chief. Appointment contested His appointment has been contested by one Sadre Alam who argued that the decision of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC) in appointing Mr. Asthana for the post was “completely illegal on multiple grounds”. Mr. Alam said the appointment was “in clear and blatant breach” of the directions of the Supreme Court of India as Mr. Asthana “did not have a minimum residual tenure of six months'”, and that no Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) panel was formed for appointing Delhi Police Commissioner. NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), too has moved a similar plea before the High Court. The NGO is, however, embroiled in a separate issue against Mr. Alam, who it claimed has copied the contents of its petition. The Centre, responding to both the pleas, said there was no “procedural irregularity or any fundamental illegality” in appointing Mr. Asthana for the post. “Both inter-cadre deputation as well as extension of service of respondent no.2 [Mr Asthana] was granted by the Central government in public interest,” it added. The Centre also questioned the purpose, motive and bona fide of Mr. Alam and the NGO in opposing Mr. Asthana’s appointment since they never considered challenging appointment of eight erstwhile Police Commissioners though they were appointed in the same manner as is done in this case. The High Court will hear the case on September 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/appointment-of-asthana-done-in-public-interest-centre-to-hc/article36507914.ece
17 September 2021||Lucknow,||AAP woos U.P. voters with free power, waiver of ‘inflated’ bills||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday said if it is voted to power in Uttar Pradesh, it will provide 300 units of free electricity to domestic consumers, waive “inflated” bills and ensure 24-hour power supply, a move aimed at replicating its Delhi model. Addressing a press conference here just months ahead of the Assembly elections, AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also announced providing free electricity to farmers. The party has made similar promises in Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa where Assembly polls are due early next year. In the last Delhi Assembly elections, the AAP had promised free electricity up to 200 units to domestic consumers and after that up to 200 units at half the price, which is believed to have played an important role in the elections. The Arvind Kejriwal-led party, which has decided to contest all the 403 Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, alleged that electricity tariff is so expensive in the State that it is becoming very difficult for people to pay the bills. At the same time, Mr. Sisodia alleged that the government tells people “to either pay the electricity bill or be tagged as criminals”. Claiming that there are hundreds of instances in Uttar Pradesh where common people have committed suicide after receiving inflated electricity bills, Mr. Sisodia claimed that a farmer in Aligarh, named Ramji Lal, killed himself over non-payment of electricity bill. He also claimed that in Etah, a 17-year-old girl committed suicide just because the electricity department had sent a wrong bill to her father who was declared a criminal for not paying it. “There are 38 lakh families in Uttar Pradesh who have been sent inflated electricity bills and the government is considering them as criminals. I want to tell these people that you support the Aam Aadmi Party and ensure that our party forms the government after the Assembly elections.Tear the bills as soon as the government is formed. Everyone's outstanding bill will be waived. This is Arvind Kejriwal’s guarantee,” the Delhi Deputy CM claimed. ‘Basic necessity’ He said electricity today is not a luxury but a basic necessity and it is the responsibility of every government to make it available to every citizen. AAP Rajya Sabha member and in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Sanjay Singh told reporters that Mr. Kejriwal does what he says. “Whatever announcements have been made today, including providing 300 units of free electricity, are historic,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-woos-up-voters-with-free-power-waiver-of-inflated-bills/article36507912.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: court frames charges against 5 for setting man ablaze||A Delhi court on Thursday framed charges of murder and arson against five accused for allegedly setting a man on fire at Ramlila Ground during last year’s riots. The accused have pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. As per Delhi Police, five men shot Mohd Anwar and set him on fire at Ramlila Ground opposite his house in Delhi’s Karawal Nagar, as he was from a “different community”. The police stated that only a small piece of his leg could be recovered. Charges explained Additional Sessions Judge said that prima facie there is enough material on record to frame charges against the accused, namely Lakhpat Rajora, Yogesh, Lalit, and two men named Kuldeep under the requisite sections of the Indian Penal Code. The charges were explained to the accused persons in vernacular and asked if they plead guilty or claim trial, to which they all pleaded not guilty and claimed trial in the case. The judge noted that the call data record (CDR) locations of all the accused have been found at the spot on the date of the incident, which is prima facie out of their routine locations. The ASJ also concurred with the prosecution’s contentions that the accused were not visible in the CCTV footage as the rioters had broken virtually every camera in the vicinity and damaged the digital video recorders. The judge noted that even though there was a delay in recording the statement of public witnesses, he cannot lose sight of the fact that the police were facing difficulty to trace them as people were shocked and traumatised and it took them time to muster the courage to report the matter. “Statements cannot be brushed aside merely because there has been some delay in recording thereof or that the complainant did not specifically name/identify the accused persons in his initial written complaint made to the police,” the sessions judge said. They have been charged under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 302 (murder), 395 (dacoity), 427 (mischief), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance) of the IPC and various sections of the Arms Act.  Statements cannot be brushed aside merely because there has been some delay in recording thereof or that the complainant did not specifically name the accused in his initial written complaint Additional Sessions Judge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-riots-five-charged-with-setting-man-on-fire/article36507930.ece
17 September 2021||Gurugram,||‘Waste-to-energy plant is not an acceptable disposal method’||The proposal to set up a waste-to-energy plant at Bandhwari landfill off Gurugram-Faridabad road was strongly opposed by civil society groups, NGOs and individuals at a public hearing by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board a fortnight ago. N.B. Nair, Scientific Officer (Retd.), Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai, also the member of Citizens’ for Clean Air, one of the civil society groups at the forefront of the opposition to the project, speaks to The Hindu on his objections, the alternatives and measures to tackle air pollution in the NCR. Excerpts:  You have been strongly opposing the setting up of the proposed waste-to-energy plant at a landfill in Bandhwari village, as an individual and also as part of Citizens’ for Clean Air group. What are your main objections to it? The very nomenclature, waste-to-energy plant, is wrong. It implies a false notion that a WtE unit solves the bothersome waste disposal problem and at the same time produces the ever-needed energy. In reality, it involves neither an acceptable waste disposal method nor an acceptable energy production process. A WtE unit actually converts the waste into invisible particulate and gaseous pollutants in the atmosphere leading to heightened inhalation hazards. The pollutants produced from the waste on the ground can enter the body through water and food and this pollution is limited to some specific areas. However, air pollution created by WtE plant can spread across many kilometres, depending on the prevailing wind patterns. It is a fact that pollution gets diluted as it spreads away from the plant. But, even after dilution, many of these pollutants, including many carcinogens, remain potentially dangerous. Also, their effects are cumulative, as the life of many of these pollutants are a few decades. The breathing in of pollutants is more than a thousand times harmful than their intake through water or food. The domestic and municipal waste is also the least efficient fuel-for-energy production, in terms of units of electricity produced per tonne of the fuel (in this case, the waste). The least efficient fuel means the most polluting process. Many countries across the world have adopted the waste-to-energy plant technology. What do you have to say about it? The WtE proponents quote rosy pictures of a few WtE plants still working in Japan, Sweden and Amsterdam, etc. These WtE proponents simply ignore the fact that thousands and perhaps millions of WtE plants around the world, specifically including, the U.S., China, the U.K., and many European countries, were closed down during the past three to four decades. However, a few hundred WtE units are still operating around the world due to compelling geopolitical reasons, spending huge amounts of tax money to maintain their strict operating standards. Their performance reports for the past many years are well published. Whereas the performance records, rather, performance history of our WtE plants are simply horrible on all environmental aspects. There are many WtE plants working in India, some of them for more than a decade, but why does no one quote their performance reports? Show me a single satisfactory performance report on any of our WtE plants, even for a period of one year, by the Central Pollution Control Board, under the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The tonnes of untreated waste at Bandhwari landfill have been piling up causing a lot of environmental issues in the adjoining areas. If not a waste-to-energy plant, what could be its substitute to handle the solid municipal waste? In the first place, no city should throw its garbage into any adjoining village and spoil its serene environment. It is a crime to do so. Such damages cannot be compensated by any amount of money. In Gurugram, the citizens’ groups have been insisting that the garbage produced in each of the municipal wards should be treated within the ward itself. This is possible by following segregation of the waste at source. The continued efforts by some citizens groups, like “Citizens’ for Clean Air” and “Why Waste Your Waste”, by spreading awareness around in many group housing societies has led to source segregation in these gated communities almost by up to 90%. The garbage is segregated into compostable, recyclable, rejects/ hazardous and e-wastes. This should be brought to ward-level Secondary Segregation Centres (yet to be established by the corporation ward units concerned). The compostable component should be used for composting, the recyclables and e-wastes can be sold to the recycling entrepreneurs concerned. The rejects can be sent to Corporation Common Centres within the limits of the corporation for further processing, along with other hazardous wastes, including hospital wastes. This model will create employment opportunities for the unskilled and save national wealth. But this is not a quick-fix solution where the authorities can pay the tax money to an agency and wash hands off their responsibilities. All through the year, the pollution level in the National Capital Region remains far higher than the permissible limits with just a few good air days. What could be the short-term and long-term solutions for this? The air pollution situation in Delhi-NCR is a national shame threatening the health and well-being of the citizens, including the future generations. It should be tackled on war footing. As long-term measures, the running of hundreds of small and medium-scale industries already identified in the NCR, many of them clandestinely operating in residential areas, be stopped or strictly regulated. The existing pollution control norms for all major industries in and around the NCR, including building/ road construction/ renovation agencies, be strictly implemented. As an immediate step, the “eye washing and blame gaming projects” like smog towers, banning plastics of various grades, offering false hopes and wasting tax money should be stopped. Restart foliage washing that was introduced by the Delhi government a while ago and spread it across the NCR as a short-term measure.  There are many WtE plants working in India, but why does no one quote their performance reports? Show me a single satisfactory performance report on any of our WtE plants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/waste-to-energy-plant-is-not-an-acceptable-disposal-method/article36507926.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Robbers throw chilli powder at woman, loot house||Four persons have been arrested for allegedly robbing a 55-year-old woman at her house in north-west Delhi’s Maurya Enclave after throwing chilli powder on her and holding her hostage, police said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) Joy Tirkey said the accused have been identified as Aman Kumar Roy (19), Sanjeev Kumar Ram (18), Ram Pukar Yadav (26) and Sunil (21). Police said that on Tuesday, they received an information regarding a robbery. The complainant said she was alone at home and was lying on the bed in her room. Her cook Aman and sweeper Sanjeev, who had been hired just a few days ago, came to her room. They were carrying a bowl full of red chilli powder and they threw the powder on her face and in her eyes. After that both of them climbed on the bed and grabbed her hands and feet. They controlled her and tied her hands and feet with a cloth. The accused then took away the jewellery, which she was wearing, a high-end phone and an electronic safe kept in the room. They pushed her into the bathroom and ran away with the looted items, police said. During investigation, the police started collecting manual information based on the CCTV footage, which were obtained from the scene of crime. The team also collected CCTV footage from the routes taken by the complainant as well as the suspects. The team thus collected vital inputs regarding the gang members and his associates, Mr. Tirkey said. Thereafter, based on specific information, the accused were then arrested from Shakurpur. Planned crime During interrogation, the accused Ram said he had been planning to commit robbery for a long time as he needed money. “He started working as a household help in the bungalows of rich persons and engaged his other colleagues in the work. Ram hatched a conspiracy with his friends Aman and Sanjeev to commit robbery in the bungalow. Subsequently, Sanjeev and Aman carried out the robbery,” Mr. Tirkey said. Police claim to have recovered Rs. 45,500 in cash, jewellery worth Rs. 50 lakh and an electronic safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/robbers-throw-chilli-powder-at-woman-loot-house/article36507921.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Walk-ins help LNJP recruit doctors, paramedics swiftly||Lok Nayak Hospital, the largest Delhi government-run hospital, is expediting hiring of doctors and paramedical staffers via walk-ins against the sanctioned strength, authorities said. “The Kejriwal government is doing its best to provide ample facilities to the people undergoing treatment at Lok Nayak Hospital. Proud to say that treatment at this hospital is at par with some of the best private establishments in the country. During the meeting, various agendas like, current bed availability situation, machinery procurement, preparedness for third COVID wave, infrastructure development status were discussed in detail,” said AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, also the chairperson of Rogi Kalyan Samiti of the hospital. In August, Professor Balram Bhargava, DG, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had told the Delhi government during a meeting that a high-level committee should be set up to “improve health infrastructure in district hospitals” and it should reach the level of private sector hospitals. Mr. Chadha on Thursday chaired a meeting to discuss better patient management and streamlining of operations at the hospital on Thursday. Directions were also given to officials to get the approval of a pilot project of providing nutritious meals to patients’ attendants for only Rs. 10. “Food is a basic necessity and should be given at a pocket-friendly amount. We can also increase the OPD timings so that more patients can come and avail the treatment,” he said. One death Meanwhile, the Capital reported one COVID-19 death in 24 hours after no deaths being reported for eight consecutive days. The total number of deaths stood at 25,084, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 28 new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,38,373. A total of 72,481 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.04%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/walk-ins-help-lnjp-recruit-doctors-swiftly/article36507924.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rain chokes Capital, causes traffic jams at major roads, underpasses||Heavy rains continued to lash the Capital on Thursday morning, bringing relief from the heat but causing traffic jams due to waterlogging in some areas. The Met department said that 12.6 mm rainfall was recorded between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. and 1.8 mm was recorded overnight. The city is slated for more rain too in the coming days, with the maximum temperature staying below the 30 degrees Celsius mark. On Thursday, the maximum temperature settled at 28 degrees Celsius, which is six degrees below normal. This brought relief from the 35.3 degrees Celsius recorded the previous day, which was one degree above normal. The minimum settled at 24.8 degrees Celsius, which was normal for the season. The forecast for Friday reads: “Generally cloudy sky with light rain or thundershowers. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle between 29 and and 24 degrees respectively.” Record rain This month, the Capital has received more than 400 mm of rainfall, which is the maximum rainfall recorded in the month since 417.3 mm in September 1944. In 2019, Delhi had received 404 mm during the entire monsoon season, which is the same as that recorded in the first 16 days of September. This monsoon season, after a delayed start, the Capital has recorded 1159.4 mm of rainfall — the highest since 1964 and the third-highest ever, the Met department said. According to the Public Works Department (PWD), Pul Prahladpur underpass, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, Anand Parbat, Zakhira underpass, Nangloi, Mundka, Uttam Nagar, Rohtak Road, Sangam Vihar, Dabri, Sitapuri, Krishna Nagar, Madhu Vihar, Chhattarpur, Badli, and Kirari were areas where waterlogging was reported. Pul Prahladpur underpass on Mehrauli-Badarpur Road in south Delhi was shut due to waterlogging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rain-chokes-capital-causes-traffic-jams-at-major-roads-underpasses/article36507923.ece
17 September 2021||Jaipur,||Amid pandemic, new initiative improves access to education||A new initiative launched in Rajasthan with appropriate use of technology has led to access of students to both online and offline modes of learning during COVID-19, with the availability of synchronised competency-based contents, supplemented by home visits of teachers. The innovative solution has also addressed the digital divide in the desert State. The Aao Ghar Mein Seekhein (let’s learn at home) programme, started by the Education Department, has succeeded as a multi-modal approach to learning. It has enabled the government schools to create and disseminate contents, monitor the key metrics and carry out periodic assessment of students through ingenious models. About 85 lakh students in the government schools across the State were confined to their homes for several months during the pandemic. The programme ensured uninterrupted connection of students with the education system while minimising the anticipated learning losses before the schools reopened for IX to XII classes on September 1 with 50% attendance. The students of primary and upper primary classes are still pursuing education from home. Sourabh Swami, Director, Secondary Education, told The Hindu on Thursday that the online access points on social media platforms as well as television and radio were being utilised for students along with the distribution of physical worksheets, followed by the teachers’ visits to their homes. Weekly assessment The students, who receive educational contents every day, are assessed at the end of the week through a chatbot quiz based on the lessons learnt during the week. During their visits, the teachers clear the doubts of students, conduct Mohalla (neighbourhood) learning sessions, connect with the parents, distribute worksheets and maintain individual student portfolios. Mr. Swami said the State education portal, Shala Darpan, was being used for an effective monitoring and accountability of the programme. “When we first started, one of our fundamental challenges was that we did not know how many students had digital access. We created specific modules through which each student’s access and learning could be tracked regularly,” he said. Internal assessments Mr. Swami said the Education Department’s internal assessments had shown that 42% of the students in government schools were connected digitally, while 57% were connected offline. More than 36 lakh students are registered on the quiz platform and a peak weekly participation of 21 lakh students was achieved recently. Sarwat Bano, Principal, Mahatma Gandhi Government School, Adarsh Nagar, Jaipur, said the evaluation tests of students in her school were conducted on September 9 to assess the progress made by them during the pandemic. The results would be announced shortly after the completion of data uploading on Shala Darpan portal and their weightage included in the main exams, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amid-pandemic-new-initiative-improves-access-to-education/article36507908.ece
17 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Assembly session summoned again||The Rajasthan Assembly session, abruptly adjourned sine die in peculiar circumstances on Wednesday, was on Thursday summoned again for Friday for completion of legislative and financial business. The supplementary demands for different departments worth Rs. 1,300 crore will be passed in the session, which is likely to continue till September 18. Speaker C.P. Joshi had abruptly adjourned the House sine die on Wednesday after a clash with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal when the latter insisted on speaking about the behaviour of Opposition BJP members during the ruckus witnessed earlier in the day. The Speaker left the MLAs shocked and surprised by his sudden decision to wind up the Assembly’s business. Assembly Secretary Pramil Kumar Mathur said here that a notification for convening the session again on Friday had been formally issued. The session itself is in continuation of the Budget session, which was not prorogued. After the passage of supplementary demands, the Appropriation Bill, Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Bill and two other Amendment Bills will be tabled in the House on Friday. Assembly schedule The Business Advisory Committee had last week decided the Assembly’s schedule till September 18 for debate and passage of four Bills and discussions on several issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-assembly-session-summoned-again/article36507910.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 2,500 COVID relief eludes woman due to ‘online glitch’||Fifty-year-old Anita’s (name changed) life turned upside down on May 15 when her husband died at a city hospital after testing COVID-19 positive. As the homemaker began to recover from the shock, she realised that the family’s only income was her father-in-law’s pension. She was left with a question: How will she look after her two ailing in-laws and two daughters. So, when Anita heard about the Delhi government’s COVID-19 compensation in the first week of August, she was relieved. Though she has received a one-time compensation of Rs. 50,000 last week, she has not been able to apply for the monthly compensation of Rs. 2,500, which is part of the same scheme. Despite numerous attempts to apply online in the past one month, four visits to government offices, calls to multiple helpline numbers, and an email to the Chief Minister, she is yet to be able to apply for the scheme, due a purported glitch in the online system. Not mapped Whenever she tries to enter her details on the online portal, it displays a message that “your locality has been disabled or not mapped by the Social Welfare Department”. “Both my daughters are still studying and my in-laws have ailments. I’m the only caregiver. After writing to my younger daughter’s school, they have waived off her fees for now and I’m really thankful to them for that,” Ms. Anita said. “Luckily we have a house and don’t have to pay rent. I’m an engineer, but haven’t been working since 2015 and now I’m looking for a job. Hopefully, I will find one soon, but some money would be really helpful at this point,” she said. Though she has got Rs. 50,000 after applying online, as per government rules she has to apply separately for the monthly relief, as it is handled by a different department, and go through the verification process again. ‘Dept. problem’ “I went to the SDM Kalkaji office thrice and and they referred me to the district information officer in Lajpat Nagar SDM office. On visiting the officer concerned there, he told me that it’s a problem with the social welfare department and I need to visit them. Now where all will I go? I tried two helpline numbers, but they said they did not know why it was happening,” she said. Ms. Anita has written to the Chief Minister’s Office on September 14, but is yet to get a solution. When contacted, a district official said that they will take it up with the Social Welfare Department. The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to queries.  I’m an engineer, but haven’t been working since 2015. Hopefully, I will find one soon, but some money would be really helpful at this point Anita||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/glitch-denies-woman-govt-relief/article36507927.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fire breaks out at factory godowns in Mayapuri||A fire broke out at the godowns of a factory in west Delhi’s Mayapuri on Thursday morning, Delhi Fire Services said. A fire department official said that they received a call regarding the blaze around 9.30 a.m. after which 23 fire tenders were pressed into service. “The fire broke out at a factory having two godowns — one of car accessories and other of cold drink — on the ground floor of the building,” the official said. The fire was brought under control at 12.20 p.m., they said, adding that no casualty has been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fire-breaks-out-at-factory-godowns-in-mayapuri/article36507917.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man from Nepal arrested for stealing cash, valuables from his employer||A 47-year-old man from Nepal has been arrested for stealing from his employer when he was about to reach the Nepal border, police said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that the accused has been identified as Raju Thapa, a resident of Lumbini. He was working as a peon in the office of one Vinod Tayal in a mall in Saket for the last 26 years. On September 13, Mr. Tayal reported that his employee had stolen Rs. 25 lakh in cash and two diamond pieces worth Rs. 15 lakh each on September 11. A case was then registered and investigation was taken up. Vital breakthrough “It was known that the accused hails from Nepal and he might escape to the country. Sensing the urgency, a team was immediately formed. During analysis of technical details, it came to the notice that after the incident, he had contacted a particular number in Adchini. The caller was traced as Kamla, also from Nepal.” Mr. Thakur said. Police said that Kamla was interrogated and she allegedly told the police that she knew Raju and he was with her on September 12. The two drank all the day at her house and the next morning, he left her house to Nepal. He was near Lakhimpur Kheri, she told the police. Nabbed within 8 hrs As it would take them eight hours to reach there, they sought the help from Uttar Pradesh Police and Thapa was arrested within eight hours of the incident being reported. Police said that nearly Rs. 8 lakh in cash and three phones purchased with the stolen money were recovered from his possession, besides Rs. 5 lakh, which was recovered later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-from-nepal-held-for-stealing-from-employer/article36507918.ece
17 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Grey Line extension to open on Saturday||The Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand extension of the Delhi Metro’s Grey Line will be inaugurated on Saturday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced on Thursday. Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate the corridor via videoconferencing, DMRC officials said. Union Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore and Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot will also be present at the event, officials added. Passenger operations on the corridor is scheduled to begin from 5 p.m. on Saturday, according to the DMRC. The nearly 1-kilometre stretch will be an extension of the 4.2-kilometre-long Dwarka-Najafgarh Grey Line. “The approximately 891-metre-long Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand section will take the metro further into the interiors of Najafgarh,” senior DMRC officials said. The Dwarka-Najafgarh corridor of the Grey Line was inaugurated in October 2019. With the entire section becoming operational, the DMRC network will now spread across 390 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/grey-line-extension-to-open-on-saturday/article36508168.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||AIIMS employees protest over salary, benefits||As a mark of protest, employees of AIIMS on Thursday held an ‘Administration Sadbuddhi Havan’ to pray to the God to “give sanity to the hospital administration”, as per a statement from the AIIMS Nurses Union. On September 1, all three workers’ unions of AIIMS Delhi, had sent a strike notice to the hospital authorities that they will go on an indefinite strike from October 25 if their 47-point demand list is not met. The Karamchari Union — AIIMS, AIIMS Nurses Union, and Officers Association of AIIMS had said in the notice that they have had several meetings with authorities, but the issues remain unresolved. Most of the demands are related to salaries and other benefits. “There is clear discrimination between people who are on faculty posts and people on non-faculty posts. Doctors are on faculty posts, while nurses and others are on non-faculty. It’s difficult for us to get anything done, while it’s easy for doctors,” said Fameer C.K., general secretary of AIIMS Nurses’ Union. He claimed that when there was not enough accommodation for the faculty, the hospital authorities took special permission from the Central government and allotted flats to them, but when the nurses requested for accommodation, they were denied. The hospital spokesperson did not comment on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aiims-employees-protest-over-salary-benefits/article36508113.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Plea against temporary fireworks licence||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the licensing authority to respond on a plea challenging a September 10 notification inviting applications for the grant of Temporary Fireworks and Crackers Licence to permanent establishments. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Amit Bansal issued notice to the Delhi Police Commissioner on the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Prachi Goel, a lawyer, but refused to pass any order of interim stay on the notification. ‘Plea misconceived’ Delhi government counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi, appearing for the respondent authority, said the petition was misconceived. The petitioner has alleged that the temporary licence for the ensuing Deepawali festival is illegal and contrary to the provisions prescribed under The Explosives Act, 1884 and The Explosive Rules, 2008, which mandate that the commissioner has the “authority and jurisdiction to grant of Temporary Fireworks licence qua a temporary shed which is made up of non-flammable material”. “Temporary licence can’t be issued to pucca shops. Permanent shops can only have permanent licences,” argued Sandeep Mittal, counsel for the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plea-against-temporary-fireworks-licence/article36508119.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Reply to plea against ban on strikes: court||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Centre to respond to a petition challenging its power to prohibit strikes in essential defence services and the imposition of stringent criminal consequences under the Essential Defence Services Act, 2021. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Amit Bansal asked the Ministry of Defence and Ministry of Law and Justice to give their stand on the plea, which has challenged the constitutional validity of several provisions of the Essential Defence Services Act, 2021 which came into effect from June 30, 2021. Essential defence services include any service or establishment dealing with production of goods or equipment required for defence-related purposes. As per the petition, there are 41 ordnance factories where approximately 76,000 employees are working. All India Defence Employees Federation, a national federation of more than 400 registered unions, in its plea, stated that in May 2019 the Centre introduced a hundred-days agenda that included corporatisation of ordnance factories. Against this move, the federation and two other recognised federations, issued a notice to strike to the Central government. The strike was put on hold as a settlement process was being discussed with the government. Later, on June 21 this year, the federation received a communication from the Defence Ministry that the ordnance factories would be corporatised and splintered into seven corporations. Before the federation could announce or issue a strike notice against this move, an ordinance was passed prohibiting strikes in ‘essential defence services’. On August 11, 2021, the ordinance was replaced by the Essential Defence Service Act, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reply-to-plea-against-ban-on-strikes-court/article36507915.ece
17 September 2021||New Delhi,||Third wave fears led to clamps on celebrations||Amid the apprehension of a third COVID-19 wave in Delhi, experts suggested to avoid mass gatherings and celebrate the festivals in a scaled-down manner, according to the minutes of a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting last month. Though the COVID situation in Delhi has improved significantly in the national capital, the DDMA prohibited public celebrations of Ganesh Chaturthi last week. NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul has emphasised that a narrative for celebrating festivals in a “simple manner” should be started as these events can easily reverse all the gains made in the fight against the COVID pandemic, according to the minutes of the DDMA meeting held last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/third-wave-fears-led-to-clamps-on-celebrations/article36508118.ece
17 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Flood likely to hit coastal Odisha areas||A low or medium level flood is likely to hit coastal Odisha districts on Saturday following heavy rain in the upper catchment of the Mahanadi, said Special Relief Commissioner Pradip Kumar Jena on Thursday. “The Hirakud reservoir is receiving 4.20 lakh cusecs from Chhattisgarh which recorded heavy rainfall during the past 24 hours on Wednesday. On Thursday, the amount of water rose to 5.20 lakh cusecs,” said Mr. Jena at a press conference. Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur and Puri districts are likely to be hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/flood-likely-to-hit-coastal-odisha-areas/article36507907.ece
