18 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||GST Council not for inclusion of petroleum products: FinMin||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council has decided to keep petroleum products out of the GST regime, while consumers will have to keep paying the Compensation Cess levied on products like automobiles till March 2026 instead of July 2022 as originally envisaged at the time of rolling out the indirect tax regime. Union Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who chaired the first physical meeting of the Council in nearly two years, said a discussion on including petroleum products in the GST regime was held purely at the behest of the Kerala High Court, which had suggested that the Council take it up in response to a writ petition. “The Council members spoke very clearly that they don’t want petroleum products to be included in GST at this time. We shall report the same to the court that the Council has discussed it as per their desire, and the GST Council felt this wasn’t the time to bring petroleum products into GST,” Ms. Sitharaman said. The Minister also indicated that the Centre is not inclined to consider some States’ demand to extend the five-year period for which they have been assured a 14% revenue growth for giving up several taxation powers to pave the way for implementing the GST regime. “Legally, compensation was to be paid for five years till July 2022 with an assured level of revenue for the States,” she said. Effective rate falls While the GST regime had originally been premised on a revenue-neutral tax rate of 15.5%, Ms. Sitharaman said the actual GST revenues had been going down with the effective tax rate slipping to 11.6% due to changes made in the tax rates on various goods and services over the last few years. “A detailed presentation was made on the revenue generation aspects, correction of inverted duty structure aspects and the various ways in which the revenue neutral position, which was 15.5% at the time of introduction of GST has steadily come down to 11.6%,” she said. “(To be) revenue neutral is to keep it at 15.5% and actually, therefore, if revenues are coming down and you think it is not helping the overall GST collection, what was arrived at the time of introducing GST has been, knowingly or unknowingly, brought down by reduction in tax rates of some items,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/petroleum-products-to-remain-outside-gst/article36528937.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC Collegium on mission mode to fill vacancies||The Supreme Court Collegium, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, is proceeding with staggering speed to fill vacancies and strengthen the judiciary as seen in the latest slew of recommendations, which include eight new Chief Justices for the High Courts, the transfer of five High Court Chief Justices and the shuffling of 28 High Court judges across the country. It has been reliably learnt that the eight High Court judges recommended for elevation as Chief Justices of High Courts include acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court Justice Rajesh Bindal as Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court. Among the five Chief Justices learnt to have been recommended for transfer is Justice A.A. Kureshi of the Tripura High Court. He has been recommended for transfer to the Rajasthan High Court as its Chief Justice. He was in the middle of a prolonged stalemate between the Collegium and the government over his initial appointment as the Madhya Pradesh High Court Chief Justice about two years ago. The past month has seen the Collegium recommend over 100 judicial appointments, several transfers and elevations of judges, advocates and Chief Justices. The Collegium began its work on a historic note with the successful recommendation of nine new judges to the Supreme Court that were quickly approved by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-collegium-on-mission-mode-to-fill-vacancies/article36528945.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea for audit of Kerala temple, trust||The administrative committee of Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple in Thiruvananthapuram informed the Supreme Court on Friday that the temple was passing through “very difficult times” financially, and accounts spanning 25 years of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple Trust (SPSTT) should be audited along with those of the temple for the same period. It told a Bench, led by Justice U.U. Lalit, that it was necessary to know how much of the temple’s property was with the Trust. “My properties are also with the Trust... In April 2014, the Supreme Court’samicus curiaerecommended that 25 years of accounts of both the temple and the trust should be audited... The Trust used to care for the day to day expenses of the temple,” senior advocate R. Basant, representing the committee led by the Thiruvananthapuram district judge, submitted. The committee said that the Supreme Court, in its July 2020 judgment upholding the Travancore royals’ right of shebaitship over the temple, had ordered an audit “as suggested by theamicus curiae”. Mr. Basant argued that the court was referring to an April 15, 2014, report filed by senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, who was thenamicus curiae. In his report, theamicushad recommended a “special audit” by former Comptroller and Auditor General Vinod Rai of the 25 years of accounts of both the temple and the SPSTT. Mr. Basant said the temple and the Trust could not be viewed separately and needed to be audited together. The court was hearing an application filed by the SPSTT for a declaration that it was an “independent entity distinct from Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple”. The SPSTT, represented by senior advocate Arvind Datar and advocate Shyam Mohan, said it did not come under the administrative control of either the administrative committee or the advisory committee formed under the Travancore Cochin Hindu Religious Endowments Act of 1950. “Will the audit of the accounts for the past 25 years extend to both the temple and the trust? We need a clarification... The trust has already been audited for the period between 2008 and 2014... Does it need to be audited for 25 years now,” Mr. Datar asked. Mr. Basant contended, “The temple is under great financial constraints. Its monthly expenses come to Rs. 1.25 crore... That is why they [SPSTT] are asking to be excluded.” Mr. Datar countered that the trust was a public one. He stressed it did not want the court to give any supervisory powers to the administrative committee over it. “If My Lords wants the 25-year audit, we have no problem. But we are an independent entity. We don’t want the committee to have any supervisory powers over us,” he said. The court reserved the case for orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-for-audit-of-kerala-temple-trust/article36528946.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC allows State to hold Plus One physical examinations||The Supreme Court on Friday decided not to intervene in Kerala government’s plans to conduct Plus One examinations offline, saying the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic did not seem to be an immediate threat. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, however, asked the authorities to take every necessary precaution while holding the examinations. The court said it was satisfied with the reasons and justifications given by the State, represented by advocate G. Prakash, for its decision to conduct Plus One exams offline. The State had reasoned that online examination would prejudice students without access to “electronic gadgets” such as laptops, desktops or even mobile phones. “Students belonging to the lower strata of society are depending on mobile phones/tabs for attending online classes. In many areas, the internet connection or mobile data are not available. These students will never be able to write online examinations, which will entirely upset the conduct of examination,” the State argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-allows-state-to-hold-plus-one-physical-examinations/article36529461.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi at SCO: political change in Afghanistan is not inclusive||The political change in Afghanistan did not lead to an inclusive system and the process was not conducted through negotiation, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his first extensive comments since the Taliban overthrew the government of President Ashraf Ghani. In a speech at the Afghanistan-themed outreach summit between the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO), he stated that the neighbours of Afghanistan would be seriously impacted by the developments in that country. “The first issue is that the change of authority in Afghanistan was not inclusive and this happened without negotiation. This raises questions on the prospects of recognition of the new system. Representation of all sections of Afghans, including women and the minorities, is important,” Mr Modi said, speaking in Hindi. And that is why it is necessary that the global community should think carefully and collectively while deciding on the legitimacy of the new political system in Afghanistan,” the Prime Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/afghanistan-change-not-inclusive-pm/article36528947.ece
18 September 2021||Kolkata,||Article in TMC mouthpiece sparks row||A front-page article in the Trinamool Congress mouthpiece, Jaago Bangla , headlined “Rahul could not, Mamata is the real Opposition face”, has triggered speculation about the party chief being projected as the Opposition’s prime ministerial face for the 2024 general election. “We cannot think of an Opposition without the Congress. But Rahul Gandhi has not been able to stand up to Narendra Modi as the face of the Opposition. The main face of the Opposition now is Mamata Banerjee. We will campaign all over the country with the popular leader, Mamata Banerjee, as the face of the Opposition,” the article published on Friday said. The West Bengal Congress, which had recently opted out of fielding a candidate against Ms. Banerjee in Bhabanipur, reacted sharply to the piece. State unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said such developments will create a rift in Opposition unity. “When there are talks about the Opposition fighting together, why this race to project someone as the prime ministerial candidate? It is for the people to decide whether Rahul Gandhi is the alternative to Narendra Modi or not. No political party can make claims about that,” Mr. Chowdhury said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/article-in-tmc-mouthpiece-sparks-row/article36529101.ece
18 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||Nanjundappa committee suggestions to be revised||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said the State government will revise the recommendations of the D.M. Nanjundappa committee for the next five years. Addressing presspersons here on Friday, Mr. Bommai said the committee report would be revised on the basis of a NITI Aayog report and the Human Development Index. Stressing the need to improve the Happiness Index of Kalyana Karnataka region and the State, Mr. Bommai said though the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) had increased in the last decade, the average Happiness Index had gone down. Government’s programmes and schemes should reach even the last person in society, he said. To a question, Mr. Bommai said that besides the special grants of Rs. 1,500 crore for the KKRDB, the government would increase the allocation for the region in the annual budget. Chief Minister promised to develop the region as an industrial hub. To another question, Mr. Bommai exuded confidence that BJP and the JD(S) would form an alliance in the Kalaburagi City Corporation council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nanjundappa-committee-suggestions-to-be-revised/article36529182.ece
18 September 2021||Hassan,||Mild tremors felt in Hassan||Residents of Hassan and neighbouring taluks experienced a low-intensity earthquake of 2.3 magnitude on Friday evening. The tremors were felt in Hassan city, several villages around Halebidu in Belur taluk and a few villages in Arsikere taluk. There were no reports of any casualty or damage to property. The earthquake was recorded at Rayapura in Salagame hobli of Hassan taluk at 5.32 p.m., with its epicentre at a depth of 2 km, according to information from the Karnataka Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre. Many people in Hassan city came out of their residence as they felt tremors for a couple of seconds. They called up media offices and the police. After receiving reports of people panicking, Hassan district administration sought a report from the KSNDMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mild-tremors-felt-in-hassan/article36529296.ece
18 September 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,||No girivalam on Sept. 20||The district administration has announced a ban on Girivalam in Tiruvannamalai on September 20 even as 22 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 53,876. Devotees will not be allowed to visit the temple between 5.20 a.m on Monday and 5.51 a.m on Tuesday. This was announced by District Collector B. Murugesh on Friday. Every full moon day, devotees and tourists from various parts of the State and from the neighbouring Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala walk 14 km to perform perambulation of the hill. Anticipating a large gathering on September 20, which is a full moon day, the district administration decided to keep the temple shut. The Collector has appealed to the devotees and the general public not to visit the temple on September 20 and 21 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. 24 cases in Vellore The COVID-19 tally in Vellore district rose to 49,146 on Friday with 24 persons testing positive. While 47,816 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 212. The district’s death toll is 1,118. In Ranipet district, 12 persons tested positive, taking the tally to 42,828. In Tirupattur district, 11 new cases were reported on Friday and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,755.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiruvannamalai-temple-to-be-shut-no-girivalam/article36529443.ece
18 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||YSRCP, TDP leaders clash near Naidu’s house||Tension prevailed at Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’s residence at Undavalli on Friday when leaders of the the ruling YSR Congress Party and Telugu Desam Party clashed and resorted to mild stone-pelting, A few party workers of both the parties suffered minor injuries, and the glass panes of the vehicle belonging to Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh were damaged in the melee. Alleging that former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu made some derogatory remarks against Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and other Ministers, Mr. Jogi Ramesh, along with some party activists staged a protest at Mr. Naidu’s residence on Krishna River bank demanding an unconditional apology from the former Chief Minister. Police dispersed mobs On receiving information about the protest, TDP workers led by Vijayawada East MLA Gadde Rammohan Rao and MLC Buddha Venkanna and others reached the place and raised counter slogans against the ruling YSRCP leaders. Police tried to pacify both the groups and dispersed the mobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysrcp-tdp-leaders-clash-near-ex-cm-naidus-house/article36528900.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Tax on fabrics, garments and footwear hiked||The GST Council effected several long-pending tweaks in tax rates, including an increase in the GST levied on footwear costing less than Rs. 1,000 as well as readymade garments and fabrics to 12% from 5%. The new rates will take effect from January 1.Page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tax-on-fabrics-garments-and-footwear-hiked/article36528985.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India sets record with 2.5 cr. COVID-19 shots in 1 day||India administered a record 2.5 crore COVID vaccination doses on Friday by midnight. In a late night tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, “Making historic record, India administers 2.5 crore vaccinations today. The nation has risen in honor of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday”. He had put out a separate tweet when the 2 crore mark was crossed earlier in the day. According to the Ministry, as part of the ‘Vaccine Seva’ campaign, the Minister visited Safdarjung Hospital and congratulated staff for helping the country reach the milestone. The World Health Organization’s South-East Asia Regional Office has congratulated India for the vaccination milestone. Meanwhile, sources in the Health Ministry on Friday said that for India “vaccinating it’s citizens is a priority and export of vaccines will be discussed only after the country’s requirement is over.” “In October, one crore doses of Zydus Cadila will be given and the Centre has been able to replenish vaccines in the state on time, there is no deficiency of vaccine,” noted the official. He said the Ministry has prioritised vaccine coverage for the population of States due for polls next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-sets-record-with-2-crore-covid-19-shots-in-one-day/article36528935.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,||CD scandal: ‘SIT probe is over’||The State government has informed the High Court of Karnataka that the Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up to probe the alleged CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has completed its probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cd-scandal-sit-probe-is-over/article36529297.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Metro to run from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. from today||From Saturday onwards, commuters will be able to use Namma Metro till 10 p.m. With daily ridership on the rise, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) announced on Friday that it would operate trains from 6 a.m to 10 p.m. The last trains will leave the terminal stations at 9.30 p.m. A.S. Shankar, executive director (operations), BMRCL, told The Hindu that on September 16 and 17, daily ridership touched 2.19 lakh on both lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-to-run-from-6-am-to-10-pm-from-today/article36528984.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||NIA grills Tunda over Darbhanga station blast||The National Investigation Agency has interrogated Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist Abdul Karim Tunda in connection with a bomb blast at the Darbhanga railway station in Bihar in June. Tunda was questioned in Uttar Pradesh’s Dasna Jail, where he is currently lodged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-grills-tunda-over-darbhanga-station-blast/article36529245.ece
18 September 2021||PUNE/CHENNAI,||Star astrophysicist Thanu Padmanabhan fades away||Thanu Padmanabhan, eminent theoretical physicist and cosmologist, passed away in Pune on Friday. He was 64. The Padma Shri awardee collapsed after suffering a massive heart attack at his residence. He was rushed to hospital, but died on arrival, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/star-astrophysicist-thanu-padmanabhan-fades-away/article36529513.ece
18 September 2021||Pune,||Pawar orders shops to shut on Ganesh visarjan||All shops in Pune district will remain shut on Sunday on Ganesh visarjan, which marks the end of the 10-day festivities, said Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday. The decision has been taken in order to preclude large gatherings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pawar-orders-shops-to-shut-on-ganesh-visarjan/article36529514.ece
18 September 2021||Mumbai,||14 workers injured in Mumbai girder collapse||Fourteen workers were injured after a girder of an under-construction flyover at MTNL junction in Bandra Kurla Complex collapsed around 4.30 a.m. on Friday. All workers were admitted to V.N. Desai Hospital in Santacruz and doctors said their condition was stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-workers-injured-in-mumbai-girder-collapse/article36529515.ece
18 September 2021||Mangaluru,||Encouraging response to mega vaccination drive||The mega vaccination drive against COVID-19 received good response in the twin districts, with Dakshina Kannada achieving 90% of the day’s target and Udupi reporting 63% progress, until 10.30 p.m. on Friday. Dakshina Kannada had set a target of jabbing 1.5 lakh people and Udupi was to vaccinate 80,000 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/encouraging-response-to-mega-vaccination-drive/article36529492.ece
18 September 2021||Mangaluru,||Good turnout on first day of school reopening||Students turned up in good numbers to attend physical classes on the first day of offline classes for high schools and even semesters of degree courses under Mangalore University, in Dakshina Kannada on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/good-turnout-on-first-day-of-school-reopening/article36529494.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||NIA grills Tunda over Darbhanga station blast||The National Investigation Agency has interrogated Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist Abdul Karim Tunda in connection with a bomb blast at the Darbhanga railway station in Bihar in June. Tunda was questioned in U.P.’s Dasna Jail, where he is currently lodged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-grills-tunda-over-darbhanga-station-blast/article36529310.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Litigations driven by vendetta: Asthana||Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana has informed the Delhi High Court that he was facing a barrage of social media campaigns and selective litigations over his appointment as Delhi Police Commissioner at the behest of some “undisclosed individual/ rival/ interest”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/litigations-driven-by-vendetta-asthana/article36529311.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, others detained in Delhi||Delhi Police on Friday detained leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal, including Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, and 15 others following a call for a protest march against the new farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akali-dal-chief-16-others-detained-in-the-capital/article36529100.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Gram Swaraj Bill passed in Council||The Gram Swaraj Bill was passed in the Upper House even as the Congress staged a walkout. The Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill had been passed in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday amid protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gram-swaraj-bill-passed-in-council/article36529183.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Take steps to end illegal activities in prisons’||Members cutting across party lines urged Home Minister Araga Jnanendra to take stern measures to end the availability of drugs, liquor, pistols, arms, and cell phone services to prisoners with the aid of jail staff. They said the staff should keep vigil on the people who regularly visit prisoners and monitor their activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/take-steps-to-end-illegal-activities-in-prisons/article36529184.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,||3 years in jail, Rs. 1L fine for online gaming or betting||The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Friday to ban online gaming or betting by amending the Karnataka Police Act of 1963, with maximum imprisonment of three years and a penalty of up to Rs. 1 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-years-in-jail-rs-1l-fine-for-online-gaming-or-betting/article36529185.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Jaishankar calls for early resolution of LAC issues||China must not view India through the lens of its ties with other countries, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar told his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, as they met on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit in Dushanbe, capital of Tajikistan, on Thursday. Both discussed the ongoing impasse at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh which, they said, had left relations at a “low ebb”. A statement issued after the meeting, held after the two last met in the same city at the SCO Foreign Ministers’ meeting in July, said they agreed to more talks by military and diplomatic officials to resolve the “remaining issues on disengagement”. A Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) statement said, “Both sides had agreed that a prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side as it was impacting the relationship in a negative manner. EAM therefore emphasised that the two sides should work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols”. According to the MEA, Mr. Jaishankar once again stressed that peace and tranquillity along the LAC, which depended on resolving all the remaining issues of the 17-month-long stand-off, was an “essential basis” for progress in bilateral relations, but it is understood the two Ministers did discuss global developments, including Afghanistan, during their talks. Mr. Jaishankar said that “Asian solidarity” depended on the example set by India-China relations and, in a possible reference to growing U.S.-India ties, added that China should “avoid viewing our bilateral relations from the perspective of its relations with third countries”. The remarks are significant as Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who addressed the SCO via videoconference on Friday, is travelling to Washington next week to attend the Quad summit with leaders of the U.S., Australia and Japan, where their common position on China’s actions in the Indo-Pacific will be watched most closely. A statement from China’s Foreign Ministry quoted Mr. Wang as saying “the recent communication between the two foreign affairs and military departments was earnest and effective, and the overall situation in the border area was gradually de-escalated.” He said China “hopes that India will meet China halfway to move the situation towards stability and shift it from urgent dispute settlement to regular management and control.” “Both sides need to consolidate the disengagement results of the front-line troops, and strictly abide by the protocols and agreements and the consensus reached between the two countries, to jointly safeguard the peace and tranquility of the border area and prevent the recurrence of border-related issues,” the statement noted, adding that Mr. Wang said “as two major emerging economies, China and India must continue to uphold the strategic consensus of being opportunities of development to each other rather than threats, push the bilateral relationship and practical cooperation onto a healthy and stable track.” Military talks Indian and Chinese officials are due to hold the 13th round of military talks to resolve the situation at the LAC that began in April last year, when China amassed its troops along the boundary in Eastern Ladakh and transgressed into several areas, leading to the Galwan clashes, in which 20 Indian soldiers, and at least four Chinese soldiers, were killed. Of those areas, the two sides completed disengagement of troops in the Galwan Valley, both the banks of Pangong Tso (lake) and Gogra, but friction points remain to be resolved at Hot Springs, Demchok and Depsang. Both sides have, for the first time, put in place temporary “buffer zones” to avoid further clashes. Gen. Rawat’s comment The meeting between the foreign ministers came two days after Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat said India must prepare to deal with its “adversaries” on both fronts: with China and Pakistan. He had also called China’s moves on Afghanistan, and “making friends” with Iran and Turkey, a “jointmanship between the Sinic and Islamic civilisations”, and asked whether that could lead to a “clash of civilisations” with the West. Apparently contradicting the CDS’s comments, Mr. Jaishankar told Mr. Wang that India did not believe in the “clash of civilisations theory” (famously propounded by U.S. academic Samuel Huntington). “EAM conveyed that India had never subscribed to any clash of civilisations theory. He said that India and China had to deal with each other on merits and establish a relationship based on mutual respect.” the MEA statement said. Talks on Afghanistan In Dushanbe, Mr. Jaishankar also held talks with other senior officials on the sidelines of the summit with Afghanistan figuring prominently in many of those discussions, including what he described as “an exchange of courtesies- and perspectives- with President Raisi of Iran.” He also met his Iranian counterpart and “discussed strengthening our bilateral relations and working together on regional challenges”. Mr. Jaishankar said he had with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov “a useful discussion on contemporary issues, including Afghanistan”. The Minister’s interactions also included discussions with the foreign ministers of Belarus, Uzbekistan and Armenia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-calls-for-early-resolution-of-lac-issues/article36528677.ece
18 September 2021||Chennai,||Major restructuring of Railways on anvil||The Indian Railways, the country’s largest employer and transporter, is heading for a major restructuring plan that could lead to the closure of key establishments, merger of decades-old organisations and private participation in running of its schools and hospitals. The recommendations of the Principal Economic Adviser Sanjeev Sanyal for Rationalisation of Government Bodies and Proposal for the Ministry of Railways calls for winding up the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE), the Central Organisation for Modernisation Of Workshops (COFMOW), the Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS) and the Indian Railways Organisation for Alternative Fuel (already closed on September 7, 2021). While railway officials were of the view that the recommendations would be taken up for further discussion, the closure of the IROAF has sent out a signal that the proposal could be implemented partly or wholly in due course of time. Last week, the Cabinet Secretariat, Rashtrapati Bhavan, wrote to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Railway Board, calling for monthly reports to intimate the action taken on the rationalisation plan, official sources told The Hindu on Friday. In what could be a major coming together of organisations working on the Information Technology platform, the panel recommended winding up of the CRIS, an autonomous society that develops software capacity in the railways that includes passenger ticketing, freight invoicing, passenger train operations, management of train crew and management of fixed/rolling assets, and handing over all its work to the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). Going by the plan, RailTel, one of the largest telecom infrastructure providers in the country that focuses on modernising operations and safety systems through optic fibre networks that exist along railway tracks, would be merged with the IRCTC. It has been proposed for the Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) that exports rolling stock to take over Braithwaite & Co Ltd., (BCL) which turned sick in 1992, the sources said. Among other recommendations were the merger of the Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd. (RVNL), which implements projects relating to creation and augmentation of railway infrastructure, with the Indian Railway Construction Limited (IRCON), a specialised infrastructure construction organisation. The panel said both the RVNL and the IRCON had similar functions and hence could be merged. Merger of schools The Principal Economic Adviser recommended merger of railway schools with Kendriya Vidyalayas or handing them over to the respective State governments since “operating the railway schools takes up a large amount of time of the railway management, whose core competence is in running and maintaining the railway service”. Justifying the move, the proposal noted that of the 7.99 lakh children of railway employees in the 4-18 age group, less than 2% were enrolled in railway schools. As of 2019, of the total 33,212 students enrolled in 94 schools, only 15,399 were railway wards. Factories under CPSE Another major reform recommended was to establish Central Public Sector Enterprises to bring eight production units under its fold. This would mean that the assets, infrastructure and employees of three coach factories — Integral Coach Factory, Chennai; Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala; Modern Coach Factory, Rae-Bareli; three locomotive manufacturing units – Chittaranjan Locomotive Works, Chittaranjan; Diesel Locomotive Works, Varanasi; Diesel Loco Modernisation Works, Patiala and two Rail Wheel Units at Yelahanka (Bengaluru) and Bela (Bihar), would be transferred to the proposed CPSE. Merger of the Central Training Institutes with the National Rail and Transportation Institute after upgrading the latter into a Central University and an Institute of National Importance, roping in private participation for investments to enhance healthcare facilities open to all in the 125 railway hospitals and 586 health units/polyclinics was also proposed, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-planning-major-restructuring/article36528881.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Congress leaders wish Modi on birthday, but flag policy failures||A host of Congress leaders on Friday, including former party chief Rahul Gandhi, wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday. But the party also claimed that the country is paying a price for his government’s failure on several fronts. That is why the day was observed as “unemployment day”, “anti-farmer day”, “high prices day” and “crony capitalists day”, party leaders said. Addressing a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said birthdays of former Prime Ministers are celebrated as various occasions: Jawaharlal Nehru’s birth anniversary is Children’s Day, Indira Gandhi’s is National Integration Day, Rajiv Gandhi’s is known as Sadbhavana Day and Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary is celebrated as Good Governance Day. Ms. Shrinate said Mr. Modi’s birthday was being observed as “unemployment day” across the country, and added that the party hoped God would give him “the wisdom to see where he is leading the country to”. “It is the Prime Minister’s birthday and from this platform, we wish him a happy birthday. We pray for his well being, but we do believe that this day is being celebrated in many parts of the country as unemployment day, anti-farmer day, high prices day, crippled economy day, as winning over your crony capitalists friends day, as ED, IT, CBI raids day, and the corona mismanagement day,” Ms. Shrinate told reporters. ‘Crippled economy’ The Congress said India was facing the highest rate of unemployment despite the promise of creating two crore jobs every year; 61 lakh government jobs were lying vacant; farmers were on a protest for the past nine months over the new agriculture laws; demonetisation and GST had crippled the economy, investment was at its lowest and the high prices of cooking gas, diesel, petrol, edible oil, pulses, and daily essential items had made people’s lives difficult. The Congress also attacked the central agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate (ED) for becoming “frontal organisations” of the BJP. Ms. Shrinate alleged that while the country faced shortage of vaccines, oxygen and essential drugs, the Prime Minister was too busy electioneering in Bengal and all the “red flags” were brushed aside to “suit his image”. Among the Congress leaders who wished Mr. Modi were Mallikarjun Kharge, Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor and Abhishek Singhvi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-leaders-wish-modi-on-birthday-but-flag-policy-failures/article36528653.ece
18 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Challenges loom for Gujarat’s ‘all new’ Cabinet||The BJP’s experiment in Gujarat of dropping all Ministers of the erstwhile Vijay Rupani Cabinet is likely to face challenges as the State heads towards crucial Assembly polls next year. The 25-member Cabinet of first-time legislator and Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel has only three members with prior ministerial experience: Raghavji Patel, who was Minister in the Shankarsinh Vaghela government in 1996-98, Kiritsinh Rana, who served as a Minister in the Keshubhai Patel and Narendra Modi governments and Rajendra Trivedi, who was a junior Minister in the Anandiben government. Nine of the 24 Ministers are first-time legislators whose exposure at the State government level is limited. “On the surface, it appears as a bold experiment aimed at cutting down the anti-incumbency at the hustings but it’s fraught with risks and challenges as well,” said a senior BJP leader and four-time parliamentarian from the State. Governance delivery According to him, governance delivery may suffer for the time being because most of the Ministers, including the CM, are inexperienced and are likely to take some time to get a grip over the bureaucracy and system. “It appears that bureaucrats will run the administration and may be that’s preferred by the party leadership in Delhi,” he added. Though the party has done a balancing act and given suitable representation to the major castes and communities in the ministerial berths, top leaders who enjoyed power for years in the government have been relegated to the back and they may create challenges for the administration as well as the party as the polls near. So far, except some murmurs of protests by supporters of a handful of leaders, there has not been any significant statement or any move by any leader questioning the high command’s unprecedented move of implementing “no repeat” formula in the State Cabinet formation. “Senior leaders are upset but they are in a wait-and-watch mode at the moment,” a party insider said, adding some of them will certainly strike at the opportune moment. All leaders and ex-Ministers have maintained that the high command’s decision to field new faces in the government has been accepted by all. According to sources, the challenge for the party will likely emerge from Saurashtra where Kolis, who are the largest caste block, and other OBC communities will become vocal as their representation has declined in the new regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/challenges-loom-for-gujarats-all-new-cabinet/article36528651.ece
18 September 2021||PUNE/CHENNAI,||Star astrophysicist Thanu Padmanabhan fades away||Thanu Padmanabhan, eminent theoretical physicist and cosmologist, passed away in Pune on Friday He was 64. The Padma Shri awardee collapsed after suffering a massive heart attack at his residence in the morning. He was rushed to the hospital but died on arrival, sources said. Affectionately known to friends and colleagues as ‘Paddy’, Professor Padmanabhan, born on March 10, 1957, was a native of Thiruvananthapuram. He did his graduation and postgraduation from the University College, Kerala University, winning Gold medals. He published his first research paper in General Relativity at the age of 20 while being a student. Following his Masters, he joined the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) for his PhD in 1979 under the guidance of Jayant Narlikar, emeritus professor at the Pune-based Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA). He was offered a Research Associateship at TIFR the very next year. He became a faculty there while still working towards his doctorate, which he completed in 1983. After a stint at the TIFR, he moved to Pune in 1992 and began his long and fruitful association with the IUCAA, where he became a Distinguished Professor and served as Dean, Core Academic Programmes, from 1997-2015. K. Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, said in a tweet, “Shocked to hear of the passing of Professor Thanu Padmanabhan. His research linking general relativity and thermodynamics in new ways, and in other areas, has been widely recognized. Scholar, communicator, extraordinary scientist, friend to many. He will be much missed”. Eminent scientist and Padma Shri awardee Arvind Gupta, said: “He dreamt formulae. He never played to the gallery and did not believe in ‘dumbing down’ while demystifying abstract physics concepts for the layperson… his passing away is a great personal loss.” He recounted the indelible impression that Professor Padmanabhan made through his column in Science Age magazine. Professor Padmanabhan was an elected Fellow of all three Indian academies of science and of the Third World Academy of Sciences. In all, he has supervised the PhD theses of 16 people. Author of several books Professor Padmanabhan authored several books, including the comprehensive three-volume Theoretical Physics (2000), the hugely accessible After the First Three Minutes: The Story of our Universe (1998), and a masterful exposition of quantum theory for the layman titled Quantum Themes: The Charms of the Microworld (2009), Structure Formation In the Universe and Sleeping Beauties in Theoretical Physics: 26 Surprising Insights . Along with his wife Vasanthi, a physicist, he authored the popular Dawn of Science (2019), a lively 24-chapter history of science that was translated into Chinese, Portuguese and Polish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/star-astrophysicist-thanu-padmanabhan-fades-away/article36528890.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||NIA grills LeT terrorist Tunda over railway station explosion||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has interrogated Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist Abdul Karim Tunda in connection with a bomb blast at the Darbhanga railway station in Bihar in June. Tunda was questioned in Uttar Pradesh’s Dasna Jail, where he is currently lodged. It is learnt that during the interrogation, he purportedly corroborated certain findings of the NIA in the Darbhanga blast case and shared some more details that are being verified. During the probe, the agency had found that the bomb was planted on the Secunderabad-Darbhanga Express train at the instance of Pakistan-based Iqbal Kana, who knew Tunda since 2009 when the latter was also there. It is alleged that back in Pakistan, Tunda had trained Mohammed Nasir Khan — arrested by the NIA for involvement in the Darbhanga case — in configuring improvised explosive devices (IED). Tunda, originally from Pilkhuwa in Uttar Pradesh, fled to Pakistan via Bangladesh and Saudi Arabia in 1994-95. He was accused of being part of conspiracies to carry out blasts at several places. Over the years, he had allegedly found various ways of preparing bombs using readily available chemicals. He was arrested by the Delhi police close to the India-Nepal border in Uttarakhand on August 16, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-grills-let-terrorist-tunda-over-railway-station-explosion/article36528667.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,||10-year time frame available to implement NEP: Kasturirangan||The new National Education Policy had taken into consideration all aspects and concerns of educators and students, said K. Kasturirangan, the chairman of the policy’s drafting committee. In a webinar hosted jointly by The Hindu and Sai University on Wednesday Mr. Kasturirangan ran the audience through the salient features of the policy and addressed their concerns on its implementation. “We are aware of the geographical and economic imbalances. We have a 10-year time frame (to implement) and another 10 years to evaluate it,” he said. In a wide-ranging discussion, Mr. Kasturirangan said experiences from across the country had been studied, which led the committee to come up with a mechanism to develop every student’s capabilities, be it in learning languages, communicating or developing technical expertise. Unique abilities The policy had been drafted with the aim of exploiting the unique capability of a human being, he said. K.V. Ramani, founder of Sai University, said the institution in its founding year had already implemented the NEP. The university would provide students an opportunity to pick up subjects of their interest in the true spirit of interdisciplinary education, he said. Jamshed Bharucha, founding Vice-Chancellor of the University, said he had been excited to return to India after 40 years after reading the NEP. He said he welcomed the academic bank of credit system. “I support the spirit of the proposal because of the obvious flexibility but I have one concern. I hope that it does not force all institutions to follow the same curriculum,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-year-time-frame-available-to-implement-nep-kasturirangan/article36528660.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Higher judiciary set for biggest reshuffle in recent times||Initiating probably one of the largest shuffles in the higher judiciary in recent times, the Supreme Court Collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, is learnt to have recommended the transfer of judges across 14 of a total 25 High Courts in the country. The Collegium recommendations would cover the transfers of judges from the High Courts of Allahabad, Bombay, Calcutta, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Madras, Orissa, Patna, Punjab and Haryana, Rajasthan and Telangana. There are also multiple transfer recommendations from the same High Court. The recommendations have been made to transfer judges to different High Courts, including Himachal Pradesh, Patna, Madhya Pradesh, Calcutta, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab and Haryana, Rajasthan, Orissa, Telangana, Allahabad, Jharkhand, Madras, Uttarakhand and Tripura. As noticed, most of the transfers are to-and-from the same High Courts. The largest number of transfers are from the Allahabad High Court. They are Justices Vivek Agarwal to Madhya Pradesh High Court, Ravi Nath Tilhari to Andhra Pradesh, Chandra Dhari Singh and Yashwant Varma to Delhi High Court, Subhash Chand (Additional Judge) to Jharkhand High Court and M.N. Bhandari to Madras High Court. The Collegium has recommended the transfer of three judges from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. They are Justices Sudip Ahluwalia to Calcutta, Jaswant Singh to Orissa and Rajan Gupta to Patna. Two judges have been recommended for transfer from the Calcutta High Court. They are Justices Arindam Sinha and Soumen Sen, both to the Orissa High Court. Similarly, the Collegium has recommended the transfer of Himachal Pradesh High Court judges, Justices Anoop Chitkara and Sureshwar Thakur, to Punjab and Haryana and Allahabad High Courts, respectively. Again, Rajasthan High Court judges, Justices Sabina and Sanjeev Prakash Sharma, have been recommended to be transferred to Himachal Pradesh and Patna High Courts, respectively. Telangana High Court judges, Justices M.S.S. Ramachandra Rao and Amarnath Goud, have been recommended for Punjab and Haryana and Tripura High Courts, respectively. Bombay High Court judge, Justice Ujjal Bhuyan, has been recommended for Telangana. Justice Manindra Mohan Shrivastava has been recommended for transfer from Chhattisgarh to Rajasthan. Gujarat High Court judge, Justice Paresh R. Upadhyay, has been recommended for Madras High Court. Justices A.M. Badar of Kerala High Court and P.B. Bajanthri of Karnataka have both been recommended for Patna. Justice T.S. Sivagnanam from Madras High Court has been suggested for transfer to Calcutta High Court. While Orissa High Court judge, Justice Sanjaya Kumar Mishra, has been recommended for Uttarakhand, Justice Ahsanuddin Amanullah of Patna High Court has been suggested for transfer to Andhra Pradesh High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/higher-judiciary-set-for-biggest-reshuffle-in-recent-times/article36528669.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||E-auction of gifts to PM gets underway||Sports gear and equipment of winners of the Tokyo Paralympic Games and the Tokyo Olympic Games, including the javelins used by gold medallists Sumit Antil and Neeraj Chopra, are the key highlights of the e-auction of about 1,330 gifts and mementos received by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who turned 71 on Friday. The e-auction, being organised by the Ministry of Culture, started on Friday and will continue till October 7. The proceeds will go to the Namami Gange Mission. Some other items under the hammer are the boxing gloves used by Tokyo Olympics bronze medal winner Lovlina Borgohain, signed by the player herself; a badminton racquet autographed by Krishna Nagar, gold medallist at the Paralympics; and a table tennis racquet autographed by Bhavina Patel, silver medallist at the Tokyo Paralympics. The javelins have the highest base price of Rs. 1 crore each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/e-auction-of-gifts-to-pm-gets-underway/article36528649.ece
18 September 2021||Kolkata,||Article in Trinamool mouthpiece sparks row||An article in the Trinamool Congress’s mouthpiece, Jaago Bangla, headlined “Rahul could not, Mamata is the real Opposition face”, has triggered speculation about the party chief being projected as the Opposition’s prime ministerial face for the 2024 election. West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said such developments will create a rift in the Opposition unity. “Why is this race to project someone as the Prime Minister? It is for the people to decide whether Rahul Gandhi is the alternative to Narendra Modi or not. No party can make claims about that,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/article-in-trinamool-mouthpiece-sparks-row/article36528671.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||HRW slams harassment of activists, journalists||A day after the Enforcement Directorate conducted searches on premises linked to social activist Harsh Mander, Human Rights Watch (HRW) on Friday accused the Indian authorities of using politically motivated allegations of tax evasion and financial irregularities to silence human rights acti- vists, journalists, and other critics of the government. In a statement, HRW said the raids were part of the BJP-led national government’s “escalating crackdown on freedom of expression, association, and pea- ceful assembly since coming to power in 2014. The authorities have brought politically motivated criminal cases, including under broadly worded terrorism and sedition laws, against activists, journalists, academics, students, and others. They have also used foreign funding regulations and allegations of financial misconduct to target outspoken groups.” “The raids... reflect a broader pattern of trying to silence all criticism,” said Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia director at HRW.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hrw-slams-harassment-of-activists-journalists/article36528672.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Australia informed India about AUKUS, says envoy||Australia had informed India at the highest levels of the new enhanced trilateral security partnership with the U.S. and the U.K. — AUKUS — before it was formally announced, Australian High Commissioner Barry O’Farrell said on Friday. The decision for the partnership reflected a much more “challenging strategic environment”, which they shared with India, where “great power competition is intensifying”, and territorial tensions in the South China Sea, Taiwan and elsewhere were becoming “more challenging.” Mr. O’Farrell stated in a virtual media briefing, “We want to contribute to strategic reassurance measures that ensure no one country believes they can advance their strategic ambitions through conflict. It’s not about seeking to provoke any particular regional power, rather it’s about ensuring we have the capabilities that contribute along with India and other countries to deterring the types of behaviour that threatens the peace and security in the Indo-Pacific today and in the future.” The Australian Prime Minister and the Foreign Affairs and Defence Ministers spoke to their Indian counterparts to inform them about the decision. However, it was not discussed during the inaugural India-Australia 2+2 ministerial dialogue, he noted. AUKUS was unveiled on September 16 by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, U.S. President Joe Biden and U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson to “significantly deepen cooperation on a range of emerging security and defence capabilities.” The first initiative under this is for Australia to acquire at least eight nuclear powered submarines (SSN) with cooperation from the U.S. and the U.K. Deep consideration “The decision has been taken after deep consideration,” Mr. O’Farrell pointed out. Indo-Pacific investment in military capability is proceeding in an unprecedented rate and it is being driven by China, which has the largest military modernisation programme under way in the world, Mr. O’Farrell remarked. China too had responded sharply to the announcement. He said AUKUS would help improve Australia’s defence capabilities in line with the country’s 2020 Defence Strategic Update and would not affect the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, which is more of a diplomatic forum. The Quad, comprising India, Australia, Japan and the U.S. is scheduled to hold its first in-person Heads of State meeting on September 24 in the U.S. The four countries also recently held naval war games under Exercise Malabar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/australia-had-informed-india-about-aukus-says-envoy/article36528674.ece
18 September 2021||Lucknow,||Fresh probe ordered into Mainpuri minor rape case||Two years after a 16-year-old girl, a Class 11 student of a Centre-run school in Mainpuri, was found hanging from the ceiling fan in her hostel, a fresh investigation was launched into her death after the original inquiry conducted by a Special Investigation Team was found to have suffered from “serious lapses”, leading to the suspension of three senior police officers and pending action against another. The girl’s family had alleged that she was sexually assaulted before being assaulted and murdered as she knew “secret things” about the school, and that the police were trying to protect the accused in the case — the principal of the school, the hostel warden, and another person. The police had prima facie called it a case of suicide. The new probe would be conducted under the supervision of the Allahabad High Court, which also directed the police to provide adequate security to the family of the girl as well as the petitioner in the case. The court also said: “It is further directed that in the investigation, all scientific methods should be applied because defective investigation or investigation without collection of proper evidence results in acquittal and therefore only the conviction rate is only 6-7%.” The accused in the case had been booked for murder, attempt to rape and under Sections 7, 8 and 18 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on the complaint of the girl’s father. The court on September 16, after summoning the Uttar Pradesh DGP, noted that the top police officer of the State Mukul Goel had realised that there were “serious lapses in the investigation of the case and thereby three officers have been placed under suspension”. Additionally, an inquiry against the then SP of Mainpuri would be completed at the earliest, the DGP assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fresh-probe-ordered-into-mainpuri-minor-rape-case/article36528876.ece
18 September 2021||Pune,||Uddhav’s ‘future colleague’ remark sparks speculation||Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on Friday raised speculation about a BJP-Sena reunion after he alluded to senior BJP leader and Union Minister Raosaheb Danve as a probable “future colleague” during a public function in Aurangabad. Mr. Thackeray and Mr. Danve, who is the Minister of State for Railways, shared the stage at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Aurangabad zilla parishad building. The Chief Minister began his speech addressing Mr. Danve with the remark, “Present here is my former and if we come together, a future colleague….” Despite Mr. Thackeray later implying that it was just a light-hearted remark as he had met his “old friend” (Mr. Danve) after a long time, the Chief Minister’s statements quickly lent grist for the political mill. “My meaning was just that…if he [Mr. Danve] comes with us then he will be a future colleague…however, time will only decide what is in store,” Mr. Thackeray said, while adding cryptically, “I like the railways for one reason. You cannot leave the tracks and change direction. Yes, but if there is a diversion you can come to our station. But the engine does not leave the tracks.” Speaking later, Mr. Danve said that Mr. Thackeray’s remarks possible hinted at his frustration with his alliance partners (the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress) and that the BJP was willing to renew ties with the Sena owing to their similar ideologies. However, other leaders from both the Opposition BJP and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government preferred a more guarded reaction. Former Chief Minister and the BJP Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council, Devendra Fadnavis said Mr. Thackeray’s statements were further evidence that he was done with his coalition partners. “Perhaps the Chief Minister must have finally realised that he has had it with this unnatural alliance...While anything can happen in politics, I don’t see it happening immediately, at this very moment,” he said. NCP leader Jayant Patil said, “Perhaps Mr. Danve or some other big BJP name is in the process of leaving the party and joining the Sena. So, the CM’s statement is important in that aspect.” He urged the BJP to watch its step.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uddhavs-future-colleague-remark-sparks-speculation/article36528883.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||50,000 youth to get training over 3 years||The Railways on Friday launched ‘Rail Kaushal Vikas Yojana’ programme under which it will train 50,000 youth in the age-group of 18 to 35 over three years. “The aim is to impart training skills to the youth in various trades to bring qualitative improvement. The training will be provided in four trades — electrician, welder, machinist and fitter — and will comprise initial basic training of 100 hours,” Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said. The training would be provided free of cost and participants would be selected based on their matriculation marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/50000-youth-to-get-training-over-3-years/article36528884.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||India sets record with 2 crore jabs in one day||Over two crore doses of COVID vaccine were administered on Friday (till 5 p.m.), the highest single day vaccination tally so far. In his tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, “Vaccine Seva: A gift to the Prime Minister on behalf of the health workers. Today on the birthday of PM Narendra Modi, India has crossed the historical figure of 2 crore vaccines in a day, setting a new record. Well done India!” The WHO’s South-East Asia Regional Office has congratulated India for the vaccination milestone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-sets-record-with-2-crore-jabs-in-one-day/article36528647.ece
18 September 2021||Chennai,||Webinar on computing and data sciences||SAI University will organise a webinar on career opportunities in computing and data sciences in association with The Hindu on Monday (September 20) at 5 p.m., according to a press release. The experts on the panel include Krithi Ramamritham, professor of computer science; S. Sadagopan, International Advisory Board, Sai University; Ashank Desai, founder, vice-chairman and managing director, Mastek and K.V. Ramani, founder and chancellor, Sai University. The session will be moderated by Sen Sumant Utpaul, sub-editor, The Hindu . To register, please visit https://bit.ly/SAIWEB3 or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-computing-and-data-sciences/article36528658.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Petroleum products to remain outside GST||While the GST regime had originally been premised on a revenue-neutral tax rate of 15.5%, Ms. Sitharaman said the actual GST revenues had been going down with the effective tax rate slipping to 11.6% due to changes made in the tax rates on various goods and services over the last few years. “(To be) revenue neutral is to keep it at 15.5% and actually, therefore, if revenues are coming down and you think it is not helping the overall GST collection, what was arrived at the time of introducing GST has been, knowingly or unknowingly, brought down by reduction in tax rates of some items,” she said. To shore up GST revenues, the Council has decided to form two groups of ministers (GoMs) that have to recommend measures within two months. The first one has been tasked with reviewing tax rate rationalisation issues to correct anomalies in the rate structure, while the other will look to tap technology to improve compliance and monitoring. This, Ms. Sitharaman said, will look at e-way bills, Fastags, compliance and composition schemes to plug loopholes. The Compensation Cess levied on automobiles, tobacco products and aerated water, over and above the basic GST rate, was to be tapped for covering the gap between States’ actual revenues and the 14% annual revenue growth for five years they were assured for adopting GST. The Council had decided last year that the Compensation Cess levy will be extended to repay the principal amount as well as the interest payable on these borrowings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petroleum-products-to-remain-outside-gst/article36528659.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||SC Collegium on mission mode to fill vacancies||Besides Justice Bindal, the other judges recommended for elevation as Chief Justices of High Courts are Justice Prakash Srivastava for Calcutta, Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra for the Andhra Pradesh High Court, Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi for Karnataka, Justice Satish Chandra Sharma for Telangana, Justice Ranjit V. More for Meghalaya, Justice Aravind Kumar for Gujarat and Justice R.V. Malimath for Madhya Pradesh. Other than Justice Kureshi, the other Chief Justices of High Courts recommended for transfer include Andhra Pradesh Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami to Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh Chief Justice Mohd. Rafiq to Himachal Pradesh, Chief Justice Indirajit Mohanty of the Rajasthan High Court to Tripura and Meghalaya Chief Justice Biswanath Somadder to Sikkim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-collegium-on-mission-mode-to-fill-vacancies/article36528661.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Plea for joint audit of Kerala temple and trust||“My properties are also with the trust... In April 2014, the Supreme Court’s amicus curiae recommended that 25 years of accounts of both the temple and the trust should be audited... The trust used to care for the day to day expenses of the temple,” senior advocate R. Basant, representing the committee led by the Thiruvananthapuram District Judge, submitted. The committee said that the Supreme Court, in its July 2020 judgment upholding the Travancore royals’ right of shebaitship over the temple, had ordered an audit “as suggested by the amicus curiae”. Mr. Basant argued that the court was referring to an April 15, 2014 report filed by senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, who was then amicus curiae. In his report, the amicus had recommended a “special audit” by former Comptroller and Auditor General Vinod Rai of the 25 years of accounts of both the temple and the SPSTT. Mr. Basant said the temple and the trust could not be viewed separately and needed to be audited together. The court was hearing an application filed by the SPSTT for a declaration that it was an “independent entity distinct from Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple”. The SPSTT, represented by senior advocate Arvind Datar and advocate Shyam Mohan, said it did not come under the administrative control of either the Administrative Committee or the Advisory Committee formed under the Travancore Cochin Hindu Religious Endowments Act of 1950. Mr. Basant contended, “The temple is under great financial constraints. Its monthly expenses come to Rs. 1.25 crore... That is why they [SPSTT] are asking to be excluded.” The court reserved the case for orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-for-joint-audit-of-kerala-temple-and-trust/article36528662.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Afghanistan change not inclusive, says Modi||“The first issue is the change of authority in Afghanistan was not inclusive and this happened without negotiation. This raises questions on the prospects of recognition of the new system. Representation of all sections of Afghans, including women and the minorities, is important,” Mr Modi said, speaking in Hindi. “And that is why it is necessary that the global community should think carefully and collectively while deciding on legitimacy of the new political system in Afghanistan,” he added. He expressed India’s support for the “central role” of the United Nations in the global deliberation regarding Afghanistan. Earlier, addressing the 21st meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), he stated that the fight against radicalisation was necessary for increasing trust among the SCO member-countries. Mr. Modi, who was addressing the meeting in the virtual format, said, “The biggest challenges in this region are related to peace, security and trust deficit and the main reason behind these challenges lies in the increasing radicalisation. The recent developments in Afghanistan have highlighted the challenge. The SCO should take the initiative to counter this problem”. Speaking after Mr. Modi, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan referred to “outstanding disputes” that should be resolved peacefully, and urged the Taliban to fulfil its pledge of building an inclusive government in Kabul. In an indirect reference to India’s abrogation of Article 370, Mr. Khan stated that “unilateral and illegal measures to change the status of disputed territories in violation of Security Council resolutions” did not help regional peace. “Settlement of outstanding disputes is a necessary condition for peace, and indispensable for creating an environment of cooperation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghanistan-change-not-inclusive-says-modi/article36528663.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Bhagwat to visit J&K between Oct. 1 and 3||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat will visit Jammu and Kashmir between October 1 and 3, his first visit to the Union Territory (UT) after the reading down of Article 370. While his programme is still getting firmed up, sources said he would interact with a group of ‘prabudh varg’ (intellectual class) in Jammu. Currently it is the only public programme on his schedule. Sources in the Sangh said the RSS Sarsanghchalak, who usually visits every “prant” (state) once in two years has had to cut down visits over the past year and a half due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. He is expected meet ‘pracharaks’ and heads of RSS affiliates working in the Union Territory and take stock of the changed situation on the ground, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhagwat-to-visit-jk-between-oct-1-and-3/article36528665.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||NCBS rapped for handling of scientific misconduct||An investigation into allegations of data manipulation in research papers and harassment of junior researchers at the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Bengaluru, has concluded that the institution was economical with the truth. While it moved appropriately to retract a problematic paper, the NCBS sought to entirely blame the scientific misconduct on a single researcher when others, including the group leader and principal investigator (PI), too were partially responsible, said an academic committee of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), the parent body of the NCBS, which investigated the affair. The committe, in a release on Thursday, said: “While the PI and the NCBS-TIFR management did handle the scientific retraction professionally, they were not wholly correct in the public statements after the malpractices were discovered. The PI had shared the ‘raw data’ to the PubPeer site in haste and without verification. The statement in the press release of NCBS-TIFR that the malpractice was carried out by only one individual, and the statement made by the PI on her website implying that one author had left her lab abruptly were both incorrect.” The research paper was published online in the well-regarded journal Nature Chemical Biology . Its listed authors were Siladitya Bandyopadhyay, Susmitnarayan Chaudhury, Dolly Mehta and Arati Ramesh, the last of whom was the PI and is faculty at the NCBS. After anomalies were pointed out in the images used in the paper, an investigation committee set up by the NCBS concluded that the images were manipulated by Mr. Bandopadhyay. Mr. Bandopadhyay later said that, while guilty of data fabrication, he was under pressure from Dr. Ramesh. The overall culture of the lab was “oppressive” and he, as well other junior colleagues, were subject to verbal abuse, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncbs-rapped-for-handling-of-scientific-misconduct/article36528927.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Supremacy of bhakti||The Bhagavata purana advocates dhyana or meditation as the most efficacious spiritual sadana for all caught in the sorrows of samsara. The text begins with the entreaty to people to meditate on the Supreme Truth, ‘Satyam Param Dheemahi.’ Dhyana is shown to be inherent in the paths of karma, jnana and bhakti as well. The text discusses the way of life or dharma practised by the realised souls who are steeped in constant meditation of the Lord. They are ever free of evil tendencies like jealousy etc, and have no attraction to false values of life. By imbibing the ideals of selfless dedication to the path of dharma that they exemplify, people in Kali Yuga are sure to gain peace of mind and practise the sadana of dhyana, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. It hails sravana bhakti for, by listening to the glories of the Supreme Lord, the Lord enters into the individual and resides permanently there. That is, the individual becomes very much aware of His presence within himself and this aids his dhyana practice. Moreover, one achieves the purpose of Veda upasana which is bhakti through this text which is compared to a fruit that has grown and ripened in the Tree of the Vedas. There is no better way to imbibe Krishna bhakti than by savouring the delicious taste of Lord’s multifaceted auspicious qualities that permeate every aspect of it. Gradually, the devotee sheds any desire for either worldly gain or even moksha, though generally mukti is sought as a goal. The fruit of meditation now becomes ‘Bhagavat aradhana,’ or worship of Lord, for its sake alone. In keeping with the Guru-sishya tradition, Vyasa, the author had imparted it to his son Suka and through him the narrative has trickled down to gladden the hearts of all devotees seeking peace of mind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supremacy-of-bhakti/article36528875.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India sets record with 2 crore jabs in one day||Over two crore doses of COVID vaccine were administered on Friday (till 5 p.m.), the highest single day vaccination tally so far. In his tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, “Vaccine Seva: A gift to the Prime Minister on behalf of the health workers. Today on the birthday of PM Narendra Modi, India has crossed the historical figure of 2 crore vaccines in a day, setting a new record. Well done India!” The WHO’s South-East Asia Regional Office has congratulated India for the vaccination milestone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-sets-record-with-2-crore-jabs-in-one-day/article36529462.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manipur seeks to delay relief plea for detained activist||The Manipur government on Friday sought an adjournment in the hearing of a plea for compensation filed by the father of Erendro Leichombam, who was detained earlier this year under the National Security Act (NSA). An activist, Mr. Leichombam was detained for two months for his Facebook posts questioning the efficacy of cow dung and cow urine as a cure for COVID-19 in the context of the death of a BJP leader due to the virus. Apex court order Mr. Leichombam was released from custody in July after the apex court had made it clear that he should not spend another night in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-seeks-to-delay-relief-plea-for-detained-activist/article36529246.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool leader moves Delhi HC||Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Friday moved the Delhi High Court against the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to appear before its office in New Delhi next week in connection with the alleged coal mining scam. Mr. Banerjee, in his petition filed jointly with his wife Rujira Banerjee, has challenged the summons order issued by the Assistant Director of the ED, asking for his personal appearance along with a voluminous set of documents, on September 21 in New Delhi. The case arises out of an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation with respect to alleged offences of illegal mining and theft of coal from the leasehold areas of Eastern Coalfields Limited committed in West Bengal by certain individuals. Based on the FIR, the ED has registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR). The couple raised “serious apprehensions about the fairness of the investigation” being conducted by the ED.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-leader-moves-delhi-hc/article36529104.ece
18 September 2021||Srinagar,||Tarigami terms new passport rule arbitrary||CPI(M) leader and Gupkar alliance spokesman M.Y. Tarigami on Friday described the J&K administration’s move to make vigilance clearance mandatory for government staff seeking passport as an “arbitrary and authoritarian decision to keep them under constant fear”. It should be rolled back, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tarigami-terms-new-passport-rule-arbitrary/article36528670.ece
18 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||BJP stakes claim to lone RS seat in U.T.||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday staked claim for the lone Rajya Sabha seat from Puducherry. A resolution to this effect was passed at a meeting of the party here. Shortly after the meeting, Home Minister A. Namassivayam said the resolution urged All India N.R. Congress chief and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy to allow the BJP to field its nominee for the Rajya Sabha election slated for October 4. The Minister said the resolution was passed based on the directions from the party high command. With nine MLAs, three nominated, and with the support of three Independents, the BJP was the major ally in the National Democratic Alliance in the Union Territory. “Maybe, the nominated MLAs cannot vote in the Rajya Sabha polls but we have the maximum number of members in the Assembly,” he said. Later, Mr. Namassivayam along with BJP president V. Saminathan met the Chief Minister and handed over a copy of the resolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-stakes-claim-to-lone-rs-seat-in-puducherry/article36529103.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool leader moves Delhi HC||Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Friday moved the Delhi High Court against the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to appear before it in New Delhi next week in connection with alleged coal mining scam. Mr. Banerjee, in his petition filed jointly with his wife Rujira Banerjee, has challenged the summons issued by the Assistant Director of the ED asking for his personal appearance along with a voluminous set of documents on September 21 in New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-leader-moves-delhi-hc/article36528926.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Vendetta behind pleas, says Asthana||Gujarat cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana has informed the Delhi High Court that he was facing a barrage of social media campaigns and selective litigations over his appointment as Delhi Police Commissioner at the behest of some “undisclosed individual/ rival/ interest”. His appointment has been contested in court by Sadre Alam and NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL). “These petitions are not bonafide public interest litigations (PIL), but are a flagrant abuse of august forum of this Court for some hidden personal vendetta of either of them or of someone on whose behest several attempts are being made against me to derail my career,” Mr. Asthana said in an affidavit. The individuals running the NGO had in recent past for “some oblique and ostensible undisclosed reason” have started a barrage of selective actions against him either “out of some vendetta about which I am not aware or at the behest of some individual/ interest”, he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vendetta-behind-pleas-says-asthana/article36528675.ece
18 September 2021||Mumbai,||87% of Mumbai residents show antibodies||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday announced the findings of the fifth sero-survey conducted in its jurisdiction, the results of which showed that COVID-19 antibodies were found in 90.26% of residents who were fully or partially vaccinated, and in 79.86% of the unvaccinated population. A total of 8,674 samples were collected and tested for the survey. The overall sero-prevalence stood at 86.64%. The sero-prevalence in the slums was 87.02%, while it was 86.22% in other areas. 87% in health workers Among men, the sero-prevalence stood at 85.07%, while it was 88.29% in women. Almost 65% of the study subjects had received COVID-19 vaccines, the survey said. Out of the total number of samples, 20% were of healthcare workers. The sero-prevalence among healthcare workers stood at 87.14%. The study was cross-sectional in nature and included participants above 18 years of age from all 24 wards of Mumbai. The participants were selected by systematic random sampling, and those visiting municipal dispensaries and general practitioners’ clinics in slum and non-slum areas, respectively. The participants were recruited with informed consent. The data collection was done by the means of a mobile software application. Anti-SARS-CoV-2 lg G antibodies was detected using an ELISA-based assay. Despite the high sero-prevalence, the civic body has recommended that people continue following the COVID-19 safety protocols. Precautions such as the use of masks, hand hygiene and maintaining safe distance must be followed, the BMC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/antibodies-detected-in-86-of-mumbai-population/article36528679.ece
18 September 2021||Srinagar,||Militants kill policeman, labourer||Militants killed a policeman and a non-local labourer in two separate incidents in south Kashmir’s Kulgam on Friday. A police spokesman said militants fired upon policeman Bantu Sharma, a resident of Wanpoh, Kulgam, near the Shamford School around 6 p.m. “Mr. Sharma sustained grievous injuries. He was shifted to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries,” the spokesman said. Hours after the killing of the policeman, militants shot dead a non-local labourer, identified as Shankar Kumar Chowdhary, around 9 p.m. at the Nehama area in Kulgam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militants-kill-policeman-labourer/article36528654.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||IS trying to recruit youth online: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has so far probed 37 cases involving Islamic State-inspired modules and made 168 arrests. “Investigation by the NIA has revealed that IS (Islamic State) is trying to spread its tentacles in India through continuous propaganda online. Gullible youth are targeted on open social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram,” the agency said, adding that it can be contacted at 011-24368800 to report such attempts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/is-trying-to-recruit-youth-online-nia/article36528655.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Activist plea: Manipur seeks adjournment||The Manipur government on Friday sought an adjournment in the hearing of a plea for compensation filed by the father of Erendro Leichombam, who was detained earlier this year under the National Security Act (NSA). An activist, Mr. Leichombam was detained for two months for his Facebook posts questioning the efficacy of cow dung and cow urine as a cure for COVID-19 in the context of the death of a BJP leader due to the virus. A Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, while orally remarking about the inconvenience suffered by advocate Shadan Farasat, the petitioner’s lawyer, who was made to wait for the case only for the government side to seek adjournment, scheduled the next hearing on October 5. Mr. Leichombam was released from custody in July after the top court had made it clear that he should not spend another night in prison. The court had agreed to examine the issue of compensation, saying “somebody lost their liberty for over two mon- ths... It is a serious matter”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activist-plea-manipur-seeks-adjournment/article36528925.ece
18 September 2021||Mumbai,||I-T dept conducts raids against ex-Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh||The Income Tax Department on Friday conducted searches at multiple premises linked to former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with a tax evasion investigation, official sources said. The raids were carried out in Mumbai, Nagpur and Jaipur. The 71-year-old former minister is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate too on charges of alleged money laundering and payment of kickbacks.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-dept-conducts-raids-against-ex-maharashtra-minister-anil-deshmukh/article36528877.ece
18 September 2021||Mumbai,||I-T Dept. widens probe against actor Sonu Sood||The Income Tax Department has widened its tax evasion probe against actor Sonu Sood as it raided multiple premises here on Friday, official sources said. Action was launched against the 48-year-old actor and some people linked to him on Wednesday. The searches have been extended to more locations in Mumbai.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-dept-widens-probe-against-actor-sonu-sood/article36528879.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Deadline to link PAN with Aadhaar extended to March 31, 2022||The government on Friday extended the deadline to link PAN with Aadhaar to March 31, 2022. The due date for completion of penalty proceedings under the Income Tax Act has also been extended from September 30, 2021 to March 31, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deadline-to-link-pan-with-aadhaar-extended-to-march-31-2022/article36528928.ece
18 September 2021||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will remain suspended from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday in the following areas in Ariyalur district owing to maintenance work to be taken up by the Tangedco at the Ariyalur, Thaelur, Naduvalur and Senthurai sub-stations: Parts of Ariyalur, Kayaralabad and Rajiv Nagar. Lingathadimedu, Walajahnagaram, Venkatakrishnapuram, Hasthinapuram,Kattupiringiyam, Periya Nagalur, Mannuzhi, Pudupalayam, Kurichinatham, Palampadi, parts of Parpanancheri,Krishnapuram, Rengasamudiram, Kallankurichi, Manakudi, Kadugur, Koppiliyankudikadu, Ayanpudur, Anandavadi, Srinivasapuram, Poiyyathanallur, Kolapadi, Ottakovil, Govindapuram, Mangalam, Thamaraikulam and Kurmanchavadi; V.Kaikatti, Thaelur, K.Arumbavur, Palaiyakudi, Kathankudikadu, Kavanur, Vilangudi, Adhichanur, Nachiarpettai, Nagamangalam, Orathur, Ambalavar Kattalai, Udaiyavartheeyanur, Virkkiramangalam, Gunamangalam, Kadambur, Oriyur, Andipattakadu, Sundakudi, Vazhaikuzhi, Vellipiringiyam, Nerinjikorai, Nayakkarpalayam and Mailandakottai, Sudhamalli, Kasankottai, Kottiyal, Koraikuzhi, Nathaveli, Puliyankuzhi, Kolaiyanur, Sundaresapuram, Kakkapalayam, Parukkal, Azhichakuzhi, Rayampuram, Ponparappi, Kuzhumur, Ninniyur, Cholankurichi, Ayanthathanur,Vangaram, Marudhur, Maruvathur, Veerakkan, Nagalkuzhi, Unjini, Nallampalayam, Anandavadi and Ayanathur, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article36529148.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||R.N. Ravi to be sworn in Governor today||Retired IPS officer Ravindra Narayan Ravi, who was formerly the Governor of Nagaland, is set to be sworn in as the Governor of Tamil Nadu on Saturday morning. Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee will administer the oath of office at a ceremony in the Raj Bhavan here. A note from the Raj Bhavan said Mr. Ravi “continues to discharge” his responsibility as the Union government’s interlocutor for the Naga peace talks. He was appointed as the Deputy National Security Adviser in October 2018. Mr. Ravi, born in Patna, Bihar, joined the Indian Police Service in 1976 and served in Kerala initially. Then, he was shifted to the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Intelligence Bureau. He also served as the Chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee in the Prime Minister’s Office. A look at the history of the Raj Bhavan shows not all Governors completed their appointed term in Tamil Nadu. Multiple Governors served the remainder of their terms in the State. Mr. Ravi’s predecessor Banwarilal Purohit was transferred from Assam to Tamil Nadu in October 2017 and completed that term. He has since taken oath as the Governor of Punjab. Additional charge Ch. Vidyasagar Rao, who was in the Raj Bhavan holding the additional charge besides being the Governor of Maharashtra, since September 2016, had a tumultuous term in Tamil Nadu, with the circumstances that followed the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. He held the office additionally for a year. K. Rosaiah completed his term. Though Surjit Singh Barnala could not complete his first term after being named Governor in 1990, in his second term, he assumed office after P.S. Ramamohana Rao quit in 2004. Mr. Rao resigned a few hours after the Supreme Court declined any interim order on the Jayalalithaa government’s plea to restrain the Union government and the President from transferring him. Three years after assuming office, Justice M. Fathima Beevi too quit in 2001. She had taken a stand favouring former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa but the Union government demanded Ms. Beevi’s resignation. Krishan Kant was the Additional Governor for a brief time before assuming office as the Vice-President in 1997. M. Chenna Reddy died in 1996 while holding the office. Bhishma Narain Singh held the office for two years and so did his predecessor P.C. Alexander. S.L. Khurana held the office for a little over five years from September 1982. His predecessor Sadiq Ali held the post a little less than two years. Prabhudas B. Patwari was the Governor of Tamil Nadu for three years. Mohanlal Sukhadia was not in the post even for a year since his appointment in June 1976. K.K. Shah was the Governor only for a little more than a year. His predecessor Jayachamaraja Wadiyar Bahadur, too, did not complete his term. Bisnuram Medhi, who took over in January 1958, completed his term. A.J. John held the post for a little over a year. His predecessors Sri Prakasa and and Sir Krishna Kumarsingji Bhavsingji held the office only for about four years. Ex-Acting Governors Former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan had served as the Acting Governor after the resignation of Ms. Beevi. Justice M.M. Ismail was the Acting Governor for a few days in 1980. Justice P. Govindan Nair was the Acting Governor for a few days in 1977. Sardar Ujjal Singh had served as the Acting Governor in the 1960s. Chief Justice P. Chandra Reddy was the Acting Governor for three spells when Mr. Bahadur went on a foreign tour in the 1960s. Chief Justice P.V. Rajamannar was the Acting Governor after the death of John.  A note from the Raj Bhavan said Mr. Ravi ‘continues to discharge’ his responsibility as the Union government’s interlocutor for the Naga peace talks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rn-ravi-to-be-sworn-in-governor-today/article36529064.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Talks between T.N. and Kerala cordial: official||The virtual meeting held on Friday between Tamil Nadu and Kerala officials on inter-State water disputes was “cordial and positive”, Public Works Department Secretary Sandeep Saxena said in Chennai. As for the Mullaperiyar dam, Tamil Nadu was to strengthen the baby dam in line with the Supreme Court’s judgment, and an inspection conducted two months ago revealed that 15 trees were to be cut down. “We have sought permission to cut down these trees. The Principal Secretary of Kerala’s Department of Forests assured us that he would consider the request and take a decision,” he said. Ghat road repair As for the ghat road to the baby dam which was not in a good condition, Mr. Saxena said Kerala’s State Board for Wildlife had to give permission, and a meeting of the panel would be called soon. When Tamil Nadu raised the issue of non-release of water from the Neyyar dam since 2004, Kerala pointed to the lack of terms and conditions. Since Kerala passed legislation in 2004 for water-sharing with other States, talks could be held on water release from the Neyyar dam. Addressing journalists after the meeting, Mr. Saxena, who led the Tamil Nadu delegation, said Kerala had agreed, in principle, to Tamil Nadu’s proposal for a new dam in Anamalayar under the Parambikulam-Aliyar project. More talks would be held on some technical issues. As for the Nirar-Nallar project, Kerala was inclined towards the formation of technical committees, he said. “On both Anamalayar and Nirar-Nallar, only issues of technical aspects are remaining.” In the Pandiyar-Punnampuzha project, Tamil Nadu was for a new location and Kerala had said technical experts would visit the spot and provide their inputs, Mr. Saxena said. “Their concern is that people and farmers from both States should get their share of water.” Kerala had agreed, in principle, to the Pandiyar-Punnampuzha project, Mr. Saxena said. Kerala had also suggested the constitution of technical committees for various projects, such as the Parambikulam-Aliyar and the Nirar-Nallar projects. “We are prepared for that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/talks-between-tn-and-kerala-cordial-official/article36529073.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former bureaucrats ask govt. to shelve Adani-Kattupalli port plan||Ten retired civil servants have written to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan to shelve the Adani-Kattupalli port expansion project, contending that it would entail considerable financial risks. The company had proposed to invest Rs. 4,000 crore to develop Kattupalli into a 30-berth port. The former civil servants said Adani’s proposal was an audacious attempt to milk the State exchequer, and a letter from the company, recently brought to light through the RTI Act, hinted at significant risks that the government should be aware of. The bureaucrats said the company had categorically stated in the letter that it would not be possible to get the necessary funds from investors or banks with the existing licence period of 30 years and that it was crucial that the licence period be increased to 99 years or run concurrently with the lease for the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO) land. “ If Adani’s business plan states that the project is viable only with a 99-year concession period, there is a real risk that the Government of Tamil Nadu will be saddled with a white elephant if it were to go ahead with the same project with the standard 30-year concession,” the former officials said in the letter, which was shared with the media. Extending the concession period was also not an option as this would entail a massive revenue loss to the State, they said. They further pointed out that the port proposal had triggered intense opposition from residents of Kattupalli, who are fearful of sea erosion, loss of livelihood and pollution. Flooding risks On the other hand, residents of Chennai are fearful that the proposed developments could aggravate flooding risks and salinity intrusion into aquifers that supply the city. The letter was signed by S.P. Ambrose, M.G. Devasahayam, K.P. Fabian, E.A.S. Sarma, Madhu Bhaduri, Kamal Jaswal, Meena Gupta, Gopalan Balagopal, Sundar Burra and Joy Oommen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-bureaucrats-ask-government-to-shelve-adani-kattupalli-port-plan/article36529053.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records a sharp increase in crimes against women, children||Tamil Nadu registered a significant increase in the number of cases of crime against women and children in 2020, a year when COVID-19 broke out, according to the Crime in India report released by the National Crime Records Bureau. Cases of juveniles in conflict with the law also rose sharply. The increase in Tamil Nadu was despite the decline in the nationwide figures for these three categories. Tamil Nadu was one of the very few States that reported an increase. West Bengal registered the highest increase in crimes against women and children. However, Tamil Nadu fared better in the rate of crime, which refers to the number of incidents per lakh population. Rates of crime against women and children in Tamil Nadu were among the lowest in the country as compared to other major States. Activists said the increase in Tamil Nadu was in line with the anecdotal evidence of the rise in crime against women and children during the pandemic and the better registration of cases. The registered cases of crime against women in the State increased by 11.7% between 2019 and 2020. The increase was only 1.9 % in the year before. Crimes against children increased by 4.8% in 2020, compared with the marginal decline of -0.4% between 2018 and 2019. The trend of juveniles getting into conflict with law has been increasing in the State over the past few years. But the rise was 26.4% in 2020. Madurai, in particular, reported an abnormally high number of such cases. The district accounted for 33% of all such cases in the State. C. Jim Jesudoss, child rights activist and executive director of the Madurai-based child rights organisation Sakthi Vidiyal, said the reported rise in crimes against children would still be a fraction of the actual number during the pandemic.He said children were thrown into the adult space during the pandemic with the loss of their space like schools. “They could not go out with other children to play. Even organisations like ours, which support children facing vulnerabilities, had to scale down operations considerably at the peak of the pandemic,” he said. This loss of space increased children’s vulnerabilities. One of the priorities of the Integrated Child Protection Scheme was to reduce vulnerabilities, but this task was difficult now. The pandemic was not over yet, he said. The government could use messaging through mass media and social media platforms to sensitise parents. In the long run, community involvement should be encouraged.  The reported rise in crimes against children would still be a fraction of the actual number C. Jim Jesudosschild rights activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-a-sharp-increase-in-crimes-against-women-children/article36529441.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Krishna water release to Tamil Nadu will be stopped as reservoirs fill up||Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh will stop flowing into city reservoirs in a couple of days. The release of water from Kandaleru Reservoir in Andhra Pradesh has been reduced as waterbodies feeding the city are brimming with water. On Friday, the State border of the Kandaleru-Poondi (K-P) canal at Uthukottai, Tiruvallur, received nearly 407 cubic feet per second (cusecs) of Krishna water. In a few days, this will be reduced gradually and inflow into Poondi Reservoir through the canal will cease. Officials of the Water Resources Department said it was decided to reduce water discharge from Kandaleru Reservoir to a minimal of 400 cusecs as the needs were limited both in localities en route. “We have sufficient storage in all five reservoirs that feed drinking water to Chennai. We have almost filled the waterbodies with Krishna water and from catchment areas even though the northeast monsoon is more than a month away. We have to ask for water only next year depending on the monsoon rainfall,” an official said. As on Friday, the five reservoirs together have a storage of 9,594 million cubic feet (mcft), which is 81.60% of their total capacity. On the same day last year, the reservoirs only had a combined storage of 3,933 mcft. Of this, storage at Poondi Reservoir has climbed up to 83.57% of its capacity. Besides Krishna water and catchment areas, the reservoir also received water from other sources in Andhra Pradesh, like Ammapalli Dam across Kosasthalaiyar river. Chennai has received 4,426 mcft of Krishna water for this spell since July 1. It has aided in maintaining the water level in the reservoirs and also steady rise in the city’s supply of water. The Metrowater is now providing water supply of 974.17 million litres a day and looks to step it up to 1,000 mld in the coming days with ample resources, including in Veeranam tank, which augments the city’s water needs. The Water Resources Department is also slowly building up storage at Cholavaram Reservoir through Baby canal as the waterbody will also get inflows from the Tamaraipakkam anicut during the monsoon. With the K-P canal bed expected to dry up, maintenance work is set to resume soon as part of monsoon preparedness work, wherein eroded banks of the canal would be repaired. “We also plan to resume the Rs. 24-crore project to construct canal lining. About 40% of the work was completed before the K-P canal started receiving water,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishna-water-release-to-tn-will-be-stopped-as-reservoirs-fill-up/article36529051.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Any government oversight may rob the media of independence’||The Madras High Court on Thursday observed that an oversight mechanism of the government may rob the media of its independence, and “the fourth pillar, so to say, of democracy may not at all be there”. Chief Justice Sanjeeb Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu made the observation while passing interim orders on the writ petitions filed by Carnatic vocalist T.M. Krishna, Digital News Publishers Association and former Editor of The Hindu Mukund Padmanabhan challenging the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The judges ordered that any action taken to block a website or a digital platform under Rule 3, read with Rule 7, of the IT Rules, 2021, would be subject to the result of the cases challenging the Rules. The judges also recorded the submission of Additional Solicitor-General R. Sankaranarayanan that an order passed by Bombay High Court on August 14, staying the operation of Rule 9 (1) and (3), would have a pan-India effect and not just within the territorial jurisdiction of that High Court. The Bench pointed out that Rule 9 (3) provides not only self-regulation by publishers but also an oversight mechanism by the Centre. Stating that the petitioners were wary of the mechanism, the judges said: “ Prima facie there is substance in the petitioners’ grievance that an oversight mechanism to control the media by the government may rob the media of its independence and the fourth pillar, so to say, of democracy may not at all be there.” The judges also said nothing more need be said on such aspects of the matter since Bombay High Court had already stayed the operation of the Rule 9 (3).   After the Additional Solicitor-General submitted that the Centre had filed an application before the Supreme Court to transfer to it all cases pending before various High Courts challenging the Rules and the application was likely to be taken up in early October, the judges adjourned the cases to the last week of October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/any-government-oversight-may-rob-the-media-of-independence/article36529440.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vegetables to be grown at IMH, will be sold to govt. hospitals||Steps will be taken to cultivate vegetables on the campus of the Institute of Mental Health (IMH), and they will be supplied to major government hospitals in the city, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. Noting that many residents of IMH had improved with treatment but had no place to go due to lack of acceptance and neglect by families, he said, “We will bring such residents together and take steps to raise vegetables on the vacant lands available on the campus... We found that tapioca, varieties of plantain, lady’s fingers and brinjal grow well on the campus.” The vegetables raised would be supplied to major hospitals, such as the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital, the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital and the Government Royapettah Hospital, he told reporters after inaugurating both the Rvive Cafe, a business run by residents of the IMH, and the World Suicide Prevention Day event on Friday. “The profit from the sale will be deposited in the bank accounts of the residents,” he said. The Minister added that work would commence soon in coordination with the Agriculture Department and the Greater Chennai Corporation. He said A. Vetriazhagan, MLA (Villivakkam), had put forward the need to upgrade the IMH on a par with the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, in the Assembly. “The IMH is spread over 47 acres of land. More than 20 acres is vacant. We will develop it as a mental health research centre and hospital,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetables-to-be-grown-at-imh-will-be-sold-to-govt-hospitals/article36529042.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,669 fresh COVID-19 infections and 17 more deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 1,669 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Twenty-five of the 38 districts did not report deaths due to COVID-19. Chennai, after three days, reported under 200 fresh infections — 196 people tested positive, taking the city’s tally to 5,47,268. Coimbatore led the table with 205 cases. There were 132 cases in Erode, 115 in Chengalpattu and 110 in Thanjavur. In Tiruppur, 97 people tested positive, while cases rose marginally from 56 to 72 in Namakkal. There were 63 cases in Salem and 57 in Tiruvallur. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 26,42,030. Of the 17 deaths reported in the State, Chennai logged three, while there were two each in Coimbatore and Tiruppur. Among the deceased was a 32-year-old woman from Ariyalur, who did not have co-morbidities. She was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on August 20 and died of COVID-19 pneumonia on September 16. At present, 16,843 people are under treatment. With another 1,565 people discharged after treatment, the total figure stood at 25,89,899. In the last 24 hours, 1,56,804 samples were tested, taking the total count to 4,49,88,345. As many as 3,10,428 people, including 1,90,392 in the 18-44 age group and 90,190 people aged 45-59, were vaccinated. With this, the total coverage at government centres stood at 3,94,77,680. With the next mega vaccination camp all set to be held on September 19, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said the State had not received vaccine supply as expected. Last time, 29 lakh doses were available. The State, as on Friday morning, had 20 lakh doses, and after utilisation for two days, would have about 12-13 lakh doses for the camp, he said.  With the next mega vaccination camp set to be held on September 19, the State has not received vaccine supply as expected Ma. SubramanianHealth Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-1669-fresh-covid-19-infections-and-17-more-deaths/article36529055.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Another look at social justice||The idea of social justice has acquired a renewed focus in the State with government measures such as the administration of the social justice pledge and the formation of a panel to monitor the implementation of the concept. Over 50 years ago, the first Backward Classes Commission (1969-70), headed by former civil servant A.N. Sattanathan, viewed it in its own way while addressing the issue of, what came to be called later, the creamy layer. In Volume I of its report, the panel said: “If this upper crust in each caste is not removed from competing with the less privileged, the object of social justice, especially distributive justice, will not be achieved.” Pointing out that “an upper strata” of educated and comparatively well-off members was to be found “in every caste, in smaller or larger number,” the Sattanathan Commission wanted the government to do “serious thinking” about allowing castes with a “substantial upper strata who cannot complain of economic, social or environmental handicaps” to get protection further. “Social justice will be abused and rendered really ineffective if State policy is not reviewed from time to time,” the Commission observed, coming up with two parameters — annual income and size of landholding — to determine the “advanced section in each Backward Caste”. In May 1971, the then Chief Minister, M. Karunanidhi, announced the quantum of reservation for Backward Classes (BC) from 25% to 31%, two less than what was recommended by the panel, and for Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST), from 16% to 18%. It was left to his successor, M.G. Ramachandran, to deal with the notion of “removing the upper crust,” by getting an order issued in July 1979, fixing the ceiling of annual income at Rs. 9,000 for becoming eligible to enjoy the fruits of reservation. After the AIADMK faced a drubbing in the 1980 Lok Sabha poll, he not only withdrew the order but also enhanced the quantum for BCs to 50%. His government had formed another BC Commission, with J.A. Ambasankar, also a former IAS officer, as the chairperson. The Ambasankar Commission (1982-85), which hit the headlines for its suggestions to restrict the quantum to 32% for BCs and deleting 24 communities, emphasised the need for “compartmental reservation”. It pointed out that a review of admissions to professional courses and recruitment to government services had revealed that a large number of castes/classes — more than 125 — had failed to get any representation for three consecutive years (1980-83), which was the study period of the panel. Nearly 30 years later, the State Backward Classes Commission, headed by M.S. Janarthanam, former judge of the Madras High Court, went into the aspect of the creamy layer in reservation. In its report of July 2011, the panel felt that “the stage for the application of the creamy layer” in providing reservation had “not been reached” in the State. If the concept was adopted, this would lead to “meritorious Backward Class candidates, who could have had the opportunity of getting selected,” losing their chance. In the recently-concluded Assembly session, the State government informed the House that it was “always opposed” to the exclusion of creamy layer by the Centre in quota for OBCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-look-at-social-justice/article36529057.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bangladeshi woman undergoes robotic bariatric surgery||A 50-year-old Bangladeshi national recently underwent bariatric surgery at Apollo Hospitals here. The woman, who weighed 124 kg and had multiple comorbidities, has since been discharged and is doing well. Taniya Yasmeen had other medical conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, gall bladder stones, seizures and thyroidism. She had undergone hysterectomy and had her gall bladder removed. She told reporters on Friday that she had been under treatment for obesity and related health issues for 16 years. Sometime ago, she was surgically treated for pressure in the brain’s blood vessels but her condition became critical soon as she began developing seizures. Doctors, who treated her for pressure in the brain, said her obesity was causing serious health complications. During the lockdown, she added more weight and was confined to a wheelchair. She was then referred to Apollo Hospitals. Raj Palaniappan, director and lead bariatric surgeon at the hospital, said she underwent robotic gastrointestinal surgery done through three robotic ports. He said the patient had been progressively gaining weight since 18 years of age. Of late, she had begun developing numbness in the right lower limb and sleep apnea. According to him, robotic surgery was the only solution as it would reduce post-operative complications. The precision of robotic suturing helped achieve perfect closure. The surgery that was done on September 8, lasted 150 minutes and Ms. Yasmeen had an uneventful post-surgical recovery period. She was discharged three days later, and will have to come for periodic reviews. Apollo Group vice-chairman Preetha Reddy said history had been created with the current surgery. “Over 7,000 robotic surgeries have been performed within our system,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bangladeshi-woman-undergoes-robotic-bariatric-surgery/article36529044.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to study fiscal powers’ distribution||The Tamil Nadu government is in the process of establishing a council of eminent economists, legal luminaries and scholars to help refine its understanding and positions regarding the social pact between the Union government and the States in terms of the distribution of fiscal powers, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said at the 45th meeting of the GST Council. Mr. Rajan, who attended the meeting virtually, said the burden of GST compliance had fallen disproportionately on small taxpayers, in terms of both complexity and technology. Taxpayers, especially small traders, had consistently expressed difficulty in using their accounts on the GSTN portal because all content was only in English, he said. They were also compelled to avail the services of tax consultants, thus increasing their cost of compliance, while simultaneously denying them complete control over filing of tax returns, he said. “In the four years since the inception of the GST, no substantive efforts have been made with respect to the provision of services in Tamil,” he said. Citing Item 8 of Annexure-I of the agenda, Mr. Rajan opposed the 18% GST on coconut oil (when packed and sold in a unit container of less than 1,000 ml), classified as hair oil, “irrespective of its actual end use”. “We find this recommendation to be perverse and lacking in either logic or fairness,” he said, adding that Tamil Nadu was one of the largest producers of coconuts and coconut oil, along with Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Pointing out that imported oils, such as palm oil or olive oil, were exempt from import duties, he asked, “Why is a south Indian oil being discriminated against, while oil imported from foreign countries gets the 5% rate in any quantity?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-study-fiscal-powers-distribution/article36529075.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||40-year-old man arrested for murdering wife in Royapettah||Personnel from the Ice House police station on Friday arrested a 40-year-old man for murdering his wife in Royapettah following a domestic quarrel. Police identified the accused as D. Subramani, of Tindivanam, Villupuram, a mason by profession, who was married to Kanimozhi, of Royapettah. The couple quarrelled frequently. On Friday, after they fought, he took a roller stone and threw it on her head before fleeing. Kanimozhi succumbed to her injuries before help could arrive. On her brother A. Kandavel’s complaint, the police arrested Subramani and remanded him in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/40-year-old-man-arrested-for-murdering-wife-in-royapettah/article36529040.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teams start monitoring crowding points in Chennai||The Greater Chennai Corporation and the police have formed 123 static teams to monitor crowding and ensure adherence to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for COVID-19 safety. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said 123 crowding points were identified jointly by the police and the civic body. Three fever surveillance workers and a police personnel started monitoring each of the crowding points from Friday. The static teams will collect fine from violators. “Our daily fine rate has gone up from 300 individuals per day to 800-1,000 individuals per day,” said Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Vishu Mahajan. The Corporation and the police have monitored crowding using camera fittings in various parts of the city. Personnel at the Integrated Command and Control Centre have also been monitoring crowding points. Another list of locations has also been prepared by the civic agency. The most important crowding points include Ranganathan Street in T. Nagar, N.S.C. Bose Road to Mint Street, Luz Corner, Spencer Plaza junction, Royapettah Clock Tower, Ritchie Street, Egmore railway station, Mylapore MRTS station, Villivakkam bus stand, Kelly’s junction, Chetpet signal, Panaiyur junction, Vadapalani bus stand, Porur junction, Jeenis Road and Annai Velankanni Church. Of the 5,558 inspections conducted in marriage halls, at least 443 violations were found and a total fine of Rs. 8.1 lakh was collected. Most violations were reported in Royapuram zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/static-teams-start-monitoring-crowding-points-across-the-city/article36529046.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for sharing obscene video||Personnel from the Neelankarai police station on Friday arrested a 25-year-old for sending an obscene video in a WhatsApp group meant for schoolchildren to share information on online classes. Recently, teachers and parents were shocked to see obscene content being shared from a mobile phone used by a class 7 student on WhatsApp. The head of the school took up the matter with the police immediately, and lodged a complaint. Investigation by the police revealed that at the time the content was shared, the student in question was at school and he did not use the mobile phone. The investigation disclosed that the boy was staying at grandfather’s house and used his grandfather’s mobile phone for attending online classes. They found that the boy’s uncle, M. Pasupathi, had shared the video to malign his relatives over a property dispute. The police arrested him for offences under the Information Technology Act. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-sharing-obscene-video/article36529052.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal urges CM to safeguard livelihood of Ford workers||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Friday said that Ford Company, which employs around 4,000 workers directly and 25,000 workers indirectly, should not be allowed to shut down their factory citing losses after enjoying all the subsidies, easing of regulations, institutional support provided by the State government. In a statement, Mr. Haasan said that State government and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin must intervene in this issue and ensure that the livelihoods of the workers are taken care of. “After 25 years, Ford Company has announced suddenly that it would be ending its operations in Tamil Nadu. This decision has left the workers and their families devastated. People in Tamil Nadu are already facing job losses, economic hardships and losses in revenue due to COVID-19 pandemic. There is no way that all these workers will get other jobs in a short time,” he said. Mr. Haasan said that the government offers significant subsidies and support to industries to ensure that workers get permanent livelihood. “It is not acceptable for companies to say that ‘we will take the profits, but if we face losses, we will shut down and leave’. Then, there would be no meaning to the slew of subsidies, institutional support, easing of regulations, water and other resources to the company. The State government must show same interest in ensuring livelihood of the workers…that it shows in attracting investments to the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-urges-cm-to-safeguard-livelihood-of-ford-workers/article36529436.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Counselling for special categories begins||The Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) committee on Friday started counselling for special categories for the academic year 2021-22. They include eminent sportspersons, persons with disability, wards of ex-servicemen and students of government schools. Aspirants will complete filling of their choice of college/course by 5 p.m. on September 21, and the TNEA will make tentative seat allotments on September 22. Candidates must confirm the allotments by 5 p.m. on September 23, and the provisional allotments will be made the next day. As many as 14,788 aspirants are expected to take part in the first round of general counselling. The round will begin on September 27. There will be four rounds of nine days each. Candidates will be given nearly four days to make payment. For each round, the time to make payment ends at 5 p.m. on the fourth day. Aspirants will begin filling of their choice on October 1 for the first round. They can fill in their choice until 5 p.m. on October 2. On October 3, a tentative allotment of seats will be made, and candidates will have time till 5 p.m. on October 4 to confirm the allotment. The provisional allotment list will be published on October 5. The second round begins on October 1, the third round on October 5 and the final round on October 9. The provisional seat allotment for the final round will be made on October 17. A total of 30,438 candidates will take part in the second round; 40,830 aspirants in the third; and 50,854 in the fourth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counselling-for-special-categories-begins/article36529061.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to probe illegal sand mining near Marina beach||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has constituted a Joint Committee to probe whether any illegal beach sand mining was being done at the eco-sensitive zone in the mouth of Cooum river near Napier Bridge in Chennai, and to inspect the area during different times to ascertain if any illegal activities was going on. The Bench issued the directions on an application filed by Selvaraj Kumar, based on a media report which stated that beach sand was being illegally mined from Marina beach at Napier Bridge, and tipper lorries were being used to carry sand from the river mouth. Counsel for the State government opposed the applicant’s submissions, saying the allegation wasmala fide. The counsel submitted that the government was very serious about protecting the environment, and no activity affecting the environment would be encouraged. The Tribunal, however, constituted a Joint Committee to ascertain whether any illegal mining is being done in the eco-sensitive zone, if any heavy vehicles, like excavators, earth removers and others, were being used for sea mining, even if by authorities. The NGT directed the authorities to seize the vehicles if they are parked in the eco-sensitive zone or impose appropriate penalties. The Bench said even if any permitted activity was being carried out, the Committee should look at whether it was being done after obtaining necessary permissions and clearances as per guidelines. It has been directed to assess the environmental damage and compensation to be levied in case of violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-probe-illegal-sand-mining-near-marina-beach/article36529048.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 held for selling ganja in Pazhavanthangal||Personnel from the Pazhavanthangal police station on Friday arrested a gang of five men for possession of marijuana for the purpose of selling. Following information that a huge quantity of marijuana was being smuggled, a special team of police mounted surveillance in Pazhavanthangal. On Thursday, Arun Pandian, 24, Kartik, 21, Tamilselvan, 24, Vijai, 24, and Jaabaganpet Rakesh, 21, were caught near the Pazhavanthangal subway trying to sell marijuana. The police said the contraband was smuggled in from Andhra Pradesh and sold within the city limits. Two kilograms of marijuana was seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-held-for-selling-ganja-in-pazhavanthangal/article36529049.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, BJP to face polls together||BJP Tamil Nadu president K. Annamalai and Union Minister of State for Fisheries L. Murugan on Friday called on AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami in Chennai. They were accompanied by former Union Minister of State Pon. Radhakrishnan and senior BJP leader Kesava Vinayagam. The leaders reportedly discussed the alliance for the rural local bodies elections in the nine newly carved districts. Earlier in the day, Mr. Annamalai told reporters that there was no confusion in the alliance. “We will face the local bodies elections together and will win handsomely,” he said. AIADMK leader and former Tamil Nadu Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar told the media that the alliance was in tact and all parties, except the PMK, were part of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-bjp-to-face-polls-together/article36529056.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Speaker gives palmseeds to Chief Minister||Assembly Speaker M. Appavu handed over palmseeds to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat here on Friday in keeping with his statement in the House. During the presentation of the Agriculture Budget in the Assembly, Mr. Appavu had said he would provide one lakh palmseeds to the government. Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam and Agriculture Secretary C. Samayamoorthy were present. The State government is planning to plant over 76 lakh palmseeds in 30 districts. Greetings to PM Mr. Stalin, separately, extended birthday greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Birthday greetings to our Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Wishing him a long and healthy life,” Mr. Stalin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speaker-gives-palmseeds-to-chief-minister/article36529060.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Course on social justice||The Tamil Nadu Open University will offer a certificate and short-term course in social justice from the current academic year. Vice-Chancellor K. Parthasarathy announced this on Friday. The course is being offered under the guidance of K. Veeramani, Chancellor of the Thanjavur-based Periyar Maniammai University. No tuition fee will be charged for the courses, Mr. Parthasarathy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/course-on-social-justice/article36529062.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poll panel warns against auctioning of posts||Following media reports on “auctioning of posts” in the rural local bodies ahead of the elections in nine districts, the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (TNSEC) on Friday issued a stern warning against such illegal acts. It asked officials to foil such attempts. In a communication to the District Election Officers, the TNSEC referred to the reports, and pointed out that auctioning of posts went against the Constitution and the principles of democracy; hence, it was not only condemnable but also punishable. The TNSEC also instructed district officials to take steps against such illegal acts and sensitise members of the public to democratic principles. It also asked them to take measures to prevent such attempts in the future. Cooperation sought The TNSEC urged people for their cooperation in the conduct of the elections in a democratic manner. The rural local body elections in the newly created districts (post bifurcation) of Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi would be held in two phases on October 6 and 9. Nominations are being received since September 15.  TNSEC points out that auctioning of posts goes against the Constitution and the principles of democracy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-panel-warns-against-auctioning-of-posts/article36529018.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Free skill development programme begins at Podanur railway workshop||Fourteen candidates will receive entry-level skill development training free of cost at the Signal and Telecommunication Workshop in Podanur under the Rail Kaushal Vikas Yojana (RKVY) initiative, which was launched across 75 centres by Union Minister of Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw on Friday. This is one of the two railway workshops from Southern Railway that was selected for this initiative, the other being Carriage and Wagon Workshop at Perambur in Chennai. An official from the Podanur workshop told The Hindu that the 14 candidates were mostly from rural backgrounds in Tamil Nadu and Kerala and will be provided training in two trades – electrician and machinist – over the next three weeks. In the inaugural batch, seven candidates will receive training for electrician trade and seven for machinist trade from two dedicated supervisors and other experts at the Podanur workshop, he said. The training programme will comprise theoretical and practical learning and the candidates will be awarded a certificate at the end of the course. The RKVY initiative will continue for the next three years and the Signal and Telecommunication Workshop in Podanur expects to train around 20 candidates per batch in the subsequent sessions, according to the official. A press release from the Southern Railway said that participants were selected from applications received online on its website. Candidates who have passed Class X and in the age group of 18 to 35 were eligible to apply. However, the candidates cannot claim to seek employment in Railways on the basis of this training, the release said. Southern Railway published notification through newspaper advertisements on August 18 and invited applications from eligible candidates with September 15 as the last date for application. The option of online application through a centralised website for the RKVY training programme will be made available soon, according to the release. R. Deepa (22), a graduate from Dharmapuri district, who applied for the machinist programme at the Podanur workshop, said that she applied for this programme based on her relative’s suggestion. Abishek (22) from Kozhikode in Kerala, who had completed his B.Tech in Information Technology, said that he plans to appear for Railway Recruitment Board examination after completing this training programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-skill-development-programme-begins-at-podanur-railway-workshop/article36529091.ece
18 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Periyar birth anniversary observed||Garlanding of Periyar’s statue and the Social Justice Day pledge by political parties, various organisations and government establishments marked his birth anniversary on Friday. At the Coimbatore Collectorate, Collector G.S. Sameeran administered the pledge to employees, said a release. At the Coimbatore Corporation, Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara administered the pledge to the civic body’s employees. Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam’s general secretary Ku.Ramakrishnan led his organisation members in garlanding the statue by sporting a mask with the image of M.K. Stalin, to honour the Chief Minister for having declared the day as Social Justice Day. Former MLA and DMK Coimbatore urban east district in-charge N. Karthik garlanded the statue of Periyar at Gandhipuram. Former Minister Pongalur N. Palanisamy and other party leaders were present. At Vaikom in Kerala, Kottayam Collector P.K. Jayasree garlanded a photo of Periyar at his memorial, said a release from the Coimbatore district administration. At a function held there on behalf of Tamil Nadu’s Department of Information and Publicity, biographies of Periyar and former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi were gifted to Ms. Jayasree on behalf of the Coimbatore Collector. The release, quoting Ms. Jayasree, said Periyar was a tall leader in the country who had fought hard for establishing social justice. It was because of his efforts in the temple entry movement that a place such as Vaikom came to be known across the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/periyar-birth-anniversary-observed/article36529087.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE Department recovers temple land in Coimbatore||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department on Friday recovered nearly nine acre of temple land worth around Rs. 6 crore from encroachers near Perur here. Sources said the land at Thenkarai village belonging to Karivaratharaja Perumal temple had remained encroached by three farmers for over a decade. They were cultivating turmeric, onions and bananas on that plot. HR&CE Joint Commissioner for Coimbatore Zone R. Senthilvelavan had ordered the removal of encroachments on Thursday, based on which the officials visited the plot for recovery on Friday. They held talks with the farmers in the presence of officials from Revenue Department and the Perur police and recovered the land, the sources said. In Tiruppur district, HR&CE Joint Commissioner for Tiruppur Zone N. Natarajan on Thursday ordered the suspension of five trustees of Kinathadi Vinayagar Temple in Udumalpet for encroaching 12.54 acre belonging to the temple. A release said Manickam, Palaniappan, Mariappan, Thangavelu and Ganesan were appointed as hereditary trustees of the temple in 1983. And they had encroached upon the temple property since then. Appointed The Executive Officer of Mariamman Temple, Udumalpet, was appointed as temporary in-charge for the temple, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hrce-dept-recovers-temple-land/article36529080.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held for poster against Periyar||The police on Friday arrested two Bharat Sena functionaries in connection with pasting poster against social reformer ‘Periyar’ E.V. Ramasamy in Kattoor here on Thursday. The arrested were identified as Muthukrishnan (30) and Tamilarasan (31). Based on information, the police booked the two under Section 505 (Statements conducing public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections of Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act and remanded them in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-poster-against-periyar/article36529093.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hike in raw material prices affects MSMEs in engg. sector||For the micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) in the engineering sector, continuous hike in raw material prices is affecting business despite demand in the market. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president M.V. Ramesh Babu said orders were good across sectors, except pumpsets and valves. Even export orders were encouraging. However, there was no decrease in prices of raw materials. The recent steep hike was in prices of aluminium. “We have represented through different forums. But there is no measure to bring down prices and imports are also not feasible,” he said. Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises president C. Sivakumar said orders continued to be good even for job working units and smaller industries. However, raw material prices were high, affecting the profits and leading to uncertainties for the MSMEs. While the prices of ferrous items remained stable for the last few weeks, availability was an issue, he said. In the case of non-ferrous items, prices were shooting up. For instance, cost of aluminium remained stable at Rs. 205 a kg for two months. It increased to Rs. 245 a kg last week and on Thursday, it was Rs. 260 a kg. K.V. Karthik, president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association, said there was a sharp drop in demand for not only agricultural pumps, but also domestic pumps. Raw material prices had seen almost 100 % jump in the last one year and it had hit the MSMEs badly. The government should control the raw material prices for the growth of the industry, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hike-in-raw-material-prices-affects-msmes-in-engg-sector/article36529078.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 7,500 beneficiaries get treatment under Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam scheme||In just over a month following the launch of the ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ healthcare scheme, over 7,500 beneficiaries have received treatment for non-communicable diseases at their respective residences in Coimbatore district, according to the district administration. A release said the scheme was launched by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin via videoconferencing at Nanjundapuram in the district on August 5. As of September 10, personnel from the Health Department visited the residences of 7,522 beneficiaries of all age groups across Coimbatore district, the release said. The beneficiaries included 3,814 patients with hypertension, 1,456 diabetics, 1,741 patients with diabetes and hypertension, 268 patients in need of physiotherapy and 243 patients who were provided with miscellaneous treatments. ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme entails door-to-door visits by women public health workers, women health volunteers trained by Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women, physiotherapists and nurses to provide healthcare for those aged 45 years and above for non-communicable diseases and those with infirmities. The scheme was launched in eight districts including Coimbatore on August 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-7500-beneficiaries-get-treatment-under-makkalai-thedi-maruthuvam-scheme/article36529076.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths, 205 new cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Friday reported two COVID-19 deaths and 205 new cases, which took the overall tally to 2,39,820. The two deaths took the district’s toll to 2,308. According to the Health Department, the district had 2,218 active cases and 213 patients were reported to have recovered on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 97 fresh cases on Friday, which took the overall tally to 91,841. The toll went up to 946 after two more deaths were reported. The district had 913 active cases and 124 patients recovered on Friday. Thirty-six persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Friday. The district’s overall case tally stood at 32,288 and as many as 366 persons were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-205-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article36529097.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industries to participate in hybrid event||Techtextil India 2021, a hybrid event to be held in Mumbai from November 25 to 27, will see participation of textile industries from Tamil Nadu. A release from Messe Frankfurt India said the government would promote and highlight investment prospects in the State at the event. Pooja Kulkarni, Chief Executive Officer of Guidance Tamil Nadu, said, “The strengths of Tamil Nadu are in agro-tech, build-tech, indu-tech and medi-tech. With 50% of India’s textile mills in Tamil Nadu and knitting, weaving and medical devices manufacturing in Coimbatore and Tiruppur, the region provides immense opportunities for Meditech investments.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-to-participate-in-hybrid-event/article36529082.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tourist falls to death||A tourist died of injuries he suffered in a fall at Valparai on Friday. Forest Department officials said A. Dineshkumar (39) visited Valparai along with his friends and they parked the vehicle near Waterfalls Estate area. He alighted from the vehicle, slipped on a rock and sustained injuries on forehead and nose. The Forest staff and police rushed him to a local hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourist-falls-to-death/article36529083.ece
18 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||BU common entrance test on September 20||For the common entrance test to be held on September 20 for admission to M.Phil. and Ph.D. programmes, details were available on its websitewww.b-u.ac.in, said a release from the Bharathiar University. It would conduct the entrance test online between 11 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. Candidates who had applied for the test could download examination details, general instructions, etc. from the website starting Friday. They could also check the details they had submitted online like the PG course certificates, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bu-common-entrance-test-on-september-20/article36529077.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in elephant attack near Coimbatore||A 63-year-old man was trampled to death by an elephant outside his residence at Viraliyur village here in the early hours of Friday. Forest Department officials said the lone tusker left the Boluvampatti block-II reserve forest within Boluvampatti forest range and reached Viraliyur village near Perur, which is located one km away from the forest area. At 1.15 a.m. on Friday, the tusker attacked R. Chinnasamy, a farmer, who was sleeping outside his residence. He suffered injuries on his chest and right leg, officials said. Forest staff who were patrolling the area rushed him to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. The family of the deceased would be given an immediate relief of Rs. 50,000 out of the Rs. 4 lakh solatium given by the State government, according to the officials. The tusker is being closely monitored by the Forest Department and the residents of Viraliyur village were requested to exercise caution, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-in-elephant-attack/article36529079.ece
18 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination camp on Sunday||Coimbatore Corporation will hold a mega COVID-19 vaccination camp at 266 places on Sunday. A press release from the civic body appealed to the public to make use of the opportunity by getting vaccinated at the camps to be held from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. It had divided the 100 wards into 32 segments and assigned a medical officer to oversee the vaccination. It would also establish five static camps, one at Shanti Gears in Ondipudur. For more details, dial 1077 or 0422-2302323 or 97505-54321.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-camp-on-sunday/article36529089.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held for attempt to murder||Tiruppur City Police on Friday arrested two persons on charges of attempting to murder the owner of a garment printing unit. The police said Srikanth (42), who was running the unit in Anaippalayam, was attacked by a gang of four men on Thursday night. The police registered a case and arrested Nagaraj (22) and Sakthivel (24) on Friday. Efforts were on to arrest the remaining accused, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-attempt-to-murder/article36529084.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held for attempt to murder||Tiruppur City Police on Friday arrested two persons on charges of attempting to murder the owner of a garment printing unit. The police said Srikanth (42), who was running the unit in Anaippalayam, was attacked by a gang of four men on Thursday. The police arrested Nagaraj (22) and Sakthivel (24) on Friday. Efforts were on to arrest the remaining accused, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-attempt-to-murder/article36529169.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Award presented||Chairman of Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology S. Thangavelu was conferred with the ‘Lifetime Achievement’ award at Indo-Serbia Engineers’ Day celebration. A release said the event was organised by Indian Technology Congress Association, Committee for Space Programme Development of Republic of Serbia, TSC Technologies and World CanSat/Rocketry Consortium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-presented/article36529085.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. DC relieved of duty||Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara on Friday relieved Deputy Commissioner G. Vimalraj from Corporation services. In his proceedings, Mr Sunkara said he was relieving Mr. Vimalraj from duty for official reasons. It was only on July 14 this year that Mr. Vimalraj, a district revenue officer-cadre officer, assumed charge as Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-dc-relieved-of-duty/article36529088.ece
18 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down on Monday||Sulur sub-station (September 18, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.): Sulur, TM Nagar, Ranganathapuram, MG Pudur, B S Nagar, Kannampalayam, Kangeyampalayam and Ravathur.  Arasur sub-station (September 20, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.): Arasur, Pothiyampalayam, Kurumbapalayam, Thennampalayam, Sengodagoundpudur, Sellappampampalayam, Pachapalayam, Vadugapalayam, Sangothiapalyam, Samathuvapuram, Anbu Nagar, Annur Road, Ponnandampalayam and Molapalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down-on-monday/article36529094.ece
18 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||33 new cases in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district reported nil death due to COVID-19 on Friday and 33 new cases, taking the tally to 62,933. The district saw 61,714 recoveries and 368 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 21 persons tested positive and Kallakurichi district recorded 37 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33-new-cases-in-cuddalore/article36529371.ece
18 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Temporary bus stand at Solar to come up along Karur Bypass Road||The temporary bus stand at Solar Punjai Lakkapuram is to come up along the Karur Bypass Road and not at the earlier spot, which is 500 metres away from the road, said Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan. Under the Smart City project, the civic body proposed to carry out development works in the existing bus terminus in the city that is spread over 12 acres at a cost of Rs. 39.5 crore. Hence, it decided to establish a temporary bus stand at Solar so that buses to Karur, Tiruchi, Madurai, Dindigul, Tirunelveli and Nagercoil could be operated from there. The civic body owns 51.4 acres at Solar and hence, it decided to utilise around five acres for establishing the temporary bus stand that could accommodate 40 buses. It was planned to have 46 bus bays, shops of different sizes, toilets, offices, taxi and auto stand and drinking water provision. Work began two weeks ago so that buses can be operated from there soon. On Thursday, Minister for Housing and Rural Development S. Muthusamy inspected the works and held discussion with corporation officials and engineers. The Minister told officials that commuters would face hardship if the temporary bus stand is located 500 metres away from the Karur Bypass Road. Since, there is a proposal to establish a permanent bus stand at the spot selected for temporary bus stand, the Minister held discussions with officials on the possibility of establishing the bus stand near the road. Mr. Elangovan told The Hindu that instead of the temporary bus stand coming up 500 metres away from the road, it would be established along the road now. All the works were stopped and levelling of land by earthmovers at the new spot began on Friday. The Commissioner said that it would take three weeks to create the facilities at the new spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-bus-stand-at-solar-to-come-up-along-karur-bypass-road/article36529172.ece
18 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps taken to vaccinate all persons with disabilities’||With 97,198 persons aged above 18 years vaccinated during the mega camp held on September 12, the district administration has taken steps to ensure all the persons with disabilities are vaccinated during the special camp to be held on September 19. On Thursday, Collector H. Krishnanunni conducted a meeting with officials of various departments for smooth conduct of the second mega vaccination camp on Sunday. He said the camp held on September 12 received good response as 97,198 persons were vaccinated through 847 centres across the district. “COVID-19 cases rise and fall in the district and all steps should be taken to ensure the spread is under complete control”, he said and added that vaccinating the entire eligible people is the only solution. Mr. Krishnanunni said that awareness pamphlets should be distributed to the people and public address systems should be used to disseminate information for ensuring 100% vaccination in the district. He said that focus should be on ensuring 100% vaccination for persons with disabilities in the district and asked officials to make necessary arrangements. He said that camps will be held from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. at 548 centres comprising primary health centres, urban primary health centres, schools and other places. District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, PA (General) to Collector Balaji, Revenue Divisional Officers P. Premalatha (Erode) and Palanidevi (Gobichettipalayam), Joint Director of Health Services Gomathi, Deputy Director of Health Services Somasundaram, City Health Officer Prakash and officials from various departments participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-taken-to-vaccinate-all-persons-with-disabilities/article36529179.ece
18 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Control rooms set up for local body polls in districts||The district administration has set up a control room to enable people to lodge complaints with regard to malpractices during the rural local body polls on October 9. Collector H. Krishnanunni in a release said people could call the over 0424-2266766. Elections would be held to fill 27 posts – one district panchayat ward member, two panchayat union ward members, four village panchayat presidents and 20 posts of village panchayat ward members. The Collector said nominations could be filed till September 22 while scrutiny of papers would take place on September 23. The last date for withdrawal of nominations is up to 3 p.m. on September 25. Election will take place from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. on October 9. Votes would be counted from 8 a.m. on October 12.  Special Correspondent adds from Dharmapuri: The district administration has set up control rooms for complaints regarding the rural local body elections for the 14 posts in the district. Complaints may be lodged at the Collectorate on 04342-230001; Nallampalli Panchayat Union on 04342-244234; Kadathur Panchayat Union on 04346-291100; Morappur Panchayat Union on 04346-263324;Palacodde Panchayat Union on 04348-222032; Harur Panchayat union on 04346-222032; and Paapireddipatty panchayat union on 04346-246432.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-rooms-set-up-for-local-body-polls-in-districts/article36529173.ece
18 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Special vaccination camps for workers in construction sector||Special camps to vaccinate workers in the construction sector who had registered with the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers Welfare Board will be held at various places in the district from September 20 to 22. Various places A press release from S. Gayathiri, Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Social Security Scheme), said that COVID-19 affected the workers in the sector and hence, special camps will be held at various places in the district to vaccinate them. Camps will be held on September 20, Monday, at the Office of the Assistant Commissioner of Labour (SSS), behind Government ITI, Chennimalai Road from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and at Panchayat Union Primary School, near bus stand at Modakkurichi from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. On September 21, camps will be held at the Municipal Primary School, Bhavani East, Bhavani from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and Diamond Jubilee Primary School, Market Road, Gobichettipalayam from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. On September 22, camps will be held at Panchayat Union Middle School, East Agraharam Street, Perundurai from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and at the office on Chennimalai Road from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Identity card The press release added that 500 doses will be available at each centre and registered workers can visit the centres with their original identity card and Aadhaar card and get vaccinated free of cost. For details, contact phone no. 0424-2275592.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-vaccination-camps-for-workers-in-construction-sector/article36529180.ece
18 September 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Engineers visit Karur to study new technologies in laying roads||A team of technocrats and engineers from various parts of the country are on a two-day exposure visit to Karur to study the adoption of a few new and green technologies in laying roads under the Prime Minister’s Rural Roads Scheme (PMGSY-Phase III) in the district. The team were on a visit to the district to inspect the adoption of technologies such as cement stabilisation and use of RBI Grade- 81soil stabilizer, said to be a cost effective and environment friendly pavement material. The use of cement stabilisation technology reduces the use of blue metal considerably, officials said. About 188 km of rural roads are being developed under phase III of PMGSY at an outlay of about Rs. 92.63 crore in Karur district. Of this, newer technologies are being adopted in about a dozen works for roads running a length of about 52 km. Engineers from the National Rural Roads Development Agency, National Road Research, Central Road Research Institute, and from 16 States and also assistant executive engineers of rural development agencies from 20 districts in Tamil Nadu were participating in the exposure visit, Kutralingam, Chief Engineer, Rural Development Department, said. On Friday, the group inspected a five-km long road laid at Jallipatti in Velliyanai and the Chokkalapuram-Pooncholai Road. District Collector T. Prabhu Shankar also accompanied the team. A discussion with the technology providers is also scheduled for Saturday, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineers-visit-karur-to-study-new-technologies-in-laying-roads/article36529145.ece
18 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Solatium handed over to bereaved children||District Collector V. Jayachandran Bhanu Reddy disbursed Rs. 57 lakh solatium to 19 children, who were bereaved of one of their parents in COVID-19 at the Collectorate here on Friday. The State government had announced compensation of Rs. 3 lakh to children, who had lost one of their parents due to COVID-19, and Rs. 5 lakh to children, who had lost both their parents. The money was deposited through the bank account and shall be claimed with interest upon the children attaining 18 years of age, according to a press release issed by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solatium-handed-over-to-bereaved-children/article36529170.ece
18 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Meetings to be held to rectify flaws in Smart City projects: MP||After attending the Smart City Advisory Forum (SCAF) meeting on Monday, its Co-chairman and Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan said that a series of five advisory meetings, with officials from different departments, will be conducted soon, to rectify flaws in some of the Smart City Mission projects here and come up with solutions. While addressing the media after the meeting, Mr. Venkatesan pointed out that under Smart City Mission, several cities across the country had undertaken about 80-90 smaller projects, but in Madurai, 14 bigger budget projects were undertaken. He said, “Though the projects were aimed at making Madurai a better city, the way they have been implemented is making us question the intent of the previous government. Take the example of Periyar bus stand and we can openly see that the commercial shopping complex has got more prominence than the bus departure facilities. Around 4,000 bus departures have to take place there on a daily basis; we do not know if it can happen without causing heavy traffic congestion. Similarly, the city’s green cover in the central region is almost zero percentage now as the only park here was converted to a complex under this project.” There are many flaws in the implementation that might cause a lot of inconvenience to the public and so as an advisory board, SCAF is looking to come up with solutions to rectify them, he added. “As 80-90 percentage of works under these projects has already been completed, we are looking to finetune the works under the projects in such a way that they cause lesser or no inconvenience to people,” he said. The advisory meetings will focus on five aspects: functioning of Periyar bus stand, Vaigai river front development, traffic regulation, implementation of underground drainage system and heritage development projects. The meetings will also dwell upon other works undertaken in connection with the above mentioned five aspects by the civic body. Finance Minister P. T. R. Palanivel Thiagarajan who was also present in the meeting questioned the executional capability of the previous government, when it came to the projects. He said, “In other States, the smart city project is taken care of by a CEO and Mayor, apart from the Corporation Commissioner. Here, all the three responsibilities have been lying with the Corporation Commissioner. Ever since the projects were kickstarted here about 4-5 years back, no SCAF meeting was conducted until January this year. We do not know under whose supervision have all the decisions regarding implementation of the projects been taken so far.” Mr. Thiagarajan was also of the opinion that the biggest problem around such bad implementation of projects was the inconvenience it will cause to the public, apart from the additional funding and planning it would demand. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar presided over the meeting. Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan, Madurai South MLA M. Boominathan, Madurai North MLA G. Thalapathi and Tirupparankundram MLA V.V. Rajan Chellapa were also present. Mr. Karthikeyan said that three out of the 14 projects under the Smart City Mission had been completed and a fund of Rs. 601 crore had been released for different projects under it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meetings-to-be-held-to-rectify-flaws-in-smart-city-projects-mp/article36529485.ece
18 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Paddy harvesting begins in double crop area||As harvesting of paddy began in the double crop area in Madurai district, farmers have appealed to the district administration to open direct purchase centres at the earliest to prevent traders exploiting them. Amidst intermittent rain in the last few days, the farmers have started harvesting the paddy using harvesting machinery. Water was released on June 4 from Vaigai dam for irrigating 45,000 acres of ayacut in Madurai and Dindigul districts. However, with a good storage of water in both Periyar and Vaigai dams, farmers who were confident of timely release of water for irrigation, pre-empted water release and started to raise nurseries with well water. “Nurseries were raised at least 10 to 20 days prior to water release with the help of lift irrigation,” said M. Tirupathi, a farmer from Kulamangalam. As a result, harvesting in many fields began on Wednesday. Farmers complained of exploitation by traders who were buying the paddy for a lesser price. “While one quintal of paddy will fetch us around Rs. 1,200, traders were buying it for Rs. 800 to Rs. 900, exploiting the fact that DPCs have not been opened,” he added. He said that farmers who have already spent huge money or borrowed money for their farming works want to sell their produce at the earliest. Farmers feel that they cannot afford additional expenditure involved in loading, unloading and transporting them again from home to DPC later. Besides, they do not have the facility to stock the paddy bags safely since it was raining now and then. “Moisture content is another issue the farmers face especially with the first crop. Since, the weather turns wet during the harvest, the moisture content is high and drying the paddy under the sun is ruled out,” said another farmer Bharatha Ramachandran (41) of Velichanatham. He suggested that the officials should provide mobile drier units to the farmers either through Farmers Producers Organisation or through societies. The drier will help farmers sell their produce at the earliest. “The transporting and manpower cost will double if the paddy is taken from field to home and then from home to DPC,” Mr. Tirupathi said. The traders who buy paddy now at a lower cost would sell it at DPC at a higher price and make quick money at the cost of farmers’ profit. “We need more money immediately as we have to start the sowing the second crop within the next few days, “ Mr. Tirupathi said. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan said that the issue had already been flagged and the DPCs would be opened as and when government notification is issued. “Since farmers have been already asked to register themselves with societies with all documents like patta, chitta and adangal, misuse of DPCs by traders is ruled out,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-harvesting-begins-in-madurai/article36529424.ece
18 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Collect details of convicts who have not filed appeal’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday directed the member-secretary of the Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority (TNSLA) to instruct the District Legal Services Authorities (DLSAs) to visit central prisons, open-air prisons and special prisons for women to collect the details of convicts who had not filed an appeal against their conviction. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and J. Nisha Banu directed the TNSLA to submit a report to the court. In its preliminary report, the TNSLA submitted that the DLSAs were taking steps to identify the convicts and were filing the appeals. Para-legal volunteers were appointed at the central prisons. The court was hearing the case of a man from Tirunelveli who was languishing in prison for over 25 years, as no assistance was extended to him to file an appeal against the conviction. In 1996, the II Additional Sessions Judge, Tirunelveli, sentenced him to life imprisonment for committing sexual assault and murder. The appeal was filed through legal aid before the High Court only in 2018. Appearing for the man, advocate R. Alagumani submitted that many such convicts were languishing in prisons for want of proper legal aid. Their details could be collected through the TNSLA for providing them with legal aid, he said. Counsel face issues At the hearing, advocate Henri Tiphagne submitted that counsel faced problems while visiting the prisoners. They were made to meet them in front of prison authorities. Taking note of the submissions, the court also sought details of the issues faced by counsel and adjourned the hearing to October 8. The court sought the assistance of the Advocate-General. It said prisoners should be facilitated to appeal against their conviction. To allow the appeal or uphold the conviction was based on merits. Following the direction, the TNSLA member-secretary appeared before the court to assist it in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collect-details-of-convicts-who-have-not-filed-appeal/article36529059.ece
18 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Trans Kitchen inaugurated in Madurai||In a first-of-its-kind initiative in the city, Trans Kitchen, a hotel run by a group of transgender people, was inaugurated near Goripalayam junction on Friday morning. Swasti, an organisation that has been working towards the upliftment of marginalised people across 20 districts in the State, funded for the initiative, in association with organisations like Arghyam, Virutti and Sri Lakshmi Pengal Munnetra Sangam. Priya Babu, Regional Programme Manager at Swasti and transgender herself, believes that the hotel will play a great role in removing the stigma surrounding trans people, apart from providing them with a reliable form of employment. She says, “There is no better way to connect with a human than serving them with tasty food. In that way, this hotel will pave way for trans people to form connections with the public who are generally hesitant to communicate with us.” The hotel which sells food at a nominal price is also planning to provide free hot water to the public and free milk to the quantity of 100 ml to mothers of infants who reach out to them. “We want to show the society that we are socially responsible too,” adds Priya. Headed by T. Jayachitra, the hotel has 11 other trans persons as employees who will be working on a shift basis. Jayachitra says that people in the surrounding have already responded positively to their hotel. SELCO Foundation has extended its helping hand to the hotel by ensuring that 80% of the power consumption inside is done using solar power. They had installed a wet grinder, freezers, a mixie, juicers, lights and fans that can function using solar power. The restaurant was inaugurated in the presence of Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar on Friday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trans-kitchen-inaugurated-in-madurai/article36529491.ece
18 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop illegal quarrying in Kanniyakumari’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday sought a response from the State in a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to restrain illegal quarrying activities in Kanniyakumari district and protect the Western Ghats. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response in the petition filed by S. Sobitha Sersy Godsay of Kanniyakumari district. He complained that the illegal quarrying activities were being carried out by several companies in the hills of Ponmalai village, an eco sensitive zone and home to a variety of flora and fauna. The petitioner said that the companies obtained permission to carry out the quarrying in their patta land. But they were misusing the licence and conducted quarrying operations in the hill. The minerals were transported to Kerala, he said. He sought a direction to the authorities to restrain the companies from carrying out illegal quarrying in Ponmalai village and other hills notified under Hill Area Conservation Authority Regulations. The court directed the authorities concerned to file a counter affidavit and adjourned the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-illegal-quarrying-in-kanniyakumari/article36529421.ece
18 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Protect biodiversity hotspots from oil palm cultivation’||The Centre's recently approved Mission on Oil Palm proposing a large scale cultivation in biodiversity rich Andaman & Nicobar Islands and the North East has been flayed by the All India Peoples' Science Network (AIPSN). The members have described the plan as ill-conceived given its ecologically damaging focus. Madurai-based AIPSN general secretary P. Rajamanickam said such substantial expansion plan requires research and evidence-based locale-specific information before implementing it in ecologically sensitive areas. “The government is pushing a political decision rather than being guided by scientific opinion,” he said. The mission seeks to reduce edible oil imports and boost domestic production, supposedly benefiting farmers and processing industries, by bringing an additional 6.5 lakh hectares (ha) under oil palm by 2025-26. This is likely to increase the production of crude palm oil to 1.12 million tonnes by 2025-26 and 2.8 million tonnes by 2029-30. But the community has pointed out that oil palm plantations are the major driver of biodiversity losses and damage to endangered and vulnerable species. It has reminded the government of the earlier Oil Palm plantation in Andamans in the mid 1970s which saw the displacement of many of India’s last remaining isolated, endangered and indigenous tribes such as the Jarawa and Onge. In the NE, while government spokespersons claim that plantation will take place only in lands identified for agriculture, Mr.Rajamanickam said, past experience shows that given shortage of cultivable land, fresh plantations would inevitably lead to deforestation or conversion of forest fringe areas.There are several other impacts of extensive oil palm cultivation in tropical forest regions as well. These include greenhouse gas emissions related to deforestation or land use change, negative impact on sub-soil water and water quality, invasive species associated with oil palm and pest spillover effects. It is for these dangers, the AIPSN has called for re-imagining and re-casting of goals of domestic oil production by focussing on other oil seeds such as groundnut, soyabean and mustard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protect-biodiversity-hotspots-from-oil-palm-cultivation/article36529133.ece
18 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks State’s response||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday sought a response from the State in a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to create an awareness of provisions of protection of children from sexual offences by including them in school syllabus. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response in the petition filed by T. Senthil of Madurai. The parents and children were not aware of the basic laws. Therefore, knowledge on the same should be provided to them in view of the increasing number of sexual abuse cases, he said. The case was adjourned for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-states-response/article36529486.ece
18 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai gets skin bank; the fourth centre in T.N.||With the establishment of a skin bank as part of the Grace Kennett Foundation's (GKF) medical services in the city, Tamil Nadu has got its fourth such centre. Of the other three, two are in Chennai and one in Coimbatore. The Rotary Community Skin Bank in Madurai, set up at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh, was ready in March this year, making it the 16th centre in India. Its operations, however, slowed down due to the pandemic. The first skin harvesting was done three weeks ago, the Chief Executive Officer of GKF, Augustus Dodd told The Hindu . The collected skin is under a 41-day treatment process, as per the protocols, before it can be transplanted on patients of either burns injury or those who suffer skin loss from road traffic accidents. "The cover provided with the donated skin in the first three weeks of injury can reduce the mortality rate of burns victims by almost 50 %," he said, and added, "with awareness created among public, skin donation can change the face of burns management." The skin is required to be collected from a donor within the first six hours of death. The skin bank's functions include retrieval, processing, storage, distribution and medical documentation. The harvested skin, after treatment, can be stored up to five years at four to eight degrees Celsius. Anyone above 18 years, irrespective of sex and blood group can donate skin. There is no upper age limit. A special battery-operated instrument called dermatome is used to harvest skin from both the legs, thighs and the back. The procedure takes 45 minutes, explained Dr.Dodd. Of the eight layers of skin on the body, the uppermost layer alone is harvested without mutilating the body. The GKF plans to up it awareness campaigns to educate people how early skin cover skin reduces the pain, morbidity and mortality in burns patients. "It will benefit the paediatric burns patients the most," he said. According to the National Health Portal of India, around seven million people suffer from burn injuries every year in the country with 1.4 lakh deaths and 2.4 lakh people suffer with disability. "Most people think only eyes, heart, liver and kidneys can be donated. Whereas any donor's skin can be transplanted on any recipient without requiring blood, colour or age matching," he added.  The cover provided with the donated skin in the first three weeks of injury can reduce the mortality rate of burns victims by almost 50 % Augustus Dodd Chief Executive Officer of GKF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-gets-a-skin-bank-it-is-the-fourth-centre-in-tn/article36529134.ece
18 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 130.70 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 906 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 56.73 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 708 cusecs and discharge of 1,219 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 6679 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36529157.ece
18 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexual assault||An elderly man was arrested by the police on Thursday for sexually assaulting a minor girl here. According to the police, the accused is a 56-year-old man, a daily wager living at Malai Adivaramm, near Tiruchengode. On Thursday evening, the accused had lured his five-year old niece with chocolates and took the girl to his house. The accused was reportedly in an inebriated state and sexually assaulted the minor girl. Based on a complaint by the victim’s mother, the Tiruchengode All Women Police registered a case and arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-sexual-assault/article36529167.ece
18 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Buddha Garden opened to public||Education Minister A. Namassivayam opened a Buddha Garden at the Tagore Government Arts and Science College on Friday as part of the ongoing “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” celebrations of the 75th anniversary of Independence. The garden was opened as part of the ongoing “Green Puducherry” initiative and forms part of a series of measures undertaken by the college to develop a lush green campus on 13 acres of elevated land. MLAs PML Kalyanasundaram and John Kumar, Education Secretary Ashok Kumar, Higher Education Director P.T. Rudra Goud and college principal Sasi Kanta Dash participated in the programme. Mr. Namassivayam distributed compensation to students who lost their parents during the pandemic.  Earlier in the day, BJP workers, including Ministers and MLAs, fanned across the 30 Assembly constituencies in the Union Territory to organise various events to mark the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Party workers mobilised people for COVID-19 vaccination, planted trees and participated in various welfare activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buddha-garden-opened-to-public/article36529367.ece
18 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||86 new cases and one death in U.T.||The Union Territory of Puducherry recorded one COVID-19 death and 86 new cases on Friday. The death was reported in Puducherry, taking the cumulative toll to 1,828. Puducherry with 1,438 deaths leads the table, followed by Karaikal (242), Yanam (106) and Mahe (42). Puducherry accounted for 46 new cases, which were detected from 5,057 tests, followed by Karaikal (23), Yanam (2) and Mahe (15). The test positivity rate was 1.7%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.81%. With 129 patients recovering on Friday, the number of active cases stood at 919. This comprised 158 patients in hospitals and 761 in home isolation. With this, the tally in the Union Territory has recorded touched 1,25,256 and 1,22,509 patients have recovered. Of an estimated 17.27 lakh samples tested so far,14.65 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 5,326 people took the COVID-19 vaccine on Friday, taking teh total to 8,88,894 (with at least one dose).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/86-new-cases-and-one-death-in-ut/article36529364.ece
18 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry opposes GST on petrol, diesel||The Union Territory has opposed the inclusion of petroleum products under the purview of Goods and Services Tax. The Union Territory’s case against the inclusion of petrol and diesel under the GST was made by Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan, who represented Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, who holds the Finance portfolio, at the GST Council meeting on Friday. Mr. Lakshminarayanan, in his representation which was released to the media here, said, “For implementation of GST, State governments have surrendered their fiscal autonomy. At present, the State governments have autonomy only in taxing petroleum crude, high-speed diesel, motor spirit (commonly known as petrol), natural gas, aviation turbine fuel (ATF) and alcohol.” The State governments get considerable revenue from VAT on petrol. If the Centre brings petrol and diesel under the GST, the revenue of State governments would be adversely affected, he said. As far as the Union Territory was concerned, Mr. Lakshminarayanan said, VAT on petrol and diesel constituted nearly 46% of the revenue from commercial taxes (VAT and GST). The U.T. already suffered revenue loss after the introduction of GST and the resultant due to structural issues. The GST compensation payment would end by June next. The Union Territory would incur a huge loss if petrol and diesel were brought under the GST. “The date of bringing petroleum products under the GST is a policy decision exclusively within the domain of the GST Council. Hence, a decision on inclusion of petrol and diesel need not be taken by the Council since we are most worried about revenue collection,” he said. On the GST implementation, the Minister, in his representation, said Puducherry suffered 62% revenue loss for 2020-21 due to structural issues. “Due to uniform tax rate, the market in Puducherry is no more attractive for people of neighbouring States. Had we continued under the VAT regime, the U.T. would have earne Rs. 1,536 crore in 2020-21 as against Rs. 667 crore revenue from the GST,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-opposes-gst-on-petroleum-products/article36529132.ece
18 September 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Firemen demonstrate life-saving techniques||A drill on life-saving methods was conducted at the Rajapalayam Taluk office. Fire and Rescue Services personnel, led by Station Fire Officer S. Jeyaram, explained how firmen were in a state of preparedness to rescue people who are caught in a distress, ahead of North East monsoon. They displayed their equipment and tools and demonstrated how to use house-hold articles as life-saving equipment during a flood and to shift injured people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firemen-demonstrate-life-saving-techniques/article36529164.ece
18 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Madurai man killed as truck falls into gorge||Two persons died and nine others were injured when the truck they were travelling in, along with their equipment, fell into a gorge on Yercaud Ghat Road near Pelathur here on Friday. The deceased were identified as Pandian from Madurai and Sanjay from Theni. Police said 11 persons came to Yercaud from Chennai a couple of days ago for a short film shoot and were returning via Yercaud-Kuppanur Road. When the driver made a sharp turn to avoid an oncoming vehicle on the fifth hairpin bend, he lost control of the truck and it fell into the 10-ft deep gorge. While Pandian and Sanjay died on the spot, the injured were rushed to Valavanthi Primary Health Centre and Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. The Yercaud police recovered the bodies of the deceased. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-dead-as-truck-falls-into-gorge/article36529165.ece
18 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Gold, silver articles worth Rs. 1.46 cr. seized||Officials from Commercial Tax Department seized gold jewellery and silver articles worth Rs. 1.46 crore that were being transported without proper documents in a vehicle here on Friday. According to officials, based on a tip-off, they conducted vehicle checks near Kuranguchavadi here. While checking a parcel truck, the officials found silver articles worth Rs. 1.2 crore and gold jewellery worth Rs. 26 lakh without tax papers and seized them.  Inquiry The officials said the valuables were sent from Chennai and an inquiry would be conducted with the buyers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-silver-articles-worth-rs-146-cr-seized/article36529168.ece
18 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Police construction works inspected||A.K. Viswanathan, Director of Tamil Nadu Police Housing Board, visited Salem on Friday and reviewed the progress of various construction works for the Police Department. Mr. Viswanathan along with senior police officials reviewed the progress of works for residential complex for prison department personnel near Omalur. The ADGP also planted a sapling on the premises. Mr. Viswanathan also visited the site where construction of 60 houses for police personnel at Tharamangalam is in progress. Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav and other officials were present.      The foundation stone for Aditya Birla Public School was laid near Pallipalayam on Thursday. Grasim Industries, a company under Aditya Birla Group conducted the ceremony. The school will be affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education and initially have classes up to Class 7 with two sections and one class will be added up to Class 12 in subsequent years, a release said. Dilip Gaur, Managing Director, Grasim Industries Limited said in a release that 700 students would be admitted in the first year.      The district administration has decided to organise mass Vitamin A syrup administration for children under five years of age. The camp to be held from September 20 to October 4 will cover 1.4 lakh children between six months and five years of age. As part of the national programme to prevent Vitamin A deficiency, the Health Department is organising the State-wide camp on a mass scale. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy has urged the public to avail of the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-construction-works-inspected/article36529181.ece
18 September 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested in BJP functionary murder case||Three persons, identified as Sugumar, 27, Palpandi, 22, and Selvendran, 60, of Vairavanpatti were arrested on Friday in connection with the murder of Muthupandi, 45, a BJP functionary, on Thursday. A three-member police team was formed to nab the killers. CCTV footage showed that six people had attacked the victim at a tea stall and escaped in two motorcycles. Police said that it was a murder for revenge. On July 9, 2012, Selvam of Vairavanpatti was coming on a two-wheeler to the Sivaganga district sessions court to appear in a murder case. He was waylaid and murdered and Muthupandi figured as an accused in the crime. In a retaliatory act, the trio, suspected to be relatives of Selvam, had allegedly murdered Muthupandi and settled the score, police added. A senior police officer said that they were on the lookout for three more people in this connection and were yet to seize the two-wheelers and weapons. It is said that Selvam had murdered Ponnusami, a former AIADMK union secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-in-bjp-functionary-murder-case/article36529160.ece
18 September 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Ex-serviceman gets 60-year jail term||An ex-serviceman, S. Nataraj, 58, who was accused of sexually assaulting two minor girls in 2016 has been sentenced to undergo imprisonment for 60 years. The Special Court for Exclusive Trail of Cases under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, on Friday also directed Virudhunagar district administration to pay a compensation of Rs. 14 lakh each to the two victims. Judge K. Dhanasekaran also imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 on the accused. According to the prosecution, the accused had sexually assaulted the girls on more than one occasion and All Women Police Station, Aruppukottai, had arrested him in December 2016 under various Sections of Indian Penal Code for kidnapping (366), wrongful confinement (342), criminal intimidation (506 {2}) and under two Sections of POCSO Act. Finding the accused guilty of all the charges (each two counts), the Judge convicted him for a total of 60 years. The court gave a sentence of 10 years jail each for kidnapping, one year jail each for wrongful confinement, two years jail each for criminal intimidation, seven years each for aggravated sexual assault under POCSO Act and 10 years each for aggravated penetrated sexual assault, under POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-serviceman-gets-60-year-jail-term/article36529162.ece
18 September 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||‘No solution to wild animals invading agricultural fields’||Condemning the Department of Forest’s failure to check invasion of wild animals into fields along Western Ghats as it caused extensive damage to the standing crops, farmers from various parts of the district staged demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Friday. Led by Vadakarai S. T. Shaik Maideen of Communist Party of India and Zakhir Hussein, vice-president of Farmers’ Federation for Linking of South Indian Rivers, the farmers raised slogans against the Department of Forest. They said the invasion of elephants, wild boars, deer and other animals into agriculture lands along Western Ghats was continuing for the past several decades due to the gross failure of the official machinery. Had the Forest Department dug trenches between the Western Ghats and agricultural fields and erected solar-powered fence, it would have effectively checked the invasion of the animals. “Though the forest personnel say that they would hunt down wild boars destroying crops and asking farmers not to harm the invading wild animals, no step is being taken to check this menace,” Mr. Shaik Maideen said. Hefty loss In their petition submitted to the Collectorate, the farmers said that the agriculturists in Kadayanallur range, who were cultivating coconut, banana, mango and paddy, were facing hefty losses as the invading wild animals had been destroying their crops throughout the year. Though complaints were raised with the officials seeking compensation and credible measures for checking the invasion of animals, the Department of Forest did not do anything and left farmers in the lurch. Hence, the Collector should intervene and convene a joint meeting with officials of Department of Forest, Department of Agriculture, Department of Revenue and farmers’ representatives to arrive at strategies to permanently check the invasion of wild animals into agricultural fields. Steps should be taken for the appointment of District Forest Officer for the newly-formed Tenkasi district so that steps could be taken early for finding a lasting solution to this issue, which was also posing serious threat to the livelihood and life of farmers, they said.  Farmers’ grouse Elephants, wild boars and deer raid fields along Western Ghats regularly Neither trenches between the hills and fields nor solar-powered fence Newly-formed Tenkasi district does not have a District Forest Officer yet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-solution-to-wild-animals-invading-agricultural-fields/article36529426.ece
18 September 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Murder: search on for advocate||The Tenkasi police are on the lookout for an advocate who had allegedly beaten to death an autorickshaw driver due to prior enmity. Police said advocate Sathish Kumar of Azhagappapuram near here had enmity with autorickshaw driver A. Ramakrishnan, 41, of the same area as the latter was allegedly in contact with a woman, a relative of the former. Despite repeated warnings from Sathish Kumar, the affair reportedly continued. When Ramakrishnan went to Sathish Kumar’s residence on Thursday night to discuss the issue with the advocate, an altercation broke out between them. As Sathish Kumar allegedly assaulted Ramakrishnan and pushed him on the ground, the autorickshaw driver swooned. Ramakrishnan died on the way to Tenkasi Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murder-search-on-for-advocate/article36529135.ece
18 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Amendment to HR and CE Act causes anxiety among delta farmers||The recent amendment of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Act, 1959, brought in presumably to check the ‘increasing unlawful possession’ of agricultural lands belonging to religious and charitable institutions has caused anxiety among delta farmers who fear that misuse of the provision could not be ruled out completely. A good number of farmers in the delta districts have taken on lease agriculture lands belonging to the religious and charitable institutions managed directly or supervised by the HR and CE Department for cultivation. For instance, around 50 acres of agricultural land belonging to Thyagarajaswamy Temple in Tiruvarur at Kakkarai hamlet in Thanjavur district was taken on lease by around 10 farmers in the hamlet and they were carrying on agricultural activities on these lands for years together, according to the State vice-president of Thamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangangalin Koot Iyakkam R. Sugumaran of Kakkarai. Hitherto, any dispute or issues that cropped up between the tenant farmers and the lessors remained out of the purview of the courts, as such issues were normally heard and settled finally by the HR and CE Commissioner. Now with the amending of the sub-section (3) of Section 79-B of the Act, the chances of victimisation of tenant farmers or termination of lease agreement by filing litigations in a court not inferior to that of a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class (as per the HR and CE Act) by third parties ‘having interest in the affairs of the religious institutions’ with the connivance of the trustees or officials or by the trustees or by the officials could not be ruled out, Mr. Sugumaran contended. While welcoming the amendment, the general secretary of Federation of Farmers Associations in Delta Districts P. Kalyanam of Arupathi in Mayiladuthurai district insisted that the government should ensure that the amendment brought in with an objective to safeguard the interest of the religious and charitable institutions were not misused against the registered tenant farmers. Meanwhile, general secretary of Thamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam P. R. Pandian of Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district said that already the Department had initiated legal proceedings against a large number of tenant farmers citing non-honouring of lease agreements overlooking the crop loss sustained by the lessees due to the vagaries of Nature over the years. Passing an amendment of this stature at this juncture led to trepidation among the farmers that it would only jeopardise their prospects, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amendment-to-hr-and-ce-act-causes-anxiety-among-delta-farmers/article36529141.ece
18 September 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||CM’s remark on Justice Party questioned||The Thamizh Desiya Periyakkam has questioned the recent statement issued by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin crediting the South Indian Liberal Federation, popularly known as Justice Party, for heralding social justice in government jobs. In a statement issued on Friday, the outfit’s leader P. Maniarasan pointed out that though the ‘Communal G.O.’ was issued in September 1921 by Ramarayaningar alias ‘Panagal Arasar’, the government headed by him had failed to ensure the G.O. was implemented during their regime. The Justice Party failed to garner a majority in the subsequent elections held in 1926 and the then Governor of Madras Presidency ensured that a government was formed by an independent, Subbaroyan by appointing 34 MLAs using the powers vested with the Governor. Subsequently, a no-confidence motion against Subbaroyan’s government moved by the Justice Party got defeated. During the Subbaroyan government’s regime, a modified ‘Communal G.O.’ (G.O.M.S.no.1021) was issued in 1927 which enabled 41 per cent reservation for non-Brahmin Hindus in government jobs, 17 per cent, each, for Brahmins, Muslims and Ango-Indians including Christians and 8 per cent reservation in government jobs for ‘pattiyal inathavar’ (Scheduled Caste), Mr. Maniarasan said. Since the first Communal GO had “lapsed” due to non-implementation, a Congressman, Muthaiah Mudaliyar, a staunch supporter of anti-Brahmin ideology who had joined Subbaroyan’s Ministry in 1927, implemented the modified ‘Communal G.O.’ in his Ministry in 1928, he said. Later, Congress Chief Minister Omandur Ramasamy Reddiyar modified the ‘Communal G.O.’ issued and implemented by the Subbaroyan’s Ministry by adding reservations for Backward Class people. Subsequently, this ‘Communal GO’ (G.O.M.S.no.1021) was struck down by the Supreme Court. Such being the history, attempting to credit a single organisation by suppressing a section of the fact was unethical, Maniarasan felt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cms-remark-on-justice-party-questioned/article36529136.ece
18 September 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Tribal settlement upbeat after visit by Theni Collector, officials||Things are happening fast in Chellan Colony, a hamlet of tribal people near Periyakulam in Theni district. For instance, one of the residents, Eswari, has a bank account now. She has enrolled as a member of a self-help group (SHG). This middle-aged woman also has a family card to buy ration goods now. Ms. Eswari told The Hindu that all these became a reality ever since Collector K. V. Muralidharan paid a visit to their hamlet on July 27. Soon a number of officials started coming to their village. “I lost count of the number of visits by officials to our village,” she says. There are 19 tribal villages in Theni district spread across Bodinaickanur, Periyakulam, Andipatti and Uthamapalayam. The tribal people work in agricultural fields for six months of the year and sold honey, gooseberry and herbal plants during the rest of the year. They never had access to bank accounts or identity cards issued by the government. Most of their children were not exposed to formal education. In such a scenario, government officials knocking at their door and offering all help had certainly given them hope and a new lease of life. Ganga, wife of Kannan, said that though they lived only about five km away from Keezha Vadakarai, going all the way to Periyakulam was a far-fetched idea for most of them. The odd jobs at the coconut grove and honey collection fetched them some money to eke out a living. Now, help has started coming from officials of the Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Programme, and from the departments of Rural Development, Horticulture, Differently abled, Revenue and other agencies. “Not only do we have bank accounts now, we received training on honey collection, making agarbathi sticks, et al,” one of the villagers said. After about 10 women were identified, a SHG was formed. The bank has given Rs. 10,000 each and with this the womenfolk have planned to make agarbathis (incense sticks). They have also planned to start other ventures. The Collector urged the tribal settlement to get themselves vaccinated against COVID-19 and also offered to pay the initial premium for life and accident cover for about 25 of them who received voter identity cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-settlement-upbeat-after-visit-by-collector-and-officials/article36529159.ece
18 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Brothers held for murder||Two brothers, who allegedly stabbed to death an autorickshaw driver, were arrested on Friday night. Police said autorickshaw driver P. Sivaperumal, 45, of TMB Colony here and his relative M. Arumugam, 31, of Thimmaiyar Colony were consuming liquor at Thimmaiyar Colony on Friday night. When an argument broke out between them, Arumugam allegedly damaged the autorickshaw of Sivaperumal, who resisted it. As Arumugam was assaulted by Sivaperumal the former and his younger brother M. Sornaraj, 28, allegedly stabbed Sivaperumal. He died while being taken to the hospital. On seeing the stabbing of Sivaperumal, the public pelted stones on Arumugam and Sornaraj in which the brothers were injured and have been admitted to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Thoothukudi South Police have registered a case and arrested Arumugam and Sornaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brothers-held-for-murder/article36529161.ece
18 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Nine accident-prone spots identified within city limits||Amid recurring instances of accidents being reported within its limits, the Tiruchi City Police have identified nine spots falling under its jurisdiction where accidents were found to be frequent prompting the law enforcers to initiate necessary measures to curb them. The nine ‘black spots’ were identified after carefully examining the data pertaining to accidents reported within the city limits in the last three to four years. The spots where accidents were reported to be frequent include: Sanjeevi Nagar junction along the Chennai Bypass Road; 'Y' road junction close to the city border; Kollidam bypass junction; Edamalaipattipudur Junction; Karur bypass road junction; Mekkudi junction; SIT Junction along the Tiruchi - Thanjavur national highway and Edamalaipattipudur-Madurai Bypass junction. Having identified the accident-prone spots after analysing the data, the City Police has initiated some measures including conducting vehicle checks and increasing the presence of police personnel at the chosen locations to curb accidents, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) R. Mutharasu. The City Police had narrowed down on the ‘black spots’ by examining accident - related data in the last three to four years, Mr. Mutharasu added. In an effort to curtail the accident rate at these spots, the law enforcers were also initiating other measures such as putting in place barricades, provision of lighting facility and carrying road engineering where ever required besides installing blinker signals and caution boards to alert motorists, Mr. Mutharasu further said. The city has witnessed a proliferation of residential localities and also a burgeoning vehicle density over the years posing a challenge to traffic managers. Vehicles coming into the city from surrounding villages and neighbouring towns and heading back have also increased over the years. Lack of adherence to road rules by many motorists, sudden crossing and other factors have all contributed to road accidents, say police sources. According to police statistics, the total number of fatal accident cases and casualties reported during the period from January to August in 2019 and 2020 were 216 and 223 respectively. In 2021 alone up to August, the city witnessed 60 fatal accident cases with equal number of deaths. The fatalities, however, had reduced in 2021 and 2020 during the period from January to August as compared to the corresponding period in 2019 when the number of deaths had exceeded 100. Based on analysis of the data, police sources say accidents were found to be reported more between 9 a.m. and 12 noon and between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. within the city limits. Two-wheelers getting involved in accidents were more in numbers as per the data, say the sources. Since drunk driving could also lead to road accidents, the police say they have cracked the whip against those found driving under inebriated conditions. As many as 2,695 drunk driving cases had been booked from January to August in 2021 with every violator being slapped with a fine of Rs. 1,000. Drunk driving cases booked in 2021 (from January to August ) were more as compared to the corresponding periods in 2020 and 2019 when the cases booked under this head were 1,849 and 2,331 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-accident-prone-spots-identified-within-city-limits/article36529150.ece
18 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Health Department on alert to prevent dengue outbreak||The Health Department has initiated steps to check mosquito breeding to prevent a dengue outbreak. The number of cases in the district, however, is low compared to the previous year, officials said. Special teams have been deployed across various blocks in the district, with additional employees deployed at hotspots identified from the cases reported last year. Further, the department will also employ biological control measures such as introducing gambusia fish to check mosquito breeding. The gambusia fish, which predominantly feeds on the larvae is also called 'mosquito fish' and is bred at a special tank constructed at the Deputy Director of Health Services’ office in Khajamalai. The fish was brought from the Fisheries Department. These fish will be released into waterbodies such as abandoned open wells where water stagnates in villages and towns which have been earmarked as ‘hotspots’. An adult gambusia fish can consume nearly 150 larvae in a day. The introduction of gambusia fish in abandoned wells has brought fever cases down drastically, senior officials of the Health Department said. “Earlier, crude oil was poured into the well to stop mosquito breeding but this contaminates the well and it is difficult to clean. Instead, gambusia fish or even frogs can be released which will eat the larvae,” they said. This year around, the number of cases reported in the months of January to April has been significantly low compared to the previous year. In January 2020, 126 dengue cases were reported, while in January 2021, only 45 cases were reported. However, some clusters were identified in July and August. In July 2020, only four cases were reported, while in July 2021, 23 were reported. “This is due to the sudden rains in some parts of the district. The clusters were identified and controlled quickly,” the official said. Dengue cases usually report a spike in the monsoon season, and this year since there have not been incessant rains so far, the number of cases reported was low. For September 2021, 18 cases have been reported so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-department-on-alert-to-prevent-dengue-outbreak/article36529154.ece
18 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Operate buses on the new bridge across Kollidam’||Road users and commuters have called for operation of bus services on the newly built high level bridge across the Kollidam river near Grand Anicut, connecting Thiruvanaikovil Road and Grand Anicut Road. The bridge built by the Projects wing of the Highways Department provides a new link between Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts, immensely benefiting residents of the region and facilitating free flow of traffic between the two districts. It was built at a cost of Rs. 90.96 crore as per the revised estimates, though it was originally sanctioned at an estimate of Rs. 67 crore. It runs a distance of about a 1,050 metres, excluding the approach roads on both sides. Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu, who inspected the progress of construction of the bridge in February this year had said that the project would be completed by May. Apparently, the bridge has been completed now but only light vehicle traffic are being allowed to ply on it. The bridge will form a short link between Tiruchi and Kumbakonam via Tirukattupalli, Tiruvaiyaru and Swamimalai. The new bridge is expected to substantially reduce the travel time between Kumbakonam and Tiruchi as the existing Thanjavur-Kumbakonam road section has a lot of bends and acute curves, points out Saravanan Natesan, an activist. “People can reach Kumbakonam in just about two hours by taking this route. The government should take steps to extend mofussil buses operating to Kallanai from Kumbakonam and Thanjavur up to Tiruchi Central Bus Stand,” he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/operate-buses-on-the-new-bridge-across-kollidam/article36529138.ece
18 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vendors, organisations get FSSAI certificates||Tiruchi Collector distributed certificates issued by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India to various organisations including temples and food vendors. The certificates were in recognition of the organisations that adopted and maintain food safety and hygiene. Four temples – Sri Ranganatha Swamy Temple, Srirangam, Arulmigu Jambukeswarar Akhilandeswari Temple, Tiruvanaikovil, Thayumanaswami Temple, Rockfort, Sri Vekkaliyamman Temple, Woraiyur were given Blissful Hygienic Offering to God (BHOG) certification for ensuring safety and hygiene while preparing prasadam for devotees. An inspection was conducted at the temples by officials of the FSSAI following which the certification was given. A total of 193 street vendors were given Food Safety Training and Certification (FOSTAC) while 79 were registered and received licenses issued by the FSSAI. Eleven restaurants and four Anganwadi centres were given Hygiene Rating while the Anganwadis were also given Eat Right Campus recognition. Eleven drinking water suppliers functioning within the city limits were also given FOSTAC certification after being trained and given the necessary guidelines. All the certifications were handed out by authorities of the FSSAI in New Delhi and distributed by the District Collector S. Sivarasu and R. Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration, Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vendors-organisations-get-fssai-certificates/article36529532.ece
18 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Farm labourers stage demo in support of various demands||A section of farm labourers including some women owing allegiance to the All India Agricultural Workers Union (AIAWU) affiliated to the CPI(M) and the Bharatiya Khet Mazdoor Union (BKMU) affiliated to the Communist Party of India staged a demonstration here on Friday in support of their demands. The demonstration which lasted over an hour near Anna statue in Chinthamani was led by A. Palanisamy, AIAWU district president and P. Ganesan, BKMU district secretary. The demonstrators demanded that the stipulated wage of Rs. 273 be given under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Guarantee Scheme without any deduction. They urged the Centre to withdraw the decision to split Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act wage payments by caste categories to the labourers. They demanded the release of all social activists arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case in Maharashtra and the withdrawal of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-labourers-stage-demo-in-support-of-various-demands/article36529140.ece
18 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Sub Inspector stabbed||A Sub Inspector of Police serving at the Somarasampet police station in the district was allegedly stabbed by a 45-year-old man near Sunnambukaranpatti in the district on Friday. The incident occurred in the evening and the injured Sub Inspector Karthik was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Police sources said acting on an information that a man was setting afire his two-wheeler on the main road near Sunnambukaranpatti, Sub Inspector Karthik along with a Constable rushed to the spot. The man who was later identified as S. Julius Santhakumar of Keezha Saveriyarpuram near Allithurai tried to escape on spotting the police personnel. Sources said Julius Santhakumar was in an inebriated condition at that time. The Sub Inspector chased and managed to nab Julius Santhakumar who allegedly stabbed the police officer in the lower abdomen and his left arm. Meanwhile, members of the public who had assembled there allegedly assaulted Julius upon noticing his act. Julius who was injured in the assault was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for treatment. Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi Pa. Moorthy went to the government hospital and met the Sub Inspector and inquired about the latter's health condition with the doctors. Sources said the Sub Inspector's health condition was stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sub-inspector-stabbed/article36529534.ece
18 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on October 6||The Department of Posts will conduct a regional-level Dak Adalat at 11 a.m. on October 6 when grievances of customers will be heard online. Customers can send their complaints to N. Rajagopalan, Assistant Director (I & PG), Office of Post Master General, Central Region, Tiruchi-620 001, on or before September 30. Complaints should contain full details such as date and time of posting, full address of the sender and addressee, registration receipt number with date and office of booking for MO/ VP/ registered or insured / speed post articles. If the complaint is about savings schemes or postal life insurance, it should contain the details of the recovery, account number, name and full address of the depositor/ insured, name of the post office and any reference of the Postal Department. Only those cases which have already been taken up with the divisions or units but have not been resolved to the satisfaction of the complainant will be taken up at the divisional level. Grievances sent through private couriers will not be accepted. The covers should be superscribed as ‘Dak Adalat – September 2021,’ A. Govindarajan, Postmaster General, Central Region, Tiruchi, said in a release. Due to the pandemic, the Dak Adalat will conducted online. Hence, complainants should provide their residential address, phone number, email address and name of the nearest post office, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-october-6/article36529146.ece
18 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases go up||The central region reported 312 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, reflecting an increase in the number of cases. The number of deaths also went up. Five patients succumbed in the region - one each in Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruchi. Thanjavur reported 110 fresh cases while Tiruchi reported 49. Both Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts reported 34 cases each. In Karur 23 patients tested positive. Meanwhile, in Mayiladuthurai, there were 21 cases, and in Pudukottai, 19. Ariyalur district registered 14 cases, while in Perambalur district, eight patients tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-go-up/article36529152.ece
18 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||World Ozone Day observed||Students of National Green Corps of Government Higher Secondary School, Siruganur, observed World Ozone Day on Thursday at the Environment Information Dissemination Centre established by the Department of Environment. The students took an oath to ensure the protection of the ozone layer at the event. R. Kavitha, Organic Farming Organiser at Voice for the Oppressed through Integrated Community Emancipation (VOICE) Trust introduced the students to eco-farming enterprises, students environment groups, Tamil Nadu biodiversity conservation and greening project undertaken by them. D. Murugesan, Range Officer, M. R.Palayam Forest Extension Division, appealed to the students to grow more trees to protect the ozone layer. J. Annadurai, Headmaster, and members of VOICE Trust were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-ozone-day-observed/article36529155.ece
18 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||972 nominations filed in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi||A total of 972 nominations were filed in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts on Friday for various positions in the rural local bodies. In Tirunelveli district, 410 nominations - 310 for village panchayat ward members, 93 for village panchayat presidents, seven for panchayat union ward councillors - were submitted on Friday. So far, 625 nominations have been received for 2,069 positions in nine panchayat unions. Since political parties are yet to share the district panchayat wards and finalise the candidates, no nomination has been filed for District Panchayat Councillor posts. A total of 562 nominations - one for district panchayat councilor, 15 for panchayat union ward members, 112 for village panchayat presidents and 434 for village panchayat ward members - were submitted in Tenkasi district. So far, 794 nominations have been submitted for the 2,284 positions in the rural civic bodies in Tenkasi district. In Kanniyakumari district, only two nominations - one each for Muttom village panchayat president and Leepuram village panchayat ward member – were received on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/972-nominations-filed-in-tirunelveli-and-tenkasi/article36529429.ece
18 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Petitions panel to meet on October 21||The Committee of Petitions of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly will meet here on October 21. In a statement, Collector V. Vishnu said that individuals, associations or institutions in the district, who desire to prefer petitions relating to redress of public grievances may send petitions (five copies in Tamil only) signed by the petitioner / petitioners with date, addressed to the Chairman, Committee on Petitions, Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, Chennai 600 009 on or before September 30. Petitions should be in respectful and temperate language. The petitions may relate to public grievances, which are pending disposal for many years with the government departments. A petition should contain only one grievance and it should relate to only one department. Petitions must relate to a matter of general public importance and not related to individual or private grievances, matters pending before any court of law, tribunal etc., seeking employment opportunity, old age pension, assignment of pattas and government free schemes, bank loan or employment loan and request for transfer and redress of grievances by government servants. The panel will consider such petitions which are within the ambit of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Rules. If a single petitioner sends more than one petition, the Committee will consider only one petition which is most important among them. When the Committee meets here on October 21, factual position will also be ascertained from the officials concerned, who will participate during the deliberations in front of the petitioners. The Collectorate will send separate communication of the Committee meeting directly to the petitioners concerned in due course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petitions-panel-to-meet-on-october-21/article36529422.ece
18 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Scrap NEET, say students||After boycotting classes, the Students’ Federation of India activists staged demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Friday demanding scrapping of NEET (National Eligibility and Entrance Test) for medical admissions. Complimenting the Tamil Nadu government for passing the Bill against NEET and sending it to the Governor for his assent, the protestors said that the Governor should give his nod at the earliest to the Bill. They said the President should also approve the Bill to save the students of Tamil Nadu. In Thoothukudi, over 150 SFI cadres staged a demonstration in front of VOC College demanding the scrapping of NEET and boycotted their classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scrap-neet-say-college-students/article36529428.ece
18 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 81.30 feet (permissible level is 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 1,222.08 cusecs and 1,006 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 62.84 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 15 cusecs and no water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36529431.ece
18 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||11 school students test positive for COVID-19 in Tiruppur||Eleven school students tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruppur district on Friday, according to the Department of School Education. Officials said that six of the students were from a private school in Gudimangalam near Udumalpet. Two boys and two girls studying in Class X and two girls studying in Class XII tested positive on Friday, following which the school was closed for disinfection and swab samples of contacts were lifted. Other cases comprised a Class XII boy from Arignar Anna Government Higher Secondary School in Vellakoil, two girls studying Class X in Government Higher Secondary School in Cheyur, a Class XII girl from a private school in Pongalur and a Class XI boy from the Government Model Higher Secondary School in Mulanur. These schools continued to conduct regular classes and samples of contacts were lifted, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-school-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tiruppur/article36529092.ece
18 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Boy attacked by stray dogs||A six-year-old boy was injured in an attack by stray dogs here on Thursday. A CCTV footage of the incident went viral on social media on Friday. According to his father, the boy was playing alone outside his apartment complex at Therkuthottam near Dharapuram Road when four dogs pounced on him. The father chased the dogs away and rescued the boy. The father told The Hindu on Friday that his son sustained bite injuries in five spots, including the back and left thigh. The boy was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruppur. He would remain under observation for three days, he said. “We shifted [to this apartment] a year ago and all the residents in this area have been facing problems from stray dogs,” he said. A senior doctor at the hospital said on Friday the boy was stable. Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati said the civic body would carry out animal birth control measures, along with an NGO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-attacked-by-stray-dogs/article36529081.ece
18 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Training programme||Canara Bank’s Rural Self Employment Training Institute in Tiruppur will organise a 13-day training programme on making jute products and installation and servicing of CCTV cameras. Candidates belonging to economically weaker section from rural areas of Tiruppur district can apply for the programme offered free of cost. For details, contact: 0421-2256626, 9952518441, or 8610533436.    Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham has secured the fifth place in the best university in the country list in 2021 of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). A press release from the deemed university said the latest ranking placed Amrita as an institution to figure in the top 10 universities for the fifth consecutive year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme/article36529086.ece
18 September 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed||Two persons were killed and 13 others, including a woman inspector, injured in a road accident near Arni in Tiruvannamalai district on Friday. According to the police, S. Chandran, 60, and his wife C. Saraswathi, 55, were travelling in their car along with two others from Chengam in Tiruvannamalai district on the Arani-Vellore Main Road to Gudiyatam near Katpadi. The road is maintained by the State Highways Department. The accident occurred when a police van with eight staff members and a woman inspector, who work at the office of the Superintendent of Police in Tiruvannamalai, reportedly collided with the car at Alagusenai village in Kannamangalam police station limits near Arani in Tiruvannamalai around 8 a.m. on Friday. Chandran’s wife Saraswathi died on the spot, while he died at the Government Medical College Hospital at Adukkamparai in Vellore. All the injured were treated in the same hospital. CCTV footage reportedly shows the police van being driven on the wrong side of the narrow stretch of the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-13-injured-in-accident/article36529071.ece
18 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Take a book, leave a book’, a hit in the Nilgiris||An initiative to ensure access to reading materials through free-to-use library boxes is gaining patronage among residents of the Nilgiris. As part of the ‘Library OneTwo’ initiative, boxes are placed at public spaces in Udhagamandalam and Coonoor, allowing the residents to exchange books for free. Started this January by Madhavan Pillai, Shobana Chandrashekar and Anita Nanjapa, from The Nilgiris Mountain Arts Initiative (TNMAI), it has witnessed a quick surge in interest among the residents across the two towns. “The idea was planted a few years ago, when after a clean-up drive at RC Colony, we worked with the Hebron School in Udhagamandalam to place a library box at the local anganwadi. However, as the box was not in use, we moved it outside the art gallery, where people were encouraged to take and leave any book they wanted,” said Ms. Chandrashekar. Good response Ms. Chandrashekar said they were initially worried about people vandalising the boxes, but they have been pleasantly surprised by the response so far. “There has been a continuous movement of books from the boxes. What is really interesting is that we have no role in curating books that make it to the box, and we do not police their use,” said Mr. Pillai, the curator of Galley OneTwo in Udhagamandalam. Each box can hold 20-25 books, and four boxes have been in use since the beginning of the year. Ms. Chandrashekar said there was still hesitancy among those who were unsure of using the boxes. She hoped that more people would become comfortable taking and leaving books at the libraries. Mr. Pillai said he hoped to have library boxes in each village panchayat in the district.  ...we have no role in curating books that make it to the box, and we do not police their use, Madhavan Pillaicurator of Galley OneTwo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-a-book-leave-a-book-a-hit-in-the-nilgiris/article36529068.ece
18 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Police to auction vehicles||As many as 47 vehicles seized by the police in prohibition-related offences will be auctioned at the Armed Reserve grounds in Villupuram on September 29 from 8 a.m. onwards. According to a release, 47 four-wheelers would be auctioned. Those interested in participating in the auction would have to pay an entry fee, upon which they would be allowed to inspect the vehicles on September 26 and 27. Those who want to bid in the auction would have to pay the bid amount along with GST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-auction-vehicles/article36529370.ece
18 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Collector reviews arrangements||Collector D. Mohan on Friday inspected the arrangements at the counting centre set up at the Government Higher Secondary School in Marakkanam in Villupuram district, for the upcoming rural local bodies poll. Mr. Mohan, accompanied by Superintendent of Police N. Shreenatha, and senior officials, checked the availability of basic amenities such as power and water supply and arrangements for setting up strong rooms and counting halls. He reviewed the security at the centre. Later, the Collector inspected vulnerable polling booth set up at Singanur and Veppery in Marakkanam block. He directed the officials to strengthen security and ensure cameras were installed inside the booths for a free and fair election. Elections will be held to 6,097 posts in two phases on October 6 and 9. Mr. Mohan said 2,948 polling booth would be set up across the district for the rural local bodies poll. Of these, 694 booths have been identified as vulnerable and critical. As per the voter list, there are 13,83,687 rural voters in the district (6,87,420 men, 6,96,115 women and 152 third gender voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-reviews-arrangements/article36529369.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Birth anniversary of Periyar observed||The 143rd birth anniversary of Dravidar Kazhagam founder ‘Periyar’ E.V. Ramasamy was observed in Erode district with Collector H. Krishnanunni and political party functionaries garlanding his statue here on Friday. Mr. Krishnanunni garlanded the statue of the leader at the Periyar – Anna Memorial in the city in the presence of Erode Revenue Divisional Officer P. Premalatha, Erode MP A. Ganeshamurthi and Anthiyur MLA A.G. Venkatachalam. Functionaries of DMK, AIADMK, Congress and other political parties garlanded the statue at Panneerselvam Park in the presence of cadres. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had recently announced that the birth anniversary of the social reformer would be observed as ‘Day of Social Justice’ every year and all State government employees would undertake a pledge to follow the principles of self-respect, brotherhood, equality and social justice. At the Collectorate, Mr. Krishnanunni administered the pledge to employees. The birth anniversary was observed at government offices and by various political parties in Salem. District Collector S. Karmegham paid floral tributes to the portrait of Periyar on the Collectorate premises and administered the Social Justice day pledge to the staff. The Collector also inaugurated a photo exhibition on Periyar’s life and about his various reform movements at the Collectorate. Members of various political parties and Dravidian outfits paid tributes to his statue near the Salem Collectorate. Representatives of political parties garlanded the statue of Periyar and raised slogans hailing his contributions for reforming the society. A few youths poured milk over a huge hoarding of Periyar at Four Roads junction. In Namakkal, District Collector Shreya P. Singh paid tributes to the social reformer and administered the pledge to the Collectorate staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birth-anniversary-of-periyar-observed/article36529177.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Poll ready||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-ready/article36529439.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Towards an equal society||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/towards-an-equal-society/article36529070.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rain impact||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-impact/article36529488.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||132 cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 132 new COVID-19 cases on Friday taking the total tally to 1,00,450. While 92 persons were discharged, 1,350 continue to be under treatment. Sixty-three positive cases were reported in Salem. Health officials said 61 cases were indigenous and 20 were reported in Salem Corporation limits. As per bulletin, one death was reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 72 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Krishnagiri recorded 28 COVID-19 cases, and 12 cases discharged. The total number of cases stood at 251 cases as of Friday. Dharmapuri recorded 32 fresh cases, and 24 cases discharged with one death registered. The total number of cases was 221.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/132-cases-in-erode-district/article36529174.ece
18 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||3.1 lakh doses in Belagavi district||The Belagavi district administration and some NGOs held COVID-19 vaccination drives across the district on Friday to mark the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. An unprecedented 3.1 lakh doses were administered in the district on Friday. This is nearly 100 times the doses given on Thursday. This is also one-fourth of the total first doses given since vaccination started. Officials claimed that of the 3.8 lakh doses stocked with the district, around 3.1 were give in a single day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/31-lakh-doses-in-belagavi-district/article36529191.ece
18 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Laurels for Bidar college||Students of Dr. Channabasaveshwar Gurukul Residential PU Science College at Kardyal in Bidar district have done well in JEE (Main) exam. As many as 100 students have secured eligibilityfor JEE (Advanced) exam, which is a significant achievement for a college in Kalyana Karnataka region. Chetan Mallikarjun got the all-India rank of 21 and Ambika Pandappa got 195st rank. Sidrameshwar cleared with a 99.78 percentile, Kedar Suresh Babu 99.52, Nagaraj Hallimani 99.35, Premkumar Shivkumar 99.32, Shridharreddy Digambarreddy 98.47, Bhimashankar Hanmanthrao 97.36, Balaganesh Shivajirao 97.27, Ronak Rajshekhar Patil 96.76, Manjunath Subhash 96.74, Tilak Vishwanath 95.72, Basavapragnya Sangashetty 95.7, and Vikhilesh Bandhu got 95 percentile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/laurels-for-bidar-college/article36529196.ece
18 September 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ex-MLA takes accident victim to hospital||Aravind Patil, former MLA, helped save the life of an accident victim in Khanapur near Belagavi on Friday. Ningappa Yalagurkar had fallen off his bike near Raja factory. Mr. Patil shifted him to his car and took him to Khanapur hospital. The patient was later shifted to the district hospital. Doctors said Mr. Yalagurkar was out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-mla-takes-accident-victim-to-hospital/article36529197.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State comes second after Bihar in vaccination drive||Karnataka set a new record on the vaccination front on Friday by administering 27,80,032 COVID-19 vaccine doses by 9.30 p.m. during the mega vaccination drive, the second highest in the country. Although the State stood first in the country ahead of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh which achieved over 26.62 lakh doses and 24.86 lakh doses respectively till 8.30 p.m., Bihar pushed Karnataka to the second position by administering 27,81,417 doses by 9.30 p.m. With this, the State has achieved a cumulative coverage of 88% against its target of administering 31,75,000 doses during the mega drive. Districts had been given targets based on remaining population to be vaccinated there and second dose due, focussing on priority groups. Simultaneously, Karnataka also achieved another milestone with the total number of vaccinations crossing five crore and touching 5,12,71,159. Of these, while 3,70,74,322 are first doses, 1,41,96,837 are second doses. Friday’s single-day vaccination figures surpassed the previous record of 12 lakh doses administered on the first Lasika Utsava on Wednesday. The State has been conducting special vaccination camps every Wednesday with a target to administer 10 lakh doses. Among districts, Bengaluru Urban exceeded its target of 50,000 doses and achieved 141% coverage administering 70,282 doses. Shivamogga followed achieving a coverage of 132% by administering 1,05,400 doses as against its target of 80,000 doses. Dharward, Ramanagaram, Hassan, Davangere, Chickballapur, Chikkamagaluru, Tumakuru and Haveri also exceeded their target. Apart from these, five other districts achieved a coverage of 80% and above.  Kalaburagi recorded the poorest performance with 37% coverage (55,106 doses were administered against a target of 1,50,000) and Koppal followed with 55% coverage (32,882 doses were administered against a target of 60,000). While six districts achieved a coverage ranging between 57% and 78%, seven other districts recorded a coverage ranging between 81% and 87%. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar thanked all the health workers and other staff involved in the drive. “We are very confident of crossing the target of 1.5 crore that we have set ourselves for September,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-comes-second-after-bihar-in-vaccination-drive/article36529001.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||VTU to revamp online classes||Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) will revamp their online classes to make it more meaningful for students, said Karisiddappa, Vice-Chancellor of VTU, on Friday. The varsity will adopt a blended mode of learning this academic year. He was speaking at a session on ‘Careers in Engineering’ at the The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling Digital Conclave. Hundreds of students participated in the digital event, which will conclude on September 19. “We are in the process of tweaking the online learning process so that students could grasp concepts more effectively. We plan to train teachers in teaching pedagogies and assessment patterns,” Mr. Karisiddappa said, adding that there would be drastic changes in the engineering syllabus with the rollout of the National Education Policy (NEP).  Ability enhancement A.S. Deshpande, Registrar of VTU, said that while the fundamentals and basics of engineering will remain the same, students can get extra credits by taking different courses. They will also be able to take ability enhancement courses. “Under NEP, students can take specialisation courses offered in UG programmes,” he said. He also advised students not to be extremely particular on which branch of engineering they want to study. “Engineers have the ability to think differently which makes them pursue different careers,” he said New courses In the fourth and final session for the day, Vice-Chancellor of Bangalore University K.R. Venugopal spoke about how the National Education Policy will help students broaden their horizons. The policy makes courses interdisciplinary and also allows multiple entry and exits, he said. This academic year, University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering will start new courses in artificial intelligence and machine learning. In PG programmes, there would be courses on Internet of Things, cyber security, and sustainable architecture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vtu-to-revamp-online-classes/article36529015.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nine-month-old boy, four adults found dead||A nine-month-old boy is believed to have died of starvation after his mother, grandmother, and two other adult family members allegedly ended their lives around three days ago, leaving him and his 2.5 year-old cousin alone. The girl barely survived the trauma and is undergoing treatment, said the police. The bodies were discovered at the family’s residence in Thigalarapalya on Friday night. “Going by the heavily decomposed state, we suspect they may have died at least three to four days ago, but we are waiting for the postmortem report,” said the police. The incident came to light when the children’s grandfather, Shankar, who was away, returned home on Friday evening and was unable to enter the two-storeyed house. He informed the Byadarahalli police who broke open the door. Different rooms They found four bodies, one in each room: Shankar’s wife Bharathi, 51, and their three children, Sinchana, 34, the mother of the girl who survived; Sindhurani, 31, the mother of the baby boy, and Madhusagar, 25, all dead in different rooms. The police also found the body of the nine-month-old boy on the bed. The police rescued Sinchana’s 2.5 year-old daughter, who was very feeble but conscious. “It is a miracle she survived the ordeal. It may have been at least three days since the adults died,” said Soumendu Mukherjee, Additional Commissioner (West) of Police, who visited the spot. The girl was rushed to a nearby private hospital where she is being treated. Doctors have said her condition is stable. Sealed windows The two children may have cried, but nobody in the neighbourhood seemed to have heard anything in the last few days, the police said. “One of the reasons could be that not only the door but all the windows of the house were also latched from inside,” they added. “The adults were found hanging in different rooms of the house, not together. It is rare for four people - mother and her children - to come to the same state of mind. It is either a suicide pact, or one person committing suicide to which others reacted by ending their lives. It cannot be ruled out. It is especially shocking that they left the children behind, one of whom may have died of starvation,” said a senior police official. He added that the elder daughter Sinchana had separated from her husband and had been living with the family, while the younger daughter, the mother of the nine-month-old, had come home for the delivery. Tiff over chit fund Shankar runs a press and brings out a tabloid newspaper, Shasakara Varthe . He told police that he left home in a huff on Sunday afternoon following a tiff with his son over a Rs. 10 lakh chit fund only to return home Friday evening. He has not been very forthcoming about where he was during these five days, a senior official said. Shankar reportedly told the police that nobody answered his calls for the last two-three days which he put down to them being upset with him. Investigation on The Byadarahalli police have registered a case of unnatural death and are further probing the issue. ( Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani ph:104 for help)   It is a miracle the girl survived the ordeal. It may have been at least three days since the adults died. Soumendu Mukherjee Additional Commissioner (West) of Police   The deceased Bharathi, 51 Sinchana, 34, the mother of the girl who survived Sindhurani, 31, the mother of the baby boy Madhusagar, 25||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-month-old-boy-four-adults-found-dead/article36528990.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three years in jail, Rs. 1 lakh penalty for online gaming or betting||The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Friday to ban online gaming or betting by amending the Karnataka Police Act of 1963, with maximum imprisonment of three years and a penalty of up to Rs. 1 lakh. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra introduced the Bill, which aims to “ban online games, involving all forms of wagering or betting, including in the form of tokens valued in terms of money paid before or after issue of it”. It bans “electronic means and virtual currency and electronic transfer of funds in connection with any game of chance”. However, there is no ban on lottery or betting on horse races on any racecourse within or outside Karnataka. The main objective of the Bill is to make effective enforcement of provisions of the police Act by making provisions as cognisable offence and non-bailable, except Section 87 (gaming in public streets), which is made cognisable and bailable.  The punishment has been increased from one year imprisonment and penalty of Rs. 1,000 to imprisonment of three years and penalty of Rs. 1 lakh. For the first offence, punishment would be six-month imprisonment and fine of Rs. 10,000. For the second offence, the punishment would be one-year imprisonment and fine of Rs. 15,000. For the third offence, punishment would be 18-month imprisonment and fine of Rs. 20,000. Persons aiding or abetting online gaming would also be punished. Instruments of gaming can be any article intended to be used as a means of gaming, including computers, mobile apps, internet or cyberspace, virtual platform, computer network, computer resource, any communication device, electronic applications, software and accessories. The Bill is expected to be debated next week in the Assembly. The High Court of Karnataka has asked the State government to take a decision to put an end to online gambling. The neighbouring States of Kerala and Tamil Nadu have imposed a ban on online games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-years-in-jail-rs-1-lakh-penalty-for-online-gaming-or-betting/article36529021.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||School fee row: HC gives partial relief to parents, private schools||Giving partial relief to both the managements of private unaided schools and parents of students in such institutions, the High Court of Karnataka has directed the schools to give 15% discount in fee for the academic year 2020-21 in lieu of underutilised facilities during the relevant period of that academic year. However, the court directed the school managements not to debar any student from attending either online or physical classes on account of non-payment of fees, arrears/outstanding fees including the instalments, and not to withhold results on that account. It also said that the school managements should not withhold the name of any student/candidate for the ensuing board examinations for Classes X and XII on the grounds of non-payment of fee/arrears for the academic year 2020-21, on obtaining an undertaking of the concerned parents/students. Justice R. Devdas passed the order while disposing of the petitions filed by Mumbai-based Association of India Schools, an association of Private Unaided Schools, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, and others. The petitioners had questioned the State government’s order of January 29, 2021, restraining all categories of private unaided schools from collecting fees for the academic year 2020-21 in excess of 70% of the tuition fees collected in the academic year 2019-20. The High Court moulded the directions based on the May 2021 judgement of the apex court in the case of Indian School, Jodhpur, Vs. State of Rajasthan, in which the apex court had held that State government was not vested with powers either under the State Education Act, the Disaster Management Act, 2005, or under the Article 162 of the Constitution of India to issue directions on fixation of fees in private unaided schools. Though the State government had initially defended its decision on imposing restriction on fee collection, during the arguments later admitted that it was bound by apex court’s judgement. More concession However, the High Court also made it clear that regardless of direction to give 15% discount in lieu of underutilised facilities, it is open to private unaided schools to give further concession to their students or to evolve a different pattern for giving concession over 15% discount. The High Court also said that if any individual request is made by the parent/ward finding it difficult to remit annual fees for the academic year 2020-21 in the above terms, the school management is to consider such representation on a case-to-case basis sympathetically. Meanwhile, the High Court made it clear that the above arrangement will not affect the collection of fees for the academic year 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-fee-row-hc-gives-partial-relief-to-parents-private-schools/article36528997.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Take stern steps to end illegal activities in prisons, MLAs tell Home Minister||Members cutting across party lines on Friday urged Home Minister Araga Jnanendra to take stern measures to end the availability of drugs, liquor, pistols, arms, and cell phone services to prisoners with the aid of jail staff.  Members K.R. Ramesh Kumar, U.T. Khader, Tanveer Sait, Parameshwara Naik, Priyank Kharge (all Congress), Satish Reddy, K.G. Bopaiah (BJP), A.T. Ramaswamy, Sa Ra Ramesh, and K. Annadani (all JD-S) spoke in the Legislative Assembly on three Bills related to the Home Department and said the Minister should take action against prison staff for allowing illegal activities. They said the staff should keep vigil on the people who regularly visit prisoners and monitor their activities. Though the authorities have installed jammers, all prisoners make calls to their relatives and even legislators, Mr. Khader and Mr. Annadani said. Assembly members also complained about corruption in the administration of prisons and asked the Minister to take steps to eliminate it. Three Bills Meanwhile, the House passed three Bills — the Karnataka Prison Development Board Bill, 2021, Identification of Prisoners (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the Code of Criminal Procedure (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2021. The first Bill is aimed at the constitution of the Karnataka Prison Development Board for skill improvement, welfare of prisoners, and development of prison industries. The board would be headed by the Home Minister. Mr. Jnanendra said the second Bill is aimed at the collection of blood, DNA, voice, and iris scan samples of offenders for effective surveillance. The Bill aims to empower “Superintends of Police or Deputy SPs to order collection of measurements in addition to the Magistrate of first class so that avoidable delays are removed and the workload of the Judiciary as well as the police is reduced”. The third Bill aims to record the evidence of the witness by audio-video electronic means in the presence of the advocate of the person who is accused of the offence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-stern-steps-to-end-illegal-activities-in-prisons-mlas-tell-home-minister/article36529026.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL extends metro service hours||Taking note of public demand, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has decided to extend Namma Metro service hours. With effect from September 18, trains will be operated between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. As per the revised schedule, the last trains will leave terminal stations at 9.30 p.m. Until now, trains were running from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m., but with more people reporting to offices, the metro rail corporation had been inundated with requests to revert to pre-COVID timings. Recently, a few members of Parliament too raised the issue. Anjum Parwez, MD, BMRCL, said, “We have sought clearance from the State government to extend the metro services during curfew hours. This will benefit the public relying on metro services.” A press release stated that on weekdays, during peak hours, trains will be operated with a frequency of 5 and 10 minutes during non-peak hours between Baiyappanahalli and Mysuru Road (on the Purple Line) and Yelachenahalli to Nagasandra (on the Green Line). However, trains from Silk Institute Station on the Green Line and Kengeri Station on the Purple Line will depart every 10 minutes throughout the day. The release further stated that on weekends and general holidays, the frequency of trains will be increased or decreased depending on the patronage. Passengers relying on the metro are happy with the decision of the BMRCL, Shilpa M., a passenger said, “The extended timings will help people who are unable to leave office before 8 p.m. In the absence of metro services, I had to rely on taxis or autorickshaws to reach home which was expensive. Now that I can use the metro after 8 p.m., my travel time and expenses will be reduced.” Praveen Krishnan, a resident of Vijayanagar, said this move was long overdue. “BMRCL should have extended the timings much earlier, because it has been quite some time since businesses all opened and offices began functioning as usual. “I use the metro to commute daily from Vijayanagar and Indiranagar. It was a struggle to get back home. Now, I am happy.” 2.19 lakh per day After BMRCL resumed services on June 21, ridership has gradually increased over the weeks. A.S. Shankar, executive director (operations) of BMRCL, told The Hindu that for two consecutive days (Wednesday and Thursday) the per day ridership touched 2.19 lakh on both the lines. The official said on the extended Purple Line from Mysuru Road to Kengeri, the ridership has touched 8,700 per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmrcl-extends-metro-service-hours/article36528989.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students urged to dream big, aim high||Dream of making it big, dream of being relevant. This was the crux of Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant’s advice to high school and pre-university college students at the inaugural session of The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling Digital Conclave. Drawing from his personal experiences to illustrate how to tackle stumbling blocks and challenges, Mr. Pant said he could not get into engineering and chose to pursue geology. He later prepared for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination and became an IPS officer. But he had a backup plan. “I had cleared the National Eligibility Test (NET) and would have become a lecturer if I had not cracked the UPSC examination,” he said. He advised students who did not have clarity on their objective or goal to research online on the different fields and opportunities available to them. “It is also vital to have mentors who will be able to guide you,” he said. The speaker for the second session, Anil Pinto, Registrar of Christ (Deemed to be University), appealed to students to develop an array of skill sets. “If you study social science, please learn something like a programming language such as Python or anything else. One needs to develop different skill sets to keep the brain fairly agile,” he said. At the same time, he underscored the importance of learning an art form irrespective of their age. “Just because you are very passionate about something does not mean you can make a career out of it,” he said. He said that social ambience and several other factors play a key role in determining how successful a person is. Mr. Pinto urged students to avoid putting all their eggs in one basket if they were unsure of their career paths. “Look at institutions that will give you multiple choices and allow you to make other connections. The National Education Policy also allows that flexibility,” he said. To a question on whether students from middle class backgrounds should pursue theatre and acting, he said that students could use the power of the internet to develop their own content and post them online. The gold sponsors for the event are AMC Institutions, Bengaluru; Atria Institute of Technology, Bengaluru; and INSIGHTS IAS, Bengaluru. The silver sponsors are Sir M. Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Bengaluru; Hindustan Business School, Bengaluru; K.S. Group of Institutions, Bengaluru; Shaheen Group of Institutions, Bidar; Ramaiah University, Bengaluru; and Rajarajeswari Group of Institutions, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-urged-to-dream-big/article36529006.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jarkiholi CD scandal: SIT has finished probe, govt. tells HC||The State government on Friday informed the High Court of Karnataka that the Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up to probe the case related to the alleged CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has completed its probe. State Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadi also told the court that the SIT could be allowed to submit its final report on the investigation before the jurisdictional court, subject to the final outcome of the petitions in which the legality of the constitution of the SIT has been questioned. He argued that the non-submission of report would impact both the accused as well as the victim as the Code of Criminal Procedure mandates submission of the final investigation report within a specified period, which has already expired. However, senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for the victim, who has filed a complaint of rape and sexual assault against Mr. Jarkiholi, opposed the A-G’s plea. As the High Court, by way of an interim order, had directed the SIT not to submit the final investigation report before the jurisdictional court without prior permission from it, Ms. Jaising contended that she wants to argue on the issue whether the SIT can be allowed to submit final report when the court is yet to hear the main issue of the legality of the SIT’s establishment. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum said it would hear on September 27 the arguments on behalf of the State government, the SIT, and the victim on the issue.  The Advocate-General argued that the non-submission of SIT report would impact both the accused as well as the victim as the CrPC mandates submission of the final investigation report within a specified period, which has already expired||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jarkiholi-cd-scandal-sit-has-finished-probe-govt-tells-hc/article36529017.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Another pothole death in the city?||A two-wheeler rider was killed when he came under the wheels of a speeding minibus, allegedly while trying to avoid a pothole. The incident took place on Thursday evening near Kanteerava Studio on a road off Outer Ring Road. This is the second incident in ten days where motorists lost their lives while trying to navigate potholes. A physically challenged senior citizen was killed in an accident in Manganahalli while trying to navigate a pothole earlier this month. The deceased, Manoj Kumar Gowdar, 25, who hails from Sirsi and works as a research assistant in Peenya Industrial Area was returning home in Mahalakshmi Layout when the accident occurred. He was riding his bike to the left of a minibus next to him. However, he suddenly took a sharp right turn, purportedly to avoid a large pothole just a few feet away on the road. He hit a pole and then the back of the bus and fell. He and his bike came under the wheels of the minibus. A senior traffic police official said from the scene of the accident, it looked like the rider was trying to avoid the pothole and took a sudden right which caused the accident. However, the Rajajinagar Traffic police only registered a case against the bus driver for causing the accident and not the BBMP. BBMP waiting for report BBMP Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said officials visited the accident spot and would take a report from the traffic police. “Preliminary information suggests the motorist tried to overtake from the left and hit a pole,” he said. However, he said the civic body was committed to taking steps to make roads safe for citizens and was coordinating with other utility agencies such as BESCOM and BWSSB. “We are working towards the deadlines to make arterial roads pothole-free by September 20 and all other interior roads by September 30,” he said. Revenue Minister R. Ashok said he heard the accident occurred as the rider hit a pole and did not concede the role of pothole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-pothole-death-in-the-city/article36528987.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 4 lakh people vaccinated in Bengaluru||As many as 4.04 lakh people were vaccinated in the mega vaccination programme taken up in around 2,200 sites across the city on Friday to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had set a target of administering 5 lakh doses. However, by 9 p.m., 4,04,496 were vaccinated. With this, Bengaluru now stands first in the country’s vaccination count. A release from the BBMP said that to reach the vaccination target, the drive will be held again on Saturday in the city. Friday’s record vaccinations, the release said, was 2.5% more than the previous drives. There were as many as 1,893 vaccination sites in government healthcare facilities and 301 in private institutions. A mega vaccination camp that will work round-the-clock was inaugurated at the Kabaddi Grounds in Malleswaram. This is the second such centre, with the first already functioning in Yelahanka. Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan inaugurated the centre that has a drive-in and walk-in facility. Revenue Minister R. Ashok, who visited a vaccination site, told reporters that such vaccination drives would be planned at the Assembly constituency level, with the target of vaccinating the eligible population by December end. BBMP’s chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that 24 NGO partners had joined hands with the civic body for the vaccination drive. He said that BBMP was targeting to administer at least 200 doses in each of the vaccination sites in the city. He said that 81% of the eligible population had already received the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-4-lakh-people-vaccinated-in-bengaluru/article36528995.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Less than 50% of Samudaya Bhavans sanctioned since 2008 completed||Less than 50% of the community halls approved since 2008 have been completed across the State. Providing details about the community halls being constructed for Scheduled Caste and Tribe communities, Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary told the Legislative Council on Friday that 7,352 bhavans have been approved since 2008. “Of these, just 2,746 have been completed,” he said. Indicating that the funds could be otherwise used for housing projects, Mr. Poojary said that 5.5 lakh SC families do not have homes and 4.5 lakh families do not even have land. “Instead of the bhavans, we should focus on providing homes, electricity, water and other infrastructure,” he said. Explaining the reasons for non-completion of the approved bhavans,the Minister said that buildings have remained incomplete after coming up on lands without proper documents and overshooting of the approved budget. “Legislators should stop asking for more and allow these bhavans to be completed,” he said. In response, Congress member Dharmasena, who had raised the issue, said, “Use earthmoving machines to demolish half-constructed community halls if they cannot becompleted. Allow our community children to use the land as playgrounds,” he said. Earlier, he had estimated that Rs. 7,000 crore was needed to complete the community halls meant for SC communities across Karnataka. Mr. Poojary said that he would bring the matter to the attention of the Chief Minister to find a solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/less-than-50-of-samudaya-bhavans-sanctioned-since-2008-completed/article36529023.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gram Swaraj Bill passed in Council||The Gram Swaraj Bill was passed in the Upper House even as the Congress staged a walkout. The Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill had been passed in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday amid protests. In the debate on the Bill in the Council, Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil accused the government of piloting it to put off the elections to zilla and taluk panchayats. “The Bill is anti-constitutional. Does the government believe in decentralisation of power?” he asked. JD(S) member K.T. Srikante Gowda said there was no clarity in the Bill and a fresh delimitation exercise would result in a huge delay in elections. “It is better to set right anomalies in the current Act and hold elections.” Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said that the government had no intention of postponing the elections. “Unless fresh population figures are available, the delimitation exercise cannot be taken up. This Bill is to set right the anomalies that exist in the Act,” he said. However, not convinced with the reply, the Congress staged a walkout and the Bill was passed by voice vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gram-swaraj-bill-passed-in-council/article36529024.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,003 new COVID-19 cases, 18 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 1,003 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,66,194. Bengaluru Urban reported 310 cases and six deaths. With 18 deaths, the toll rose to 37,573. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,199 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,12,633. The State now has 15,960 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.67%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.79%. Testing As many as 1,48,496 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,17,226 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,60,04,395.  COVID-19 in Karnataka on September 17 Cases: 1,003 Deaths: 18 Discharges: 1,199 Tests: 1,48,496 Vaccinations: 23,01,639 Test Positivity Rate: 0.67% Case Fatality Rate: 1.79%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1003-new-covid-19-cases-18-deaths/article36529002.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP denies permission for installing Modi statue||A 14-foot statue of Prime Minister Narendra Modi commissioned by a former Deputy Mayor and civic councillor is on its way to the city from Andhra Pradesh, but it will not be installed in Bengaluru as originally planned. The BBMP has not accorded former Deputy Mayor C.R. Ram Mohan Raju permission to install in Bommanahalli ward. This is because of the recent direction from the High Court of Karnataka. Earlier this month, the High Court directed the government to ensure the implementation of the Supreme Court’s 2013 direction to all States to not grant permission for installation of statues or construction of any structure on public roads, pavements, sideways and other public utility areas. The statue will remain hidden from public view for at least a couple of months. When contacted, Mr. Raju told The Hindu that the statue is already on its way to the city from Andhra Pradesh. “ I will once again seek permission from the BBMP to erect the statue,” he said. He spent his own funds to commission the statue from artists Katuru Venkateswara Rao and his son Katuru Ravi from Guntur district in Andhra Pradesh. Not willing to divulge the sum spent on the statue, Mr. Raju said that it has been made completely from discarded automobile parts and scrap material. For now, he plans to keep it at his residence or rent out a godown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-denies-permission-for-installing-modi-statue/article36529008.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Youth Congress observes ‘Unemployment Day’||Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress workers observed ‘National Unemployment Day’ on Friday to express their opposition to the Narendra Modi-led government’s policies that they argued had led to increased unemployment. All India Youth Congress president Srinivas B.V. and Karnataka Youth Congress president Raksha Ramaiah led a protest rally from Bengaluru railway station to Freedom Park. Mr. Srinivas said, “Unfortunately, the country is observing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday as ‘unemployment day’.” He claimed that unemployment among the youth had increased manifold after the BJP government headed by Mr. Modi came to power in 2014 because of its lopsided policies. Mr. Ramaiah said members of the Youth Congress will start a social media campaign and tag the Prime Minister to their comments seeking employment. Many people had lost their jobs owing to economic slowdown and the COVID-19 pandemic. “Since last year, several lakhs of employees working in the garment, hotel, and tourism sectors have lost their jobs. The State and Central governments must come out with solutions to tackle unemployment problem,” he said. Similar protests were held across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-congress-observes-unemployment-day/article36529010.ece
18 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP core committee meeting today||The BJP’s State core committee as well as State executive committee will be meeting in Davangere on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. BJP national general secretary and State in-charge Arun Singh will participate in these meetings, which will also be attended by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other senior leaders. This is the first time that Mr. Bommai is taking part in a meeting of the core committee as he has now been included as a member of the highest decision-making body of the party’s State unit in his capacity as Chief Minister. According to sources, the meetings are expected to focus on preparing the party organisation for the Assembly elections in 2023. This would involve a series of activities such as galvanising the party organisation and preparing the cadre for the zilla and taluk panchayat polls. The party high command, particularly Mr. Singh, has been highlighting the need for the BJP to focus on the areas where it has either lost Assembly polls or is yet to have a strong hold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-core-committee-meeting-today/article36529022.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SILS to give BBL 100 m doses of vaccines every year||Biocon Biologics Limited (BBL) will offer an approximately 15% stake to Serum Institute Life Sciences Private Limited (SILS) at a post-money valuation of $4.9 billion in exchange for committed access to 100 million doses of vaccines per annum for 15 years, primarily from SILS’s upcoming vaccine facility in Pune with commercialisation rights of the SILS vaccine portfolio, including COVID-19 vaccines, for global markets. Biocon Biologics Limited (BBL) is a subsidiary of Biocon Ltd. and Serum Institute Life Sciences Private Limited (SILS) is a subsidiary of Serum Institute of India. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, BBL will generate a committed revenue stream and related margins, commencing H2 of FY23. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Executive Chairperson, Biocon & Biocon Biologics, said, “This alliance will complement the strengths and resources of the two leading players in vaccines and biologics.'' Adar Poonawalla, CEO, Serum Institute of India, said, “We look forward to complementing each other’s capabilities and capacities in vaccines and biologics with the objective of addressing inequitable access, both in emerging and developed markets, for life-saving vaccines and biologics.” Mr. Poonawalla will get a seat on the board of Biocon Biologics Limited. In addition to vaccines, the strategic alliance would develop antibodies targeting several infectious diseases like dengue and HIV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sils-to-give-bbl-100-m-doses-of-vaccines-every-year/article36528998.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘FPOs facing closure’||Farmer producers organisations set up recently are in financial crisis and are facing closure, said Congress member M. Narayanaswamy. He said there was no coordination between the district administration and the farmers/NGOs that have started the FPOs despite the Centre promoting the scheme. “The Centre has allocated a mere Rs. 32.46 crore for the purpose,” he said. In response, Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil said no FPOs have been closed so far. “The Centre has given Rs. 32.46 crore and set a target of starting 100 FPOs. Besides, the CM has announced setting up 750 FPOs and kept aside Rs. 225 crore.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fpos-facing-closure/article36529028.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ragpicker killed over Rs. 20 debt||The city police cracked a recent murder case where a ragpicker was bludgeoned to death and arrested three other ragpickers, all his friends, for allegedly committing the crime. Investigations revealed that the deceased was murdered over a dispute of Rs. 20 debt that he had failed to repay. Sanjay, 35, from Assam, was found bludgeoned to death in a narrow bylane next to a bar in Bommanahalli on Tuesday. He was at the bar nearby the previous night. The police tracked down Deepak, from West Bengal, who had left the bar with him. He said Sanjay had borrowed Rs. 20 from him and when he asked him to pay him back at the bar, he had refused hich led to a fight. He reportedly confessed to killing him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ragpicker-killed-over-rs-20-debt/article36528991.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Supply textbooks in Braille format in 15 days’||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to ensure that textbooks in Braille format are supplied within 15 days for all eligible visually-challenged persons studying in schools. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction on a PIL petition filed by the National Federation of the Blind, Karnataka. Earlier, it was pointed out on behalf of the petitioner that the government takes longer time to supply textbooks in Braille and many years, such textbooks are supplied to visually challenged during the second half of the academic year. Meanwhile, the government told the Bench that so far 107 titles, 63 English medium textbooks and 44 Kannada medium textbooks have been uploaded to the website in EPUB-3 format to enable easy conversion of these textbooks contents to Braille.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/supply-textbooks-in-braille-format-in-15-days/article36528996.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reservation for students||A committee comprising senior officials will be appointed to look into the issue of providing reservation in employment in the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department to those students completing their Masters in Rural Development. The announcement was made by RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa in the Legislative Council on Friday. “The committee will be asked to submit its report in the next two or three months,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reservation-for-students/article36529027.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Boy ends life with father’s firearm||A 17-year-old allegedly shot himself at a bus-stop shelter on Ballari Road near Mehkri Circle on Friday early morning. He was spotted by motorists who informed the police. Police have ruled out any foul play and said it was evident that it was a case of suicide. The deceased was later identified as Gopal Bhandari, son of a retired havildar in the Army. He resided with his parents in Gangenahalli, and was a II PU student. A senior police officer who visited the spot told media persons that they had recovered both the firearm and a single bullet fired from the scene of crime. “A single shot was fired. There is a bullet entry wound from the right side of the forehead. It exited from the left,” the officer said. The firearm is now identified as a licensed weapon of his father - Indian Ordnance Country-made Pistol, that he has had since his retirement in 2015. “The pistol was kept in an almirah in the house and the parents said the boy was also trained to use it. He seems to have taken the weapon and left home by 3:30 a.m., walked to Mehkri Circle, sat at the bus-stand and shot himself shortly later,” a senior officer said. The parents said the boy was used to reading early and going for morning walks to freshen up, police said, adding that there is no clarity on what led him to take the extreme step.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani ph:104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-ends-life-with-fathers-firearm/article36528986.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gang caught providing fake SIM cards to cybercriminals||While probing a case of extortion, where a man was tricked into stripping on video call and then blackmailed, the cybercrime division of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Karnataka, has busted a ring in Haryana that was allegedly providing fake SIM cards and e-wallet accounts to various networks of cybercriminals. The cybercrime ring had provided fake SIM cards to another network based in Rajasthan who used to call random people in the guise of women, make them strip on a video call and use the visuals to extort money. Based on the information given by the CID, the Cybercrime Coordination Centre of the MHA conducted a detailed data analysis and arrested three people from Haryana. Police claim they are linked to 3,951 cases. The arrested are Mohammed Mujahid, Asif, and Mohammed Iqbal. Asif used to procure photographs of people to get SIM cards. Mohammed Iqbal created fake Aadhaar cards on the computer under fictitious names. With these documents, Mujahid reportedly activated over 5,000 SIM cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gang-caught-providing-fake-sim-cards-to-cybercriminals/article36529007.ece
18 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SBI ‘Home Loan Utsav’ on September 18, 19||State Bank of India is organising a ‘Home Loan Utsav’ on September 18 and 19 at its local head office on St. Mark’s Road in Bengaluru. The event will be flagged off at 9.30 a.m. For details, visitwww.homeloanutsav.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sbi-home-loan-utsav-on-september-18-19/article36528992.ece
18 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Customer interaction meeting on Saturday||BESCOM, Chandapura Sub Division, has organised a customer interaction meeting on Saturday (Sept. 18) at 2.30 p.m. on its premises. The Division, in a release, appealed to electricity consumers from Chandapura, Bommasandra, Hebbagodi and Suryanagar sub divisions to participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/customer-interaction-meeting-on-saturday/article36528993.ece
18 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Good response to vaccination drive in three districts||The mega COVID-19 vaccination drive received an impressive response in Shivamogga, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru districts on Friday. Shivamogga recorded 130% achievement by administering vaccination to 1,04,015 people against the target of 80,000. Similarly in Hassan 92,297 people got vaccinated, registering 115% achievement. The target set for Hassan was 80,000. In Chikkamagaluru district 61,217 people were vaccinated against the target of 60,000, recording 102% achievement. All the three districts figured in the top 15 best performing districts.  The Health and Family Welfare Department and other departments had made elaborate arrangements to ensure the maximum number of people get the vaccination. Shivamogga topped the list of districts by administering vaccines to the maximum number of people. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar and others had appealed to the public to make use of the opportunity. The officials of gram panchayats were asked to take up a door-to-door campaign to motivate people to get vaccinated. In Hassan, District and Sessions Judge Shivanna, Deputy Commissioner R. Girish and others flagged off vehicles that carried the staff members to the vaccination booths. Students step in The district administration had set up booths across the district so that people need not walk long distances. The final year students of nursing colleges were also involved in the drive. In Chikkamagaluru vaccination booths were set up across the district. The staff members also visited coffee plantations and administered vaccines to the plantation workers as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-response-to-vaccination-drive-in-three-districts/article36529298.ece
18 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||High command will decide my role: Vijayendra||BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra has said his role either in the party or the State government would be decided by the party’s high command. He told presspersons in Shivamogga on Friday that he was not expecting any bigger role in the party or the government. “The party will decide if I should contest in the Assembly election. The same applies to the question whether I would be inducted into the Cabinet. I have no expectations. The party will take a call. I am a worker of the party.” The party, he said, had decided to conduct social service activities for seven days to mark the birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Workers across the country had organised blood donation camps, visits to old-age homes for distribution of fruits and many such works. On the demolition of temples, Mr. Vijayendra said the officers should act considering the public mood, though there was a ruling from the Supreme Court. “The officers have to take local people into confidence before implementing the court’s orders.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-command-will-decide-my-role-vijayendra/article36529303.ece
18 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Over 1 lakh doses administered in Dharwad district||With elaborate arrangements being made to ensure administration of as many doses of vaccines as possible, Dharwad district administration on Friday administered over one lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin. Barring minor issues due to technical glitches for sometime during online registration at a few places, the mega vaccination drive went on smoothly till late in the evening. Over 420 teams that included doctors, nurses, and medical and nursing students were deployed for the vaccination drive. By 7 p.m., the number of doses of vaccine administered had crossed the one lakh mark. Earlier in the day, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, Chief Executive Officer of of the zilla panchayat B. Susheela flagged off the mega vaccination drive at JSS Sannidhi Hall. To make the drive successful, the Health Department had kept ready required quantity of both Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. Mr. Patil visited several of the vaccination centres in Hubballi, Dharwad, and other places to oversee the drive and also gave instructions to the teams. On KIMS Hospital in premises, the Deputy Commissioner flagged of the vehicles leaving for various places. He said the teams were being sent to villages where no vaccination centres had not been set up. From KIMS Hospital alone 150 teams were despatched to different villages and localities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-1-lakh-doses-administered-in-dharwad-district/article36529189.ece
18 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister promises to increase allocation for KKRDB||Budgetary allocation for the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board (KKRDB) will be doubled to Rs. 3,000 crore provided the board fully utilises the funds allocated for 2021–22 before March-end, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said. Addressing a gathering after unfurling the national flag during the Kalyana Karnataka Liberation Day celebrations (Kalyana Karnataka Utsav) at the District Armed Reserved police grounds here on Friday, the Chief Minister said the government was ready to increase the allocation for the KKRDB for the overall development of the region if it utilised the funds allocated for the current financial year. “A sum of Rs. 2,000 crore was lying unspent with the board and nearly 13,000 works taken up by it were under progress. The board has to spend the Rs. 2,000 crore by the end of March to get the budgetary allocation doubled,” Mr. Bommai reiterated. The government would also revise the indicators mentioned in the Nanjundappa Committee’s recommendations and development works would be fast-tracked, Mr. Bommai said and promised that a KKRDB cell would be established in Kalaburagi to supervise the works taken up under the board’s grant and also a permanent secretary would be appointed. Poor healthcare facilities Expressing his concern over the poor healthcare facilities and quality of education in the region, he said that KKRDB would chalk out programmes to check maternal mortality rate (MMR) and child mortality rate (CMR) in the region and programmes would be launched to improve the quality of education and address the issue of school dropouts. Mr. Bommai said that focus on health and education was a nation-building strategy. The State government was committed to speedily implementing all major irrigation projects in the region, he said, and added that the proposed Pharma Park in Yadgir district had evoked interest among pharmaceutical companies and a mega textile park at Kalaburagi would boost industrialisation and generate employment. Apart from teacher recruitment for the region, posts lying vacant in various departments would be filled immediately, he said. He urged the industries having operations in the district to spend their corporate social responsibility funds for development of the region. In an hour-long speech, Mr. Bommai lauded the contributions of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and other freedom fighters towards the liberation of the Kalyana Karnataka (Hyderabad Karnataka) from the rule of Nizam of Hyderabad. He also thanked the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for renaming Hyderabad Karnataka as Kalyana Karnataka. Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district in charge Murugesh Nirani, KKRDB chairman Dattatreya Patil Revoor, KKRTC chairman Rajkumar Patil Telkur, and other legislatures were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-minister-promises-to-increase-allocation-for-kkrdb/article36529187.ece
18 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Foundation stone laid for various works||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai garlanded the statue of the former Deputy Prime Minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel to mark the Kalyana Karnataka Liberation Day celebrations in Kalaburagi city on Friday. Addressing a gathering, he said the BJP government was committed to building “Nava Karnataka” and overall development of the region. Mr. Bommai ended his speech by extending birthday wishes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Bommai inaugurated traffic signals installed at various junctions in the city. He also laid the foundation stone for various development works, including a bus rapid transit system and cycle track from Hirapur Cross to Jagat Circle via SVP Chowk and from Annapurna Cross to Sedam Ring Road junction at an estimated cost of Rs. 17.38 crore. He also laid the foundation stone for the construction of road divider, footpath, and installation of street lamps from Mohan Lodge to Ram Mandir Circle at a cost of Rs. 6.83 crore and a cycle track from old RTO office to Ring Road via Rajapur Road at a cost of Rs. 4.77 crore. Mr. Bommai also visited the Kalyana Karnataka Human Resource, Agricultural, and Cultural Association office in Kalaburagi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foundation-stone-laid-for-various-works/article36529193.ece
18 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Youth Congress workers detained||Members of the the Ballari district rural unit of the Youth Congress who observed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday as ‘National Unemployment Day’ were detained by the police after they tried to picket the MP’s office here on Friday. They were released later. The protest was led by Ballari Rural Youth Congress president Siddu Halle Gowda. The activists gathered at BDA ground and took out a protest march to Gadagi Chennappa Circle. The Modi government came to power with the promise of providing 2 crore employment every year, but it had completely dashed the hopes of youths, Mr. Halle Gowda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-congress-workers-detained/article36529195.ece
18 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Good turnout for offline classes in high schools, degree colleges||Students turned up in good numbers to attend physical classes on the first day of offline classes for high schools and even semesters of degree courses under Mangalore University, in Dakshina Kannada on Friday. Secondary schools with more numbers of students held classes for standards IX and X in the forenoon and for standard VIII in the afternoon and schools with less number of students held classes for all the three standards in the forenoon. Schools have been asked to maintain social distance and only 20 students were allowed to sit in a classroom. Many schools had decked up the classrooms to welcome students. The Rosario High School teaching staff had placed welcome arch through which students entered. After being received by the teachers, students proceeded to their classrooms after mandatory thermal scanning. Teachers of St. Aloysius Gonzaga School prominently wrote “Welcome back” on the black boards and also decorated the classrooms to welcome Class X students. Principals of Rosario High School and Gonzaga School Aloysius D’Souza and Melwyn Lobo said parents favoured offline classes and there were no diffidence in them to send their wards for offline classes. Secondary school teachers largely had general discussion with their students and let the latter to acclimatise them with the classroom environment. Aruna Kumari C., headmistress of the Canara High School, Dongarkery, said teachers were involved in checking assignments and project works. Arun Prasad Rai from Cascia High School said teachers had discussion with students about the way they are spending time in their houses. Taranath Kairangala from Government Secondary School at Manchi in Bantwal taluk said students were involved in different art works. U. Rajeshwari, the in-charge headmistress of Government Secondary School, Bolar, said that staying away from offline classes for nearly two years had brought down the learning level of students to a great extent. “We have planned activities related to basics of language, science, and mathematics. It will take some time to bring them to the secondary class level,” she said. A total of 11,218 students, including 119 from Kasaragod district of Kerala, attended classes for the first pre-university on the second day of reopening of physical classes for them on Friday. Deputy Director of Pre-University Department Jayanna said those from Kasaragod were allowed after checking their COVID-19 negative certificates. Mangalore University Registrar (Administration) Kishore Kumar C.K said good number of degree students from even semesters turned up at University College and other degree colleges on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-turnout-for-offline-classes-in-high-schools-degree-colleges/article36529508.ece
18 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KIOCL planning to open up its pellet manufacturing plant to other firms||KIOCL Ltd., a Union government undertaking, has plans to open up its pellet manufacturing plant in Mangaluru to other companies which supply iron ore fines or concentrates to it and buy back the pellets from the company, according to its chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) T. Saminathan. Addressing presspersons here on Friday, Mr. Saminathan, who took charge on September 7, said, “We will manufacture the pellets for the raw material suppliers. The company will sell back the pellets to the suppliers by retaining the margin of manufacturing.” The CMD said the company was in talks with some companies in Oman and South Korea in this regard and the project would be implemented within six months. The new project is aimed at enhancing the capacity utilisation of the pellet plant and thus reduce the total losses. The installed capacity of the pellet plant stood at 3.5 million tons per annum. Its pellet production was at 2.21 million tonnes (63 % of the installed capacity) during 2020–21 as against 2.37 million tonnes (67.7 %) during the previous financial year. Asked about the contribution of this project to the total revenue of the company, he said the project was expected to contribute around 30% of the total revenue of the company. Mr. Saminathan said the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change was expected to accord the state II environmental clearance for diverting 401.5761 hectares of forest land at Devadari hill range in Ballari district for iron ore and manganese ore mining, by March, 2022. The company was hopeful of starting mining in Balllari from March 2023. KIOCL Ltd. had been forced to stop work at its captive mines at Kudremukh hill range on the Western Ghats from January 2006 following a Supreme Court order, which banned mining in the eco-sensitive region. The CMD said the shareholders had approved a dividend of Rs. 1.64 per equity share at the annual general meeting of the company on September 15. The total dividend for 2020-21amounts to Rs. 99.67 crore, thereby distributing dividend as 33.09 % of profit after tax. The company has been making consistent efforts to expand and develop global markets such as Brazil, Oman, Malaysia, MENA (Middle East and North Africa) counties, in addition to Chinese markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kiocl-planning-to-open-up-its-pellet-manufacturing-plant-to-other-firms/article36529510.ece
18 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Encouraging response to mega vaccination drive in DK, Udupi||The mega vaccination drive against COVID-19 received good response in the twin districts, with Dakshina Kannada achieving 90% of the day’s target and Udupi reporting 63% progress, until 10.30 p.m. on Friday. Dakshina Kannada had set a target of jabbing 1.5 lakh people and Udupi was to vaccinate 80,000 people. Of them, 1,35,491 doses were given in Dakshina Kannada and 50,264 persons were vaccinated in Udupi. The vaccination was done at 600 sites in Dakshina Kannada and at 308 sites in Udupi. Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said in a statement that so far Udupi totally had recorded 84.97 % achievement in the first dose and 35.2% progress in administering the second dose. He thanked all people of the district in supporting the day’s drive. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, while launching the vaccination at Mangaluru Patrika Bhavan earlier in the day, said that over 80% of the eligible population in the district had been administered the first dose. Inoculating the remaining chunk would be a major challenge, he said. Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists and the Mangaluru Press Club had organised the vaccination. Dr. Rajendra said last week’s special drive had a target of administering one lakh doses. However, desired results did not come for lack of adequate preparations. However, the Friday’s drive was taken with adequate preparations like conducting elections. Officials from almost all departments were deployed for Friday’s special drive to make it a success. Dr. Rajendra said the test positivity rate in the district was hovering around 1.3% from 10 days and the administration was concentrating on reducing it further. The fatality rate was negligible among the fully vaccinated persons but it was a matter of concern among those who have not been vaccinated, he noted. Various educational institutes, non-governmental organisations, hospitals, and other organisations too arranged special vaccination drive across the two districts and contributed their bit to enhance vaccination coverage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/encouraging-response-to-mega-vaccination-drive-in-dk-udupi/article36529498.ece
18 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||207 aspirants complete training to appear for PC/PSI entrance test||In all, 207 people from Dakshina Kannada and neighbouring districts who are willing to appear for the written examination for the posts of police sub-inspectors and constables completed their one-month free training here on Friday. Mangaluru Police Commissionerate had organised the training. The training had been organised to enable the aspirants from the coastal and Malnad belts to join the police force. In the last 11 years, only 65 people from Dakshina Kannada have joined the police force. As many as 734 people had evinced interest to undergo the training, which was mooted by Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar. Following a screening test, 207 were selected. While 162 trainees were from Dakhina Kannada, the remaining 44 were from Udupi, Uttara Kananda, Chikkamagaluru, and Shivamogga. The training was offered by the recently recruited 23 PSIs, PCs, and by assistant professor of Canara College Prashant Bhat. The training was on St. Aloysius’s Gonzaga School premises. While most of the trainees were in the hostel of St. Aloysius institution and Shanti Kiran, a few were accommodated in other facilities nearby. Pavan Kumar from Shiradi said the training had given him the orientation on preparation. “Trainers helped us to focus on topics namely history and general studies from which more number questions are asked,” he said. Pavitra S.B. from Sullia taluk said the trainers were practical in their approach, which was missing in her earlier coaching at a private institute. Deekshita from Puttur said the discipline and dedication of the trainers had inspired many of them to join the police force. Gayatri, another trainee, said motivational talks by the trainers at the end of each day of the training programme were helpful. The 2018-batch PSI Biradar P.M., one of the 23 trainers, said training focused on topics that trainees have to be better prepared in the written examination, which was getting tougher every year since 2018. Pattadhikari of Shri Kshetra Dharmastala D. Veerendra Heggade gave away mementos to trainers and the police officers who were involved in the programme. Mr. Kumar spoke. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane, Superintendent of Police Anti Naxal Force B. Nikhil, Deputy Commissioners of Police Hariram Shankar, B.P. Dinesh Kumar and Channaveerappa Hadapad participated in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/207-aspirants-complete-training-to-appear-for-pcpsi-entrance-test/article36529507.ece
18 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. to promote cultivation of millets||The Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje said on Friday that millet production would be increased in the country by promoting their cultivation through various programmes of the government in the next two years. She was speaking at a programme organised to mark the launch of the International Year of Millets - 2023 at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Brahmavara in Udupi district. Millet cultivation would be mainly promoted in States such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu. “The next two years are crucial as the U.N. General Assembly has endorsed a resolution, based on the proposal of India to increase the production of millets and its consumption as well,” she said, adding that good quality, pesticide-free production of millet and its proper marketing through packaging were planned. The Minister said that the area under millets in the State had come down from eight lakh hectares to 3.5 lakh hectares. As rice and wheat are water-demanding crops, the government was trying to bring a shift in the farming approach. Vice-Chancellor of Keladi Shivappa Nayak University of Agricultural and Horticultural Sciences, Shivamogga, Manjunath K. Nayak spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-promote-cultivation-of-millets/article36529505.ece
18 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||People should be consulted before razing religious structures: Shobha||The Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje said on Friday that local people would have to be taken into confidence before demolishing or relocating any temples, churches, and mosques. Replying to questions by presspersons in Udupi on Friday she said a notice could be served if any religious structures were found constructed illegally on public places. The Minister said she felt that razing of religious structures was not a proper step as they were the places upon which people pose their trust and faith. The Minister was reacting to questions related to protests and political reactions over razing of Mahadevamma temple at Uchagani in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district on September 8. Ms. Karandlaje said she would request the State government not to hurt the sentiments of people. Reacting to the recent complaint registered at Karkala town police station over the alleged forced conversion of Hindus, the Minister said religious conversion was not limited to the coastal part of the State, it had spread across the nation. Those engaging in such illegal activities misuse the weak-minded Hindus, she said. Law on religious conversion should also be strengthened, the Minister said. She said that if the petrol and diesel were brought under GST regime, it would benefit people. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was working on it, she added.  Will request State government not to hurt sentiments of people. Shobha Karandlaje,Union Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-should-be-consulted-before-razing-religious-structures-shobha/article36529499.ece
18 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two COVID-19 deaths in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported two COVID-19 deaths and 124 new cases on Friday. One of the deceased was from Belthangady taluk and the other from outside district. With 245 people discharged, the number of active cases stood at 1,307. The test positivity rate was at 1.15. A fine of Rs. 1,06,16,470 has so far been collected in 87,238 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported 93 new cases of which 48 are from Udupi taluk, 18 from Kundapur taluk, and 27 from Karkala taluk. While 83 people are in home isolation, 10 are in healthcare facilities. With 202 discharged, there were 1,516 active cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-covid-19-deaths-in-dakshina-kannada/article36529511.ece
18 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Equipment donated to Udupi railway station||An electronic weighing machine and a CCTV camera have been donated by voluntary organisations to the health unit at Udupi Railway Station under Konkan Railway Corporation. Inner Wheel Club, Udupi, donated the weighing machine to the centre on Friday. Club president Shubhashree Basri handed over the machine to deputy chief medical officer Steven George in the presence of KRCL’s public relations manager K. Sudha Krishnamurthy and other members of the club. Meanwhile, Rotary Udupi Mid Town too sponsored a CCTV camera to the health unit at the railway station. RI District 3182 assistant governor Padmanabh Kanchan inaugurated the unit recently in the presence of club president Augustine Mendonca and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/equipment-donated-to-udupi-railway-station/article36529512.ece
18 September 2021||MANGALURU:,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Power supply in some areas on the outskirts of the city will be stopped on September 18 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Adyar, Kannur, Kodakkal, Valachil, Arkula, Merlapadavu, Meremajalu, Adyar Padavu, and Valachil Padavu. It is for maintenance work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article36529504.ece
18 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||1 lakh doses of vaccine administered in Mysuru||As many as one lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered in Mysuru district on Friday during the mega vaccination drive. District Health Officer K.H. Prasad told The Hindu that both first and second doses were administered at over 600 immunisation sites. Expressing happiness over the milestone achieved, Dr. Prasad said 1,200 staff from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 1,800 ASHA workers and over 1,000 staff from the Panchayat Raj Department were behind the record single-day immunisation. “With this, we have vaccinated the first dose of vaccine to 80 per cent of the population. We had till now vaccinated nearly 24 lakh people with first and second doses. With Friday’s record jabs, we have now crossed 25-lakh mark,” the DHO said. The target given for Mysuru was 1.25 lakh doses on Friday. Nevertheless, the target achieved was satisfying since a lot of efforts was put in to reach this number, he said. “Hopefully, by the end of December, Mysuru is expected to accomplish its vaccination targets going by the pace of daily jabs and the targets achieved so far.” In Kodagu, 15,300 people received their first and second doses during the drive. The target set was 20,000 doses. Treating children DHO Venkatesh said 86 per cent of the people have received their first dose of vaccines so far. “In the last one week, seven children had been infected by COVID-19 and all of them were fine,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1-lakh-doses-of-vaccine-administered-in-mysuru/article36529302.ece
18 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Pratap Simha slams Siddaramaiah||Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has questioned the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for his “newborn interest’’ in temples. Addressing media persons here on Friday Mr. Simha launched a broadside against Mr. Siddaramaiah and said that he was just trying to gain political mileage out of the temple demolition incident. Mr. Siddaramaiah had aired his concern over the demolition of the Mahadevamma temple at Hucchagani village in Nanjangud and had criticised the government for it. If Mr. Siddaramaiah was genuinely interested in temples and Hindu deities, he would not have celebrated Tipu Jayanti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pratap-simha-slams-siddaramaiah/article36529300.ece
18 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||BSY launches ‘Modi Yug Utsav’||Former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday inaugurated “Modi Yug Utsav” in Krishnaraja constituency here, marking the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Yediyurappa said the country was developing fast under the leadership of Mr. Modi and lauded his vision for the country. S.A. Ramdas, MLA, who spoke about the 20-day event in his constituency, said the event that concludes on October 6 comprises five programmes. He lauded Mr Yediyurappa for his welfare programmes, including Bhagyalakshmi scheme. The event also gives a peek into the schemes launched by the Centre as well as the State governments. Pratap Simha, MP, spoke about the projects launched by the NDA government led by Mr. Narendra Modi and added that the expansion work of the Bengaluru-Mysuru National Highway was expected to be completed before the next Assembly polls. He also highlighted the schemes launched by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-launches-modi-yug-utsav/article36529304.ece
18 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||New beat system for police||Superintendent of Police R. Chetan on Friday said a new police beat system has been introduced in Mysuru district and added that the onus is on the constables to make it effective. Addressing the police personnel after reintroducing the weekly police parade that was suspended since last one-and-a- half years in view of COVID-19, at the DAR grounds here, he said the success of the beat system largely depends on the policemen entrusted with the job. Villages falling under the various police station limits had been divided among constables and head constables who will be holding responsibilities of their beat as per the new system. As part of the ‘Jana Snehi’ police initiative, the police personnel will remain on the beat for at least a year. The system helps the policemen to reach out to the public and realise what the society expects from them, he said. The constable is allocated a village coming under his or her station limits. “This is a matter of pride as the constable will have the onus of eradicating illegal and immoral activities in the respective village.” They should strive for establishing “people-friendly” policing, be friendly with the public, and establish good relations with them. The SP complimented the police for their selfless service during the pandemic situation. In the weekly parade, more than 250 policemen took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-beat-system-for-police/article36529299.ece
18 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||BJP govt. under Bommai doing well: Ex-CM||Former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa lavished praise on the BJP government in the State headed by his successor Basavaraj Bommai. “Mr. Bommai is running the administration well,” Mr. Yediyurappa said, before adding that he was confident that there will be more emphasis on development in the coming days and honest efforts will be made to develop Karnataka as a model State. He was speaking to reporters during a visit to Suttur Mutt in Mysuru on Friday.  On his proposed State tour, Mr. Yediyurappa said the tour to strengthen the organisation would start in about 15 days after the legislature session is over. To a question on his son and BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra’s electoral foray, Mr. Yediyurappa said a decision on him contesting polls will be taken by the central leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-govt-under-bommai-doing-well-ex-cm/article36529305.ece
18 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Simple celebrations in Yadgir, Raichur||The Kalyana Karnataka Utsava was celebrated in Yadgir and Raichur on Friday in a simple manner in view of COVID-19 guidelines. Minister of Primary and Higher Education B.C. Nagesh and Deputy Commissioner of Raichur Satish unfurled the national flag at PU college grounds in Yadgir and District Armed Reserve police ground in Raichur, respectively. Mr. Nagesh said the State government was committed to taking up development works in Kalyan Karnataka region. A sum of Rs. 2,632 crore was earmarked in two years for development of the region and Rs. 1,493 crore was released for the current year. Infrastructure works such as health centres, drinking water projects, schools, anganwadi centres, and other basic amenities would be provided through the grants released to Kalyan Karnataka Regional Development Board every year, he added. After the programme, Mr. Nagesh told reporters that the government would take a decision on opening schools from classes I to V after going through the report which was be submitted by the Technical Advisory Committee on COVID–19 situation. To a question, he said 1.25 lakh teachers who had contracted COVID-19 infection had submitted applications seeking compensation and relief for 95,000 teachers had been released. Yadgir district had recorded zero positive rate. Officials had been asked to continue vaccination drive in both urban and rural areas to ensure at least 75% coverage by the month-end from the present 62%. Dr. Satish addressed a gathering in Raichur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/simple-celebrations-in-yadgir-raichur/article36529190.ece
18 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Blood donation||The Yadgir district unit of the BJP organised a blood donation camp here on Friday to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. Raja Amareshwar Nayak, MP, inaugurated the camp while MLA Narasimha Nayak was present. Mr. Narasimha Nayak and Sharanabhupal Reddy, district unit president, were among those who donated blood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blood-donation/article36529194.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Making a point||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/making-a-point/article36529496.ece
18 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Industrial units to be set up for value-added products||The State government will start industrial units for the production of value-added agricultural products, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was virtually inaugurating the State-level harvesting of organic vegetables and paddy cultivated under the Subhiksham Surakshitham project at Kanjikuzhy in the district on Thursday. “We are planning mass production of value-added products. The cooperative sector can play a vital role in setting up the units,” Mr. Vijayan said, urging the local self-government institutions to take the lead. He said the government had planned a slew of projects for strengthening the agriculture sector. It was the responsibility of the government to provide safe food for all. He said the government was working to make the State self-sufficient in vegetable production. “Vegetable production in the State has increased in recent years. In 2016, paddy was cultivated in 1.70 lakh hectares. Despite the 2018 floods, the area under paddy cultivation was expanded to 2.25 lakh in 2018 and further to 2.31 lakh hectares in 2021,” he said. The Chief Minister said that accurate weather forecasting was important for the preparation of an agricultural calendar, taking into account climatic changes. The project, part of the State government’s 100-day programmes, was aimed at cultivating various crops in 5,000 hectares. Officials said that a total of 23,566 hectares in 14 districts had been brought under cultivation as part of the Subhiksham Surakshitham – BPKP (Bharatiya Prakartik Krishi Padhathi). Paddy, vegetables, tuber crops, plantain and so on have been cultivated as part of the project. Agriculture Minister P. Prasad presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/industrial-units-to-be-set-up-for-value-added-products/article36529264.ece
18 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Kovalam-Bekal waterway to be functional in two years||The Kovalam-Bekal waterway will be made operational in two years, Transport Minister Antony Raju has said. He was inaugurating two catamaran boat services of the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) at Perumbalam on Friday. “The Kovalam-Bekal waterway will help boost tourism in the State. The 616-km waterway can be used for the movement of cargo and passenger services,” he said. Mr. Raju said a rescue boat would be stationed at Perumbalam from September 18.  Solar-powered boats “The SWTD is constructing two solar-powered boats. It will be launched in six months. One boat will be allotted to Perumbalam,” he said. Of the two boats launched, one will conduct service on the Panavally- Perumbalam-Dweep Market- Jetty route. The other boat will ply on the Ernakulam route. Daleema Jojo, MLA, presided. A.M. Ariff, MP, Thycattusserry block panchayat president P.M. Pramod, Perumbalam grama panchayat president V.V. Asha and Panavally grama panchayat president Dhanya Santhosh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kovalam-bekal-waterway-to-be-functional-in-two-years/article36529274.ece
18 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||KCC calls for steps to strengthen social harmony||The religious and political leadership should take concrete steps to strengthen social harmony and promote peaceful coexistence, the Kerala Council of Churches (KCC) has said. Addressing a joint press conference at Mavelikara on Friday, Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India (CBCI) vice president Joshua Mar Ignathios, KCC vice president Alexios Mar Eusebius, KCC general secretary Prakash P. Thomas and Mavelikara Imam Abdul Waheed Moulavi Al Qasimi expressed concerns over statements and approaches that destroy humanity. They sought an end to communal campaigns, including on social media, as they would only help in the polarisation of society on religious lines. People should join hands to counter the use of drugs, violence and terrorism. It is our responsibility to uphold national integrity and secular and democratic values. It is not right to blame an entire community for the mistakes of a small section. The leaderships of various religions should come forward to point out and rectify mistakes within their communities, they said. On questions regarding the Pala bishop’s ‘narcotic jihad’ jibe, Mar Ignathios said the United Nations had earlier mentioned it. “Forced religious conversion is wrong. But it is happening,” he said. Mar Eusebius said terrorism was not confined to any one religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcc-calls-for-steps-to-strengthen-social-harmony/article36529280.ece
18 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Centralised oxygen network inaugurated||Health Minister Veena George inaugurated through videoconferencing the centralised oxygen network at the district hospital at Thodupuzha on Friday. She also inaugurated various projects worth Rs. 16.69 crore at 168 health centres. The projects were completed as part of the 100-day programme of the State government and they included facilities at 126 health centres, 21 family health centres, five district hospitals, two general hospitals, two community disability managing centres and one regional family welfare centre. The Minister said many projects could be materialised in the health sector. She said that many schemes were initiated to counter epidemic-like situations in the State. Many developmental works were undertaken at health centres to medical colleges for improving the health sector. The initiatives were started under the Ardram scheme during the tenure of the the previous government. Lifestyle diseases Data showed that many of those who had succumbed to COVID-19 were suffering from various lifestyle-related diseases. If the general death cases were taken up, nearly 60% of them were due to lifestyle-related diseases. Projects will be taken up to reduce lifestyle-related diseases. The Health Department, in association with local self-governments, will create awareness campaigns on lifestyle-related diseases. P.J. Joseph, MLA, addressed the local-level function held at Newman College, Thodupuzha. He said an estimate of Rs. 18 crore was submitted to the government for building an additional block at the district hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centralised-oxygen-network-inaugurated/article36529267.ece
18 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||State farmers wait for the elusive fertilizers||An acute shortage of fertilizers has left the State’s farmers in distress. Fertilizers such as urea, muriate of potash (MoP), phosphate fertilizers , and complex fertilizers, which are various combinations of above three, have been in short supply for the past two weeks. Central allotment According to Agriculture Department figures, the Central allotment of diammonium phosphate, popularly known as DAP, to the State in September was 2,600 tonnes. But the State had got only 500 tonnes till September 12. DAP is a preferred fertilizer since it contains both nitrogen and phosphorus, which are part of 18 essential plant nutrients. The allotments of muriate of potash and urea are 12,500 tonnes and 13,400 tonnes respectively, but the State has got only 2,891 tonnes and 1,470 tonnes respectively. The supply of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium (NPK) fertilizers (complex fertilizers) is 4,753 tonnes as against the allotment of 14,200 tonnes, Agriculture Department sources said. “This is the time to apply post-monsoon fertilizers to the coffee crop in Wayanad and Idukki, but many farmers are yet to do so owing to the shortage of MoP, potash, and urea,” says Prasanth Rajesh, president, Wayanad Coffee Growers Association. ‘Fall in yield likely’ Potash is a major component in the nutrient management of farms. Any delay in applying fertilizers will affect the health of coffee plants and may lead to a fall in yield, he adds. “Soil erosion after a heavy monsoon has led to depletion of nutrients from the soil. It can be rectified to a certain extent by applying fertilizers. Fertilizer shortage will leave an impact on crops such as rice, pepper, plantain, ginger, rubber, and cardamom,” says K. Mathai, a planter at Thamarassery. ‘Faulty records’ The delay in shipment of fertilizers from abroad is the major reason for the shortage in the market. Also, stock depletion is not put on record at times as some dealers do not operate the PoS machine properly while selling fertilizers. With the stocks staying intact on records, officials further delay procurement of fertilizers. It is expected that the issue will be resolved by October first week once the next shipment reaches the country, according to sources. Companies’ role “Many a time, fertilizer companies force us to purchase highly priced complex fertilizers to get a meagre quantity of urea, an essential fertilizer,” says C. Raveendran, president, Fertilizer Dealers’ Association, Wayanad. “Hence traders are forced to procure low quantity of nitrogen fertilizers like urea, which in turn leads to their shortage,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-farmers-wait-for-the-elusive-fertilizers/article36529289.ece
18 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Youth held for elderly couple’s death||The Mananthavady police cracked the murder of an elderly couple at Nelliyambam near Panamaram in Wayanad district three months after the incident and arrested a 24-year-old man. According to the police, Arjun of Nelliyambam Kuruma tribal hamlet killed the couple to steal their valuables. Kesavan, 75, a retired school teacher, and his wife Padmavathy, 70, were allegedly attacked by the youth in their house on the night of July 10. While Kesavan was found dead, Padmavathy succumbed to her injuries the next day at the Government Medical College Hospital at Mananthavady. Arjun had fled from the office of the Assistant Superintendent of Police at Mananthavady last week and later reportedly consumed poison. He was rushed to a hospital at Meppadi and was taken into custody after he was discharged. Arjun told the police that he had gained entry into the house to steal valuables. He had attacked the couple with a knife. He was produced before the First Class Judicial Magistrate Court, Mananthavady, which remanded him in judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-for-elderly-couples-death/article36529221.ece
18 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Family demands probe into death of tribal youth||The family members of an 18-year-old tribesperson, who was found hanging in a vacant house inside the Aralam farm in the district, submitted a petition to the District Police Chief (Rural) on Friday, demanding an inquiry into the death. Kuttai, father of the victim, Jithu, alleged that it was a murder and demanded action against the Aralam police for registering it as a case of suicide without conducting a proper inquiry. Jithu was found hanging from a window in a vacant house inside Aralam farm on August 29. Mr. Kuttai ruled out the possibility of his son committing suicide. He said that when he was away from the house, the police had forced members of his family to sign a declaration that the victim had mental issues. However, they had refused to record his statement. Instead, they had prepared the FIR based on the statements of some political party activists, who had come to the station, he alleged. Usha, aunt of the deceased youth, said there were several injuries on Jithu’s body, but it had not found any mention in the postmortem report. Sreeram Koyyon, president of Adivasi Dalit Munnetta Samithi said there were several flaws in the police inquiry. The samithi, along with the family, would stage a protest if there was no proper inquiry, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/family-demands-probe-into-death-of-tribal-youth/article36529211.ece
18 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur Corpn first in State to vaccinate all above 18||Kannur Corporation has become the first in its category in the State to administer the initial dose of COVID-19 vaccine to all the residents aged 18 and above within its limits. Of the 1,57,265 persons eligible for immunisation within the corporation limits, the civic body achieved its goal by vaccinating all persons except COVID patients and those who refused to be vaccinated. Kannur Mayor T.O. Mohanan said that in addition to the permanent residents of the corporation, temporary residents and those who travelled to the corporation limits for work such as guest workers, auto drivers, transport workers, petrol pump employees, traders and business workers were vaccinated during the period. Mr. Mohanan said the achievement was made possible by the cooperation of the district administration and the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-corpn-first-in-state-to-vaccinate-all-above-18/article36529210.ece
18 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KCZMA to seek details from Centre on reclamation row||The Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA) plans to seek “additional information” from the Ministry of Environment, Forests, and Climate Change on the controversial issue of reclamation of Kochi backwaters and the construction of a hotel and convention centre at Bolgatty. The decision comes in the wake of the Ministry seeking an action taken report on its sub-committee report, which indicted the Cochin Port Trust and the Authority for the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) violations and permitting the construction of a hotel and convention centre on the reclaimed land at Bolgatty. Panel report Incidentally, the panel report, which had been pending with the Authority for over five years, was first considered by the Authority in March 2016. Lately, it featured in the meeting held in February this year. The panel report held the CPT responsible for illegally reclaiming the Vembanad backwaters and the intertidal zone bordering the Bolgatty Island in violation of the CRZ rules. The port erred in giving an undertaking that the proposed hotel and commercial complexes were port activities though they were only revenue generating activities, noted the panel. The panel, which also listed the other major major violations on the banks of the lake, had suggested action against the group, which set up a hotel and convention centre on the reclaimed land, for making temporary and permanent constructions in the No Development Zone. It had also slammed the Authority for not giving due importance to the CRZ Notification 2011, while permitting development activities on the banks of Vembanad Lake. High Court  Suneel Pamidi, the Member Secretary of the Authority, noted that the Kerala High Court had not found any illegality in the land reclamation and the construction in the area and had dismissed a petition filed in this connection. It appeared that the observations of the High Court were not considered by the panel. Hence, the decision to seek information on the evidence/materials relied upon by the panel, he said. Ashkar Khadar, the counsel for the complainant in the case, noted that the Authority failed to appeal against the single judge’s order in the case in the light of the panel findings. A review petition will be filed shortly in the wake of the panel report, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kczma-to-seek-details-from-centre-on-reclamation-row/article36529477.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC rejects plea against marks standardisation||The Kerala High Court on Friday dismissed the pleas for a directive to the State government to admit students to engineering courses on the basis of the marks secured by candidates in the entrance examination conducted by the Commissioner of Entrance Examinations (CEE). Court order Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar, however, directed the CEE to extend the deadline for uploading the marks to enable those who wrote the improvement examinations to post their marks. The court ordered that the time should be extended till the publication of the result of the improvement exams and by two days after the publication. Portal closure Some of the students sought an extension of the time for uploading the marks of their improvement exams. The portal for uploading the marks would be closed on September 17. As a result, they would not be able to upload their improved marks on the site, they said. The petitions challenging the government decision to take into account the marks secured by students in Class XII exams along with the entrance exam marks for admission to engineering courses were filed by the Kerala CBSE School Management Association, Association of Schools for the Indian School Certificate, and a few CBSE and ICSE students. No exams They had contended that because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the CBSE and the ICSE boards could not conduct the final exams for Classes X and XII. Therefore, the only method to evaluate the students for admission to professional courses was to take into account the marks secured by them in the entrance exam instead of sharing the marks of the qualifying exams in equal percentages.  The court orders that time should be extended till the publication of the result||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-rejects-plea-against-marks-standardisation/article36529278.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||More Kochi Corpn. services to go online, says Mayor||The Kochi Corporation had set in motion a project for the online delivery of its services, with birth, death, and marriage certificates being made available online from September 7, Mayor M. Anilkumar said here on Friday. This follows the State government sanctioning registration of birth, death, and marriage in the Sevana software of Information Kerala Mission (IKM). All hospitals under the Corporation’s jurisdiction have installed the software for the purpose. Data from the software of TCS, which was awarded the contract in 2011 for implementing e-governance in the civic agency, is expected to be ported to the new software. In addition, Kochiites will be able to pay tax for buildings online in another six months through IKM’s Sanjaya software. Relevant data is being uploaded into the system. A payment gateway system with a choice of 36 banks will be readied. Ownership certificate too will be made available online. Building permit applications have begun to be accepted online from September 15, through the intelligent building management system. Sixty-seven permits were thus issued, said the Mayor. With complaints pouring in about residential buildings being used for commercial purposes without informing the Corporation, Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) has been roped in to do field verification. Potholed roads On the shoddy condition of innumerable roads owned by the Corporation, Mr. Anilkumar said patch works would be completed within a month using wet mix macadam (WMM). Procuring a pothole-repair machine too was under consideration, and its operation and maintenance could be outsourced, he added. Referring to flood-alleviation measures that the civic agency was implementing, he said Irrigation Department officials had been proactively extending help. They had readied a master plan to dredge canals and drains in order to ensure smooth flow of water. Additional Chief Secretary T.K. Jose has been convening weekly meetings of engineers to keep tabs on that. The PWD has been directed to repair and clean its drains. Taking into account the coordination between different departments and innovative means adopted to tackle flooding, the Kochi Corporation was selected to represent the State in Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav that would be held at Lucknow from September 27. The Cochin Shipyard had agreed to provide CSR funds to procure a robot developed by a start-up that would be deployed to clean drains and culverts, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-kochi-corpn-services-to-go-online-says-mayor/article36529469.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NIRF score aiding demand for courses offered by Maharaja’s||The score earned by the autonomous Maharaja’s College under the ‘perception’ parameter in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) seems to have generated increased demand for admission from students from across the State in the new academic year. Undergraduate courses The first and second phase of the allotment for undergraduate programmes showed a spike in the number of aspirants from the northern districts. “We have students from Malappuram, Kozhikode, and Kasaragod applying for courses of their choice. Around 30% of the seats have been filled at the end of the first allotment for the nearly 720 seats available for 21 undergraduate courses,” said Zeenath N.A., faculty member of the Department of Physics and in-charge of admissions. Among the six government colleges in the State that figured in the first 100 positions in the latest NIRF rankings, Maharaja’s College has the highest score of 18.8 out of 100 under the parameter of ‘perception’. The perception score of University College, Thiruvananthapuram, that had figured 25th in the rank list, was 14.37 while the corresponding figure of Government Women’s College (rank 46) was 13.42. The score for the ‘perception’ parameter is arrived at based on the survey among professionals, employers from reputed organisations and academicians. Public perception is also taken into account while fixing the marks. K.S. Sunish, faculty member of the Department of Zoology and former member of the college governing council, referred to the multi-crore infrastructure and academic development works initiated on the campus with government support as a key factor in the improvement in perception about the institution. More PG seats Mathew George, Principal, said the number of seats for the postgraduate programmes had been enhanced in the new academic year to provide more access and opportunities to aspirants. Around 175 seats have been added to the existing intake capacity for 19 postgraduate programmes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nirf-score-aiding-demand-for-courses-offered-by-maharajas/article36529467.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cong. not to remain mute witness when secularism is attacked: Sudhakaran||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran on Friday sought to put the lid on the controversy surrounding the ‘narcotics jihad’ statement made by the Bishop of Pala. He accused the State government of remaining nonchalant despite repeated appeals for measures to ensure that incidents triggering communal tension were prevented. At a ‘Meet the Press’ organised by the Ernakulam Press Club, he said the Congress would not remain a mute witness when secularism came under attack. Turning the heat on the State government for “doing precious little” to douse the communal conflagration, Mr. Sudhakaran said it was too late when Minister V.N. Vasavan visited the Bishop. “There’s no need to distrust the Bishop, and the onus was on the State government to investigate and bring out the truth in what he said,” he added. He said the Congress viewed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and communal fascism as a bigger enemy than the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. Reorganisation  On Congress workers leaving the party, he said only those without any following quit. He added that party reorganisation would be completed without much delay. Earlier in the day, Mr. Sudhakaran addressed a district leadership meet of the Congress.  There’s no need to distrust the Bishop, and the onus was on the State government to investigate and bring out the truth in what he said K. Sudhakaran KPCC president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-not-to-remain-mute-witness-when-secularism-is-attacked-sudhakaran/article36529470.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam first to launch digital wireless network in MVD||Ernakulam has become the first district in India to initiate communication in the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) through a digital wireless network, with Transport Minister Antony Raju commissioning the service here on Friday. The communication mode will henceforth network 12 RTO and sub-RTO offices and 34 enforcement vehicles of the MVD in the district. It would be extended to Palakkad and Alappuzha districts in the next phase, said Mr. Raju. The system is part of the 100-day action plan of the State government. Speaking about the multiple hazards posed by overloaded goods carriers to the safety of road users and roads, the Minister said automatic weighbridges that did not need an operator would shortly be installed at Kerala’s border roads, which would help do away with the need for checkposts. The Minister said measures would be taken to make available driving licence at one’s doorstep, with the help of information technology and digitalisation. Steps are being taken to convert to online mode different services of the MVD. Online delivery of more services of the department would also help prevent delay, corruption, and the interference of middlemen. Mandatory GPS Mr. Raju added that GPS would be made mandatory in all public transport vehicles, except two- and three-wheelers, to keep tabs on the vehicle’s location and to rein in overspeeding. The Minister inaugurated a simulator installed at the Civil Station to test the driving skills of those who want to take heavy-vehicle licence. The simulator that was readied in 2012 had been dysfunctional due to a technical snag.  Automatic weighbridges to be installed in Kerala’s border roads: Minister Steps on to make driving licences available at doorstep||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-first-in-india-to-roll-out-digital-wireless-network-in-mvd/article36529213.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Youth Congress workers hold protest on Modi’s birthday||Observing Friday, the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as unemployment day, Youth Congress workers protested against the Union government’s policies that they said, had wrecked the future of the country’s youth. As a mark of protest, they queued up in front of the head post office to send Mr. Modi copies of their academic certificates. This was followed by a serving of “cow dung payasam”. District Youth Congress president Titto Antony led the protest which was inaugurated by State general secretary Jinto John.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-congress-workers-hold-protest-on-modis-birthday/article36529480.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Library to be set up at DCC office||Veteran critic M. Leelavathy on Friday donated the first book for a library being set up at the District Congress Committee (DCC) office in Ernakulam. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran, MP, working president P.T. Thomas, MLA, and DCC president Mohammed Shiyas received three copies of Nallezhuthu written by her. Hibi Eden, MP, was present on the occasion. The party is collecting books from teachers, writers, educationists, social workers and Congress members for setting up a massive library with about 10,000 books pertaining to all subjects including history, society, and politics. A reference section is also being planned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/library-to-be-set-up-at-dcc-office/article36529464.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||App-based bike sharing service launched||In an effort to usher in sustainable and pollution-free commuting in the campus, Infopark launched MYBYK app-based bike-sharing service on Friday. John M. Thomas, CEO, Kerala IT Parks, and Loknath Behera, MD, Kochi Metro Rail Limited, jointly inaugurated the service. Bikes will be available for hire at nine different locations across Infopark. Users can simply install the MYBYK app and start using it for a nominal fee. The project is an extension of the MYBYK service earlier launched across the city in association with CSML and Kochi Metro. “We will introduce electric cycles very soon and Infopark will be made the hub of e-cycles,” said Mr. Behera.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/app-based-bike-sharing-service-launched/article36529465.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||600 persons get jabs in CII’s vaccination drive||As part of a vaccination drive by the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), some 600 urban slum dwellers and bedridden patients of P&T and Udaya Colonies were vaccinated. The CII intends to administer 3,000 vaccine doses in different parts of the district. It had given about 1,500 vaccine doses to fishers and BPL family members at Munambam. The third phase of the drive will be at Nayarambalam on Saturday. The CII has also given 78 oxygen concentrators to health care centres across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/600-persons-get-jabs-in-ciis-vaccination-drive/article36529466.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea on Dweep midday meal menu dismissed||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday dismissed a public interest litigation against the Lakshadweep administration’s decision to remove meat from the midday meal scheme of schools on the islands and close down dairy farms. The petition was dismissed by the Bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar. According to petitioner Ajmal Ahmed of Kavaratti, the removal of meat from the meal scheme is contrary to the National Programme of Midday Meals in schools as it goes against the very objective of ensuring physical and mental health of the children. The decision by the district task force to alter the menu was part of the Administrator’s ‘ill-motivated intention to implement his hidden agenda. ’The new menu was implemented without consultations, the petition said and sought a directive to the administration not to implement any reforms infringing on the ethnic culture, heritage, and food habit of the islanders. He alleged that without assigning reasons, the Administrator had ordered closure of all dairy farms run by the Department of Animal Husbandry on the islands. ‘Farms unviable’ S. Manu, counsel for the Lakshadweep administration, submitted that the decision to change the menu was taken due to difficulties in procurement of certain items in view of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-on-dweep-midday-meal-menu-dismissed/article36529420.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC dismisses bail plea of fake lawyer||The Kerala High Court on Friday dismissed an anticipatory bail petition by Sessy Xavier, an accused in a case relating to impersonating as a lawyer and practising in courts in Alappuzha. Justice V. Shircy, while dismissing her bail plea, directed her to surrender before the investigation officer forthwith. The court observed that the illegal activities adopted by her, that too before the court of law, had to be dealt with an iron hand.  Shame for system If any leniency was shown, “it will be a shame for the whole judicial system and will shake the confidence of the public in the judicial system.” The court added that prima facie, the petitioner had not only cheated the Bar Association, Alappuzha, the district judiciary of Alappuzha, and the general public, but also the entire judicial system. Misused Opposing the plea by the accused, V. Sreeja, senior government pleader, submitted that Sessy Xavier had acted as a lawyer before litigants and courts by using the roll number of a lawyer in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anticipatory-bail-plea-dismissed/article36529268.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MLA alleges threat to life||The Perumbavoor police have registered a case after Eldhose Kunnapilly, MLA, filed a complaint that he had received a letter purportedly written by the IS, warning of killing him by denonating a bomb if he spoke against Kitex Garments. Defamatory remarks The letter from an address in Vengola, also reportedly contains defamatory statements deriding many Congress leaders and belittling P.T. Thomas, MLA. A police team has been sent to record Mr. Kunappilly's statement, the Perumbavoor police said. Mr. Kunnapilly had informed Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also of the threat letter, it is learnt. The letter comes in the backdrop of a similar letter addressed to Kochi Mayor M. Anilkumar about a month ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-alleges-threat-to-life/article36529478.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||SLMC to submit report on waste on private land||The State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management will submit a report to the National Green Tribunal on the illegal storage of waste at a private land along the Seaport-Airport Road in Kalamassery. The land, spread over 1 acre, was found to be used for storage of waste in violation of the rules prescribed under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. “Necessary directions have been given to remove the waste from the site at the earliest. The State Pollution Control Board has been told to submit a report,” said A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai, Chairman of SLMC, who had inspected the site on Monday last along with senior officials of the Kerala State Pollution Control Board in Ernakulam. It was found that reusable plastic bags were being segregated using earthmover even though no action was taken to transfer the waste as per the rules. The committee found that the chances of leachate flow from the waste stored in a pit to the nearby areas and water bodies were high. The people, who had taken the land on lease, said that they were trying to remove the materials to a safer place. The board has issued directions to them stating that it should be handed over to agencies/persons having valid authorisation from the regulatory agencies. Notice issued Nishad A.K., chairman of the Health Standing Committee, Kalamassery Municipality, said that notice had been issued to the persons responsible for the storage of waste, after the visit of the SLMC Chairman to the site. “We had not given any permission to store waste at the site. Initially, there were no complaints. But we acted after it was found that there was a spike in the quantity of waste, causing harm to the environment,” he said. The board has sought a reply from the Secretary of the civic body on the illegal storage of waste at the private land in violation of the rules. The people, who had taken the land on lease, have agreed to shift the waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slmc-to-submit-report-on-waste-on-private-land/article36529482.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ED seizes assets of accused in Popular Finance scam||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has confiscated assets worth around Rs. 31.2 crore of the key accused in the Rs. 2,000-crore Popular Finance scam that rocked Kerala in August last year. The seized assets include jewellery worth Rs. 14 crore and vehicles valued at Rs. 2 crore. The rest of the assets are immovable properties in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh belonging to Thomas Daniel, managing director of the firm and Rinu Mariam, his daughter and chief executive officer. The ED had arrested them following interrogation in the Kochi office of the agency on August 9. The Central agency had found that the accused had deposited abroad the money collected from people in violation of the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. They were also suspected to have floated shell companies to launder money. Complaint filed The Central Bureau of Investigation is also probing the scam involving the Konni-based non-banking financial company. The fraud came to light after the depositors filed a cheating complaint against Mr. Daniel for failing to repay the deposits. The company had collected about Rs. 2,000 crore from around 1,600 customers within and outside the country.  The company had collected about Rs. 2,000 crore from around 1,600 customers within and outside the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/popular-finance-scam-ed-attaches-assets/article36529277.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cat rescued||A pregnant cat that was trapped in the second floor of a dilapidated house near Parade Ground in Fort Kochi for about a month, was rescued by personnel of the Fire and Rescue Services on Friday. This was after Sakeer, an an animal lover who resides in the locality, informed Reghu P.S., a civil police officer attached to the Kalamassery station, who had earlier served in Fort Kochi. Mr. Reghu, in turn, informed B. Sandhya, DGP, who is Director General, Kerala Fire and Rescue Services, Civil Defence and Home Guards. She directed personnel of the service to help rescue the stranded cat which survived for a month on food thrown to it by Sakeer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stranded-pregnant-cat-rescued/article36529356.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kitex inks deals with Telangana government||The Kitex Group of companies has said that it has signed two memoranda of understanding (MoUs) with the Telangana government on Friday for investments in the industrial park in Hyderabad and the Warangal textiles park. A communication from the Kitex company, based at Kizhakkambalam near Kochi, said the two were “major projects”. More details of the projects are expected at an official announcement on Saturday. Recent controversy Kitex had recently alleged harassment by State government agencies that conducted serial inspections at the company’s factory sites. According to the communication, Telangana Principal Secretary (Industries) Jayesh Ranjan and Kitex Group managing director Sabu M. Jacob signed the MoUs in Hyderabad. The MoUs were signed after Mr. Jacob met Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao. The communication said the company was being offered a lot of incentives by the Telangana government for its investments. Rs. 3,500-crore plans The Kitex Group had withdrawn from its plans to invest about Rs. 3,500 crore in Kerala following serial inspections of its factory premises by different government departments over the last few months, the statement added. Telangana was among the States that had invited the group to make investments. Sri Lanka, the UAE, Bahrain and Bangladesh had also extended invitations to the Kitex Group, said the communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kitex-group-signs-mous-with-telangana-govt/article36529214.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3,143 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 3,143 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Friday. A total of 3,092 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 38 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 17.13%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 50 included Thrikkakara (138), Thripunithura (104), Kottuvally (95), Chendamangalam (84), Payipra (84), Parakadavu (71), Pallipuram (69), Piravom (65), Kothamangalam (62), Alangad (60), Kottapady (58), Nellikuzhi (56), North Paravur (56), Kunnukara (53), Edathala (51), Karumaloor (51). The regions that reported fewer than five cases were Karuvelipady, Kuzhippilli, Aarakuzha, Edakkatuvayal, Chalikavattam, Panampilly Nagar, Palakuzha, Mulavukad, Asamanoor, Kalady, Ayappankavu, Panayappilli, Pindimana, and Poonithura, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3143-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article36529481.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Former IAS officer dead||K.R. Viswambharan, former District Collector of Ernakulam, died here on Friday. He was 72. The death occurred at a private hospital here. He had undergone surgery after suffering head injuries following a fall at his residence a month ago. He died of multi-organ failure on Friday morning, according to hospital authorities. The cremation will be held at the Pachalam crematorium around 11 a.m on Saturday. He is survived by wife Komalam, son Abhiraman and daughter Akhila. Mr. Viswambharan was current chairman of Oushadhi, State-owned Ayurvedic medicine manufacturing unit. He was former District Collector of Alappuzha. Mr. Viswambharan had served as Vice Chancellor of Kerala Agricultural University; and Managing Director of Transformers and Electricals Kerala and Kerala State Cooperative Marketing Federation. A native of Kunnam in Mavelikkara, the former IAS officer completed his higher education from Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, and Government Law College, Ernakulam. He played a key role in preserving the rich legacy of Maharaja’s College while serving as the chairman of its restoration committee. Mr. Viswambharan was also president of the Old Students’ Association of the college for long. He was at the forefront of the Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer Movement that spearheaded the campaign for setting up the Cochin Cancer Research Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-ias-officer-dead/article36529276.ece
18 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Flash strikes will not be tolerated: Rajeeve||The working pattern of employees should be made more flexible so that overtime hours can be brought to zero, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said. Inaugurating the new hot-bag filter system and upgraded oxygen plant at Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. (KMML) here on Friday, the Minister said the government had initiated steps to strengthen public sector companies. While assuring Land Acquired Persons Association (LAPA) employees that the proposal to increase their working days was under consideration, the Minister said that flash strikes that affected productivity would not be entertained. “The company incurred a loss of nearly Rs. 70 lakh when the LAPA workers went on a flash strike and such anarchy will not be tolerated.” Rs. 4-cr. system The process to convert titanium dioxide pigment coming out of the microniser to the final product requires extra fuel and energy. Every day microniser emits around 5 tonnes of vapour with the pigment. Since the temperature of the pigment is over 200 degrees, a hot bag filter system was needed. The new system was installed at Rs. 4 crore and it also helps to improve the quality of the pigment. The new system was commissioned by the KMML officials following the advice of experts from a German company. Company officials decided to commission the plant themselves as it was difficult for the engineers to travel from Germany due to the pandemic. Self-reliant in oxygen The KMML had become self-reliant in oxygen production with the commissioning of its new 70 tonne per day (tpd) plant in 2020 October. The 50-tpd plant commissioned in 1984 had fell inadequate to meet the demand of the Titanium dioxide Pigment (TP) unit and over the years its capacity had come down to 33 tpd. Before that the company was buying 26 tonnes of oxygen per day from other manufacturers spending around Rs. 12 crore per year. The new plant has been producing 63 tonne oxygen, 70 tonne nitrogen, 7 tonne liquefied oxygen and nitrogen every day. The company later decided to increase its production of liquid oxygen for medical needs considering the demand due to COVID-19. The KMML had contacted the German company that set up the plant and made a technological change to increase production capacity of liquefied oxygen to 10 tonnes. The increase in production capacity was made possible at a cost of Rs. 3.3 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flash-strikes-will-not-be-tolerated-rajeeve/article36529270.ece
18 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,645 new cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 1,645 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,204 recoveries on Friday. While 1,640 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include one person from another State and four health workers. At present the district has 28,459 persons under observation. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 17.1 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1645-new-cases-in-kollam/article36529258.ece
18 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Free vocational courses for OBC categories||The National Backward Classes Finance & Development Corporation is offering free vocational courses for persons belonging to OBC categories with an annual income of less than Rs. 1 lakh. Applications are invited for the Diploma in Computer Financial Accounting (DCFA) course at the Kundara extension center under the IHRD. Plus Two is the qualification required and those coming in the age group of 18 to 45 years can apply. The last date for accepting applications is September 30 and applications can be submitted through http://pmdaksh.dosje.gov.in. For more information, call 8547005090.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-vocational-courses-for-obc-categories/article36529271.ece
18 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Vasavan calls on bishop||Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan visited Mar Joseph Kallarangatt at the bishop’s house in Pala on Friday. After the visit, which lasted for 45 minutes, Mr. Vasavan told mediapersons that his visit had nothing to do with the ongoing controversy over the prelate’s remarks about ‘narcotic jihad’.  Government’s stance “The Chief Minister has already made the government’s stance clear and I have nothing more to add. Neither the Church nor the government wants these unwarranted discussions to go on for long. However, there are some extremist forces who want to create issues and the government does not intend to compromise on any form of terrorism,” he said. Despite the Minister’s statement, the meeting assumed attention for its timing. Official sources said that the visit of the Minister was part of an attempt by the State government to end the controversy on its own and thus prevent the Opposition from taking credit over settling the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vasavan-calls-on-bishop/article36529282.ece
18 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Traders served notice over recent fire outbreak||The Kozhikode Corporation has served notices on several building owners and traders at New Bazaar, Big Bazaar, and Oasis compound on Moideen Pally Road in the city, asking them to clear all unauthorised constructions and to ensure free movement of people through corridors by clearing open spaces of extra stock from shops. The notices were issued following an inspection by corporation officials in the area against the backdrop of the fire in a building on September 10. The team led by Corporation Secretary K.U. Bini consisted of Executive Engineer Ramesh K.P., Assistant Engineers Annie Issac and Ashwathi C., and overseer Satheesh K. There are 21 shops in V.K.M. Building where the fire broke out. The team found that none of them had any means to extinguish fire or infrastructure for fire safety. The team took note that the buildings in the area had a lot of unauthorised alterations, and that spaces were so clogged with stock that it restricted free movement of people. Even fire officials found it difficult to move around while attempting to douse the flames. The electrical circuit in the buildings were also taken note of, as their antiquity was cited as a probable reason for frequent fire accidents. The corporation has requested the Electrical Inspectorate to check wiring in the buildings at the earliest and take necessary safety measures. The Mayor will meet traders and building owners to devise a plan to ward off accidents. At the same time, teams comprising officials of the revenue, health and engineering wings of the corporation will identify unauthorised constructions on S.M. Street and adjoining areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-served-notice-over-recent-fire-outbreak/article36529218.ece
18 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Exemption from registration charges sought||Beneficiaries of various rehabilitation schemes of the Central and State governments have called upon the Revenue and Registration departments to exempt them from hefty stamp duties and registration charges for the land allotted to them for constructing houses. A majority of them are low-income farmers whose property was destroyed in natural calamities. According to rules, 8% of the land cost goes towards stamp duty at the time of registration. Besides, another 2% has to be paid as registration charge. For low-income families, payment of the latter remains a burden. A farmer organisation leader from Thiruvambady said the government could address the issue through a special order. “Exemption can be granted for those shortlisted for rehabilitation schemes. Even the income of the applicants could be checked before giving approval,” he pointed out. Such a practice will benefit a large number of rural families who lost their property in the 2019 floods. Many of those who have already received land worth Rs. 6 lakh will be able to save at least Rs. 60,000 in terms of registration charges. The matter has also been taken up with people’s representatives, he said. Many of those who lost their property are struggling to rebuild their lives, and imposing a hefty amount as registration charge on them will dampen their spirits, according to some elected representatives. Meanwhile, Revenue officials clarified that there should be policy-level decisions on the matter. They pointed out that such decisions would result in a huge drop in government’s revenue, apart from dragging it into legal scuffles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exemption-from-registration-charges-sought/article36529230.ece
18 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Fake sellers flourish in social media marketing groups||Luring customers with attractive offers and price discounts, a number of fake social media marketing groups are flourishing by cashing in on people who are willing to make advance payments for products. Both used goods in good condition and factory seconds are used to canvass buyers looking for low-cost products in the online resale market. Fake profiles created by non-Kerala users by posting pictures of native people are mostly used to carry out the trickery to which several buyers have fallen prey. Such profiles, mostly created using Facebook and Instagram accounts, even misuse the names of Army personnel and government employees to mislead buyers. “The creators of such profiles display attractive items, including furniture, home appliances, electronic gadgets, and used vehicles, at very attractive prices to canvass buyers. Later, they urge buyers to make advance payments. On getting the money, they simply block the user and escape,” said N.V. Maneesh, a youth from Kuruvattur who recently came across such a fraud. He pointed out that it was difficult to differentiate fake profiles from real ones. Since the creators of fake profiles are untraceable, duped buyers are now sharing their experience on various social media platforms. Since advance payments are meagre in a majority of cases, not many are approaching the police. Instead of directly calling buyers, operators of fake profiles use chat options to communicate. The admins of various such groups are also seemingly helpless thanks to the rising number of members who also comprise genuine persons. Mass reporting or removing suspected profiles remains the most common option now to fight the menace. “The urge to make advance payments or while placing orders should be controlled to avoid getting cheated. Payments should be made only if licensed players are involved in digital marketing,” said a senior officer attached to the Kerala Police Cyberdome. He added that social media marketing trends were misleading many to unseen traps in their run for low-cost products. Admins of a Facebook group for pets said there were even incidents where the members were duped with an offer to supply puppies and kittens at cheap prices from Karnataka. Those who made advance payments for booking such pets were cheated by invisible operators, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fake-sellers-flourish-in-social-media-marketing-groups/article36529232.ece
18 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. seeks help to brand hygiene protocol||The Kozhikode Corporation has sought the help of the public to brand its newly drafted hygiene protocol. Since the civic body is planning to implement it in the pattern of a mission, it needs a suitable name and logo, which the public could suggest. It was on Wednesday that the corporation council unanimously approved the draft of the protocol pertaining to 33 subjects. The corporation plans to roll out the protocol in residential areas, commercial establishments, government offices, and educational institutions on October 2. The hygiene status conferred on the corporation last year was a trigger to draft the protocol, in an effort to maintain the status. Now that the Hygiene Protocol is all set to be rolled out, citizens could suggest name and logo for it before September 27. Entries could be delivered in person at the corporation office, by post or email (secretarykkd@gmail.com). Attractive prizes await the creator of the chosen name and logo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-seeks-help-to-brand-hygiene-protocol/article36529219.ece
18 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||2,095 new cases in Kozhikode; TPR 16.71%||Kozhikode district recorded 2,095 new COVID-19 cases on Friday when 12,840 people were tested for SARS-COV2 virus. Even as the test positivity rate came down to 16.71% on the day, the source of infection was unknown in the case of 18 new patients. Meanwhile, 2,068 were infected through local contact, five from abroad and two from other States. There were also two health workers among the new patients. At the same time, 2,192 persons were discharged from various treatment facilities on the day. The active caseload in the district was 22,827 while 77,674 persons are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2095-new-cases-in-kozhikode-tpr-1671/article36529225.ece
18 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Five-member sex racket busted in Kozhikode||The Chevayur police on Friday busted a five-member sex racket at a rented house at Paroppadi near Vellimadukunnu in the city. The suspects, including two men and three women from various parts of Kozhikode district, were nabbed following a confidential complaint given by some of the local residents after noticing the suspicious operations of the gang. The racket was alleged ly operated by Beypore native R.M. Shafeeq, 32, and Chevayur native T.V. Ashiq, 24. The special squad detained them along with the three suspected women during a surprise inspection at the house. A Narikkuni native, who allegedly secured the building on rent for the flesh trade, would be netted soon, they said. Police sources said they were having a list of people who came in contact with the racket which had been operating in the field for over three months. They also claimed that the man who secured the building on rent had been an accused in several similar cases reported from Kozhikode district. Medical College Assistant Commissioner K. Sudarshan said more arrests would be recorded in the days to come as part of the follow-up investigation into the incident. He also said the gang had brought to the spot several other women for the illegal business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-member-sex-racket-busted-in-kozhikode/article36529227.ece
18 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Education Dept. urged to withdraw order||The Aided Higher Secondary School Teachers Association (AHSTA) on Friday alleged that there were deliberate attempts by the Education Department to stop socio-cultural and literary activities by teachers through stringent regulations. Coming down on a recent order of the Director of Public Instruction, AHSTA leaders claimed it was aimed at curtailing the fundamental right of teachers to express their views. AHSTA district president Sebastian John said the mandatory prior clearance from the Deputy Director of Education before publishing any literary work by teachers was quirky. Association State vice president K. Anil Kumar said the department’s move to appoint the Deputy Director of Education as the sole authority to assess the value of literary works by teachers was a piteous trend. The order should be revoked with immediate effect, as it discourages creative minds, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/education-dept-urged-to-withdraw-order/article36529229.ece
18 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Ganja, hashish oil seized||Excise officers seized 183 kg of ganja and 1 kg of hashish oil during a raid at a drug gang’s hideout at Koottambara near Nilambur on Friday. Four persons were arrested in the raids conducted following a tip-off. The seized drugs were estimated to fetch Rs. 1 crore in the contraband market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganja-hashish-oil-seized/article36529226.ece
18 September 2021||MALAPPURAM/PALAKKAD,KERALA||BJP holds prayers for Modi on birthday||The BJP celebrated the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi by organising prayers on Friday. Party leaders chorused “Ameen” during a special prayers seeking Allah’s blessings for a long life for Mr. Modi. A few Muslim women also attended the prayer meeting held under the banner of the Bharatiya Minority Morcha. Prayers were organised in some churches in Malappuram and Palakkad districts. Minority Morcha general secretary Aji Thomas, Shaji George, Paulson Karulai, and M.T. Sunny led the prayers held at St. Joseph’s Church, Nilambur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-holds-prayers-for-modi-on-birthday/article36529220.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Doorstep services to cover full State by Dec.||Citizens across the State will have access to doorstep delivery of government services by the year end, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Launching the doorstep service delivery system in 50 local bodies, he said it would especially benefit elderly citizens, those with restricted mobility, differently abled, and bedridden patients. Card to be issued The beneficiaries would be issued a card with contact details of ASHA or Kudumbashree worker or volunteer. Mr.Vijayan said the system was conceived to avoid the need for citizens to visit offices for various government services. He said all officials concerned and volunteers would be trained before December to offer citizen services. ASHA workers would be the main service providers. They would be supported by anganwadi and Kudumbasree workers, ward members, local bodies, primary health centres, social workers, and volunteers. In the first phase, the system would offer life certificate, mustering, applications for the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund, supply of life saving medicines, and social security pension. The bouquet of services would be enlarged later. Mr. Vijayan said efforts were on to make all government services available on the online platform. Sevana centres and Akshaya centres would be equipped for the purpose. He added that the ongoing scheme to equip all households with laptop and internet connectivity would enable citizens to access government services at their fingertips.  It will especially benefit elderly citizens, those with restricted mobility, differently abled, and bedridden patients   System will especially benefit the elderly, differently abled, and bedridden patients Officers, volunteers will be trained before December, says Pinarayi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/service-at-doorstep-across-state-by-year-end/article36529262.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) flags religious zeal in minority politics||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has warned that extreme religious zeal fanned by a fringe set of hardliners threatens to permeate minority community politics in Kerala. In an internal communication to members, the CPI(M) has reportedly noted with concern that Kerala’s largely forward-looking Christian and Muslim communities are not impervious to the social peril. CPI(M) acting State secretariat A. Vijayaraghavan appears to confirm such a line of thought. After Thursday’s State secretariat meeting, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said minority and majority communalism threatened Kerala’s secular fabric. Both were mutually symbiotic, and one catalysed the other. Illustratively, Jamaat-e-Islami's brazenly Islamist political creed drove the Hindutva agenda of the BJP, he said. A party insider claimed that the confidential communique also flagged the possibility of radical elements recruiting professional college students for extremist purposes. The circular purportedly said the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) had attempted to advance its Hindu majoritarian agenda by using organisations such as the Seva Bharathi. It had drawn women into the Hindutva fold by harping about protecting the faith. Hindutva forces also tried to tap into the growing Islamophobia. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said Pala bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt had no ill intention when he broached the subject during a sermon. He said the Indian Union Muslim League leadership was drifting towards medievalism. It had disowned Harita women activists who rebelled against the misogynistic leadership of the Muslim Student Federation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-flags-religious-zeal-in-minority-politics/article36529283.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dates of Plus One exams soon||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty told mediapersons here on Friday afternoon that as soon as the detailed Supreme Court order allowing the conduct of the Plus One higher secondary examinations in the State became available, the fresh dates for the exams would be finalised and the timetable published. The new timetable would be fixed without giving students any cause for anxiety. The government was ready to conduct the examinations by fully adhering to COVID-19 protocols, Mr. Sivankutty said, while outlining the arrangements planned. He welcomed the Supreme Court decision. Students and parents need not have any apprehensions. Sanitisation Sanitisation of schools and classrooms that had been taken up with public participation prior to the Supreme Court stay would be resumed with the support of local self-governments, people’s representatives, political parties, youth organisations, and others. Question papers were already in schools under police guard. The Minister said he would meet the Chief Minister to finalise further proceedings, including those related to reopening of schools. There were some schools that had nearly 7,000 students. Hence, the opinion of other departments such as Health and Local Self-government and the State expert committee on COVID-19 would be taken. In favour Most students and parents, he said, were in favour of conducting the exams. The small majority that was against the exams should refrain from campaigns against the exams. The Plus One higher exams were to be held from September 6 to 27, but the court had stayed the exams on September 3. The delay in conducting the Plus One exams is affecting the students. No classes have been telecast for Plus Two students for the past two months on the KITE Victers channel on account of revision classes and live phone-in programmes ahead of the Plus One exams. Concerns are being raised that the students’ preparations for the year-end Plus Two exams would be drastically affected by the delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dates-of-plus-one-exams-soon/article36529290.ece
18 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guidelines for resumption of offline college classes||Postgraduate (PG) classes will function at full strength and undergraduate (UG) classes in groups of 50% strength when colleges reopen for final-year batches on October 4. The classes for degree students can be held either on alternate days or on all days if the campus has adequate facilities to ensure physical distancing and minimise the possibility of crowding. The guidelines for the resumption of offline classes were issued by the Higher Education Department on Friday. Science courses Advising greater stress on practical classes for science courses, the government has recommended holding classes between 8.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. Nonetheless, colleges have been permitted to choose from alternative time slots, viz., 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Timetables Timetables must be prepared ensuring 25 hours of blended learning that involves a mix of both online and offline sessions for final-year batches. The classes for other batches must continue to be held online until further notice. Heads of institutions have been instructed to prepare schedules taking these aspects into consideration. At the same time, engineering colleges will continue to function for six hours on all working days, as being currently done. The department has directed colleges and universities to permit staff members including mothers of children less than a year old, pregnant women and those who have critical comorbidities to work from home. Attendance norms can be relaxed in the case of students who face similar difficulties. The department has instructed college managements to organise special drives to provide COVID-19 vaccine free of charge to students and employees in association with the Health Department. While pandemic norms must be strictly enforced, the availability of handwash, sanitiser, face masks and thermal scanners must be ensured in advance. Classrooms, libraries and laboratories must also be thoroughly disinfected with the support of local bodies, health workers and voluntary organisations. COVID-19 protocol must also be strictly enforced in hostels. Jagratha Samithis (vigilance committees) that comprise teachers, non-teaching staff, students, guardians, local body members, health workers, fire force and police personnel must be tasked with ensuring the norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-for-resumption-of-offline-college-classes/article36529291.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police cadet scheme to be extended to all schools||The Student Police Cadet (SPC) scheme will be extended to all schools in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after virtually inaugurating the extension of SPC units to 165 more schools here on Friday. With this, the number of schools where the SPC functions has gone up to 968. Mr. Vijayan said the scheme would be expanded to all schools in a phased manner. From 100 schools in 2010, the scheme is now operational in nearly 1,000 schools. This is a huge achievement, he said. The Chief Minister lauded the contributions of the scheme to the State’s cultural and educational sectors. He also highlighted the role played by the cadets in checking drug and substance abuse among students. The drug mafia, he said, was active in many places. When schools were open, the SPCs had done well in checking the influence of such elements. Those working against national interests would try their best to prevent a physically and mentally healthy generation from growing, he said. Nurturing discipline The Chief Minister said that following the Union government’s decision to extend the SPC scheme nationwide, it now had a presence in many States. Its biggest advantage was that a disciplined group of people could be nurtured, he said. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-spc-scheme-to-be-extended-to-all-schools/article36529260.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Training VHSE teachers in gamification for digital lessons||With learning going digital/online during the COVID-19 pandemic, new ways to drive learner engagement have become imperative. In a first, the National Service Scheme of the General Education Department’s vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) wing is organising a training programme that introduces teachers to the possibilities of gamification in education. The ‘Gamification for learning and development’ programme is being held in association with the School of Management Studies, Cochin University of Science and Technology, as part of the latter’s corporate social responsibility initiative. Gamification in learning involves use of game-based elements such as competition, collaboration, point scoring and so on, to improve students’ engagement and motivation. The free programme will be led by Manu Melwin Joy, assistant professor at the School of Management Studies who is an international trainer in gamification. Mr. Joy says that as full-fledged games are not possible in a classroom, gamification has the potential to improve learner engagement, particularly in the context of online classes. Activities So like in a game that has a story and players, the subject being taught is given a context, and the students become the heroes who, based on their understanding of what they have learnt, solve activities put forward by teachers. This could be done through teamwork or competitively. Students will get feedback through points allotted for each activity solved. The teacher, Mr. Joy says, will design the storyline, the milestones students should reach for collecting rewards, what and how much information should be shared or held back, and what feedback is given. Mr. Joy has designed a storyline for the teacher training as well in order to train the VHSE teachers on how to integrate gamification into online teaching. Using this storyline, teachers will be taught activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-vhse-teachers-in-gamification-for-digital-lessons/article36529519.ece
18 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Remembering Thanu Padmanabhan||Thanu Padmanabhan, the renowned theoretical physicist who passed away in Pune on Friday, had dreamed of setting up a world-class scientific research institute in his home State Kerala, according to CPI(M) Polit Bureau member and former Education Minister M. A. Baby. Mr. Baby recalls that he, as Education Minister in the 2006-2011 V. S. Achuthanandan ministry, had invited Prof. Padmanabhan to become the Vice Chancellor of the University of Kerala. ''He was our first choice, in fact. He politely declined, saying he wanted to continue with his research. But he said that he would like to establish a research institute of international standards with government help in the State some day,'' Mr. Baby, who had a long association with Prof. Padmanabhan, says. Prof. Padmanabhan was, at the time of his death, a Distinguished Professor at the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA), Pune. Although he was born and educated in Thiruvananthapuram, he was only an occasional visitor to the city in later decades. However, he owned nine cents of land at Nettayam he had purchased some years ago. Born to Thanu Iyer and Lakshmi in 1957, the young Padmanabhan did his schooling at the Government High School, Karamana, where he developed an interest in geometry. He joined the pre-degree course at the Government Arts College in 1973. It was during this period he encountered the Feynman Lectures in Physics and the Trivandrum Science Society. First technical paper He joined the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) for his PhD after topping the BSc and MSc Physics programmes at the University College. By then, he had, as a 20-year-old BSc student, authored his first technical paper on General Relativity. Prof. Padmanabhan — ‘Paddy’ to his close friends and associates — moved to the IUCAA in 1992. ''As a teacher and guide, he was exemplary,'' recalls Karthik Rajeev from Kollam, who did a summer project and later his PhD under the guidance of Prof. Padmanabhan at the IUCAA.In August this year, the Kerala government had chosen Prof. Padmanabhan, along with Prof. M. S. Swaminathan, for the ‘Kerala Shastra Puraskaram.’ In a condolence message, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said: ''He was a gifted science communicator and his masterful contribution to research in cosmology and astrophysics will be long remembered. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the renowned physicist was Kerala's gift to the scientific world. His demise is a big loss to the scientific community. Prof. Padmanabhan, who dedicated his life to the pursuit of scientific research, will continue to be an inspiration for students of science, the Chief Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remembering-thanu-padmanabhan/article36529524.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Circular on vetting literary works withdrawn||The State government has withdrawn a controversial circular of the General Education Department that requires employees to submit a copy of literary works that they plan to publish for vetting by officials. A row had broken out after it emerged that the circular dated September 9 required Deputy Directors of Education to scrutinise if the literary work was fit to be published and submit a report. Only after getting approval could the works be published, the circular had said. The circular contained directions to be followed for making recommendations when department employees submitted applications seeking permission to engage in artistic, literary, and cultural activities. As per the circular, the application had to be supported by an affidavit. The DDEs had to go through the application in detail and make recommendations. Widespread criticism However, the circular drew widespread criticism, with writers and other coming forward to allege a bid by the government to censor works and clamp down on artistic freedom. K. Satchidanandan, poet, told The Hindu that in a democracy, it was absurd to have a rule that required screening of a literary work by an official who did not know anything about literature. If the purpose was to vet any government criticism, the idea itself was undemocratic. Even if one were a government official, it did not mean one could not criticise the government. It was ironic that a government that was supposed to be resisting the anti-democratic rules of the Union government was enforcing such a rule, he said. A statement from Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty said the circular was misinterpreted to suggest that the department was clamping down on artistic and literary endeavours. The circular had no such intention. There was no attempt to look into the creativity or quality of a work. It was only aimed at looking into the affidavit submitted along with the application as per Kerala Service Rules. But with confusion arising in the wake of the issuing of the circular, the circular was being withdrawn. There would be no attempt on the part of the government to curb the creative freedom of artistes, Mr. Sivankutty said in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/circular-on-vetting-literary-works-withdrawn/article36529521.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State bags two quality assurance awards||The State has received two national awards for having the most number of health facilities with National Quality Assurance Standard (NQAS) certification. This was announced by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya at a function on World Patient Safety Day in New Delhi. The award is a recognition of the State’s efforts towards improving quality standards even during the COVID-19 pandemic, Health Minister Veena George said. At the national level, Kerala came first in the category of urban primary health centres and was the runner-up in the primary health centres (PHC) category. Of the State’s 93 urban PHCs, 33 have received NQAS certification, while among the 849 PHCs, 78 obtained it. Till date, 125 health facilities in the State have received NQAS certification. These include three district hospitals, four taluk hospitals, seven community health centres, 78 family health centres and 33 urban PHCs. Presently, six more hospitals are awaiting the certification.  Recognition announced at a function on World Patient Safety Day in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-bags-two-quality-assurance-awards/article36529520.ece
18 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District logs 2,045 cases||The capital district reported 2,045 new COVID-19 cases and 1,978 recoveries on Friday. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 14.5%. In all, 16,473 people were under treatment for the infection on Friday in the district. As many as 2,838 people were prescribed quarantine on the day, taking the total number of those in quarantine to 43,176. Containment zones Meanwhile, the district administration has declared containment zones in the following wards as part of the COVID-19 management measures: Wards 8 and 20 of Varkala municipality, ward 5 of Vakkom panchayat, ward 6 of Navayikulam panchayat and ward 4 of Parassala panchayat. The following areas are micro-containment zones: Chadiyara residents' association in Poojappura ward of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and Temple Lane and Chittazha in ward 22 of Karakulam panchayat.  As many as 2,838 people were prescribed quarantine on Friday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-logs-2045-cases/article36529525.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Laptop supply to tribal students gets under way||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty inaugurated the distribution of laptops to students in the tribal belts on Friday. The laptops are being provided as the government plans to start online classes as a follow-up to the digital classes telecast on KITE Victers channel. For Plus Two students Initially, laptops will be made available to all Class X students belonging to the Scheduled Tribe category. After the upcoming Plus One examinations, the students graduating to Plus Two will also receive laptops. Students of other classes will receive . High-tech project The laptops provided to schools earlier as part of the high-tech project will be given to the tribal students. Tribal students will receive laptops the way they get library books through school. While the number of ST students who lacked digital equipment was 43,952, this came down to 37,715 in September. The Minister said laptops taken back from schools for distribution to tribal students would be replaced by new ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laptop-distributed-to-tribal-students/article36529212.ece
18 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC publishes list of those who have cleared prelim||The Public Service Commission (PSC) has begun publishing the list of candidates who cleared the preliminary examinations for posts in 192 categories. The lists for Statewide posts were published on Friday, while that for LD Clerk posts in 14 districts and office attendant posts in Secretariat/PSC offices will be published on Saturday. Other lists The other lists, including the district-level lists for last grade servants, will be published in the coming days. The detailed lists are published on the PSC website. The aspirants who appear in the shortlist will be appearing for the final examinations to be held in November and December. Based on the preliminary exams, integrated lists are prepared with separate cut-offs for each district. Six times the number of aspirants who can be included on the rank list will be included on the shortlist to ensure representation for reservation categories. Aspirants who deserve various benefits, including differently abled persons, are included based on a self-declaration at the initial stage. In case the claims are proved to be false in the document verification stage, they will be excluded from the later stages. More than 15 lakh aspirants wrote the preliminary exams for 192 categories held in February, March and July. Qualifications The final exams for different posts are held based on the qualifications and expertise needed for the particular post. Based on the nature of the job, there are final exams in 11 different categories.  The aspirants who appear in the shortlist will be appearing for the final examinations to be held in November and December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-publishes-list-of-those-who-have-cleared-prelim/article36529286.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||23,260 new cases in State||Kerala logged 23,260 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 1,28,817 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool stood at 1,88,926, with 20,388 persons recovering from the disease. The official cumulative case fatality now stands at 23,296 with the State adding 131 deaths. Current ICU occupancy dropped to 2,223. The number of patients requiring ventilator support dropped to 954. Hospitalisations are going down. Thrissur had most cases at 4,013, followed by Ernakulam 3,143, Kozhikode 2,095, Thiruvananthapuram 2,045, Malappuram 1,818, Alappuzha 1,719, Palakkad 1,674, Kollam 1,645, Kottayam 1,431, Kannur 1,033, Pathanamthitta 983, Idukki 692, Wayanad 639, and Kasaragod 330 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/23260-new-cases-in-state/article36529285.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TUs call for hartal in State on Sept. 27||The Joint Committee of Trade Unions in Kerala will observe a total hartal on September 27 in response to the call for a nationwide Bharath Bandh to express solidarity with the farmers on agitation against the agricultural reforms introduced by the Centre. The committee has issued a call to avoid plying of vehicles and keep shops and commercial establishments closed during the 12-hour hartal from 6 a.m. A press note on Friday said motor workers would participate in the protest. Essential services had been exempted from the hartal. Marches, adhering to COVID-19 protocol, would be held at select locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tus-call-for-hartal-in-state-on-sept-27/article36529287.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. leader’s suspension withdrawn||The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on Friday withdrew the suspension of its senior leader and former MLA K. Sivadasan Nair for publicly expressing displeasure over the selection of party's district chiefs. KPCC president K. Sudhakaran said the explanation given by Mr. Nair was satisfactory and his services were required for strengthening the party. Mr. Nair and former KPCC general secretary K.P. Anil Kumar were “temporarily” suspended from the party on August 29 alleging “lack of discipline.”Mr. Kumar has since quit the Congress and joined the CPI(M).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-leaders-suspension-withdrawn/article36529259.ece
18 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LIFE houses annoucement||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will on Saturday announce the completion of 10,000 houses under the LIFE housing project as part of the 100-day action plan of the State government. In the period from 2016 to 2021, a total of 2.62 lakh houses have been completed under the LIFE project. The work of 36 housing complexes accommodating 2,207 dwelling units is progressing. Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan will preside over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-houses-annoucement/article36529522.ece
18 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dak Adalat on Sept. 30||The Dak Adalat of Kerala Postal Circle is organising a Dak Adalat at the office of the Chief Postmaster General, Kerala Circle, in the capital at 11 a.m. on September 30 on the Google Meet platform. Citizens are directed to send their petition/complaint, including their mobile number, to the email idaspcsco.keralapost@g mail.comorcpmg_ker@indiapost. gov.inwith subject ‘CIRCLE DAK ADALAT - QE JUNE 2021’ addressed to M. Bindhu, Assistant Director (Customer Service), O/o the Chief Postmaster General, Kerala Circle, Thiruvananthapuram, 695033, on or before September 24. The meeting ID and password (Google Meet) will be intimated directly to the applicant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-dak-adalat-on-sept-30/article36529357.ece
18 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Election panel inks MoU with university||The State Election Commission on Friday inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Digital University Kerala (DUK) to develop digital tools for simplifying the elections to the local bodies. Commission secretary A. Shajahan and Digital University vice chancellor Saji Gopinath signed the MoU in the presence of State Election Commissioner A. Shajahan. The Commission is exploring the possibility of using digital tools for various election-related activities, including the preparation of voters' lists, deployment of polling officials, distribution of polling materials, counting of votes and result declaration and analysis. Suggestions invited On taking over as the State Election Commissioner, Mr. Shajahan had invited suggestions from the general public for simplifying election procedures. The MoU is part of the efforts to streamline the system in tune with present-day needs, Mr. Shajahan said. Steps will also be taken to ensure that all eligible voters find a place on the electoral rolls, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-poll-panel-inks-mou-with-digital-university/article36529261.ece
18 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Campus houses a 24/7 ‘oxygen factory’||The 37-acre campus of Jyothi Engineering College, Cheruthuruthy, has given shape to a natural ‘oxygen factory’ with the help of 350-odd bamboo groves. The lush green clumps are the fruition of an effort put in by Fr. Roy Joseph Vadakkan, secretary and campus head of the college, which comes under Syro-Malabar Catholic Archdiocese of Thrissur. He had taken up the greening project 11 years ago. “Bamboo provides 30-35% more oxygen than any other plant. It is estimated that one adult human being requires about 850 g oxygen in a day. A fully grown bamboo tree generates 300 kg oxygen a year, which is sufficient for a person for the whole year,” says Fr. Vadakkan on the eve of World Bamboo Day that falls on September 18. The many pluses Planting bamboo is one of the best ways to conserve the environment. It reduces carbon footprint, helps fight global warming, and balances oxygen and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. “Nowadays, corporate companies grow bamboo on their campus to claim that their campus is carbon-neutral,” he points out. “Our campus was a rubber estate earlier. We started planting bamboo around the college buildings on about 20 acres. Now there are 15 types of bamboo here.” Ideal ambience When he launched the initiative in 2010, his objective was to provide a green campus for the 2,000-odd students here. The lush green campus provides them an ideal ambience to pursue their studies. Most of the students are from various cities, and for them, such greenery is a luxury. Home to giant squirrels “Bamboos not only create an oxygen-rich, green campus but also reduce the temperature inside the buildings by about four degree Celsius. Now our campus houses lots of birds and even giant squirrels,” says Fr. Vadakkan. “Our campus is situated on a slop and studies have proved that bamboo groves hold water and soil and thus stop landslips,” says the priest who is also active in the conservation efforts of the Bharathapuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campus-houses-a-247-oxygen-factory/article36529419.ece
18 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Cong. will strive to protect secularism, says Sudhakaran||The Congress is committed to protecting the secular fabric of the country, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran has said. Addressing the media here on Friday, he said there were efforts to damage secularism in the State. He alleged that the Chief Minister had refused to address some of the events that disturbed the State’s communal harmony. He said he would hold discussions with leaders of various communities in an effort to protect religious harmony. “I don’t think there will be a communal clash in Kerala,” Mr. Sudhakaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-will-strive-to-protect-secularism-says-sudhakaran/article36529351.ece
18 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||MP doesn’t want ‘salute’||T.N. Prathapan, MP, has written a letter to the Chief Secretary and the State Police Chief urging them to instruct police officers and government officials not to salute him or call him ‘sir.’ The letter came in the backdrop of the controversy after Suresh Gopi, MP, prompted Ollur sub-inspector to salute him. “Though the police manual does not insist on saluting an MP, many police personnel do. Politicians take it as a right. This is unfortunate. I believe that the ‘salute’ and ‘sir’ are remnants of the colonial system. Saluting and calling an elected representative ‘sir’ is against democratic principles,” he wrote in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-doesnt-want-salute/article36529352.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A tightrope thriller that finishes tamely||Somewhere along the process of scripting Kaanekkaane , Bobby-Sanjay might have thought about the kind of balance they would need to keep between its thriller and family-drama elements. All through the intense first half of the film, the pull towards both these sides is evident, in what becomes quite a tightrope walk. This tussle in the structure is almost as engaging as the one within the story... until it lasts. At the centre of the story is Paul (Suraj Venjaramoodu), a government employee who is yet to recover from the death of his daughter, Sherin (Shruti Ramachandran), in a road accident one year ago. He is still pursuing the hit-and-run case in court. On a visit to the house of his son-in-law Alan (Tovino Thomas), who is now married to Sneha (Aishwarya Lekshmi), he feels that everyone else has moved on. But niggling doubts about his daughter’s death makes him pursue the case further. After his successful directorial debut Uyare , also written by Bobby-Sanjay, Manu Ashokan returns with a film that is somewhat different in its content and pacing. We delve into the minds of the central characters, getting a sense of the overpowering emotions that drive many of their actions. Flashbacks abound For a film in which a single event from the past has a bearing on almost all that is happening in the present, flashbacks appear seamlessly in the narrative, sometimes with the viewer taking some time to realise the fact. One or the other character slips into a memory from the past, and sees it in a new light from what they have learned in the present, as in the case of a New Year’s Eve celebration from earlier. While on one side we have Paul in dogged pursuit of one clue after another, on the other, there is Sneha, who is struggling with the indifference of her husband. The film, with its measured, comfortable pace remains steady and engaging in these initial parts. The natural pull towards a happy ending starts just after the halfway point, when the mystery behind the circumstances that led to Sherin’s death is revealed. Although one gets a sense of the reveal having come a little too early, it also brings to us the expectations of what the writers will do with these characters in the remaining time. These expectations are belied when the film moves towards a rather tame climax, which also seems to be too forgiving of a heartless act. There is also more than one case of characters behaving out of character, seemingly for the convenience of the narrative. The ever-dependable Suraj carries much of the film, but even his shift comes across as unconvincing in the climax. Kaanekkaane works when it patiently unravels its many layers, but spoils it with a convenient stitching-up. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-tightrope-thriller-drama-that-finishes-tamely/article36529216.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Supreme Court not to intervene in Plus One exam||It had said physical examinations would spell an end to many problems which haunt the online mode, including lack of Internet connectivity, etc, while examination process was on. The issue of shortage of gadgets among students was also eliminated, the State had contended. Earlier in September, the Supreme Court had stayed the Kerala government order to conduct physical examinations for Class 11 students owing to the “alarming” spread of COVID-19 virus. The examinations had been scheduled to start from September 6. On September 3, a Bench led by Justice Khanwilkar had found prima facie force in the argument made by petitioner Rasoolshan A., represented by advocate Prashant Padmanabhan, that the State government did not “seriously consider the prevailing situation before having the physical exam in September this year”. But the State government, in its affidavit, urged the court to lift the stay order. It had said the examinations could be completed in September, well before October, when experts say the third wave would hit. It argued that 7.32 lakh students had appeared for JEE (Mains) examinations held in Kerala in August and September. The affidavit said the State had already conducted the Secondary School Leaving Certificate and Class 12 examinations by adhering to the protocol for the pandemic. The government listed the safeguards put in place for the examinations and even undertook to make separate arrangements for students in quarantine or found COVID-19 positive. It said Plus One marks are added to Plus Two marks to determine the eligibility of the candidate for higher studies, contrary to method adopted by the CBSE and the ICSE. The conduct of Plus One examinations was necessary to evaluate the students for higher studies. Plus One examinations needed to be held in a single stroke, ensuring the physical presence of students and thus eliminating chances of leakage of question papers, the State argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supreme-court-not-to-intervene-in-plus-one-exam/article36529228.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||SC not to intervene in Plus One exam||It had said physical examinations would spell an end to many problems which haunt the online mode, including lack of Internet connectivity, etc, while examination process was on. The issue of shortage of gadgets among students was also eliminated, the State had contended. Earlier in September, the Supreme Court had stayed the Kerala government order to conduct physical examinations for Class 11 students owing to the “alarming” spread of COVID-19 virus. The examinations had been scheduled to start from September 6. On September 3, a Bench led by Justice Khanwilkar had found prima facie force in the argument made by petitioner Rasoolshan A., represented by advocate Prashant Padmanabhan, that the State government did not “seriously consider the prevailing situation before having the physical exam in September this year”. But the State government, later in its affidavit, urged the court to lift the stay order. It had said the examinations could be completed in September, well before October, when experts say the third wave would hit. It argued that 7.32 lakh students had appeared for JEE (Mains) examinations held in Kerala in August and September. The affidavit said the State had already conducted the Secondary School Leaving Certificate and Class 12 examinations by adhering to the protocol for the pandemic. The government listed out the safeguards put in place for the examinations and even undertook to make separate arrangements for students in quarantine or found COVID-19 positive or suspected of having the virus. It said Plus One marks are added to Plus Two marks to determine the eligibility of the candidate for higher studies, contrary to method adopted by the CBSE and the ICSE. The conduct of Plus One examinations was necessary to evaluate the students for higher studies. Plus One examinations needed to be held in a single stroke, ensuring the physical presence of students in centres and thus eliminating chances of leakage of question papers due to Internet failure, etc, the State argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sc-not-to-intervene-in-plus-one-exam/article36529353.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||SC allows to hold Plus One physical exams||It had said physical examinations would spell an end to many problems, which haunt the online mode, including lack of Internet connectivity, etc, while examination process was on. The issue of shortage of gadgets among students was also eliminated, the State had contended. Earlier in September, the Supreme Court had stayed the Kerala government order to conduct physical examinations for Class 11 students owing to the “alarming” spread of COVID-19 virus. The examinations had been scheduled to start from September 6. On September 3, a Bench led by Justice Khanwilkar had found prima facie force in the argument made by petitioner Rasoolshan A., represented by advocate Prashant Padmanabhan, that the State government did not “seriously consider the prevailing situation before having the physical exam in September this year”. But the State government, later in its affidavit, urged the court to lift the stay order. It had said the examinations could be completed in September, well before October, when experts say the third wave would hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sc-allows-to-hold-plus-one-physical-exams/article36529530.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the field again||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-field-again/article36529293.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a living||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-living/article36529223.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Forest sentinels||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-sentinels/article36529355.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Vital message||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vital-message/article36529361.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In birthday glow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-birthday-glow/article36529527.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Boiling over||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boiling-over/article36529529.ece
18 September 2021||AKIVEEDU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak in ice factory||Workers in an ice factory ran helter-skelter when Ammonia gas leaked in the unit at Ajjamuru village in the district on Friday. However, no casualties were reported. On receiving information, fire personnel from Akiveedu fire station rushed to the spot and plugged the leakage. The situation is under control, said West Godavari District Fire Officer (DFO) A. V. Shankar Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-leak-in-ice-factory-no-casualties/article36528948.ece
18 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Young Kerala girl harvests rare rice||Thirteen-year-old Banupriya M.S. is super-excited that she will be reaping the fruits of her hard work on Saturday. The young girl, a resident of Kallapuram in Muhamma, will harvest Rakthashali, a nearly extinct variety of rice that she cultivated jointly with her father on 75 cents of karapadam (upland rice field), in the presence of Agriculture Minister P. Prasad and grama panchayat and Agriculture Department officials. “It is my first shot at paddy farming. I never thought it would be a great success. Everyone says it is going to be a bountiful harvest and I am eagerly looking forward to the end product of four months of hard work,” says Bhanupriya, standing beside the ready-to-harvest paddy crops. Award winner Winner of an award instituted by the Agriculture Department for the best child farmer in Muhamma grama panchayat in Alappuzha, she ventured into paddy farming after getting inspired by her father Dayatmaji M.N., a successful farmer. “Farming the Rakthashali variety was the idea of my father. I joined him to kill boredom during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. After finding it interesting, I became more and more involved in the cultivation of paddy,” says Bhanupriya, a Class VIII student of Government DVHSS, Charamangalam. Organic farming The father-daughter duo has grown Rakthashali, which is supposed to have high medicinal value, in an organic way. Mr. Dayatmaji says 60% of the overall work, including sowing, dewatering and applying manure, has been done by her daughter. “We have cultivated Rakthashali, which is not common in this part of the region, on an experimental basis. Apart from preparing the field using a tractor, all the other works were done by us. She had been gloomy as she was unable to go to school due to the pandemic, and farming helped her rediscover some vitality,” says Mr. Dayatmaji . According to Agriculture Department officials, Bhanupriya’s involvement in the cultivation of a rare rice variety helped her bag the prize. “From our side, we have provided all help to the father-daughter duo. We can say that the Rakthashali farming is a success,” says Rakhi Alex, Agricultural Officer, Muhamma. Rakthashali with red husk and grain is considered uneconomical compared to some high-yielding rice varieties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/young-kerala-girl-harvests-rare-rice/article36528902.ece
18 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘molesting’ nine-year-old girl||The Chittoor Rural West police on Thursday night arrested a 55-year-old man, Kesavulu, on charges of molesting a nine--year-old girl at a hamlet near Irala mandal headquarters and rescued the girl. According to information, the accused, a farm worker, allegedly lured the girl on the pretext of getting her eatables and took her to his house. Another girl, who grew suspicious on seeing the accused taking the victim into his house, alerted the girl’s grandmother. The grandmother shook her mobile phone, into which the Disha App was downloaded by a volunteer a couple of days ago. In three minutes, a police party from Irala rushed to the hamlet and rescued the girl, and took the accused into custody. ‘Quick response’ Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said that the Disha SOS App had proved to be a very effective deterrent against crime against women. Appreciating the Irala police, the called upon the Mahila police and the field staff at villages to intensify awareness on importance of the Disha App. “In the Irala incident, our constables had responded in a record three minutes. In another case earlier, the Disha team responded in four minutes at B.Kothakota,” the SP said. The Irala police who arrested the accused under the POCSO Act had sent him for remand on Friday. Youth attempts suicide in police station In another incident, a 25 year old youth, Gangireddy, allegedly attempted suicide by slitting his throat in a police station at Ramasamudram mandal headquarters on Friday. As per information, the youth, a native of Ragimakulapalle panchayat of the mandal, was detained by the police for questioning over charges of sexual harassment of a woman in the village. The youth allegedly pulled out a knife from his pocket suddenly and slit his throat. The police shifted him to Government Area Hospital at Madanapalle. His condition is said to be serious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-police-arrest-man-under-pocso-act/article36528903.ece
18 September 2021||DRAKSHARAMAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||SW boys’ hostel to be shifted to new building||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Friday promised to shift the Social Welfare Hostel for Boys to the new building located on the outskirts of Draksharamam. Accompanied by the officials of the Social Welfare Department, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna inspected the existing old hostel building, where the inmates poured out their woes and stressed the need for more facilities. “Space is a constraint to accommodate more inmates on the hostel campus. A decision has been taken to shift the hostel to the new building, the construction of which is in the final stages on the outskirts of Draksharamam,” the Minister said. “The officials have been directed to prepare for the shifting of the hostel. It will be done in a few weeks,” he said. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna, besides interacting with the inmates, inspected the food and other basic amenities at the hostel. Later, the Minister, as a part of his tour in the Ramachandrapuram Assembly segment, inspected the ongoing works pertaining to Rythu Bharosa Kendra, roads, and drainage system in Ramachandrapuram and Gangavaram mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sw-boys-hostel-to-be-shifted-to-new-building/article36529374.ece
18 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||People happy with door-to-door delivery of rice, says official||On a balmy day, a team of officials were inspecting a slum area near Nallakunta Housing Board colony in Guntur, where over 100 families eke out their livelihood by working in chilli fields. Joint Collector, Revenue and Rythu Bharosa, A.S. Dinesh Kumar, who was leading the team, got down from the car and walked into the area. He began by asking about their families and how they were benefited by the welfare schemes of the government and if they had been given house site pattas in Jagananna Colonies. Then, sensing that the women were about to have their meal, Mr. Dinesh asked them if he could share a meal with them. Overjoyed, the women provided a plate of rice and curry. The rice was provided to them by the State government as part of Public Distribution System. The State government had been providing quality rice to the poor households through a door-to-door programme. Mobile vendors supply rice through mobile dispensing vehicles. “The quality of rice is so good here and we are happy that the people are having quality rice which improves their health. Earlier, lesser quality of rice used to be supplied to people as part of PDS, but now the government is buying quality rice at Rs. 39 a kg and supplying to beneficiaries for just Rs. 1,’’ said Mr. Dinesh. Dry ration The Civil Supplies department, which introduced the novel door-to-door ration distribution, had also introduced an offline method to distribute dry ration in areas without cellphone connectivity. The department had also ensured that ration stocks were kept at village/ward secretariats to enable beneficiaries to collect ration from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. Portability system To enable migrant labourers to get ration, the department had allowed the portability system to get ration from their nearest ration shop after 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-happy-with-door-to-door-delivery-of-rice-says-official/article36528951.ece
18 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress ‘charge sheets’ TRS govt. on KCR’s turf||Flashing mobiles shined brightly filling the dark evening with not just the light but also the hopes for a new path for the Telangana Congress party as its Dalit Girijana Dandora attracted large numbers in the TRS stronghold of Gajwel, represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, who was the chief guest, asked the gathering to light up their mobiles so that the glow reaches the State and Central governments that he said were “living in darkness and blinded by arrogance”. The crowd responded instantly and so did the leaders on the dais. In a new change, Mr. Kharge also let out the “Jai Telangana” slogan along with Congress’ Jai Hind and Jai Congress slogans at the end of the speech. The powerful “Jai Telangana” slogan that filled in new energy during the movement days was somehow not part of the party after State formation. Mr. Kharge, who released the ‘chargesheet’ on ‘failures’ and ‘unfulfilled promises’ of the TRS government, said that KCR ‘cheated’ Sonia Gandhi after meeting her along with his family to thank her. He recalled the role of Congress right from the Independence struggle days to building modern and powerful India. “But, unfortunately the present rulers were shamelessly deriding the party’s contribution,” he said. Seeking Medak support Seeking the support of Medak district, TPCC president Revanth Reddy recalled how Medak had elected the late Indira Gandhi creating a new phase in Indian politics and sought similar support for Sonia Gandhi in the next elections. “Give 10 seats of Medak to Congress to repay Sonia Gandhi for keeping her promise,” he asked. Targeting KCR, he said that giving fine rice, fishlings, sheep and goats to the downtrodden was not development. “People want treatment in good hospitals and send their children to schools where your grandson is studying. You can’t insult their aspirations,” he said recalling why Congress introduced Aarogyasri and fee reimbursement schemes. Mr. Reddy said the TRS government owed Rs. 1 lakh crore to SCs and STs denying them money allocated under the SC ST sub plan and diverting the funds. He also appealed to women to think how their family life was ruined due to the increase in liquor sale. Government is earning Rs. 36,000 crore from liquor from Rs. 10,000 crore in 2014. Calling for the ‘third phase’ of Telangana agitation, he said the 1969 movement introduced the fighting spirit to the world and 2009 movement showed aspiration for a geographical Telangana. “The third phase is to oust the TRS government from the clutches of family rule. Give me the remaining 19 months for the Congress,” he said. Former Deputy CM Damodar Rajanarasimha read out the charges in the chargesheet. And TPCC working president J. Geetha Reddy presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-charge-sheets-trs-govt-on-kcrs-turf/article36529382.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Late Telangana Maoist leader’s wife surrenders||Two members of the Telangana State Committee of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) were ready to surrender before the police. But top Maoist leaders were persuading them not to do so, said Director General of Police (DGP) Mahender Reddy on Friday. Announcing the surrender of Communist Party of India (Maoist) Telangana State committee secretary, the late Haribhushan’s wife Jajjileri Sammakka, at a press conference here, the DGP said several Maoist leaders and workers were willing to surrender before the police. They were ready to join the mainstream but their top leaders were trying to hold them back, the DGP said. Haribhushan, who was also member of the Maoist top body Central Committee, reportedly died of COVID-19 in Chhattisgarh nearly three months ago. Ms. Sammakka was 18 years old when she was inducted into the Maoist movement by Haribhushan, who was then commander of Pandava squad in 1994. A year later, he married her. She was made member of that squad. While working at Cherla, she surrendered before the Warangal police in 2008. The DGP said Haribhushan used pressure tactics to bring her back into the revolutionary movement. He threatened her by saying he would marry another woman if she failed to come back, Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/late-telangana-maoist-leaders-wife-surrenders/article36528895.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP will come to power in Telangana: Shah||The BJP will celebrate ‘Telangana Liberation Day’ officially and in a grand manner as it is confident of getting elected to power in 2023 Assembly Elections, said Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday. “The party will also win all the 17 Lok Sabha seats in Telangana, having won four this time and ‘lost three seats narrowly’”, he said at a public meeting held in Nirmal in Adilabad district. Mr. Shah said that Sardar Patel’s decisive action then ensured Hyderabad and Telangana joined the Indian Union. He took potshots at the ruling TRS and MIM throughout his speech even while acknowledging the sacrifices made by people to break free from the Nizam’s tyranny and atrocities of the Razakars. “We are not afraid of the Majlis Party. We will definitely celebrate Telangana Liberation Day and pay homage to the martyrs. What happened to the vow taken by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to celebrate the day officially during the separate State agitation? Who is he scared of?” he questioned. Addressing the mammoth gathering on Friday, Mr. Shah recalled the mass hangings done in the giant banyan tree nearby and sought to know why Mr. Rao does not even want to pay his respects to the 1,000 tribals massacred for seeking freedom from the then rulers. “We will not let their sacrifices go in vain, the real freedom for Telangana is when it breaks free from Majlis’ clutches. While the car is the TRS symbol, the steering wheel is with Owaisi,” he charged. Mr. Shah read out the names of liberation struggle stalwarts like Ramji Goud, Komaram Bheem, Swami Ramananda Teertha and many others, including former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao, stating that the BJP will strive to uphold the self respect of Telangana. While greeting people on Liberation Day anniversary and Vishwakarma Day, he pointed out that it was also PM Narendra Modi’s birthday and one crore vaccinations were done till 3 p.m. throughout the country, even as party workers were taking up many social service activities. He introduced former Minister Eatala Rajender and pointed out that he was in TRS from inception but was forced out as the ruling party is run by a single family with prominence for son or daughter only. “You can spend any amount of money but cannot stop Rajender’s victory,” he said. TS BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar’s ongoing ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ will touch all 119 constituencies to get rid of this regime for the sake of the poor, downtrodden and security of women, he said. The Congress has been decimated throughout the country and stands no chance in fighting TRS or being outside the grasp of the Majlis. It is the BJP alone that can take them on, he added. Mr. Sanjay Kumar, in his speech, demanded KCR’s apology for not even hoisting the national flag to commemorate such a ‘momentous occasion’ and said it was an insult to the martyrs. “There is a conspiracy to make people forget them so that only the first family is remembered, we will not allow it. We will uproot this corrupt regime from its foundations and ensure BJP comes to power,” he said. Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy said that the real independence for Telangana was on September 17, 1948, but MIM had prevented the previous Congress governments and now the TRS government from celebrating it officially. “People want change and we promise a more people-friendly government if elected to power,” he said. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh, MPs S. Babu Rao, D. Aravind, senior leaders P. Sudhakar Reddy, T. Raja Singh, MLA M. Raghunandan Rao, G. Premender Reddy and others also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-will-come-to-power-in-telangana-shah/article36528898.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandi Sanjay to resume yatra from today||Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar will continue his ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ from Saturday morning from Yellareddy after taking a day’s break to participate in Telangana Liberation Day celebrations at the party office here and attend the public meeting of Amit Shah. Party sources informed that Mr. Shah was very much enthused with the public reception to Mr. Sanjay’s speech especially when he asked people to stand up and applaud to wish Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday. Since it was in Telugu, the Home Minister was initially puzzled till the translation was made after which he gave a broad smile. In fact, Mr. Shah made a pointed reference to the walkathon and said that it was for bringing succour to the poor and disadvantaged sections of the society “neglected by the TRS regime”. “He will walk through all the 119 constituencies and we will win the next elections,” he announced, even if the local unit has not yet indicated the plan as it has so far restricted to the ‘first phase’ only. Mr. Sanjay, elated with the Home Minister’s visit, showered praises on him and Mr. Modi. He also travelled with Mr. Shah in his car till the helipad during which discussions were said to be held on the padayatra strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bandi-sanjay-to-resume-yatra-from-today/article36529380.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Judicial probe into rape suspect Raju’s death||Telangana High Court on Friday ordered a judicial inquiry into the death of Palakonda Raju, suspect in the rape and murder of a minor in Saidabad of Hyderabad, who was found dead on a railway track in Station Ghanpur of Warangal district. The Third Metropolitan Magistrate of Warangal would conduct the inquiry and present report to Registrar, Judicial of the High Court, within four weeks. A bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Amarnath Goud passed these orders, after hearing a PIL petition moved in the form of lunch motion. The plea was filed by Civil Liberties Committee-Telangana State president Gaddam Laxman. A retired university professor, the petitioner sought a judicial inquiry into Raju’s death, describing it as a ‘meticulously planned and calculated murder by the police’. Hearing the plea after lunch break, the bench issued notices to Principal Home Secretary, DGP, Hyderabad Police Commisisoner, Warangal police and Government Railway Police of Secunderabad. Police personnel, family members of Raju or any other person having any material connected to the matter can appear before the magistrate with four weeks. The magistrate would furnish the report in a sealed cover to the HC. Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed the bench that police had recorded statements of seven ‘eye-witnesses’ with regard to Raju’s death. A copy of the post-mortem examination of Raju’s body would be handed over to the magistrate conducting the inquiry. The report copy would be in the form of a pen-drive or a compact disc by 8 p.m. on Friday, he told the bench. The autopsy report should be handed over to Registrar General of the HC at the earliest, the bench said. The petitioner said he believed that police had taken Raju into custody within hours of sexually assaulting and murdering the six-year-old girl in Singareny Colony of Saidabad on September 9. Even Minister for Information Technology K.T. Rama Rao tweeted that the accused was arrested though he eventually withdrew it claiming it was an instance of misinformation, the petitioner said. He stated that the police version was far from true. “This court does not wish to express any opinion on the contentions of either of the parties and feels it appropriate to direct for an inquiry by the judicial magistrate”, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/judicial-probe-into-rape-suspect-rajus-death/article36528896.ece
18 September 2021||JAGGAIAHPET,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth arrested on charge of duping girl||A youth, G. Ravi Kiran Reddy, was arrested on charges of cheating a girl through a matrimonial website, in Vatsavai mandal in the district. Another accused, P. Bala Vamsi Krishna, is already in Chanchalguda central prison in the case, said Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal. Briefing newsmen here on Friday, the SP said Vamsi Krishna allegedly created the matrimonial website and collected details of the girl. He befriended her by introducing himself as a software professional. The girl, a techie in Telangana, reportedly submitted all her particulars. Vamsi Krishna, a native of Vijayawada, collected Rs. 12.77 lakh from her saying that his parents’ health condition was not good. The victim transferred the amount to Ravi Kiran Reddy’s account and later realised that she was duped and lodged a complaint with the police, said Nandigama DSP G. Nageswara Reddy. Police recovered Rs. 10 lakh from the accused, the DSP said. Vamsi Krishna, who duped few more persons in the matrimonial website in 2011, 2012 and last month, is in Chanchalguda Central Jail, Mr. Siddharth said and cautioned the people against posting their personal details on social media groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-arrested-for-duping-girl/article36529535.ece
18 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Don’t drag police into political brawls’||Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan has extended a warning to the political leaders against dragging the department into unnecessary brawls and for settling their political scores. The call assumes significance in the wake of the district TDP unit accusing the department of manhandling their leader Raju Venkata Subba Reddy in the garb of interrogation. Mr. Reddy, who had initially addressed the media portraying the role of a victim, later called on the SP and claimed that his name had been misused by the opposition party to besmirch the government. Taking everyone by shock, he even submitted a representation to Mr. Anburajan that he had not been manhandled. Taking cognisance of the development, the Superintendent of Police said the police always believed in remaining neutral and appealed to the political leaders not to attribute motives to the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-drag-police-into-political-brawls/article36529326.ece
18 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No-trust motion to be moved against Kakinada Mayor||At least 32 YSRCP corporators, led by Second Deputy Mayor C. Venkata Satya Prasad, on Friday submitted a memorandum to East Godavari Collector Ch . Hari Kiran, appealing him to conduct a special council meeting to pass “no-confidence” motion against Kakinada Municipal Corporation Mayor Sunkara Pavani. The move came two days after the existing council completed its four-year term on September 15. TDP Corporator Pavani was elected as Mayor unanimously. In a notice signed by the 32 corporators and Mr. Venkata Satya Prasad on Friday, the council members appealed to the Collector to conduct the special council meet to move the no-confidence motion. Of the 33 Corporators of the TDP, 22 corporators joined the YSRCP recently. The total wards are 50 in the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-trust-motion-to-be-moved-against-mayor/article36528952.ece
18 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||PAMA Institute removed from Pattanam dig||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has terminated the services of PAMA Institute for the Advancement of Transdisciplinary Archaeological Sciences, a non-profit research organisation which was engaged in excavations at Pattanam and Mathilakam villages in Ernakulam and Thrissur districts. It had been reported earlier this year that the ASI will be a prominent partner in the 11th season of excavations that resumed at the two locales. The Pattanam excavations which were launched in 2006-07 had resumed in January 2020 after a five-year hiatus. Responding to the termination of PAMA’s services, its director, P.J. Cherian, said the reasons mentioned in the letter for the withdrawal of excavation licence have no factual basis. “We have only used the ASI name and association in a genuine academic sense. Regarding internship fees, there is a factual error. PAMA does not collect fees at all. We collect a registration amount meant to meet the expenses of accommodation, food, and logistics”. ‘No external funding’ In fact, till this day PAMA had not received or accepted any external funding. The self-generated funds were from the members of the trust mostly comprising retired teachers and researchers. Finally, PAMA being a registered non-profit educational trust, was committed to non-profit and transparent financial transactions and accounting practices which were always open to public auditing, he said. He claimed that the excavation that began on September 1 and the first trench had been dug up to a depth of 65 cm had yielded fascinating evidence from Mediterranean, Red Sea and the Indian Ocean regions with antiquity of over 2000 years. Two dozen researchers Two dozen of researchers from different parts of India who braved COVID were mentally and physically shattered by the ASI directive. The excavations could be completed by September 30, 2021, as was originally planned, he said. ASI officials in its Kochi, Thrissur, and New Delhi offices were unavailable for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pama-institute-removed-from-pattanam-dig/article36528893.ece
18 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||321 new COVID cases in South Coastal Andhra||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh reported 321 new COVID-19 cases, including 201 in SPSR Nellore and 120 in Prakasam districts, in the last 24 hours. The toll rose to 2,108 in the region as two more persons succumbed to the viral disease in Prakasam district in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Friday. SPSR Nellore district registered zero deaths during the period. As a result the toll in the district remained unchanged at 1,028. The cumulative count inched closer to 2.79 lakh mark in the region while the active casepool stood at 2,500 in SPSR Nellore district and 2502 in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/321-new-covid-cases-in-south-coastal-andhra/article36529321.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC allows Kerala to hold physical exams||The Supreme Court on Friday decided not to intervene in Kerala government’s plans to conduct Plus One examinations offline, saying the expected third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic did not seem to be an immediate threat. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, however, asked the authorities to take every necessary precaution while holding the examinations. The court said it was satisfied with the reasons and justifications given by the State, represented by advocate G. Prakash, for its decision to conduct Plus One exams offline by following COVID-19 protocol. The State had reasoned that online examination would prejudice students without access to “electronic gadgets” such as laptops, desktops or even mobile phones. Connectivity issues “Students belonging to the lower strata of society are depending on mobile phones/tabs for attending online classes. In many areas, the Internet connection or mobile data are not available. These students will never be able to write online examinations which will entirely upset the conduct of examination,” the State had argued in its affidavit. It had said physical examinations would spell an end to many problems which haunt the online mode, including lack of Internet connectivity, etc, while examination process was on. The issue of shortage of gadgets among students was also eliminated, the State had contended. Earlier in September, the Supreme Court had stayed the Kerala government order to conduct physical examinations for Class 11 students owing to the “alarming” spread of COVID-19 virus. The examinations had been scheduled to start from September 6. On September 3, a Bench led by Justice Khanwilkar had found prima facie force in the argument made by petitioner Rasoolshan A., represented by advocate Prashant Padmanabhan, that the State government did not “seriously consider the prevailing situation before having the physical exam in September this year”. But the State government, later in its affidavit, urged the court to lift the stay order. It had said the examinations could be completed in September, well before October, when experts say the third wave would hit. It argued that 7.32 lakh students had appeared for JEE (Mains) examinations held in Kerala in August and September. The affidavit said the State had already conducted the Secondary School Leaving Certificate and Class 12 examinations by adhering to the protocol for the pandemic. The government listed out the safeguards put in place for the examinations and even undertook to make separate arrangements for students in quarantine or found COVID-19 positive or suspected of having the virus. Marks added It said Plus One marks are added to Plus Two marks to determine the eligibility of the candidate for higher studies, contrary to method adopted by the CBSE and the ICSE. The conduct of Plus One examinations was necessary to evaluate the students for higher studies. Plus One examinations needed to be held in a single stroke, ensuring the physical presence of students in centres and thus eliminating chances of leakage of question papers due to Internet failure, etc, the State argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-allows-kerala-to-hold-physical-exams/article36528907.ece
18 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Local body polls: arrangements in place for counting of votes||The stage is set for counting of votes, polled in the ZPTC and MPTC elections held in Prakasam district, on September 19. All arrangements have been completed as per the directions of the State Election Commission in the wake of the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s nod for completing the counting process, said Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg after visiting the counting centres at QIS Engineering College, DRRM Municipal High School and PVR Municipal High School here on Friday. Three-tier security arrangements have been put in place for the counting of votes from 8 a.m. on Sunday. Prohibitory orders under section 144 Cr.Pc would be in force to ensure that the whole exercise is carried out in a peaceful manner, she said. Candidates and their supporters should refrain from taking out processions and bursting crackers as Section 30 of the Police Act would also be in force, she added. She also said only a limited number of persons would be allowed to take Ganesh idols for immersion on that day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/local-body-polls-arrangements-in-place-for-counting-of-votes/article36529320.ece
18 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Award for Ongole ITI DTO||Y. Rajitha Priya, Deputy Training Officer at the Industrial Training Institute for boys here, bagged the ‘Kaushal Acharya’ award for her contribution in creating future-ready and skilled workforce. ITI Principal N.V.Nageswara Rao congratulated her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/award-for-ongole-iti-dto/article36529319.ece
18 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make millets part of diet, say experts||As part of ‘Bharath Ka Amruth Mahostav’, ICAR-CTRI-Krishi Vigyan Kendra(KVK), Kandukur, organised Poshan Vatika Maha Abhiyan and tree plantation drives in collaboration with IFFCO to mark International year of Millets-2023 on Friday. M. Anuradha of CTRI(Central Tobacco Research Institute)-KVK underscored the need for making nutri-cereals part of human diet, including that of children, adolescent girls and pregnant women. Sh. Manji, Chief Manager, Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative(IFFCO), explained the new nano urea formulation to help farmers reduce the input cost and bring down deleterious effects of urea on the environment. Experts also urged farmers to go for multi-cropping of various millet varieties for better returns. Seeds distributed Later, 100 vegetable seed kits, 1,180 plants were distributed among farmers and planted at KVK premises. Millet-based food items (ragi malt and korra pongal) were provided to the assembled persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-millets-part-of-diet-say-experts/article36529322.ece
18 September 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP calls for encouraging cultivation of millets||Member of Parliament Margani Bharat on Friday appealed to the people to develop “Nutri Gardens” and encourage cultivation of millets. Mr. Bharat was speaking at the inauguration of the celebrations coinciding with the International Year of Millets-2023, at the Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI) here. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar virtually inaugurated the celebrations and a conference on ‘Nutri Gardens’ conducted by the CTRI. CTRI Director D. Damodar Reddy and other scientists were present. Addressing the gathering of students and scientists, Mr. Bharat stated that cultivation and consumption of millets should be encouraged. “The State government is committed to encouraging organic farming as a part of the Millet Mission,” he said. The Government Agriculture College in Rajamahendravaram would be developed, and the students would be encouraged to pursue research abroad, Mr. Bharat said. On the green initiative, Mr. Bharat claimed that nearly 10 lakh saplings would be planted across the city under the ‘Yuvatha - Haritha’ initiative of the Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation. Mr. Bharat and the CTRI scientists later distributed millet seed kits to the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-calls-for-encouraging-cultivation-of-millets/article36529376.ece
18 September 2021||REKHAPALLI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre waging an ‘undeclared war’ against Adivasis’||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat on Friday said the Narendra Modi-led Central government had waged an undeclared war against Adivasis, treating them as “second class citizens” by depriving them of their right to live in the forest dwellings. Ms. Karat accompanied by CPI State secretary P. Madhu on Friday took out a rally from Chintoor to Rekhapalli, the 30-km stretch of the submerged area of the Polavaram irrigation project in East Godavari district. In Chintoor town, Ms. Karat said that depriving the right to get access to all the entitlements of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation package of the Polavaram irrigation project was a criminal act of the Centre, as the project was accorded the national status. The tribal people and gram sabhas had not been consulted on the resettlement issues from the beginning of the project, she alleged. This was a sign that the Centre was treating the tribal people as “second class citizens”, she said. The rally passed along the Sabari river belt, covering Mallethota and Sunnamvarigudem villages, where Ms. Karat inspected the tribal habitations and fertile land that would be submerged. At the public meeting at Rekhapalli, Ms. Karat said the gram sabhas of the tribal panchayats were not given voice to share their problems in designing the resettlement plan. A whopping 376 habitations were being affected in the Chintoor Agency alone. The fight for the rights of the affected people would be the fight of all the Adivasis of the country, she said. On the State government's role in R&R, Ms. Karat questioned the silence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. She said that above 70% of the people affected by the Polavaram project were Adivasis. The Koya tribals participated in the rally by performing their traditional Kommu Koya dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-waging-an-undeclared-war-against-adivasis/article36529338.ece
18 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikanth sets his sights on Mt. Elbrus||Mountaineering is not an uphill task for this 32-year-old CISF Sub-Inspector Seerapu Srikanth. Hailing from the tiny village of Battavanipeta of Etcherla mandal in Srikakulam district, Mr. Srikanth, who had scaled Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, Africa, on September 5, is rearing to begin his next adventure – climbing Mount Elbrus in Russia – on September 25. While the height of Mount Kilimanjaro is 5,895 metres, the height of Mount Elbrus is 5,642 meters. “Both are considered very important topographically. They are the stepping stones for mountaineers planning to scale Mount Everest,” says Mr. Srikanth. Posted in Delhi, Mr. Srikanth is now on a visit to his native district to meet his family and friends. Mr. Srikanth has an ambitious target. He plans to scale all the highest peaks in one year. And those on his wish list are – Mount Everest (8,950 metres), North America’s Denali (6,194 m), Mount Aconcagua of South America (6,962 m), Vinson Massif of Antarctica (4,892 m), Kosciuszko, Australia, (2,228 m), and Puncak Jaya, which is also called Mount Carstensz, Indonesia, (4.884). Good at both sports and athletics right from his childhood, Mr. Srikanth, after completion of B.Tech (ECE), had joined CISF in Delhi. Last year, when the CISF had selected a team to climb Mount Everest, Mr. Srikanth could not make it to the final list. “I was not disappointed. Instead, I concentrated more on my fitness,” said Mr. Srikanth, who had become the first CISF officer to scale Mount Kilimanjaro. “Those keen on mountaineering should understand the limitations of the human body. They should follow the advice of experts and trainers. They have to push their physical limits during training and become strong. Physical and mental fitness are very important to reach the goal,” says Mr. Srikanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srikanth-sets-his-sights-on-mt-elbrus/article36528954.ece
18 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||UB management flouted orders on wages: CITU||Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) State vice-president D. Govinda Rao and district vice-president Ch. Ammannaidu on Friday urged the Labour Department to take action against the United Breweries(UB) management as it had failed to pay 50% wages as per the previous directive of the government. Addressing the UB workers at Ranasthalam, Mr. Govinda Rao alleged that over 5,000 workers were leading a pathetic life with the loss of wages with the drop in production by the UB company under the guise of lack of liquor orders from the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ub-management-flouted-orders-on-wages-citu/article36529377.ece
18 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD plans singing contests to popularise Annamaiah songs||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Friday said sankeertanas of saint-poet Tallapakka Annamacharya would be given wide publicity through Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC). As a first step in this direction, the TTD has decided to organise a singing competition, titled ‘Adivo-Alladivo’, in which youth from the two Telugu States as well as from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka will be allowed to participate. There will be district-level contests followed by State-level competitions and the participants will be allowed to choose from among the 4,000 Annamaiah songs, newly-recorded by TTD, to sing in the competitions. Initially, singers hailing from Chittoor district and aged between 15 and 25 alone will be allowed to take part in the competitions, the auditions for which will be held at SVBC office in Tirupati. Applications before Sept. 24 The candidates can submit their applications either on the SVBC web portal or in person from September 17 to 24. The selection process will be held on September 25 and 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-plans-singing-contests-to-popularise-annamaiah-songs/article36529323.ece
18 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two new members of trust board sworn in||Malladi Krishna Rao from Yanam and A.P. Nandakumar, an MLA from Anakattu constituency in Vellore district of Tamil Nadu, on Friday took oath as members of the newly-formed trust board of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). At a brief function held inside the temple, TTD Joint Executive Officer Sada Bhargavi administered the oath to Mr. Krishna Rao and Mr. Nandakumar, followed by Vedasirvachanams at Ranganayakula mandapam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-new-members-of-trust-board-sworn-in/article36529336.ece
18 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brahmotsavams to be held in ‘ekantham’||Ending the uncertainty over the conduct of the annual Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has resolved to confine the festivities to the inner precincts of the hill temple this year too and observe them in ‘ekantham’ (private). The nine-day event which attracts lakhs of devotees from various parts of the country will be organised in private for the second year in a row. There will no open processions of the deity on various vahanams that normally form the core part of the festivities. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Friday explained that the decision was taken amid predictions of a possible COVID-19 third wave in October. The Centre had also alerted all State governments a couple of days earlier regarding the impending threat. People have been asked to be remain cautious and strictly adhere to all COVID protocols during the coming two to three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brahmotsavams-to-be-held-in-ekantham/article36529339.ece
18 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Huge turnout for CPI’s ‘Jana Andolana’||The ‘Jana Andolana Padayatra’ taken out by the Communist Party of India (CPI) on Friday against the Central government’s ‘anti-people’ policies received good response, with leaders of various political parties joining the rally and expressing solidarity. As part of the State-wide call, the party activists, led by State Secretary K. Ramakrishna, took out a rally from Jyotirao Phule statue that culminated at the APSRTC junction. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ramakrishna flayed the Centre for “turning subservient to the corporate cronies”, while meting out a raw deal to the poor, especially during the lockdown induced by the pandemic. He charged the Centre with indiscriminately selling away public sector undertakings, including those in the road, rail and air sectors. “It is shameful to privatise the Vizag Steel Plant which became a reality after several sacrifices. The government turned a deaf ear to the pleas of the farmers agitating against the farm laws,” he said. ‘Bharat Bandh’ The parties will hold a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 27 against the anti-people policies of BJP-led NDA government, for which 500 farmers’ associations and 400 trade unions have reportedly pledged support. Mr. Ramakrishna appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu to extend support to the bandh and prove their sincerity to the ‘people’s cause’. The rally got a shot in the arm with the presence of TDP Tirupati parliamentary unit in-charge G. Narasimha Yadav, corporator R.C. Munikrishna, Congress leader M. Gopal Reddy, Republican Party of India (RPI) president P. Anjaiah, trade union leader K.Kumar Reddy and Tirupati Chamber of Commerce President A.Manjunath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/huge-turnout-for-cpis-jana-andolana/article36529325.ece
18 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Old student donates Rs. 1 crore to TTD||Viswanath Poosala, a former student of the TTD-run Sri Venkateswara Balamandir, became a source of inspiration when he donated Rs. 1 crore to the temple management as a thanksgiving gesture on Friday. Currently holding an enviable position at FaceBook Inc., U.S., Mr. Viswanath handed over the cheque to TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, acknowledging the institution’s pivotal role in shaping him into what he is today. Mr. Viswanath studied at the Balamandir during 1976-81, moved on to SV High School during 1981-85 and SV Junior College from 1985 to 1987. Later, he got into the prestigious IIT Madras and became the first from a TTD-run institution to become a proud IITian. The computer science graduate went on to secure a Ph.D. from Wisconsin, U.S. He is currently holding a senior position at FaceBook, U.S. Mr. Viswanath’s father Poosala Anjaneyulu, who served as a Deputy Executive Officer with the TTD, and his elder brother Suresh Poosala were instrumental in guiding him towards making it big in life. The donation by Mr. Viswanath and his wife Dharani Poosala is meant to be used for any of the trusts run by the TTD. While receiving the donation, Dr. Jawahar Reddy observed that his ‘success story’ should not only serve as an inspiration to the students of TTD institutions, but also kindle a similar spirit in the old students to reach out to their alma mater.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/old-students-thanksgiving-donation-to-ttd-management/article36528956.ece
18 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students take out ‘Fit India run’||As part of the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, Fit India 2.0 2K run was taken out by students of National Sanskrit University (NSU) here on Friday. Vice-Chancellor V. Muralidhara Sharma called the run an attempt to reinvigorate the spirit of Indian independence in its 75th year by staying physically and mentally fit. After paying tributes to former V-C S.B. Raghunathacharya on his 13th death anniversary, Prof. Sharma formally flagged off an ambulance inducted into the university’s service for the benefit of the staff and students. Registrar Challa Venkateswar and Controller of Examinations K. Sambasiva Murthy took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-take-out-fit-india-run/article36529327.ece
18 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buggana reiterates A.P.’s stand against bringing petrol, diesel under GST ambit||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy reiterated the State government’s stand in the 45th GST Council meeting chaired by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Lucknow on Friday that since petrol and diesel are in the sole domain of the States, they should not be subsumed in the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Mr. Rajendranath Reddy was referring to certain observations made by the Kerala High Court on bringing the petroleum products under the purview of GST. The Finance Minister raised several issues which impact the State’s revenues, the taxation powers of States under the federal structure as enshrined in the Constitution and the functioning of trade and industry vis à vis the GST. With regard to the extension of providing GST compensation beyond 2022, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said the State’s revenues under GST did not match that of the VAT regime. While the State recorded an average annual growth of 14-15% during the three years preceding 2017 when GST was introduced, the average growth in the last four years was around 10%, which necessitated the payment of compensation every year. Added to this was a steep fall in tax revenues, including GST, in the two ‘pandemic years’ (2020-21 and 2021-22) which seriously affected developmental and welfare activities in the State, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said. The Finance Minister said that though the revenues were expected to rebound to some extent next year, it might not be up to the previous level (14-15%). Therefore, Andhra Pradesh requires additional funds in the form of compensation from the Government of India, he insisted. The Finance Minister requested the GST Council to reduce the tax on polished napa slabs to 5% and solar power plants and on job works in liquor manufacturing and to study if spice water can be treated at par with aerated drinks which attract 28% GST plus 12% compensation cess. Later, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy submitted a representations on various GST-related issues to Ms. Sitharaman, and appealed to her to take steps for an early release of the compensation due to the State for the period till August, 2021. He was accompanied by Special Chief Secretary (Revenue) Rajat Bhargava.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/buggana-reiterates-aps-stand-against-bringing-petrol-diesel-under-gst-ambit/article36529333.ece
18 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister calls for speeding up of irrigation projects||Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar exhorted officials to expedite the implementation of the irrigation projects on which the government has so far spent Rs. 14,750 crore, and to give top priority to the Polavaram project. He wanted the Central Water Commission (CWC) guidelines related to it (Polavaram) to be strictly followed. A total of 58 projects were undertaken by the government, he said. Addressing a review meeting at his camp office here on Friday, Mr. Anil Kumar said the projects were crucial for creation of new ayacut and stabilisation of the existing acreage, and also meeting the growing drinking water requirements. He ordered that due importance be given to Thotapalli, Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi and Vamsadhara projects, which hold the key for development of the north coastal districts. Mr. Anil Kumar said soil testing should be done at Polavaram as suggested by the CWC, and it was to be ensured that every person displaced by this mega national project was given relief and rehabilitated as per the norms. He instructed the officials to speed up the second tunnel works at Poola Subbaiah Veligonda Project and to take due care of the benefits under the R&R scheme. Earlier, Mr. Anil Kumar inaugurated the new headquarters of the Water Resources Department on Museum Road built at a cost of Rs. 16.23 crore. Minister Vellampalli Srinivasa Rao, MLA Malladi Vishnu, Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi, Deputy Mayors B. Durga and A. Sailaja Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-calls-for-speeding-up-of-irrigation-projects/article36529537.ece
18 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID claims 8 more lives||The State reported eight more deaths due to COVID-19 and 1,393 infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,052 and 20,36,179 respectively. The number of active cases slightly increased to 14,797 as 1,296 patients have recovered in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate remains at 20,07,330 and 98.5%. The daily test positivity rate of 60,350 samples tested in the past day was at 2.3% while that of 2.75 crore samples tested so far was 7.37%. Chittoor reported three deaths while Krishna and Prakasam reported two deaths each in the past day. East Godavari reported one death and nine districts reported no deaths. District-wise tallies Chittoor also reported highest daily tally of 272 infections in the past day. It was followed by East Godavari (206), Nellore (201), Krishna (162), West Godavari (129), Prakasam (120), Kadapa (60), Visakhapatnam (51), Srikakulam (28), Anantapur (18), Vizianagaram (9) and Kurnool (5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-claims-8-more-lives/article36529344.ece
18 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan, Veerraju extend wishes to Modi on his birthday||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday conveyed birthday wishes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the Twitter. “Wishing Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi a very happy birthday. May the almighty bless him with long life, good health and greater strength in the service of the nation,” the Chief Minister stated in the message posted on Twitter. In a scene that was reminiscent of Mr. Modi cleaning the feet of ‘safai karamchari’ during his participation in the Kumbh Mela in February 2019, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju washed the feet of a sanitation worker and felicitated him on the occasion of Mr. Modi’s birthday at an event organised at Chittinagar here. ‘Global power’ Speaking at the event organised by the Golagani Charitable Trust, Mr. Veerraju said India became a global power under the leadership of Mr. Modi and that it was poised to grow stronger in coming years. He asserted that Mr. Modi was committed to the development of Andhra Pradesh and had extended a lot of financial support, which failed to win the Chief Minister’s appreciation for obvious reasons. Meanwhile, Mr. Veerraju and MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao gave away ‘Namo Viswakarma awards’ to artisans on the occasion of Viswakarma Jayanthi. The party conducted a host of programmes as part of ‘Seva Aur Samarpan Abhiyan’ marking Mr. Modi’s 71st birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-veerraju-extend-wishes-to-modi-on-his-birthday/article36529335.ece
18 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HEPB meet in Vizag today||Education Minister A. Suresh will inaugurate the second meeting of the State Higher Education Planning Board (HEPB), jointly being organised by Andhra University, IIM-Visakhapatnam and IIPE-Visakhapatnam, on September 18 in Visakhapatnam. Director, IIT-Delhi, V. Ramgopal Rao, will be the chief guest of the event being organised on the theme, ‘Expansion, Equity and Quality in Higher Education’. The Minister will also launch the AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) Learning Management System (LMS), and this will be followed by a roundtable on inter-institutional collaborations.  Research collaborations Future activities of the HEPB such as research collaborations among the institutions, remote learning centres (RLCs), online credit transfers of the students, organisation of seminars and webinars, placement support and internships to students, measures for enhancement of gross enrolment ratio in the State and increasing the access, equity and quality of higher education in the State will be discussed in the meeting. Based on the discussions, an action plan will be charted out and submitted to the government. “We believe that the integration of the institutions of higher education will deliver good results. The purpose of constituting the board is to facilitate promotion of mutual understanding and development of the State and Central universities / institutions, ,” said K. Hemachandra Reddy, Chairman of the HEPB. There are 30 State universities, five deemed universities, seven private universities, eight Central institutions and three Central universities in the State. “The idea is to integrate these institutions to pave the way for a more vibrant ecosystem in the field of higher education in the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hepb-meet-in-vizag-today/article36528957.ece
18 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan, Veerraju extend wishes to Modi on his birthday||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday conveyed birthday wishes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the Twitter. “Wishing Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi a very happy birthday. May the almighty bless him with long life, good health and greater strength in the service of the nation,” the Chief Minister stated in the message posted on Twitter. In a scene that was reminiscent of Mr. Modi cleaning the feet of ‘safai karamchari’ during his participation in the Kumbh Mela in February 2019, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju washed the feet of a sanitation worker and felicitated him on the occasion of Mr. Modi’s birthday at an event organised at Chittinagar here. ‘Global power’ Speaking at the event organised by the Golagani Charitable Trust, Mr. Veerraju said India became a global power under the leadership of Mr. Modi and that it was poised to grow stronger in coming years. He asserted that Mr. Modi was committed to the development of Andhra Pradesh and had extended a lot of financial support, which failed to win the Chief Minister’s appreciation for obvious reasons. Meanwhile, Mr. Veerraju and MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao gave away ‘Namo Viswakarma awards’ to artisans on the occasion of Viswakarma Jayanthi. The party conducted a host of programmes as part of ‘Seva Aur Samarpan Abhiyan’ marking Mr. Modi’s 71st birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-veerraju-extend-wishes-to-modi-on-his-birthday/article36529540.ece
18 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scrap jumbo TTD Board, Naidu urges govt.||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Friday urged the State government to scrap the newly-formed 81-member trust board of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), calling it ‘oversized’ and an affront to the sentiments of devotees. Mr. Naidu wrote a letter to Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in this regard on Friday, urging the latter to ‘not misuse the TTD for political and personal advantage’. “Appointing tainted persons to the governing body is condemnable. Conversion of the pious Seven Hills into a hub of commercial interest is regrettable. The Board has been turned into a rehabilitation centre for politically unemployed persons,” Mr. Naidu alleged in his letter to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The former Chief Minister said that appointing persons who are facing CBI trials to the TTD trust board was highly objectionable. “Importance should be given to those who are known for their devotional fervour and a spirit of ‘Swamivari Seva’. The TDP strongly condemns the filling of the TTD Board with businessmen with questionable credentials, corrupt persons, criminals and tainted individuals. No other Chief Minister in the past had even thought of forming such a jumbo-sized board,” Mr. Naidu said. The former Chief Minister called for the formation of a new board in accordance with the traditions and sentiments of the devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scrap-jumbo-ttd-board-naidu-urges-govt/article36529340.ece
18 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Renal angioplasty, stenting performed’||A team of doctors at Ramesh Hospitals had performed ‘renal angioplasty and stenting’ successfully on 76-year-old Maru, a doctor, recently. The medical team involved in the procedure comprised cardiologists P. Srinivas and N. Raja Ramesh, nephrologist Yelanati Ramesh, and medical director and chief anaesthesiologist Pavuluri Srinivasa Rao. The team members, along with Ramesh Hospitals management consultant M.C. Das, Dr. Samaram, former national president of IMA, and Dr. Maru, disclosed details of the procedure at a press conference here on Friday. They said that Dr. Maru was brought to the hospital in a very critical condition with high blood pressure, fluid in the lung and acute breathing trouble. Her clinical condition was initially diagnosed as high BP (hypertension) induced heart failure. Immediate attempts at CT Coronary Angiogram revealed fairly healthy coronary arteries. As she continued to be in persistent heart failure, renal angiogram was performed. A 90% block in the left renal artery was noted to be the culprit lesion, the doctors said. Dr. Raja Ramesh said renal angioplasty and stenting was performed successfully following which her clinical condition stabilised and the uncontrolled hypertension, lung edema and other complications settled. “Usually, stents are placed in heart-related problems. But, in this case, stenting was performed for better functioning of the kidney,” he said. Dr. Maru recovered from the critical condition completely,” he said. Dr. Samaram said timely medical intervention at the hospital saved his sister, Dr. Maru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/renal-angioplasty-stenting-performed/article36528949.ece
18 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri Lankan Minister calls on Kannababu||Sri Lankan State Minister of Backward Rural Areas Development and Promotion of Domestic Animal Husbandry and Minor Economic Crop Cultivation Sathasivam Viyalendiran on Friday met Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu and discussed common issues. Mr. Kannababu explained to him the government efforts towards value-addition to the farmers’ produce to enhance revenue to the farmers. Mr. Viyalendiran appreciated the government’s agriculture policy and the priority being given to the farmers through welfare schemes and expressed willingness to import chilli, turmeric, sugarcane and paddy crops grown in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-lankan-minister-calls-on-kannababu/article36529538.ece
18 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan afraid of growing dissent, says Lokesh||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has said the attack on Opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu’s residence exposed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s “frustration and fear arising out of growing dissent against the State government.” “Goons pelted stones on the TDP leaders. The Chief Minister is feeling so insecure that he is not able to take even the slightest criticism. The unpopularity of Mr. Jagan’s rule is the reason behind YSRCP gangs attacking the Opposition leaders. The TDP will pay back with “multiple interest” if the YSRCP continues attacks, false cases and arrests out of political vendetta,” Mr. Lokesh cautioned. “People have realised that Mr. Jagan is enacting a drama and is not genuinely committed to their well being. The day is not far off when all sections of people in the State would revolt against the atrocious regime,” Mr. Lokesh said. Meanwhile, the TDP leaders asked how the police could not prevent the ruling party workers from coming near the Opposition leader’s house. “The same police had put lots of objections and created hurdles for Mr. Lokesh during his visits to districts to call on the families of victims of atrocities,” the leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-afraid-of-growing-dissent-says-lokesh/article36529330.ece
18 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP misleading people on condition of finances’||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy on Friday accused the TDP of launching a misinformation campaign regarding the State’s finances. “The TDP is misleading people on the condition of the State’s finances by fudging figures and misinterpreting various economic indicators to suit its narrative. Yanamala Ramakrishnudu is driving the misinformation campaign,” Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said. The Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 2019-20 was 7.23% and the growth rates in agriculture, industrial and services sectors were 7.91%, 10.24% and 6.20% respectively. These were achieved in spite of the devastating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, he claimed. Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said that the TDP calculated the real growth rate on the basis of current prices instead of constant prices which should be the norm. The TDP did it with an intention to malign the government, he said. Figures related to the pandemic period were also factored in and farm sector growth was hidden as part of the TDP’s propaganda. The picture during the pandemic would be obviously bleak, he said. The GSDP growth in 2018-19 (the year before YSRCP took over the baton from the TDP) was 4.88%, the FM said, suggesting to Mr. Ramakrishnudu to ‘use his experience for public good rather than to blame the government for things beyond its control, including the TDP government’s failures’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-misleading-people-on-condition-of-finances/article36529331.ece
18 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adhere to COVID norms while counting votes, says CS||Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das on Friday directed Collectors and Superintendents of Police to ensure that the counting of the Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency (ZPTC) and Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency (MPTC) votes, scheduled for September 19 (Sunday), is done in strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols. Addressing a video-conference with officials, Mr. Das said that the government cannot afford to lose sight of the safety guidelines in view of the pandemic. “Collectors should ensure that all the counting staff and agents are vaccinated and the SPs should make adequate bandobust at the counting centres. An in-charge officer should be appointed in every district to supervise the arrangements and also the counting process,” Mr. Aditya Nath said. Principal Secretary, Department of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Gopal Krishna Dwivedi, Commissioner Girija Shankar, and State Election Commission secretary K.Kanna Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adhere-to-covid-norms-while-counting-votes-says-cs/article36529341.ece
18 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rythu Bharosa Kendras to get YSR CHCs||To promote organic farming in the State, the government proposed to establish YSR Custom Hiring Centres (CHCs) in 5,000 Rythu Bharosa Kendrams (RBKs) in two phases. Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy wanted CHCs to be established in the RBKs to encourage natural farming among the farmers’ community. He directed the officials to speed up measures towards finalising the organic farming policy. Mr. Kannababu said there was a proposal to supply 7,000 tonnes of Bengal gram to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams and an MoU to this effect would be signed soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rythu-bharosa-kendras-to-get-ysr-chcs/article36529342.ece
18 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division making steady progress despite pandemic: DRM||Overcoming the uncertainty caused by the pandemic, the Waltair Division of the East Coast Railway (ECoR) is making steady progress in various spheres, apart from recording remarkable growth in loading of freight, during the first five months of the present fiscal, compared to last year. The originating goods loading in the first five months (April to August) this year is 26.71 million tonnes as against 19.89 MT registered during the same period in the last fiscal, registering a growth of 34.29%. The freight revenue increased to Rs. 3,090 crore from Rs. 2,316 crore during the corresponding period last year. Divisional Railway Manager Anup Kumar Satpathy gave full credit to the Team Waltair for the achievement, at a media conference, here on Friday. On the passenger front, the originating passengers were 2.89 million in the first five months and the revenue was Rs. 112.67 crore. The parcel traffic was 20,192 tonnes this year as against 7,479 tonnes last year, registering a growth of 169%. The revenue of Rs. 774 lakh, this year, registered a growth of 172% over the corresponding period last year. Mango traffic A total of 10,379 tonnes of mango traffic was loaded by the division, this year, as against 4,330 tonnes loaded during the corresponding period in the last fiscal. The revenue increased to Rs. 4.61 crore this year from Rs. 1.88 crore last year, registering 145% growth. The total revenue of the division in the period was Rs. 3,244.45 crore as against Rs. 2,380.86 crore last year. The DRM said despite the pandemic threat, the division has operated 29 Kisan Special trains to provide hassle-free, sale and speedy transport for agriculture produce. The division was the first in the country to operate the first ‘Oxygen loaded Rail On-Rail Off (Ro-RO)’ oxygen express. The train, carrying seven tankers of Liquid Medical Oxygen, left Visakhapatnam on April 22, 2021. Three tankers were unloaded at Nagpur and four at Nasik in Maharashtra. The joint efforts by the Waltair Division and the RINL-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, was meant to save the lives of COVID-19 patients in Maharashtra. LHB coaches Mr. Satpathy said that E Co R was giving top priority to the conversion of conventional coaches into LHB coaches, which provide better comfort and safety to passengers. At present, six long-distance trains, operated by the division, were being run with LHB coaches. He also briefed on the innovative facilities created at the Visakhapatnam Railway Station like the Robotic Spa, ‘Pandemic Preventive Gear Vending’ kiosk, parcel packing and door-to-door pick up facility and e-bike and e-car rentals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-making-steady-progress-despite-pandemic-drm/article36529541.ece
18 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP activists stage protests||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) leader and former MLA Peela Govind Satyanarayana and former MLC Buddha Naga Jagadeesh alleged that the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), which came to power on the promise of extending Minimum Support Price (MSP), has cheated the farmers. A protest was organised as part of the TDP agitation demanding MSP to farmers, at Nehru Chowk in Anakapalle, near here, on Friday. The party leaders and workers held up traffic by squatting on the main road and raising slogans in support of the farmers and against the YSRCP. The TDP leaders alleged that the State government had destroyed the agriculture sector after coming to power. They said that though the government had procured the paddy from the farmers nearly six months ago, they were not paid the money so far. They also opposed the allotment of 50 acres of land, belonging to the Agricultural Research Centre at Anakapalle, for the construction of the proposed medical college. A horticulture centre, which was sanctioned during the TDP regime, was shifted to Pulivendula. They also alleged that farmers were not being given seeds and fertilizers on time. The agitating TDP leaders were arrested by the police and shifted to the police station. Protests were also organised by the TDP at various places in the district. A rythu sadassu was organised under the auspices of former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu at Narsipatnam. Later, the TDP leaders and the party workers took out a bullock cart rally to the Tahsildar Office but were stopped by the police. At Bheeemunipatnam, Korada Raja Babu led the protest and later a memorandum was submitted to the Tahsildar. Former Minister Kidari Sravan led the protest at Araku. Giddi Eswari was arrested at Paderu. G. Ramanaidu and Pyla Prasad were arrested at Madugula. At Elamanchilli, State Telugu Yuvatha president M. Srinivasa Reddy, MLC Duvvarapu Rama Rao, former MLA Pappala Chalapathi Rao and party in charge P. Nageswara Rao, also staged protest. A tractor rally was taken out under the auspices of former Minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy at Pendurthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-activists-stage-protests/article36529546.ece
18 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘5.3 lakh mosquito nets distributed in Agency areas’||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopalakrishna took part in awareness programme which was organised on seasonal diseases at Paderu in the district on Friday. He spoke about spread of malaria, dengue and chikungunya and on how to control their spread. Mr. Gopalakrishna said that in the limits of 36 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and 202 sub-centres, such awareness campaigns are being organised. He said that in the two phases, the officials have distributed 5.30 lakh mosquito nets in the Agency areas. “With the help of volunteers and other sachivalayam staff, fevers survey was conducted in the Agency areas, due to which malaria cases are under control. Compared to the last year, there has been a decline by 41% in malaria cases,” he said. Fogging equipment He said that the government has sanctioned fogging equipment for the ITDA and they would be disbursed to the panchayats. He urged people to implement ‘dry day’ on Tuesdays and Fridays, where they were asked to clean their surroundings. “People should ensure that there is no stagnated water in used coconut shells, rubber tyres and a few other materials where mosquitoes could harvest,” Mr. Gopalakrishna added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/53-lakh-mosquito-nets-distributed-in-agency-areas/article36529542.ece
18 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘GVMC officials threatening people on user charges’||Members of the Visakhapatnam Apartment Resident Welfare Association (VARWA) on Friday submitted representations to Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari and Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana through online, alleging that the ward volunteers and some GVMC staff were threatening the citizens that they would stop drinking water supply, if user charges are not paid for garbage collection. In the representation, VARWA General Secretary B.B. Ganesh said that such incidents are being reported from residents in some areas such as Jagannadhapuram and Akkayyapalem. In some areas, residents were threatened that the garbage would be dumped in front of their apartments if they did not pay. “We know that the user charges for garbage collection of Rs. 120 from residents and other commercial charges were passed in the GVMC Council. As the user charges were under reconsideration, we request the GVMC to take steps to restrain its employees from making such threats,” Mr. Ganesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-officials-threatening-people-on-user-charges/article36529550.ece
18 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 70,000 receive jab in mega drive, says DMHO||Over 70,000 people were administrated the first or the second COVID-19 vaccine doses at the mega vaccination drive conducted in the district on Friday, said District Medical & Health Officer (DMHO) P. Suryanarayana. The total number of persons vaccinated in the district is around 36.75 lakh, including 10.41 lakh people who received both the doses, he said. The mega vaccination drive was taken up in all the PHCs and health centres. At a few areas, door-to-door vaccination was organised for the eligible elderly persons. Sachivalayam staff, ANMs, ward volunteers and the Health Department officials coordinated the drive. 51 new cases The district recorded 51 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,561. During the same time period, as many as 71 persons recovered from the coronavirus. The death toll stands at 1,081, as no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries and active cases stands at 1,54,418 and 1,062 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-70000-receive-jab-in-mega-drive-says-dmho/article36529552.ece
18 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP, BJP condemn ‘attack’ on Naidu’s house||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Parliament constituency president Palla Srinivasa Rao has condemned the attack on the house of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu by YSRCP MLA Jogi Ramesh and demanded his immediate arrest. At a media conference here on Friday evening, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that if he has anything against TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu, he should come to Visakhapatnam but he chose to attack the former Chief Minister’s house at Undavalli. He alleged that the YSRCP leader has resorted to the attack to divert the attention of the people from the protest being held by the TDP in support of farmers, which turned out to be a huge success. He alleged that the police personnel had helped the YSRCP MLA to reach the house. The police personnel were content with staying on guard duty at the homes of TDP leaders, who were placed under house arrest, he ridiculed. TDP MLC Duvvarapu Rama Rao said that TDP was a peace-loving party. He alleged that Mr. Ramesh was indulging in such acts to get into the good books of the Chief Minister and earn a Cabinet berth. Meanwhile, BJP leader and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju also condemned the attack on the house of the Opposition leader. Describing the two-year-rule of the State government as the ‘worst in the country’, he demanded that the DGP initiate action on the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-bjp-condemn-attack-on-naidus-house/article36529547.ece
18 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade union leaders call on new CMD of steel plant||Leaders of various trade unions of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) called on the new Chairman and Managing Director of Atul Bhat, and brought various issues in the plant to his notice, on Friday. JMS Union general secretary Varasala Srinivasa Rao, CITU president Ayodhya Ram, YSRP leader Dali Naidu, TNTUC general secretary Boddu Pydi Raju, JMS leaders V. Balakrishna, B. Gopal, Nageswara Rao and Srinivas told him that the onus of continuing the VSP in the public sector was on him. They assured the CMD that the employees and unions would stand firmly behind him. They told the new CMD about the genesis and growth of the VSP over the years. They hoped that the VSP would attain greater heights under his leadership. Mr. Atul Bhat reportedly told the union leaders that they should collectively strive to take the plant on the path of progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trade-union-leaders-call-on-new-cmd-of-steel-plant/article36529548.ece
18 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parliamentary panel visits VPT, ENC||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Empowerment of Women headed by MP Heena Vijaykumar Gavit along with other Parliamentarians visited the Visakhapatnam Port Trust on Friday. The committee is here on a two-day visit to the city. VPT Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao explained to the committee the various operations of the port and the facilities and infrastructure available. Durgesh Kumar Dubey, Deputy Chairman, J. Pradeep Kumar, CVO, T. Venugopal, Secretary, and other senior officers were present. The Parliamentary Committee also visited the Eastern Naval Command (ENC), and were given an overview of naval operations and women’s role in the Indian Navy. They were given a guided tour of indigenously-built stealth frigate INS Satpura, a guided missile Corvette INS Kora and a submarine. The team interacted with Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, ENC, and women officers posted at the ENC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parliamentary-panel-visits-vpt-enc/article36529553.ece
18 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APICET sees 90% turnout||The Andhra Pradesh Integrated Common Entrance Test (APICET) was conducted peacefully at 59 centres in the forenoon session and 54 centres in the afternoon session across the State and in Hyderabad on Friday. Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy released the SET Code for the test for the forenoon session in the APICET-2021 office in AU College of Engineering. Convener of APICET-2021 G. Sasibhushan Rao said that in the forenoon session, out of 10,754 candidates who registered, 9,551 (88.81%) attended. In the afternoon session, out of 10,838 candidates who registered, 9,888 (91.23%) attended. Prof. Rao said the test would also be held on September 18. He advised candidates to visit the website –https://sche.ap.gov.in/icet– for updates related on preliminary key and response sheets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apicet-sees-90-turnout/article36529345.ece
18 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Arrangements being made for Civil Services Prelims exam’||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna said that all arrangements are being made for the smooth conduct of the Union Public Service Commission(UPSC) Civil Services (Preliminary) examination that will be held on October 10. He was speaking to the officials from the UPSC during a video conference at the Collectorate here on Friday. The UPSC officials had conducted a meet with the Collectors of various districts, which are organising the examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrangements-being-made-for-civil-services-prelims-exam/article36529549.ece
18 September 2021||VISAKHPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna should be arrested for his remarks, says Muttamsetti||Lashing out at Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that the former TDP minister should immediately tender an apology to the Chief Minister and Home Minister. He also said that the TDP leader should be arrested for his comments. Addressing the media here on Friday night, he said that Mr. Patrudu’s comments against the Chief Minister and the Home Minister were not in good taste and were derogatory. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu should understand that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has a huge fan following and admirers and such cheap comments may instigate them. “The TDP leader will be responsible for the consequences for inviting the wrath of the people with such disparaging comments,” said the Minister. Being such a senior leader, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu should not indulge in such loose talk against senior ministers and senior IPS officers such as the DGP, he added. Talking about the counting of votes of the MTPC and ZPTC elections, the Minister said that TDP was indulging in such divisive politics through court cases, as it know that the YSR Congress Party has won both the elections handsomely. Mr. Srinivasa Rao alleged that the TDP was playing the spoilsport in all developmental activities by taking the backdoor route of approaching the courts. He alleged that the TDP was the party that always played an anti farmer role and not the YSRCP. “Today they are talking of farmer issues, but they should not forget that it was during the TDP rule firing was opened against the farmers and people who were protesting against power tariff hike in Basheerbagh in Hyderabad in 2000,” he said. Meanwhile, Chodavaram MLA K. Dharmasri alleged that the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) was an anti-farmer party and added that the party has no right to speak about the welfare of farmers. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Dharmasri said that the the TDP has betrayed the farmers and had never supported them. The TDP leaders should come forward and tell what they had done for the farmers during their rule, he said He said it was the YSRCP which is helping the farmers in all possible ways since coming into power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayyanna-should-be-arrested-for-his-remarks-says-muttamsetti/article36529554.ece
18 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Promotion channel created for GCC staff’||Andhra Pradesh Girijan Cooperative Corporation chairperson Sobha Swati Rani on Friday said that promotion channel had been created for the several GCC employees who could not get promotions since 1991. In a press release, she said that promotions would instil confidence among the meritorious staff and make them to excel in their career. She thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Deputy Chief Minister Sobha Swati Rani who took the initiative to clear all the hurdles for the promotions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/promotion-channel-created-for-gcc-staff/article36529378.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP, TDP leaders clash near Naidu’s house||The TDP leaders alleged that the YSRCP workers pelted stones on Mr. Naidu’s house and attacked them with sticks. The TDP and YSRCP workers raised slogans and blamed each other for the ruckus. Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said the police maintained restraint at Mr. Naidu’s house, and condemned the allegations against some police officers by the TDP leaders. “We are looking into the complaints of both the parties submitted by the TDP and YSRCP to the Tadepalli police and in the DGP Office. CCTV footages are being observed and stern action will be taken against those who created law and order problem,” Mr. Sawang said. Charges The ruling party leaders criticised Mr. Naidu for the situation, and alleged that the TDP activists damaged the MLA’s car. The TDP leaders alleged that the incident occurred in the presence of the police, who maintained silence. Police shifted some party workers to Tadepalli police station. Security had been tightened at Mr. Naidu’s residence Meanwhile, police prevented the TDP leaders, when they tried to barge into the AP Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri. Later, MLAs Nimmala Ramanaidu, Dola Bala Veeranjaneya Swamy, Gottipati Ravi Kumar and Eluri Sambasiva Rao submitted a representation to the police officers at the DGP’s office, demanding action against those who were responsible for the incident at Mr. Naidu’s house. YSRCP MLAs Alla Ramakrishna Reddy and Jogi Ramesh too met the officials at the DGP Office and explained the situation. However, police did not register any case when the reports last came in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-tdp-leaders-clash-near-naidus-house/article36529329.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Train ahoy!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/train-ahoy/article36528959.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festival preparation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festival-preparation/article36529544.ece
18 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hyderabad Merger Day observed with solemnity||Hyderabad marked the 73rd day of accession to India on in a solemn manner. While the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi, the Opposition Congress, and other parties commemorated the occasion as ‘Hyderabad Merger Day’, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) celebrated it as ‘Telangana Liberation Day’. The Congress party organised an event at the Ashoka Pillar near the Residency Building (Koti Women’s College). TRS organised a tricolour hoisting event at the Telangana Bhavan with TRS general secretary K. Keshava Rao leading the celebrations. BJP leaders paid floral tributes at the statue of former Home Minister Vallabhbhai Patel. It was on August 17, 1948, that Hyderabad’s ruler Mir Osman Ali Khan announced cessation of hostilities after the Indian forces marched into the dominion on multiple fronts. While India gained Independence on August 15, 1947, Hyderabad did not join the union for nearly 13 months. But after the Indian Army entered the dominion without much resistance, Prime Minister of Nizam Mir Laiq Ali broadcast a speech on August 17 announcing ceasefire. The surrender of Nizam’s forces took place on September 18 as the Indian troops march was delayed by a few hours due to landmines. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president Revanth Reddy unfurled the tricolour at party headquarters Gandhi Bhavan after garlanding and paying floral tributes to the portraits of father of nation Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Sardar Patel. The day of merger of Hyderabad in India has been a fraught issue with the BJP making a call for celebrating the day as Hyderabad Liberation Day. The earlier governments in undivided Andhra Pradesh and the present government after formation of Telangana State have rejected the demand and accused BJP of pursuing divisive politics by trying to give a communal colour to the merger. “You can call it liberation day or merger day, it’s a day of happiness for all of us,” said Mr Keshava Rao during the event. Incidentally, the Ashoka Pillar where Congress workers marked Merger Day commemorates the first War of Indian Independence of 1857 when the citizens of Hyderabad led by Maulvi Allauddin and Turrebaz Khan attacked the Residency building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-merger-day-observed-with-solemnity/article36529388.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State eyes doubling of IT exports, over 3 lakh new jobs by 2026||Telangana government has unveiled a new ICT Policy and with it plans to develop Information Technology and IT-enabled services sector in the State to double exports to Rs. 3 lakh crore and create more than three lakh additional jobs over the next five years. Of these, over 50,000 of the jobs are expected to be generated in the Tier II and Tier III cities, in the backdrop of an emphasis on taking IT beyond Hyderabad, thus positioning the locations as IT hubs of the future. A number of initiatives and implementation mechanisms have been identified and incorporated to achieve the goals, including training in basic Artificial Intelligence for all technology graduates and setting up of a Rs. 1,300-crore startup fund to support over 8,000 startups, IT and Industries Minister K.T.Rama Rao told the ICT Policy (2021-26) launch function here on Thursday. The policy replaces the previous one that Telangana had launched in 2016 for five years. IT/ITeS, product development, engineering and R&D, electronics, innovation and entrepreneurship, skilling, upskilling and reskilling, contactless, paperless and presence less governance, digitally empowered citizens, taking IT beyond Hyderabad, thrust on emerging technologies, and a cloud-first policy among others will be focus areas in the coming five years. The Minister said IT exports, which were around Rs. 57,000 crore at the time of Telangana formation in 2014, stood at Rs. 1.45 lakh crore last fiscal. Around 6.5 lakh people are employed in the sector at present — with 2.5 lakh jobs created in the past five years. In the new policy, there will be special focus on electric vehicles, battery storage systems, consumer electronics, medical devices and automotive sectors. “We believe we can attract over Rs. 75,000 crore in investment and [create] over three lakh jobs in the electronics sector,” he said. Mr.Rao, who is also Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development, said a dedicated Smart Cities wing is to be created in collaboration with the MA&UD Department with an aim to create over 40 smart regions in the State, benchmarking with the best smart cities in the world. IT and Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said the second ICT policy might not seem very different from the previous one. “This is because the first one has done exceedingly well... key aspect of the [new] policy is we want citizens to be at the centre stage,” he said. Nasscom chairperson Rekha Menon, who was the chief guest at the launch, said Telangana, with its progressive policies, has always set a benchmark and the path-breaking initiatives are the reason behind its spectacular growth in the field of technology. Exchange of documents for MoUs, announcement of new projects, presentation of awards and launch of National Centre for Additive Manufacturing (NCAM) logo and Startup Telangana Portal, which aims to be the one-stop destination for the startup ecosystem of Telangana, marked the event. T-FACE, which is a virtual incubation platform for supporting startups in VLSI/Fabless Chip designing space, was also launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-eyes-doubling-of-it-exports-over-3-lakh-new-jobs-by-2026/article36529446.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Harish Rao urges Centre to release pending amounts||Finance Minister Harish Rao requested the Central government to release pending amounts under different heads at the earliest as the new State is “strapped for funds”. In a memorandum submitted to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman, he said that the State was yet to get funds to be released towards TS share in the IGST, special assistance for backward regions as promised in the AP Reorganisation Act 2014, and special grant recommended by the Finance Commission. The Centre, he said, left Rs. 13,944 crore under IGST for 2018-19 unapportioned and the amount was retained in the consolidated fund of India. Of the total, the State’s share worked out to be Rs. 352 crore (4.08% of the 50% share amounting to Rs. 281 crore and Rs. 71 crore through tax devolution). The estimated amount released through tax devolution was Rs. 142 crore leaving a balance of Rs. 210 crore. The State was yet to get grants amounting to Rs. 450 crore, Rs. 50 crore each for the nine of the 10 backward districts, for the fiscal year 2019-20. The number of districts had gone up from 10 to 33 since the formation of the State and the number of backward districts rose from 9 to 32 at the same time. The Centre should therefore extend the special assistance to backward districts for five more years and the grants for the current year along with the amounts pending for 2019-20 should be released. Mr. Harish Rao recalled that the 15th Finance Commission recommended special grant of Rs. 723 crore on the ground that estimated tax devolution to the State in 2020-21 was lower than that in 2019-20. Such decline was not observed in any previous year. The grant was however, denied on the pretext that it would set a new precedent. In the interest of maintaining the tradition and sanctity of the Finance Commission’s recommendations, the Centre should reconsider the decision not to give the grant and release the amount at the earliest, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-rao-urges-centre-to-release-pending-amounts/article36529413.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Arrangements in place for immersion day||All arrangements are in place for the gala immersion of Ganesh idols scheduled for Sunday, a statement by the GHMC said. A total of 330 cranes of various capacities were organised for immersion, at 33 lakes and 25 special ponds created for the purpose. A total of 106 cranes were stationed near 33 lakes, with 33 of them deployed at Tank Bund, and 11 on the NTR Marg. In order to remove the heavy load of waste after immersion, 20 excavators, 21 earth-movers, 39 mini tippers and 44 vehicles with 10 tonnes of capacity were pressed into service. More than 8,000 workers, constituting 162 Ganesh Action Teams, would be posted on three shifts to ensure smooth completion of immersion. Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board set up special camps at 101 locations, including procession routes, to provide 30 lakh packets of water to devotees. The Roads & Buildings department would organise barricades, watch towers and view cutters, while the Fire department would provide 38 fire-tending vehicles to face emergency situations. The Tourism department would station three boats in Tank Bund, two at Necklace Road besides four speed boats. These apart, 10 expert swimmers would be ready to help in case of any drowning incident. For uninterrupted power supply, 101 transformers were stationed at Hussainsagar, and Saroornagar, besides 41,284 specially commissioned street lights. Animal Husbandry Minister T. Srinivas Yadav and Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi inspected the immersion arrangements at Tank Bund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arrangements-in-place-for-immersion-day/article36529454.ece
18 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three jute companies to invest Rs. 887 crore||The TS government entered into separate MoUs with Gloster Limited, MBG Commodities Pvt. Ltd., and Kaleshwaram Agro Pvt. Ltd. for a combined investment of Rs. 887 crore in the jute sector that will provide direct employment to 10,400 people. The MoUs were signed in the presence of Ministers K.T. Rama Rao, Singireddy Niranjan Reddy, and Gangula Kamalakar. KTR stated that Telangana is making efforts to revolutionise the agriculture sector through optimum utilisation of resources from the Godavari and the Krishna, and there was a need to be self-sufficient in jute production as the demand has been rising on the back of increasing agricultural produce and procurement in the State. The Minister said that farmers need to look at alternate crops as well for sustainable profitability. More jute mills are likely to come up in the State. Mr. Niranjan Reddy said that Telangana will encourage farmers to take up jute cultivation. He added that jute can also be a sustainable alternative to plastic. Mr. Kamalakar reminded that demand for gunny bags in the State has been on the rise due to increased grain production. A statement said that Gloster Limited will invest about Rs. 330 crore to set up a jute mill in Warangal and create 3,400 direct employment opportunities while MBG Commodities will invest about Rs. 254 crore in Sircilla district that would generate direct employment to 3,400 people. Kaleshwaram Agro Pvt. Ltd. will invest about Rs. 303 crore in Kamareddy district to give employment to 3,600 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-jute-companies-to-invest-rs-887-cr/article36529417.ece
18 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man kills two-year-old son||A two-year-old boy was brutally murdered by his father at Prashanth Nagar under Langer Houz police station limits here on Friday evening. The accused, Haseeb, a former software employee, took his son, Ismail, to the terrace of their house and slit his throat with a knife, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Asif Nagar division) R.G. Siva Maruthi said. Haseeb, who got married to Hasrat six years ago, quit is job four year ago and was suspected to be mentally retarded. Around 4.30 p.m., the accused took Ismail to the terrace. Harsat saw him carrying a knife and immediately rushed to the terrace, but by then he had resorted to the extreme act and fled the spot, police said. Ismail was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Based on the complaint lodged by Hasrat, a case was registered against her husband and a manhunt was launched to nab him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-two-year-old-son/article36529452.ece
18 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five members of ‘Bihar gang’ apprehended in city||Five members of an inter-State shutter lifting gang were apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (north zone) team. The ‘Bihar gang’ committed three shutter lifting offences under the Market police station in the city and two similar cases at Kasargod in Kerala. The accused are Shaik Masiruddin (23), the kingpin and his accomplices Mohd. Azad (22), Parwez Alam (26), Mohd Jawed (26) and Mohd Akhtar Hussain (23), all residents of Chandni Chowk market, Delhi and natives of Kishangunj district in Bihar. A team led by inspector K Nageswar Rao apprehended the accused and recovered Rs. 3 lakh, five mobile phones and equipment used in commission of the offences. Masiruddin, a notorious and habitual shutter lifting offender was arrested by the Telangana police in September 2019. After release from jail he went to his native village and later started selling electronic items at Chandni Chowk and formed a gang with his associates. “With an aim to make quick buck, the gang break into locked shops and decamp with cash. The kingpin used to recce the area in the day, target a shop and commit the offence in the dark by breaking shutter lock with specially designed iron equipment,” Officer on Special Duty (Task Force) P Radhakishan Rao said. Recently, Masiruddin formed the gang and hatched a plan to commit theft of cash from business shops in metropolitan cities, including Hyderabad. As per their plan on August 24, the gang came to Hyderabad from Delhi by train and took shelter at Secunderabad railway station. For the commission of the offence, the accused persons purchased cutter, iron rod and screwdriver and concealed them in their clothes. They moved in the limits of the Market police station on foot and observed the shops. The next day, they broke open the shutter of Diamond House (wholesale grocery store) and fled with the cash. “Soon they reached Kacheguda Railway Station, boarded train to Kerala, and committed two similar offences there and from there they went back to Delhi in a train,” Mr. Rao said. He said that the north zone task force team formed three teams, verified CCTV footage in the shop and surrounding areas, and identified the images of accused persons who fled from Kacheguda Railway station. “The teams were tracking their movement and acting on a tip-off, the gang was apprehended near Alpha Hotel,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-members-of-bihar-gang-held-in-hyderabad/article36529398.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||16 trainee officers complete ATSS course||Squadron leader S.P. Pavithran was adjudged first in Order of Merit and best in practical while Flight Lieutenant Jasleen Kaur Walia was adjudged best in theory from among 16 trainee officers who successfully completed 139th Air Traffic Surveillance Services (ATSS) course after having undergone a 12-week long training programme on Thursday. Officers included 12 Air Traffic Control officers from the Indian Air Force (IAF), three from the Indian Navy and one from the Kenya Air Force who graduated as Radar controllers. In his valedictory speech, Air Marshal Sanjeev Kapoor, who is the commandant of the Air Force Academy-Dundigal, highlighted the importance of radar controllers’ role in mission accomplishment. He apprised the graduating trainees on the challenges ahead in the field of aviation and advised them to achieve professional excellence by remaining abreast of modern developments in the field of radar controlling, a press release informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/16-trainee-officers-complete-atss-course/article36529448.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR to provide training at workshops||South Central Railways (SCR) would be imparting entry level training program at Carriage Workshop, Lallaguda in Secunderabad, at Wagon Workshop, Rayanapadu near Vijayawada, and Carriage Repair Shop, Tirupati, to give free training to youth in fitter, machinist, electrician and welding to make them industry-ready. It is part of the ‘Rail Kaushal Vikas Yojana’ launched by Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw from the Rail Bhavan in the presence of chairman of Railway Board Sunil Sharma through virtual conference on Friday. This programme comes under the aegis of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) where youth would get trained through 75 institutes spread across the Indian Railways. Training spread 100 hours and for two weeks would have a mix of both theory as well as practical component to make the trainees skill-ready on completion of their module. The South Central Railway (SCR) had issued a notification inviting candidates to enrol in the programme with eligibility criteria being 10th standard pass and between 18-35 years of age. Training for the first batch of selected candidates is scheduled to be started on Sept.20 and in the first phase, two batches of trainees totalling 280 would be chosen, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-to-provide-training-at-workshops/article36529451.ece
18 September 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||8 MMTS specials tomorrow night||The South Central Railway (SCR) will run eight MMTS special trains to various destinations in the twin cities on the intervening night of Sept 19-20 (between 22:00 hrs and 04:00 hrs) between Secunderabad-Hyderabad, Hyderabad-Lingampalli, Lingampalli-Hyderabad, Hyderabad -Secunderabad Hyderabad-Lingampalli, Lingampalli-Falaknuma and Falaknuma-Secunderabad. These special train services were meant for the benefit of devotees who would be travelling for witnessing the immersion of Ganesh idols on the final day of the festivities, said a press release issued by the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/8-mmts-specials-tomorrow-night/article36529455.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Student siblings win gold, silver in boxing||Siblings studying at the Telangana Minorities Residential Educational Institutions Society (TMREIS) did the State proud by winning gold and silver medals at the Boxing Development Federation of India’s National Boxing Championships. Mohd Ajwad Ahmed, a student of TMREIS’ Asif Nagar Boys 1 school and his sister Ayani Sultana, studying in Golconda Girls 2 school, bagged the gold in 43 kg-46 kg category and silver medal in the 54 kg-57 kg category. The winners are children of construction worker Mohd Ahmed. Proud of his children’s achievements, he said, “I am very happy that my children brought glory at national level. Due to COVID -19 pandemic, they had to face difficulties, but they never looked back. They did not stop practising and worked hard every day and today that dedication and hard work has paid.” The winners thanked hief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, and said, “Whatever we are today is because of the intensive coaching being provided by Telangana Minorities Residential Educational Institutions Society. We never imagined that we will get glory at Nationals at a young age. Now, we want to represent in international championship one day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/student-siblings-win-gold-silver-in-boxing/article36529401.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Indrakaran condemns attack on forest officials||Minister for Environment & Forests A. Indrakaran Reddy has condemned the Thursday’s attack on forest officials and staff in the purview of Pandipampula village of Jayashankar Bhupalapally district. Strict action will be taken against villagers attacking foresters discharging their duties, he assured, while interacting through video conference with Range Officer G. Divya and others -- who were attacked. The cabinet sub-committee on resolution of issues pertaining to ‘Podu’ cultivation will hold its first meeting on Saturday, he informed. The Minister urged the tribal farmers to exercise restraint and take their issues to the notice of District Collector and district forest officials, instead of attacking foresters. On Thursday, forest staff led by Ms. Divya were reportedly attacked by a Podu farmer and his family members with chilli powder and petrol, when the former visited a site in the forest area where saplings were planted as part of Haritha Haram. Special Chief Secretary A. Santhi Kumari assured action from government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/indrakaran-condemns-attack-on-forest-officials/article36529403.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court reserves order in crop insurance PIL petition||The Telangana High Court on Friday reserved orders in a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition over failure of State government to enforce crop insurance scheme and seeking compensation to farmers who suffered crop loss due to rains in October 2020. While hearing contentions of the parties, a bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Vinod Kumar said it was not willing to accept State government’s contention that there was no crop loss in year 2020. The petitioners sought to declare failure of the State government to implement crop insurance scheme as illegal and arbitrary and a direction to pay compensation to farmers over crop loss due to rains. Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the court that there was no crop loss as such in the State during that period due to rains. When the bench wanted to know why did the State government write to the Centre seeking assistance and relief for crop loss, the AG replied that was based only on preliminary estate. The bench noted that State Chief Minister made a specific demand for assistance from the Centre for crop loss. Even Chief Secretary wrote to the Centre on the matter. Now, the government claimed that crop losses were zero. “Did you write back to the Centre stating that there was no crop loss in the State having earlier sought assistance?”, the Acting Chief Justice asked the Advocate General . The bench said that general principles of Evidence Act cannot be ignored in PIL petitions. When the explanation given by any party contradicted the records submitted to the court, the matter required to be examined in perspective, the bench said. The petitioner’s counsel Ch. Ravi Kumar said that, refuting the contentions of the AG that no enumeration of crop losses were conducted, how did the authorities arrive at preliminary estimates without any enumeration. “Even to affirm that there was no crop loss, enumeration was essential,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-reserves-order-in-crop-insurance-pil-petition/article36529404.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Abolish reverse charge mechanism on cotton’||Finance Minister Harish Rao has requested the GST Council to take steps to abolish reverse charge mechanism on cotton. He wanted the GST Council to discuss the issue with other cotton growing States like Maharashtra and Gujarat and address the concerns with the fitment committee for fresh view. He made this request during the 45th GST Council meeting held in Lucknow on Friday. According to a release, the issue of bringing petrol and diesel into the GST fold was raised. The GST Council chairman clarified that the issue was brought into the agenda due to directions issued by the Kerala HC and it was decided to continue the present status. When Mr. Rao informed the Council meeting about the IGST amount transferred into consolidated fund of India and TS yet to get Rs. 210 crore, the chairman assured to resolve it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/abolish-reverse-charge-mechanism-on-cotton/article36529415.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS logs 241 new COVID cases as tests dip to 53K||The State recorded as many as 241 cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 6,63,026. As many as 52,943 samples were tested, and results of 1,677 were awaited. The new cases included 68 from Greater Hyderabad region, 14 from Khammam, and 13 from Warangal Urban. No case was detected in Jogulamba Gadwal, Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, and Narayanpet. According to the daily media bulletin, two patients succumbed to the virus. With this, the total number of fatalities now stand at 3,902.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-logs-241-new-covid-cases-as-tests-dip-to-53k/article36529392.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Death was 100% suicide’||DGP M. Mahender Reddy on Friday said that the death of Palakonda Raju, whose body was found on the railway track, was 100 per cent suicide. Replying to a question at a press conference, the police chief said investigators recorded statements of seven persons who were eye-witnesses to Raju’s death. The railway authorities’ records also indicated that it was a suicide. Soon after getting details of the incident, it was declared in the information system of railway authorities that it was a suicide, the DGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/death-was-100-suicide/article36529450.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS seeks cut in duty on oil palm seed||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has requested the Centre to reduce customs duty on the import of oil palm seed sprouts. He sought the Centre’s intervention in sourcing good quality seed from the countries across the world. The Chief Secretary made this request to Union Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal at the Indian Institute of Millets Research while briefing the latter about the State government’s initiative to take up 20 lakh acres of oil palm plantation in the State. The Chief Secretary earlier met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar at the IIMR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-seeks-cut-in-customs-duty-on-oil-palm-seed-import/article36529414.ece
18 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MJPTBCWR students excel in JEE results||Students of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Telangana Backward Classes Welfare Residential (MJPTBCWR) Junior College Centre of Excellence performed extremely well in the JEE (Main) results. A statement from the institute said 14 students of the 20-21 batch from the Centre of Excellence qualified for the JEE (Advanced) for entry into IITs. Lalith Aditya topped scoring 97.06 percentile. Others who scored above 75 percentile include Uday Naidu, V. Sumanth, B. Swathi, Gade Ashitosh and A. Vijay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mjptbcwr-students-excel-in-jee-results/article36529458.ece
18 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Autonomous status extended||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has extended the autonomous status to Government City College for 9 years including ratification for the last four academic years and fresh extension for the next 5 academic years. Dr. P. Balabhaskar, Principal of the college, said the college secured the autonomy status in 2004 and was renewed in the year 2011. A six-member committee recently reviewed the progress of the college. He said there was significant increase in the admissions during last five years and it continued to stand first in DOST admissions. He said more than 60% of the faculty had PhD degrees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/autonomous-status-extended/article36529399.ece
18 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ICFAI School of Architecture inks MoU with Italian institute||The ICFAI School of Architecture, a constituent of the ICFAI Foundation of Higher Education (IFHE) deemed university, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a top Italian university -- Politecnico Di Milano. J Mahender Reddy, Vice Chancellor, IFHE, said that the agreement with the 150-year-old renowned institution like Politecnico Di Milano will enhance the research activities of the faculty of the ICFAI School of Architecture. Several exchnages Prof. Matteo Poli, DASTu, Politecnico Di Milano, said that the MoU will be the basis of several exchanges for students and professors of India and Italy, Milano and Hyderabad on architecture, landscape and urban design.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/icfai-school-of-architecture-inks-mou-with-italian-institute/article36529449.ece
18 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Award for DRDO scientist||APJ Abdul Kalam Missile Complex, DRDO, Advanced Systems Laboratory (ASL)’s project director N. Kishore Nath has been conferred the prestigious Institution of Engineers (India) - M.P. Baya National Award 2020 in recognition of his significant R&D contributions and technological advancements in mechanical engineering. The award was conferred as part of Engineers’ Day celebrations at IEI, Udaipur, Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/award-for-drdo-scientist/article36529410.ece
18 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||23 TSWREIS students crack LAWCET||As many as 23 students of Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) came out with flying colours and clinched State level ranks under 4,000 in the open category in LAWCET 2021. P. Sony of SW Medchal college bagged 485 level rank, while P. Rojilin of the same college secured 1,462 rank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/23-tswreis-students-crack-lawcet/article36529411.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Page 3 - Briefly Hindi award||MIDHANI -Mishra Datu Nigam Limited’s deputy manager of corporate communication and Hindi cell B. Balaji has been awarded ‘Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar’ under non-Hindi speaking region for 2020-21 on the occasion of ‘Hindi Diwas’ held by the department of official language, Ministry of Home Affairs under the chairmanship of Union Home and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah recently. Mr. Balaji was given the award for his article “Armouring Ke Utpadan Men Agrani MIDHANI” (Hindi) from the hands of Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra and Nishith Pramanik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-briefly-hindi-award/article36529397.ece
18 September 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||SBI briefly||The State Bank of India on donated Rs. 1.5 crore to the Basavatarakam Indo-American Cancer Hospital and Research Institute to set up a Mobile Cancer Screening Unit. The cheque was handed over by Dinesh Khara, Chairman, SBI, at an event organised at the local head office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbi-briefly/article36529457.ece
18 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Srinivas Goud lauds CM’s decision on wine shops||Excise Minister Srinivas Goud said that the decision of the Cabinet extending reservations to Goud community, SCs and STs in allotment of liquor shops is a first of its kind call, which is set to become yet another trendsetter in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/srinivas-goud-lauds-cms-decision-on-wine-shops/article36529405.ece
18 September 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||BJP hell-bent on misinterpreting facts about peasants’ armed struggle: CPI(M)||The undaunted spirit and resolve of 4,000-odd communists who laid down their lives fighting against the Nizam’s tyrannical regime during the historic Telangana Peasants Armed Struggle (1946-51) to protect the peasantry from oppression will continue to inspire generations, said CPI(M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram. He was addressing a public meeting organised by CPI(M) district committee at the Pavilion Grounds here on Friday evening to mark the anniversary of the historic peasants’ struggle against the feudal forces. He read out the names of valiant fighters like Doddi Komuraiah, Chakali Iylamma, Sk Bandagi, Ravi Narayana Reddy, Shoebullah Khan and Makhdoom Moiuddin. “They relentlessly fought against the autocratic Nizam rule and oppression by the landlords and jagirdars to protect the peasants and other marginalised sections from bonded labour and exploitation, till their last breath,” he noted. He alleged that the BJP State leaders were hell-bent on misinterpreting the historical facts about the struggle against the autocratic rule of Nizam to create a communal rift. Privatisation drive The BJP-led Central government is vigorously implementing privatisation drive to handover valuable public infrastructure assets including roads and railways to crony capitalists in the name of monetisation policy to favour a few corporates, he charged. He charged the TRS dispensation in the State with miserably failing to grant pattas for podu lands as per the Recognition of Forest Rights Act (RoFR) in the past seven years. “Instead of addressing the farmers’ issues, the persons at the helm are implicating those fighting for their land rights,” he alleged, pointing to the criminal cases allegedly booked against several women farmers, including a few nursing mothers, of Yallannanagar in Konijerla mandal recently. Protests lined up A massive road blockade stir christened “podu rythula rasta roko” will be organised across a 400-km stretch mainly covering the areas inhabited by podu farmers in the State on October 5, he said. He further said that a dharna will be organised against the “anti-poor” and “anti-farmer” policies of the Centre at Indira Park in Hyderabad on September 22. Mr Veerabhadram urged all sections of people to make the ensuing Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation demanding repeal of the Centre’s three farm laws, a success. Earlier, bike rallies were taken out by the party cadres led by a host of senior leaders from different corners of the district to Khammam town after paying tributes to the memorials of martyrs of the Telangana Peasants Armed Struggle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-hell-bent-on-misinterpreting-facts-about-peasants-armed-struggle-cpim/article36529391.ece
18 September 2021||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||10 crest gates of Nagarjunasagar project lifted||Ten crest gates of the Nagarjunasagar were lifted on Friday, as the project’s capacity neared the maximum levels with flood from the upstream Srisailam project. It was already brimming just short of the FRL of 590 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10-crest-gates-of-nagarjunasagar-project-lifted/article36529406.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Maestro’ movie review: This ‘Andhadhun’ remake is sincere and ambitious, but is that enough?||Director Merlapaka Gandhi and actor Nithiin, whose home production has backed Maestro , deserve a pat on the back for trying to recreate writer-director Sriram Raghavan’s brilliant black comedy Andhadhun , in Telugu. If you’ve seen the original, you might agree that it takes guts to even attempt to match that vision. One could argue that when the original is available to view digitally, do we need a remake that takes a direct-to-digital route (Disney+ Hotstar)? But for the business constraints during the pandemic, Maestro would have been a theatrical release, taking the story to newer pockets of Telugu film viewers. That’s a different issue altogether. As it stands, Maestro is faithful to its source material, tweaking it only mildly. Yet, it falls short. Remember the macabre humour that unfolds as the pianist, supposedly blind, is privy to events that unfold in a yesteryear actor’s house after a murder? A lot depended on how the sequence was choreographed, with the inimitable Tabu playing a big part, helped by Ayushmann Khurrana and Manav Vij. The sequence in Maestro follows a similar pattern but the effect is far from the same.  Maestro is set in Goa where pianist Arun (Nithiin) tries to create music with the utmost focus, play-acting to be blind to avoid distractions. He falls in love with Sophie (Nabha Natesh), whose father runs a restaurant. Here, he meets yesteryear actor Mohan (V K Naresh). An invitation to play at a private concert at Mohan’s home changes everything for Arun. A photograph of ‘maestro’ Ilaiyaraaja is prominently placed on Arun’s piano. It’s also apt that the yesteryear actor’s character is named Mohan, perhaps also alluding to the 80s when Ilaiyaraaja’s music helped ‘mike’ Mohan deliver superhit Tamil films. There are throwbacks to V K Naresh’s own earlier Telugu hits too. Tamanaah plays Mohan’s sultry young wife Simran. Jisshu Sengupta is the police officer and Ananya Nagalla is Mohan’s daughter. The moral compass stays skewed for most of the characters, be it Arun, Simran, Bobby or later the organ-harvesting doctor (Harshavardhan), lottery ticket seller (Mangli) and the auto driver Murali (Racha Ravi). The one who is most unapologetic about her deeds, driven only by a survival instinct, is Simran. Nithiin seems to have enjoyed being part of a story that stands out from mainstream Telugu films, and Nabha is at ease playing the girlfriend. It isn’t a complicated part and she does well. It is appreciable that Tamannaah has dubbed herself, but her laboured Telugu diction doesn’t cut it. Alas, she is no Tabu. The biggest tweak from the original comes at the fag end. Andhadhun ’s end sparked off many theories. Sriram Raghavan had stated that the intention was to leave it open to interpretation. Merlapaka Gandhi, though, leaves no room for ambiguity.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maestro-movie-review-this-andhadhun-remake-is-sincere-and-ambitious-but-is-that-enough/article36529394.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Gully Rowdy’ movie review: Rowdyism and silly laughs||Director Nageswara Reddy, in a departure from his earlier genre of comedy (his last outings were Acharya America Yatra and Tenali Ramakrishna BA.BL ), tries his luck with an action film interspersed with comedy. The introduction is interesting but soon one realises that the director wants to focus more on the rowdy angle in the story. He wants to infuse a rowdy’s story with comic elements. As a young boy, Vasu (Sundeep Kishan) is shown to be groomed reluctantly as a rowdy by Naidu (Posani), Man Friday of his grandpa (Nagineedu), for his family prestige and to seek revenge on a rowdy Bairagi. Sundeep Kishan can balance neither roles of a rowdy nor as an ordinary youth who has fallen for Neha Shetty. His rowdyism comes in handy only to rescue the heroine and her family. Sundeep Kishan is lost among an ensemble cast. The film is loud and the effort to generate laughs is pathetic. Rajendra Prasad is over the top and there is little he can do with his stereotyped mannerisms. He plays Venkat Rao, a cop whose land is grabbed by the villain. His daughter seeks Vasu’s help and in the process, the villain is killed. Now his son is angry and the top cop Raghu Naik (Bobby Simha) is collecting evidence, fully aware that Venkat Rao’s family is involved in the mess. A crucial reveal in the final scenes ends up being absurd. It is sad that being produced by Kona Venkat doesn’t help the film. There’s nothing noteworthy, neither the performances of the lead pair — Neha and Sundeep are just adequate and Vennela Kishore’s comedy falls flat — nor the music and cinematography. None of the actors does a noteworthy job and there is not one scene that is worth discussing. Gully Rowdy is a wasted outing for Sundeep Kishan, who was at a loss to decide which subject he needs to select to return to form. The film is ostensibly an effort to combine an action entertainer with a rom-com, but nothing works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gully-rowdy-movie-review-rowdyism-and-silly-laughs/article36529390.ece
18 September 2021||Mumbai,||14 hurt in Mumbai girder collapse||Fourteen workers sustained injuries in Mumbai after a girder of an under-construction flyover at MTNL junction in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) collapsed around 4.30 a.m. on Friday. All workers were admitted to V.N. Desai Hospital in Santacruz and doctors said their condition was stable. The State government has ordered an inquiry into the mishap. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, the girder collapsed while labourers were working on the site. The flyover connected BKC and Santacruz-Chembur Link Road.  ‘No loss of life’ The officials said 24 workers, two supervisors and two engineers were engaged at the site and jumped off as the girder collapsed. Deputy Commissioner of Police Manjunath Singe said, “There is no loss of life and no person is missing.” Eknath Shinde, State Urban Development Minister, visited the spot. Mr. Shinde announced a probe into the accident by a joint team of a private organisation and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). He also said that the expenses for the workers’ treatment would be borne by MMRDA. He said, “Prima facie, the accident took place due to misplacing of the girder’s bearing and nut-bolt. However, an independent inquiry will be conducted and to avoid such incidents in future, all under-construction bridges will be evaluated through an independent agency.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/14-workers-injured-in-bridge-collapse-in-mumbai/article36528678.ece
18 September 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC awards Rs. 10 lakh each to widows of three manual scavengers||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Maharashtra government to pay Rs. 10 lakh each as compensation to the widows of three manual scavengers who died while cleaning a septic tank in a housing society in Govandi on December 23, 2019. A Division Bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Madhav Jamdar was hearing a petition filed by Vimla Govind Chorotiya, Neeta Santosh Kalshekar, and Bani Vishwajit Debnath. The Bench said the case was an “eye-opener” and directed the office of the District Collector to provide a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh each to the three women within four weeks. Advocate Isha Singh, appearing for the petitioners, argued that though the deaths occurred as a consequence of a private housing society employing the men as manual scavengers, the State was strictly liable and responsible for providing compensation to the families. She said the burden of eradicating manual scavenging in accordance with Article 17 of the Constitution (abolition of untouchability) was on the government. Rehabilitation Government Pleader Poornima Kantharia submitted that in addition to compensation, the government was willing to rehabilitate the women by providing their children scholarships. She also highlighted that the petitioners would be included in the list of manual scavengers. She told the court that in accordance with its instructions, she had brought three cheques of Rs. 1.25 lakh each for the petitioners. She earlier informed the court that the builder had deposited Rs. 3.75 lakh as part of the compensation, in accordance with the directions of the tehsildar of Kurla. The court also stated that it would monitor the case to ensure that all the provisions of the Prohibition of Employment of Manual Scavengers Act, 2013, were implemented. It also directed the State government to submit a list of the manual scavengers identified by it and to report on the action taken on the FIR registered after the deaths of the manual scavengers in Govandi. The court noted that it would examine whether the Government Resolution regarding the payment of compensation to the families of the deceased manual scavengers was complied with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bombay-hc-awards-rs-10-lakh-each-to-widows-of-three-manual-scavengers/article36529130.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Bail granted to Sidhana in R-Day violence case||A Delhi court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana in a case related to allegedly attempting to kill police personnel and instigating a mob to break barricades during the farmers’ protest rally on Republic Day this year. Additional Sessions Judge Jagdish Kumar granted relief to Sidhana after noting that he has already joined the investigation and has been granted bail in a conspiracy case related to violence that ensued at the Red Fort here on January 26. Sidhana sought anticipatory bail in the case related to the clashes, which took place between the farmers and police at Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar. The judge did not accept the submission of prosecution to deny him relief that even though he has joined the probe, one of the mobile phones given by him, is protected with a password. ‘Forgotten password’  During the hearing, Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) Madhukar Pandey submitted that Sidhana told the police that he has “forgotten” the password and is not co-operating in the investigation. “If, that is the situation how court can presume that he has forgotten the password or deliberately not disclosing the code for unlocking the mobile phone,” the judge said. The court further noted that Sidhana has admitted that he was part of the mob. The accused has been released on anticipatory bail on the condition that he has to join the probe as and when required and not influence the witnesses in any manner. The SPP opposed the bail plea and apprised the court that Sidhana was part of the unlawful assembly, attempted to “kill some police officials” and instigated the mob to break the barricades. He said Sidhana is involved in 20 heinous cases, including those related to murder and attempt to murder.Senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, along with advocates Jaspreet Singh and Jasdeep Singh Dhillon, who represented Sidhana, told the court that their client is not even named in the FIR and police does not have evidence against him. Sidhana moved the court saying he had grave apprehension that he may be arrested as his first cousin Gurdeep Singh was abducted and tortured by the Delhi Police and was made to forcibly sign certain blank papers, the counsel said.  SPP opposed the bail plea and apprised the court that Sidhana was part of the unlawful assembly, attempted to kill some police officials and instigated the mob to break the barricades||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bail-granted-to-sidhana-in-r-day-violence-case/article36529249.ece
18 September 2021||Pune,||Ajit Pawar orders shops to shut on Ganesh visarjan||All shops in Pune district will remain shut on Sunday on Ganesh visarjan, which marks the end of the 10-day festivities, said Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday. The decision has been taken in order to preclude large gatherings, reduce the risk of a potential rise in COVID-19 cases and avert a possible third wave of the pandemic, officials said. However, essential services along with restaurants and hotels would be permitted to function normally. During the day, the State’s active case tally dipped to 48,451, with 4,410 recoveries being reported against 3,586 new cases. With 67 deaths, the toll rose to 1,38,389, while total cases stand at 65,15,111. The State’s total recoveries have risen to 63,24,720, with the recovery rate at 97.06% and the case fatality rate remaining constant at 2.12%. “Of 5,67,09,128 laboratory samples tested thus far, 65,15,111 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 11.49%) have returned positive, with over 1.80 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported over 800 new cases, taking its tally to 11,33,916, while eight deaths pushed the total toll to 18,830. As per district authorities, the active case tally has risen to around 8,000. Mumbai reported 472 new cases to take its tally to 7,37,200, while the active case tally rose to 5,502. Three deaths took the city’s death toll to 16,042. Ahmednagar reported 771 new cases and 10 deaths, taking its total cases to 3,21,940, of whom 6,575 are active. The district’s cumulative toll rose to 6,707.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ajit-pawar-orders-shops-to-shut-on-ganesh-visarjan/article36529128.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Xi calls for ‘moderate’ Afghanistan||China’s President Xi Jinping on Friday called on the new government in Afghanistan “to adopt prudent and moderate” policies and said its neighbours should encourage Kabul to do so, with Beijing stepping up its diplomacy with countries in the region, including Russia, Pakistan and Iran. Mr. Xi was addressing virtually the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit in Dushanbe, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi also addressed on Friday. In his speech, Mr. Modi warned of the dangers of radicalisation and extremism posed to the region stemming from the instability there. Mr. Xi made a similar point, urging the members of the SCO “to encourage Afghanistan to put in place a broad-based and inclusive political framework, adopt prudent and moderate domestic and foreign policies, resolutely fight all forms of terrorism, live in amity with its neighbours and truly embark on a path of peace, stability and development”. He said the country faced “many daunting challenges, and it needs the support and assistance of the international community”, as he called on SCO members “to step up coordination, make full use of platforms such as the SCO-Afghanistan Contact Group and facilitate a smooth transition”. The eight-member SCO, including Russia, China, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan, included Iran as its latest member at the summit. On the Afghanistan issue, China has been stepping up its diplomacy with Russia and Pakistan in particular. Foreign Minister Wang Yi, who attended the summit in Dushanbe, on Thursday held “an informal meeting” with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and Assistant to Iranian Foreign Minister Seyed Rasoul Mousavi. The four country grouping, Mr. Wang said, had a role to play “as important neighbours of Afghanistan and influential countries in the region”. “It is necessary for us four countries to strengthen communication and coordination, make unanimous voices, exert positive influence, and play a constructive role in the smooth transition of the situation in Afghanistan,” Mr. Wang said. He outlined a five-point proposal for the four countries to follow, including “urging the U.S. to learn lessons from the past”, working to tackle “spillover of security risks” and getting the new Taliban regime “to make a clean break with terrorist forces”, and providing assistance to the war-torn country. “Regional countries have three main expectations for the new Afghan government: inclusiveness, counter-terrorism and good-neighbourliness,” he said, adding that “China is ready to step up coordination with Russia, Pakistan, Iran and other countries in the region to play a constructive role in preventing chaos, maintaining stability, combating terrorism and violence, realising peace and reconstruction of Afghanistan and ultimately achieving lasting peace in the region.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-calls-for-moderate-afghanistan/article36528638.ece
18 September 2021||Yangon,||Junta to put Suu Kyi on graft trial||Myanmar’s junta will put ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi on trial for corruption, her lawyer said on Friday, adding to a raft of ongoing cases that could see her jailed for decades. Ms. Suu Kyi has been under house arrest since her National League for Democracy (NLD) government was deposed by the military in a February coup that sparked a mass uprising and a brutal crackdown on dissent. The 76-year-old Nobel laureate is currently on trial for flouting coronavirus restrictions during polls the NLD won in a landslide last year, illegally importing walkie talkies and sedition. Each corruption charge carries a maximum sentence of 15 years. Trial to begin on Oct. 1 She will face a new trial on four charges of corruption beginning on October 1 in the capital Naypyidaw, her lawyer Khin Maung Zaw said. The newest trial forms part of a junta plan “to get her (Suu Kyi) out of the picture” said Manny Maung, a researcher at Human Rights Watch. Dragging out legal proceedings while Suu Kyi is confined to an unknown location will “impact the ability of the NLD to bounce back” and deny her supporters a point around which to rally, Ms. Maung added. The ongoing trials were delayed for two months as Myanmar grappled with a coronavirus surge and only resumed this week, with Ms. Suu Kyi skipping the first day on health grounds. Journalists have been barred from all proceedings so far. The junta has also charged her for accepting illegal payments of gold and violating a colonial-era secrecy law, although these are yet to come to court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/junta-to-put-suu-kyi-on-graft-trial/article36528643.ece
18 September 2021||Islamabad,||‘New reality’ established in Afghanistan, says Imran||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Friday said a “new reality” has been established in Afghanistan after the Taliban seized power in Kabul and that it is now in the international community’s “collective interest” to ensure that there is no renewed conflict in the war-torn country. Addressing the 21st Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of State (SCO-CHS) Summit in Dushanbe, Mr. Khan said it should be a matter of relief for the world that the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban and the full withdrawal of foreign forces from the country happened “without bloodshed, without civil war, and without mass exodus of refugees”. Pakistan had an interest in a peaceful and stable Afghanistan, he said. “The sudden change of the previous government which surprised everyone, the takeover by the Taliban, and the full withdrawal of foreign forces, has established a new reality in Afghanistan. “That all this happened without bloodshed, without civil war, and without mass exodus of refugees, should be a matter of relief,” Mr. Khan said, adding that it is now in the international community’s collective interest to ensure that there is no renewed conflict in Afghanistan and the security situation across the country is stabilised. Other key priorities include preventing humanitarian crisis and an economic meltdown, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-reality-established-in-afghanistan-says-imran/article36528637.ece
18 September 2021||Sydney,||Australia shrugs off China anger on nuclear subs||Australia on Friday shrugged off Chinese anger over its decision to acquire U.S. nuclear-powered submarines, while vowing to defend the rule of law in airspace and waters where Beijing has staked hotly contested claims. U.S. President Joe Biden announced the new Australia-U.S.-Britain defence alliance on Wednesday, extending U.S. nuclear submarine technology to Australia as well as cyber defence, applied artificial intelligence and undersea capabilities. Beijing described the new alliance as an “extremely irresponsible” threat to regional stability, questioning Australia’s commitment to nuclear non-proliferation and warning the Western allies that they risked “shooting themselves in the foot”. China has its own “very substantive programme of nuclear submarine building”, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison argued on Friday in an interview with radio station 2GB. “They have every right to take decisions in their national interests for their defence arrangements and of course so does Australia and all other countries,” he said. In a series of media interviews, the Australian leader said his government was reacting to changing dynamics in the Asia-Pacific region where territory is increasingly contested and competition is rising. Australia is “very aware” of China’s nuclear submarine capabilities and growing military investment, he told Channel Seven television. “We are interested in ensuring that international waters are always international waters and international skies are international skies, and that the rule of law applies equally in all of these places,” he said. Australia wanted to ensure that there were no “no-go zones” in areas governed by international law, the Prime Minister said. “That’s very important whether it is for trade, whether it is for things like undersea cables, for planes and where they can fly. I mean that is the order that we need to preserve. That is what peace and stability provides for and that is what we are seeking to achieve.” ‘Stab in the back’ The move also infuriated France, aghast at losing a contract to supply conventional submarines to Australia that was worth $36.5 billion when signed in 2016. Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said it was a “stab in the back” from Australia. But the main backdrop to the alliance is China’s rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/australia-shrugs-off-china-anger-on-nuclear-subs/article36528640.ece
18 September 2021||New York,||UN extends Afghan mission mandate for six months||The UN Security Council voted on Friday to extend the UN mission in Afghanistan for six months, and called on the Taliban to create an inclusive government. The 15-member Council acted in a resolution passed unanimously on the UNAMA political mission, which deals with development issues, among others, not peacekeeping. The document stressed “the importance of the establishment of an inclusive and representative government,” although Afghanistan’s new Islamist rulers have formed a government made up only of Taliban members and no women. The resolution also calls for “full, equal and meaningful participation of women, and upholding human rights, including for women, children and minorities.” It was drafted by Estonia and Norway, which welcomed the unanimous passage. In August, a Council resolution calling for freedom of movement for Afghans wishing to leave the country after the Taliban takeover won 13 votes, as Russia and China abstained. The text approved on Friday said the UN will continue to play an “important role” in promoting peace and stability in Afghanistan. Diplomats said the Taliban did not object to the UN mandate being renewed. “They are obliged to be more flexible,” an Afghanistan specialist at the UN said. “They are more pragmatic” than they were in the first stint in power in 1990s, the person said. The Taliban then were known to be brutal in their strict enforcement of Islamic law. ‘Leverage over Taliban’ “The Taliban need the UN and this is our leverage” to have an influence on their decision making, the specialist said. The Council asked Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to brief it every other month on the situation in Afghanistan until the mandate is due again to expire in March 2022. It also wants a written report on the future of the mission by January 31. Several NGOs, such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, have pressed for the UN and its 2,000 staffers in Afghanistan to stay in place to report on human rights abuses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-extends-afghan-mission-mandate-for-six-months/article36528646.ece
18 September 2021||Tokyo,||Race for Japan’s new PM kicks off||The campaign to become Japan’s next Prime Minister kicked off on Friday, with four candidates vying for leadership of the ruling party in an unusually close race. The candidates include two women hoping to lead a country that has never had a woman Prime Minister, though both are considered long shots. The race follows Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s shock announcement last month that would not run for head of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party. Whoever the party picks in a September 29 vote will become PM and contest a general election that has to be held by late November. Outspoken vaccine chief Taro Kono leads public opinion polls for the top post. Mr. Kono’s main competition is expected to come from ex-Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida, who heads a large LDP faction that will back him in the race. The two other candidates in the race are vying to become Japan’s first woman leader, but both divisive right-winger Sanae Takaichi and former Gender Equality Minister Seiko Noda are believed to be long shots. The voting on September 29 will be over two rounds, if needed, with 383 lawmakers and an equal number of rank-and-file members voting in the first instance. But the close race makes it unlikely a candidate will secure a majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/race-for-japans-new-pm-kicks-off/article36528645.ece
18 September 2021||Washington DC,||Biden unveils plan to cut methane emissions||With about a month and a half to go before the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26), the UN climate conference in Glasgow, U.S. President Joe Biden announced the Global Methane Pledge, a U.S.–EU led effort to cut methane emissions by a third by the end of this decade. Mr. Biden made the announcement at the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate (MEF), hosted virtually by the White House on Friday, in which leaders from several countries and the EU, as well as UN Secretary General António Guterres and (India’s ) Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav, participated. “This will not only rapidly reduce the rate of global warming, but it will also produce a very valuable side benefit, like improving public health and agricultural output,” Mr. Biden said about the initiative. “We’re mobilising support to help developing countries that join and pledge to do something significant — pledge and seize this virtual [vital] opportunity,” he said. Methane, a greenhouse gas, is 80 times more potent than carbon dioxide in terms of its global warming capacity. Approximately 40% of methane emitted is from natural sources and about 60% comes from human-influenced sources, including livestock farming, rice agriculture, biomass burning and so forth. “We are rapidly running out of time,”Mr. Guterres said on Friday at the MEF.” The world is on a catastrophic pathway to 2.7 degrees Celsius heating. There is a high risk of failure of COP26.” Countries will meet in Glasgow in November to review progress since the Paris Agreement (2015) on climate, with some countries making commitments to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. The Paris deal seeks to maintain temperature rises to under 2 degrees Celsius (and pursuing the goal of limiting rises to below 1.5 degrees Celsius) above pre-industrial levels by getting countries to commit to emission cuts. Kerry’s India visit U.S. Climate Envoy John Kerry, who also spoke at the MEF, was asked by Mr. Biden to chair a ministerial session with India, China, Russia and Germany, as per the White House. Mr. Kerry has just returned from a visit to New Delhi where he tried, unsuccessfully, to get a commitment from the government on getting to ‘net zero’ by 2050, according to reporting in The Hindu . India has announced a renewable energy capacity goal of 450 GW by 2030 and Indian Railways has committed to achieving ‘net zero’ emissions by that year, but India as a whole has not committed to a time frame for reaching that target. Some 130 countries are considering a net zero emissions target by 2050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-unveils-plan-to-cut-methane-emissions/article36528922.ece
18 September 2021||Beijing,||Chinese astronauts back after 90 days in space||A trio of Chinese astronauts returned to Earth on Friday after a 90-day stay aboard their nation’s first space station in China’s longest mission yet. Nie Haisheng, Liu Boming and Tang Hongbo landed in the Shenzhou-12 spaceship just after 1:30 p.m. (0530 GMT) after having undocked from the space station Thursday morning. State broadcaster CCTV showed footage of the spacecraft parachuting to land in the Gobi Desert where it was met by helicopters and off-road vehicles. Minutes later, a crew of technicians began opening the hatch of the capsule, which appeared undamaged. The three astronauts emerged about 30 minutes later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-astronauts-back-after-90-days-in-space/article36528641.ece
18 September 2021||Moscow,||Ahead of polls, Navalny app goes offline||An app created by allies of imprisoned Russian Opposition leader Alexei Navalny disappeared from Apple and Google stores on Friday as polls opened across Russia for voting in a parliamentary election. The “Smart Voting” app was created to promote candidates against those backed by Kremlin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ahead-of-polls-navalny-app-goes-offline/article36528644.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The other virus amid a raging pandemic||Mohammed Hashim was wheeled into the chaotic casualty ward of the Government Medical College Hospital in Kozhikode in north Kerala from a private hospital on August 31. “It was around 12.50 p.m.,” recalled Abdul Kareem (name changed), a healthcare volunteer. “Hashim (12) was on oxygen support, which was taken back by the private hospital staff. I fixed another oxygen mask on his face. Hashim was having seizures as if he was epileptic.” Hashim’s mother, Wahida, who was beside herself with anxiety, kept telling Kareem that her son was scared of injections and that’s why he was getting seizures. Hashim was whisked off to the ‘red area’ earmarked for critical patients. An antigen test showed a negative result for COVID-19. The seizures continued, the cause undetected. Soon, he started vomiting profusely. Wahida and her husband, Vayoli Aboobacker, lost their only son in a private hospital on September 5. Barely a few hours before his death, Hashim had tested positive for the deadly Nipah virus. Fear of the known Kozhikode and the adjoining districts of Kannur and Malappuram were immediately put on high alert. Entry to Pazhoor, the village where Hashim lived, was barricaded. Nearby wards that fall in Mukkam Municipality and Kodiyathur Grama Panchayat were declared containment zones. A familiar fear gripped the villagers. From September 4 night, TV news channels had started broadcasting reports about the infection recurring in Kozhikode for the second time after three years. While rushing to Kozhikode from the State capital, Health Minister Veena George confirmed the news about Hashim’s death at a brief stopover in Thrissur in the early hours of September 5. “The National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, informed us on Saturday night that the three body fluid samples of the boy have returned positive for Nipah,” she said. It was a déjà vu moment for many who remembered the scary days of May-June 2018 when the Nipah infection was reported for the first time in Kozhikode. Of the 23 identified cases then, the virus had claimed the lives of 21 people in Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. Two of the infected persons had survived. The family members of healthcare workers who attended to Hashim were equally alarmed. This provided a grim reminder of nurse Lini Puthussery, who succumbed to the virus while treating one of the infected persons during the first outbreak. Classified by the World Health Organization (WHO) as a “zoonotic illness that is transmitted to people from animals”, the Nipah infection can also be passed on through contaminated food or from person to person. In infected people, it causes a range of illnesses. While some remain asymptomatic, others can have acute respiratory illness and fatal encephalitis. The virus can also cause severe disease in animals such as pigs. Fruit bats of the family Pteropodidae – particularly, species belonging to the Pteropus genus – are the natural hosts for the virus, says the WHO. Symptoms include fever, headaches, muscle pain, vomiting and sore throat. This can be followed by dizziness, drowsiness, altered consciousness, and neurological signs that indicate acute encephalitis. The WHO says patients with severe infection get encephalitis and seizures and end up in coma in 24 to 48 hours. The mortality rate is as high as around 92%. Following Hashim’s death, the National Centre for Disease Control deputed a special team to Kozhikode to assess the situation. A special lab under the aegis of the NIV was set up at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital to test samples. A special control room was opened at the government guest house. Hashim’s parents, some of their relatives, and the healthcare workers who attended to him were all quarantined. By then, some of them had already developed mild fever. Deserted roads stretched out in front of us when we visited the Munnur locality in Pazhoor two days after Hashim’s death. Only a few shops selling essential goods were open. Very few dared to venture out of their homes. COVID-19 rapid response team volunteers helped people, especially senior citizens, get medicines and grocery items, while other volunteers conducted a house-to-house survey to determine if there were unnatural fever deaths or unreported deaths in recent times. The road leading to Hashim’s house was blocked. Some of the local residents refused to talk. “He was a nice, calm boy. He used to roam around the area with his goats,” a neighbour later said on the phone. Lack of a guideline Kerala’s public health apparatus had won acclaim for its efforts to contain the virus when it was reported for the first time. A critically acclaimed movie was made on its handling of the crisis. In 2019, another case of the infection was reported: the patient was a 21-year-old youth in Ernakulam district. He recovered. This time, as the days went by, questions emerged about the efficacy of the health system in diagnosing the infection at an early stage. Many asked why the Medical College Hospital did not follow a purported guideline, devised after the first outbreak to screen those with encephalitis, meningitis or Nipah-like symptoms. According to Vayoli Musthafa, one of Hashim’s relatives, the young boy had a fever from August 27. He was taken to a nearby doctor’s residence on August 29. He remained at home for two more days, but the symptoms did not subside. Wahida and Aboobacker rushed him to two private hospitals, at Mukkom and Omassery, on August 31 before approaching the Medical College Hospital. Hashim remained in the casualty ward there for around 23 hours and was subjected to various scanning procedures. According to sources, initially only Hashim’s parents were there with him. The next morning, people from their neighbourhood reached the hospital too. Musthafa said that the hospital authorities advised them to shift Hashim to another hospital as the Medical College Hospital did not have a ventilator support for children then. Hashim was once again moved to another private hospital in the city, where doctors suspected something amiss after seeing his condition. Hashim’s body fluid samples were sent for a Nipah test, which returned out to be positive. One of the doctors at the Medical College Hospital said on condition of anonymity that he was not sure if there was a definite guideline for Nipah. “That is a logically and scientifically accepted requirement in a place which has already documented an infection of a deadly nature like Nipah. When we make requests for such a guideline, it takes time at various levels within the institution and the government. It is quite possible that cases like this may have been missed because of the lack of a proper channelised system in government medical college hospitals,” he said. The doctor, however, claimed that in Hashim’s case, it wouldn’t have made a difference because he was already severely infected when taken to the Medical College Hospital. A sustainable mechanism should be put in place to ensure that the samples of all suspected cases are sent to labs so that no case is missed, another doctor said. Soon after the first Nipah outbreak, the State government had announced its plan to set up a virology institute with international standards in Thiruvananthapuram, and a regional virology lab at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. The Institute of Virology set up at the Bio 360 Life Sciences Park at Thonnakkal in 2019 “as an institute of global standards networking Global Virology Institutes with most modern laboratories focusing research, diagnosis and management of emerging and re-emerging infectious viral diseases” is taking baby steps. The bio-safety level-III lab proposed at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital, too, has not made much progress. This regional lab affiliated to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was supposed to help detect infectious diseases such as Nipah, H1N1, West Nile fever, and Kyasanur Forest Disease. According to sources, the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital had reported a couple of cases of Japanese Encephalitis in May 2018 in the same month the Nipah infection occurred. A public health expert said that those with Nipah would also show positive test results for Japanese Encephalitis. What was termed as Japanese Encephalitis could have been Nipah. There might not have been any follow-up study on the throat swab, cerebrospinal fluid, blood and urine samples of those infected persons, he said. Althaf Ali, Associate Professor, Community Medicine, Government Medical College, Manjeri, who was part of an expert team that studied the first Nipah outbreak, stressed the need to strengthen the surveillance system in hospitals. “The body fluid samples of patients who are suspected to have symptoms of acute encephalitis syndrome, a notifiable condition by the WHO, should be subjected to mandatory lab tests. These tests should be made available for follow-up studies as well. Though the main attempt is to diagnose Japanese Encephalitis, infections such as Nipah and West Nile fever too can be detected this way,” he pointed out. Tracing the source The health authorities, however, highlighted how the healthcare system in the State is under strain. Soon after the first outbreak came the disastrous floods of 2018 and 2019. When it looked like the State was limping back from these jolts, the health system was shaken by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has been long-drawn, challenging and relentless. The news of a fresh case of Nipah infection emerged when Kerala was continuing to report the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the country. They said that no effort would be wasted in tracing the source of the infection. The Department of Animal Husbandry collected throat swab samples of goats in the area as Hashim was reported to have the habit of rearing them. Body fluid samples of bats and some bat carcasses and bird droppings too were taken for tests at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. However, all of them have returned negative for the virus along with the wild boar samples collected with the help of the Forest Department. After some of his neighbours said that Hashim had eaten rambutan, some of the half-eaten parts of the fruit too were taken to be tested. The results are awaited. “One of the biggest challenges now will be to detect how the virus was transmitted from animals to humans. How it happened in 2018 is still unclear. Antibodies against the virus were found in 12 of the 52 samples of fruit bats collected from Changaroth Grama Panchayat and nearby areas in Kozhikode where the first outbreak occurred. There is no evidence other than that,” said Dr. Althaf. In 2019, after the infection recurred, the presence of antibodies was found in fruit bat samples in Ernakulam as well. These bats belonged to the species Flying Fox or Pteropus medius . A public health expert, who did not wish to be named, said, “Some people try to compare the source of the Nipah infection with COVID-19, which is factually incorrect. For COVID-19, there has been only one index patient or zero patient, the person in whom the infection was detected first. But for Nipah, every one of the local occurrences so far has had an index case.” Detailed research has not been conducted as yet on the presence of the virus in bats in Kerala. According to reports, there are 48 species of bats in Kerala, of which seven are fruit bats. An international study titled ‘Prioritizing surveillance of Nipah virus in India’, published in the PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases journal in June 2019, had claimed that at least 11 bat species in the country could carry the virus. “In addition to seven species in Kerala that were previously identified as Nipah virus seropositive, we identified at least four bat species that, on the basis of trait similarity with known Nipah virus-seropositive species, have a relatively high likelihood of exposure to Nipah or Nipah-like viruses in India,” said the study. P.O. Nameer, Professor and Head of the Department of Wildlife Sciences and Centre for Wildlife Studies, College of Forestry, Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur, was one of the co-authors of this study. “There are two important points. One, the samples collected for the study were not from India, but from other countries. Also, 10 of the 11 samples were subjected to only serological examination, which is suggestive of the presence of the virus, and not RT-PCR tests, which are more accurate. So, our study actually called for a detailed investigation into the presence of the virus in Indian bats,” he said. An integrated approach Public health experts have also called for an integrated approach to emerging infections, especially those zoonotic in nature. They don’t rule out the possibility of the Nipah infection recurring in the future. M. Muraleedharan, State vice-president of the Indian Medical Association, said zoonotic diseases have been posing a challenge to our public health in the last few decades. “To address these infections, we need to coordinate the treatment methods and health surveillance of the people along with those for animals. Such an approach should also take into view ecological concerns, and a ‘One Health’ policy should be developed,” he said. He suggested that Kerala take steps to set up a research and study centre for animals on the lines of the national lab in Bhopal. The government should also set up bio-safety level-IV high security labs so that testing and diagnosis for infections such as Nipah can be done in the State itself, he said. Dr. Muraleedharan said that it was high time that the State government implemented a Kerala Public Health Act as well. Now, an age-old Madras Public Health Act is in force in the Malabar region and a Travancore-Cochin Public Health Act is applicable to the rest of the State. A doctor at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital, a major healthcare institution in the Malabar region comprising six districts, underscored the problem of overcrowding in government medical college hospitals, which would have to be dealt with on an emergency basis. During the 2018 outbreak, many of the secondary contacts of the primary cases were in-hospital contacts due to lack of implementation of strict infection control practices. Crowding has to be minimised in casualty wards to prevent any cross infections, he said. There has to be a proper isolation system with the necessary infrastructure and manpower so that parallel medical services to other patients are not compromised during outbreaks like this, he said. But it also looks like the existing COVID-19 protocol has come in handy in the fight against Nipah. “So far, we have seen that Nipah gets transmitted only after the infected person becomes terminally ill. The person is confined to a hospital, in intensive care units or wards. So, the chance of spreading the infection is confined to healthcare institutions and the people there — nearby patients, bystanders and healthcare workers,” Dr. Althaf said. Now COVID-19 protocols are in place — people are wearing face masks and are sanitising their hands frequently. All the hospitals have infection-control measures in place. So far, 143 people on Hashim’s contact list, including 17 of those symptomatic for the infection, have tested negative for the virus. Restrictions on social life imposed on Chathamangalam Grama Panchayat and surrounding wards in other local bodies have been gradually eased. Life is slowly returning to normal. An NIV team has collected bat samples in a bid to study the source of the infection. But a question still remains. “Hashim’s parents were very particular about maintaining hygiene. We don’t believe that he had eaten a rambutan fruit bitten by a bat. He used to eat only freshly plucked ones from trees on his father’s property. So, how did he get infected,” Hashim’s neighbour wondered. We may have to wait for long for an answer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-other-virus-amid-a-raging-pandemic/article36528636.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Picking up the threads from the Afghan rubble||The Taliban does appear to have established control, by and large, over Afghanistan, with the last remaining holdout at Panjshir having fallen. Nevertheless, many more questions than answers exist. One significant question is whether the ‘Global War on Terror’ has been consigned to the detritus of history or not. Much turmoil, terror shoots The latest episode in Afghanistan’s tragic history has resulted in several thousands being displaced, and many thousands being forced to flee the country. The overweening threat, however, remains including the presence of many newer terrorist outfits, such as Daesh, ISIS-K, al Qaeda, Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), ETIM-K (a militant group from China’s Xinjiang), the Fidayeen mahas, all of which are the enduring legacies of 20 years of foreign occupation. The Taliban have in the meantime, announced the setting up of a 33-member interim government, headed by Mullah Mohammad Hasan Akhund as the acting Prime Minister. Prominent appointees include Abdul Ghani Baradar as acting Deputy Prime Minister, Sirajuddin Haqqani as acting Interior Minister, Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob as acting Defence Minister, and Amir Khan Muttaqi as acting Foreign Minister. Notwithstanding earlier pronouncements by the Taliban, the government is, for the present, solely a Taliban construct, and overwhelmingly Pashtun in character. Pakistan holds certain key cards given the prominent role assigned to its protégés, Sirajuddin Haqqani and Mohammad Yaqoob, the son of Mullah Omar. The new government is unlikely to be fazed by the fact that quite a few members of the interim government are on various terror lists, including that of the United Nations and the United States. A great deal of wringing of hands about the choices made may exist, but on a deeper reflection, it would be apparent that the original sin was the U.S. Agreement with the Taliban last year, which conferred on the group a degree of international recognition. Many more aftershocks can also be expected. Hopes of a pragmatic Afghanistan behind the religious garb may thus prove highly evanescent. What was achieved in Afghanistan, despite two decades of U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) occupation, can be summed up in three words: an unmitigated disaster. Destruction of the terror network — essentially of the al Qaeda network – was an objective which was far from achieved. Terror networks were driven underground for a time, but many new variants such as the Islamic State and many offshoots of the same thrive not only in Afghanistan but also in many different regions of the globe. India’s engagement The facade of seeking to impose democracy in Afghanistan currently stands exposed, but the real damage possibly done is to the idea of democracy itself. Spending trillions of dollars cannot cloak this flawed effort. India’s efforts regarding the economic development of Afghanistan have been rendered infructuous, and its reputation has suffered lasting damage. More serious is the fact that India’s relations with the new Taliban leadership remain strained due to its association, earlier with the Northern Alliance, and subsequently with the Hamid Karzai and Ashraf Ghani administrations. This has put India in a different category, compared to many of Afghanistan’s other neighbours such as China and Russia. Pakistan clearly falls into a different category as the ‘patron saint’ of the new regime. Those who do not heed the lessons of history, it is said, are doomed to perdition. Afghanistan has been the graveyard of the ambitions of many nations in the past, notably Great Britain and Russia. Ever since the days of the Great Game between Russia and Great Britain, and right through the Cold War between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, Afghanistan had been viewed as strategically important. Its strategic value has only increased subsequently. The hasty withdrawal of the U.S. from Afghanistan is not merely a setback for the U.S., but for all those who sided with it. Beginning with the decision of the Donald Trump Administration to institute talks with the Taliban — and not with the government headed by Mr. Ghani — for the withdrawal of U.S. troops which not only legitimised the Taliban and acknowledged their premier role in the affairs of Afghanistan, the U.S. has committed one error after another. Duplicitous roles Its unfailing trust in the creator of the Taliban, the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), which, while pretending to be an ally, outsmarted the U.S. is another. The Taliban are beholden to the ISI and it was hardly a surprise that the ISI Chief, Faiz Hameed was there to greet Mullah Baradar when he flew into Kandahar. Safe havens of the Taliban for the past two decades have been in Pakistan and these were not only well known to the ISI, but also nurtured by it. Even the U.S. knew that the Taliban’s Shura Council was located in Quetta (Balochistan). The near duplicitous role of Qatar, another important U.S. ally, which has nurtured the Taliban leadership in recent years, also bears scrutiny. In a bid to outflank Saudi Arabia (and emerge as the new fulcrum of West Asian politics), Qatar is known to play both sides. While being perceived as a U.S. ally, it pursues its own brand of politics — including that of acting as a shoulder for the Taliban to lean on. Not one, but at least three U.S. Administrations should, hence, share the blame for the catastrophic retreat from Afghanistan. The eyes on the pie The collapse of U.S. involvement in Afghanistan, and the simultaneous rise of the Taliban with their outreach to Pakistan, China, Russia, and to an extent even Iran, are likely to set in train developments that could alter the geo-politics of the region. Russia, though no longer the power it once was, is currently seeking to enlarge its influence in Eurasia, and the Afghan imbroglio gives it an opportunity. China, which envisages domination of Asia as the first step in its bid to become the world’s number one power, sees Afghanistan as a prize both from a geo-economic and geo-political standpoint. Eyeing the mineral wealth of Afghanistan is only one aspect; a key objective is to make its Belt and Road Initiative a truly viable entity, and further extend its reach to the Indian Ocean, without being totally dependent on Pakistan. Many West Asian countries are, meanwhile, assessing the situation in Afghanistan to see how best to take advantage of the fluid situation. The United Arab Emirates and Qatar have already shown their hand. Saudi Arabia is anxious to become involved, more so to prevent Iran from extending its influence into Afghanistan. Iran is anxious to secure a hold in Afghanistan to ensure its own security. Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, which have a rather troubled relationship with Afghanistan, are not unwilling to maintain peace with a Talibanised Afghanistan. The U.S.’s plans to enhance regional security/connectivity through a new Quadrilateral diplomatic platform, meanwhile, may well prove stillborn, even before it takes off. The path for New Delhi India’s concerns regarding Afghanistan have as much to do with geo-political positioning, as to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a crucible for pro-terror forces that could impact India’s security. Hence, it must think hard on how to overcome the adverse constellation of forces that have emerged. One possibility is for India to take on a mediating role among the different nations anxious to involve themselves in Afghanistan, and produce a formula that would help maintain Afghanistan’s neutrality and ensure that it becomes a buffer zone to prevent further Chinese expansionism towards South Asia. Seven decades ago, India had performed such a mediating role in bringing tentative peace to what was then Indo-China, now Vietnam. It is critically important for India to ensure the unity and the integrity of Afghanistan, and in turn achieve an agreement in principle to maintain Afghanistan’s neutrality. Of all the countries currently involved in Afghanistan, India possibly has the best credentials to act as an honest broker; India should choose someone who can act like a ‘Zelig-like figure’ to ensure that the final decision is something that would ensure peace in the region and prevent any major turmoil in South Asia, checkmating both Pakistan and China. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/picking-up-the-threads-from-the-afghan-rubble/article36528630.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A dark cloud in Kerala’s sky of communal harmony||The remarks made recently by Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, the Bishop of the Catholic diocese of Pala in Kerala on “narcotic jihad” have caused a major controversy. In a speech at a church in Kuravilangad in the State’s Kottayam district, he had said that Christians ought to be vigilant against “narcotic jihad”, allegedly an organised effort to destroy the lives of non-Muslims by getting them addicted to narcotic drugs. Pala is one of the dioceses of the Syro-Malabar church in Kerala. Soon after the bishop’s speech, some nuns from Kuravilangad accused another Christian priest of delivering a hate speech against Muslims, asking nuns not to buy vegetables from Muslims or travel in autorickshaws driven by them. The nuns reacted by walking out of the mass. In their comments to the media, four nuns expressed their disapproval of the communal remarks made by the priest and the bishop. “Christ did not teach us to sow communalism,” one of the nuns said. Uptick in polarising rhetoric The claim about “narcotics jihad” comes on top of the long-standing allegation by the church authorities that there is a “love jihad” in Kerala, allegedly an organised effort to lure non-Muslim women into marrying Muslim men and converting to Islam. Investigations by agencies, including the National Investigation Agency, have found no evidence to support this claim. These incidents are part of a definite uptick in anti-Muslim rhetoric by some sections among Christians in Kerala in the recent months. Earlier this year, when Israel bombed Gaza following the forcible eviction of Palestinian families from their homes in occupied East Jerusalem, some Christian social media handles (in Malayalam) came up with vicious propaganda against Palestinians and Muslims. Videos with outright falsehoods about the history of Palestine and Israel were circulated. They completely ignored the fact that Palestinian Christians, being victims of Israeli brutalities as much as other Palestinians, are very much part of the resistance against Israeli occupation. More recently, there was the demand that the name ‘Eesho’ (Jesus) given to an upcoming movie be changed, with the film-makers facing intense hate speech from fringe groups. Meanwhile, booklets with anti-Muslim rhetoric are being distributed by the Syro-Malabar church authorities in several parts of Kerala; most notable among these being a booklet by the Thamarassery diocese. There are media reports that following protests, the diocese has expressed regret. All these militate against the long-standing tradition of Kerala as a place where people of different religions have lived peacefully and in cooperation with one another. Working people’s movements, governments, and society in general have by and large focused on material concerns, which made significant improvements in human development and living standards possible, while the religious communities of the State co-existed in harmony. Christians — among whom levels of education and prosperity are the highest among Kerala’s religious communities — have been an integral part of this process. But these recent developments, if left unchecked, do threaten to unravel the path to further progress. The virulent messages propagated by some major religious figures in the Christian community, and amplified by social media, are cause for concern. What is it that has changed in the recent past that has provided the backdrop for these outbursts? Strong causative factors An important, but under-appreciated, factor relates to the economic conditions that provide a fertile breeding ground for communal hatred. Trade liberalisation has hit plantation agriculture (most importantly, rubber) hard. India joining the World Trade Organisation in 1995 and a Free Trade Agreement (which came into effect from 2010 onwards) with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) were followed by bouts of decline for the real prices (prices adjusted for inflation) of rubber. Christians constitute a large section of peasants who cultivate plantation crops, and these price crashes have meant that many of them have found their economic conditions stagnating or deteriorating. Two consecutive years of intense floods in Kerala (in 2018 and 2019) and the novel coronavirus pandemic crisis that followed — damaging livelihoods across the globe — have not made things easier. In such circumstances, hate-mongering, which blames other communities for hardships, finds a lot of takers. Those who have something to gain by polarising people on communal lines find it easier to train their guns on other communities rather than on deleterious economic policies. The pandemic has had some peculiar effects on the church authorities. Protracted periods of lockdowns and restrictions on the number of people in church gatherings have meant that church attendance has fallen steeply. Apart from adversely affecting church revenues, these developments seem to have caused a feeling of insecurity among some sections of the clergy who feel that the faithful are slipping away from their influence. In this context, fiery rhetoric that polarises communities while seeking to consolidate their own followers would be a ploy to bring the flock back to their own orbit. At the same time, more people have taken to attending church services using television and the Internet. This has exposed the laity more than ever to the algorithms of social media, where provocative content tends to get more traction. The number of views for a video is likely to go up if its content is more inflammatory and provokes more comments. This algorithm of hatred, in turn, has meant that many video creators, including some clergy, end up believing that such videos are the need of the hour. The shadow of politics The weakening of the Indian National Congress — which the Catholic church authorities in Kerala have traditionally favoured — seems to have accentuated the insecurities of the church leadership, and a section of the church authorities could be seen as aligning their positions more in line with that of the Hindutva forces. Certainly, the actions and positions of some communal organisations have served to increase tensions. Notable among these were the horrific attack in 2010 on a college lecturer, T.J. Joseph, by the Islamist fundamentalist Popular Front of India, and the endorsement by some Muslim communal organisations of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s conversion of the historic Hagia Sophia in Turkey into a mosque. But responding to communalism with communalism has a self-propelling dynamic — the shriller the communal rhetoric from one community, the more it strengthens communal forces in other communities. Peace appeals For the sake of Christians themselves and that of society in general, the Catholic clergy must return to a position of reason and restraint. Many Catholic and non-Catholic Christians — apart from others — have urged a walk back from preaching hatred. A former spokesperson of the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council is among those who have criticised the Pala bishop’s statement. A bishop of the Orthodox church has cautioned against church leaders getting trapped in the Sangh Parivar’s design to divide minority communities, while a bishop of the Jacobite church has said that the altar should not be used to propagate the politics of hatred. In a joint press conference recently, a bishop of the Church of South India and the President of the Kerala Muslim Youth Federation called for peace. It is heartening that sane voices are fighting back. It is a battle they must win to save the soul of Kerala as a society where religious communities live in harmony and prosper together. Subin Dennis is an economist at Tricontinental Research. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-dark-cloud-in-keralas-sky-of-communal-harmony/article36528632.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Act and friction||Recent developments have demonstrated the Union government’s implacable determination to undermine the autonomy of the various tribunals in the country. It recently got Parliament to enact the Tribunals Reforms Act, which contained provisions that had been struck down by the Supreme Court in an ordinance issued earlier. After being sharply questioned by the Supreme Court on the unusual delay in filling up vacancies among judicial and administrative members, it released a set of appointments this week. The Court found that there was cherry-picking among the names chosen by the various Selection Committees. Instead of exhausting the selection list put together by panels of judges and officials, the Government had waded into the waiting list to exercise its choice. In another development, the Government cut short the tenure of the Acting Chairperson of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), Justice A.I.S. Cheema, by 10 days. Mr. Cheema was set to deliver in some matters on which the NCLAT had reserved judgment before retiring on September 20. The Government’s justification was that it was going by its latest law, under which the Acting Chairperson’s four-year tenure would end on September 10 and that Justice M. Venugopal had already been appointed in his place. However, a Bench headed by the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, was of the strong opinion that he should be allowed to complete his tenure, and even remarked that the Court would not hesitate to stay the operation of the Act on its own motion. Fortunately, the matter was resolved quickly, with the Government backing down and agreeing that Justice Venugopal would go on leave until Justice Cheema finished his stint on September 20. The issue of tribunals has been a source of considerable friction between the Government and the Court. They have often disagreed on the eligibility criteria and conditions of service and a series of judgments have gone against the Government. Clauses introducing changes to the conditions of service of members of the various Tribunals have often been subjected to judicial view. Courts want to ensure that a reasonable tenure was available to the appointees, and do not allow criteria related to age and experience to be used to undermine their independence. Tribunals have always been seen as institutions that were a rung lower in independence as regular courts, even though there is wide agreement that administrative tribunals are required for quicker and more focused adjudication of cases that required specialisation and domain expertise. As several laws now provide for such adjudicative bodies, the executive does have an interest in retaining some leverage over their members. The Supreme Court has repeatedly called for the establishment of a national tribunals commission to make suitable appointments and evaluate the functioning of tribunals. If the Government has been dragging its feet on this, it is only because there is a method to its mulishness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/act-and-friction/article36528625.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Stepping back||Captains have a shelf-life and the player usually outlasts the leader within the individual. This is true across sport and more so in cricket, with its three distinct formats and the attendant pressures. Seen through that prism, it is remarkable that Virat Kohli has had such a long run at the helm since his appointment as Test captain following M.S. Dhoni’s retirement from the longest format on December 30, 2014. Since that day in Melbourne, Kohli, both batsman-supreme and aggressive-captain, has striven hard for success and balance. Subsequently, Kohli also held the reins in One Day Internationals and Twenty20Is from early 2017. He got prolific runs be it in Test whites or in the blue shade and he savoured triumphs with his men even if ICC silverware in limited-overs cricket or in the World Test Championship proved elusive. He also leads Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Indian Premier League (IPL), which resumes in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Sunday. Be it finalising playing elevens, evolving strategies, having a word with the selectors or addressing the media, captaincy throws up manifold challenges. The pressure was immense, and Kohli took to social media and announced that he will step down from captaincy in T20Is after the ICC Twenty20 World Cup concludes in the UAE this November. Over the last few months, there was chatter about the Indian team’s captaincy sweep-stakes. And Kohli’s move was not entirely a surprise but what remains piquant is that he has not relinquished captaincy in ODIs. Perhaps the 2023 ICC World Cup in India is too massive a brand for Kohli to ignore. Yet, it leaves his successor in T20Is, most likely Rohit Sharma, in an awkward position. Captaincy is usually split between red-ball and white-ball cricket but with Kohli preferring this nuanced choice of both Test and ODI leadership, he is only leaving the crumbs for the imminent captain in T20Is. It is a fact that Rohit has led Mumbai Indians well in the IPL, guiding them to five titles. His relaxed demeanour is in contrast to Kohli’s in-your-face aggression, but Rohit gets the work done, both as batsman and leader. With his credentials as Test opener gaining a fresh glow in England, the Mumbaikar, always a splendid batsman in limited-overs cricket, has grown in stature. At 34, Rohit is nearly two years older to Kohli, but for now he is primed for guiding the transition and has seemingly edged past the other candidate Ajinkya Rahane in Tests. But that will happen only if Kohli decides to remain a pure batsman or the selectors intervene. For now, a change, however feeble, has begun in T20Is.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/stepping-back/article36528626.ece
18 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Council raises GST on low-cost footwear, garments to 12%||In its first physical meeting in two years, the GST Council on Friday effected several long-pending tweaks in tax rates including an increase in the GST levied on footwear costing less than Rs. 1,000 as well as readymade garments and fabrics to 12% from 5%. The new rates on these products, a decision on which had been deferred by the Council over the past year owing to the pandemic’s impact on households, will come into effect from January 1, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. The Council approved a special composition scheme for brick kilns with a turnover threshold of Rs. 20 lakh, from April 1, 2022. Bricks would attract GST at the rate of 6% without input tax credits under the scheme, or 12% with input credits. While this will please States like Uttar Pradesh that had sought a special scheme for brick kilns, a decision on extending such a scheme for other evasion-prone sectors like pan masala, gutkha and sand mining was put off. The Council also decided to extend the concessional tax rates granted for COVID-19 medicines like Amphotericin B and Remdesivir till December 31, but similar sops offered by the Council at its last meeting in June for equipment like oxygen concentrators will expire on September 30. The Council also decided to make food delivery apps like Swiggy and Zomato liable to collect and remit the taxes on food orders, as opposed to the current system where restaurants providing the food remit the tax. Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj stressed this didn’t constitute a new or extra tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/council-raises-gst-on-low-cost-footwear-garments-to-12/article36528613.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Facility to deepen corporate bond market on anvil: official||In a bid to deepen the corporate bond market, the government is working on setting up a ‘backstop facility’ as announced in the Budget, a senior government official said on Friday. Speaking at an event organised by CII, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Anand Mohan Bajaj, said the government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), had raised the foreign investor participation ceiling in corporate bonds from 9% to 15%. “We are working on a very comprehensive facility. It will certainly instil confidence among the participants in the corporate bond market,” he said. Based on a proposal from markets regulator SEBI, an announcement in the Budget for 2021-22 was made with regard to the creation of a ‘backstop facility’ that would purchase investment-grade debt securities both in stressed and in normal times, and aid the development of the bond market. Mr. Bajaj added the Centre was also working on framing an investor charter that would focus on the rights and responsibilities of investors as also a grievance redressal mechanism. ‘More transparency’ The investor charter will not only help bring in more transparency in the investment process but also encourage investors to invest with better knowledge. Speaking at the event, Principal Economic Adviser Sanjeev Sanyal said the government and RBI are working on inclusion of Indian sovereign bonds in global bond indices and some announcement in the space is expected during the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/facility-to-deepen-corporate-bond-market-on-anvil-official/article36528615.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC issues notice to Adani unit on Gujarat Urja’s curative plea||The Supreme Court, in a rare move, has issued notice in a curative petition filed by Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. (GUVNL) against a July 2019 judgment of the apex court upholding the termination of a power purchase agreement (PPA) by Adani Power (Mundra) Ltd. The apex court exercises its curative jurisdiction only in extraordinary circumstances, primarily to prevent miscarriage of justice and abuse of process. A five-judge Curative Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana issued notice on the GUVNL curative while observing that it had “substantial questions of law” which needed answering. “We have gone through the curative petition and the relevant documents,” the Bench observed in an order dated September 16. “In our prima facie opinion, there are substantial questions of law raised in this curative petition, which require consideration. Issue notice,” it ordered, listing the matter to be heard in open court on September 30. The case relates to Adani Power’s termination of the PPA with GUVNL citing GMDC’s failure to supply it coal. The Gujarat State Electricity Regulatory Commission and later an appellate tribunal held the termination ‘illegal’. On appeal, a three-judge Bench of the apex court led by Justice Arun Mishra (now retired) upheld the termination and ruled that Adani Power be paid compensatory tariff in order to do “economic justice”.  In our prima facie opinion, there are substantial questions of law raised in this curative petition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-issues-notice-to-adani-unit-on-gujarat-urjas-curative-plea/article36528612.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘WTO’s agriculture pact tilted against developing countries’||The Agreement on Agriculture at the WTO is riddled with deep imbalances, which favour the developed countries and have tilted the rules against many developing countries, said Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal. The Minister said that historical asymmetries and imbalances must be corrected to ensure a rule-based, fair and equitable order. Mr. Goyal said this while addressing the G-33 Virtual Informal Ministerial Meeting. Out of a total of 47 G-33 members, representatives from 21 countries, including India, took the floor to make the brief intervention. Mr. Goyal said G-33 must strive for positive outcomes on a permanent solution to public stockholding for food security purposes, which was of utmost importance, finalisation of a special safeguard mechanism (SSM) quickly, and a balanced outcome on domestic support. The Minister urged the members to work collectively to retain the cohesion of the G-33 coalition and strengthen it further by reaching out to other like-minded developing groups to secure their support for a fair, balanced and development-centric outcome on agriculture at the 12th conference in Geneva. The meeting concluded with the adoption of the G-33 joint ministerial statement reaffirming commitment for expeditious resolution of the WTO’s mandated issues in agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wtos-agriculture-pact-tilted-against-developing-countries/article36528620.ece
18 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala objects to GST proposal on coconut oil||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council has decided to consider a contentious tax proposal pertaining to coconut oil only after a careful examination. Kerala has opposed the Fitment Committee proposal to levy GST at 18% for coconut oil sold in containers below one kg, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said after the 45th GST Council meet in Lucknow on Friday. According to the proposal, the tax for one kg containers and above would be kept at 5%. Hair oil The proposal for a higher tax for smaller packs was based on a contention that coconut oil for cooking purposes usually came in one kg or larger containers, while coconut oil in smaller containers was meant as hair oil, a cosmetic product. ‘Why not other oils?’ However, Kerala opposed the proposal on the grounds that the same distinction was applicable to other oils as well. Picking coconut oil, which is more popular in the southern States, alone for the higher tax would be discriminatory. The proposal, if implemented, would also impose additional burden on people who purchased smaller coconut oil packs for cooking. “The GST Council decided to discuss the matter after a careful study based on the State’s request,” Mr. Balagopal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kerala-objects-to-gst-proposal-on-coconut-oil/article36529460.ece
18 September 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Collection efficiency picks up post-COVID wave’||India Ratings and Research on Friday said securitisation volumes had picked up post the second wave lull seen in the first quarter of the current fiscal, helped by the improvement in collections. The agency, however, said recovery from the impact of the second wave was not yet complete. It had witnessed a recovery in average current collection efficiency to 79% in July from 67% in May across 143 of its rated securitisation transactions. “Securitisation volumes have picked up post the second wave lull in Q1 FY22 as investors witnessed the return to normalcy in collection metrics. As investors gain confidence, overall securitisation volumes in FY22 could be better than in FY21,” the agency said in a report. Securitisation is the process of pooling and repackaging of homogenous illiquid financial assets into marketable securities that can be sold to investors. The report said resumption of economic activity post the second COVID-19 wave had improved sentiment and supported loan performance in June-July.  As investors gain confidence, FY22 securitisation volumes could be better than in FY21||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/collection-efficiency-picks-up-post-covid-wave/article36528616.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Reforms package will back 3+1 structure, says Moody’s||The telecom sector reforms package announced by the Centre will sustain telcos’ businesses, is credit positive for operators including Bharti and Jio, and provides support for 3+1 players structure, Moody’s Investors Service said on Friday. Moody’s said the change in the AGR definition to exclude non-telecom revenue will ultimately boost sector-wide EBITDA as it would reduce the licence fees paid by telcos. “Should Bharti opt for the moratorium on payments for past spectrum purchases and AGR statutory fees, we expect this could free up around Rs. 120 billion-Rs. 130 billion of cash flow annually, which could be used to reduce debt further,” Moody’s said. For RIL, the removal of SUC for spectrum acquired in future auctions would improve profitability for its telecom operations while the extension of moratorium on payments for past spectrum purchases will improve its cash flow generation and strengthen liquidity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reforms-package-will-back-31-structure-says-moodys/article36528618.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ola e-scooters log Rs. 1,100-cr. sales in 2 days||Ola co-founder Bhavish Aggarwal said sales of S1 electric scooters crossed Rs. 1,100 crore in two days. The executive noted while the firm has stopped the buying process now, the purchase window will reopen on November 1, just in time for Diwali. On Wednesday, Ola Electric had commenced the sale process of its electric scooter, which comes in two trims — Ola S1 and S1 Pro. On day one, the company sold scooters worth Rs. 600 crore.   “In total, over two days, we have done over Rs. 1,100 crores in sales! This is unprecedented,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ola-e-scooters-log-rs-1100-cr-sales-in-2-days/article36528608.ece
18 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Social media influencers to corner Rs. 900 cr.||With the trend of peddling brands over social media platforms catching up, influencer marketing is pegged to be a Rs. 900 crore market in India by the end of the year, according to a report by media buyer Groupm. The fledgling category is expected to grow 25% annually to become a Rs. 2,200 crore industry by 2025, the INCA India Influencer Report said. The growth in Internet penetration, the proliferation of social media platforms has grown, which has been seized up by brands by engaging with influencers to push their message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/social-media-influencers-to-corner-rs-900-cr/article36528621.ece
18 September 2021||Mumbai,||IIFL Home Finance signs co-lending pact with PNB||IIFL Home Finance Ltd. (IIFL HFL) said it has signed a pact with Punjab National Bank (PNB) for co-lending. “Loan sourcing and servicing will be managed by IIFL Home Finance and 80% of the loan will be provided by PNB,” IIFL HFC added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/iifl-home-finance-signs-co-lending-pact-with-pnb/article36528609.ece
18 September 2021||Mumbai,||Tata Motors unveils special edition of Safari||Tata Motors has unveiled an exclusive edition of its SUV Safari Gold for Rs. 21.89 lakh.“In less than 5 months after introduction, the new Safari reached the milestone of its 10,000th roll-out and today is among the highest selling SUVs in its segment,” said Vivek Srivatsa, head, marketing, passenger and electric vehicle business unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-unveils-special-edition-of-safari/article36528611.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Aryan Mohit cracks century||K. Aryan Mohit (108) of Vijayanand, T.N.R. Mohit of Cheerful Chums (six for 81) and Syed Ershad Pasha of Deccan Colts (six for 41) were some of the players who hogged the limelight in the A2-Division two-day league cricket championship here.  The scores: A1-Div. (three-day): BDL 335/9 in 90 overs (B. Revanth 58, M.S.R. Charan 72, Aditya Javvaji 56, Amber Kumar 54) & 6/0 in 1 overs bt SCRSA 132 in 37 overs (Hemanth Singh 31, M. Suresh 34, B. Thejodhar 3/33, Shubham Bist 3/34) & 208 in 38.5 overs (Kapil Dhaka 40, Shaik 51).   Cambridge XI 323 in 83.5 overs (K. Jairam 60, M. Mukesh 120, Nishanth 61, Aleem Dhanani 5/46, T. Santosh Goud 3/57) drew with R. Dayanand 272/7 in 90 overs (G. Sankeerth 83, M. Samhith 92).   Central Excise 140 in 57.4 overs & 223 in 40 overs (K. Sumanth 102) lost to Evergreen 184 in 66.2 overs & 180/1 in 27 overs (P. Akshath Reddy 101, Rahul Buddhi 39 n.o.).   MP Colts 227 ini 60 overs & 139 in 28 overs (Mickil Jaiswal 33, Tanay Thyagarajan 3/21) lost to Budding Stars 245 in 74.5 overs & 125/3 in 21.4 overs (Tanay Tyagarajan 66).   A2-Div. (two-day): Hyd Wanderers 71 in 21 overs (Mohd Zakaria 5/34) lost to Pasha Beedi 72/1 in 16.4 overs (Vihaan Mishra 36 n.o.).   Sri Shyam 160 in 61.4 overs (Mirza Houzef Baig 74, Pavan Kumar 3/24) bt Medak District 110 in 34.5 overs (Hishanth 30, Md Aiyaz Khan 3/15).   Galaxy CC 171 in 46.2 overs (P. Durga Balaji 70, Vasist 4/77, B. Sacheit 5/22) lost to Kosaraju CC 172/6 in 46.4 overs (Aayush 41, Venkat 33, Vasisht 32).   Hyd Titans 104 in 46.5 overs (Harshil Mehta 32, T. Arun Kumar 5/10) lost to Mahbubnagar District 108/7 in 27.5 overs (Asrikanth Naik 41, P. Rishabh Bimal 3/26, Ramesh Nayak 4/32).   Brothers XI 80 in 35.5 overs (Preetham 37, S. Akshay 4/19, Sachit Kaundinya 3/12) lost to Green Turf 81/3 in 16 overs.   WMCC 120 in 37 overs (Mustafa Malik 36, Sai Kiran 5/40, K. Vamshi 3/39) lost to Rakesh XI 121/7 in 32.5 overs (Sai Kiran 55, Mustafa Malik Khan 3/50, N. Karthik 3/31).   Team Speed 140 in 46.3 overs (Deepanshu 49, P. Sathvik 34, Mahboob Akhtar 4/42) lost to Venus Cybertech 141/4 in 44.1 overs (R. Pranav Aditya 43, G. Rithish Reddy 50).   HBCC 218 in 70 overs (Jawad Khan 43, Hamza Ali 40, Deepak 46, P. Rahul 5/49, B. Vara Prasad 3/30) bt PKMCC 105/10 in 40.5 overs (Yash Dubey 5/17).   HUCC 253 in 82.1 overs (Avik Dixit 30, D. Aditya 31, Boddam 100, Vaishnav Sai 4/44, Ricky Nali 3/18) bt Shalimar 227 in 89.2 overs (M. Ashok 43, P. Jagruth 76, V. Srinivas Karthik 3/18); Crown 136 in 50.3 overs (Tarun Sai 76, D. Manish 4/16) bt Ours 125 in 42.4 overs (Vikhyath 54, K. Aravind Reddy 4/25).   CCOB 181 in 49.1 overs (Syed Aziz 50, Haryank 44, T.N.R. Mohit 6/81) lost to Cheerful Chums 185/6 in 54 overs (Syed Azizuddin 3/46).   Mega City 97 in 31.2 overs (Aravind Reddy 3/14) lost to Nizamabad District 98/6 in 25.3 overs (Rohit Kumar 47).   Adilabad 435 in 64.5 overs (Rohan 67, Abid 114, Bhuvan 55, Shaik Aamir 70, P. Sooraj 3/90) bt Elegant CC 172 in 35.1 overs (S. Raju 34, Mirza Nomaan Baig 36, Shaik Aamir 4/36).   Sec’bad Gymkhana 149 in 44.1 overs (Hatya Naik 86, B. Balaji 5/37, Maria Williams 3/39) lost to Vijaypuri Willowmen 150/2 in 21.4 overs (Aashlesh Vaman 50 n.o.).   Vijayanand CC 309 in 84.5 overs (K. Bahu 37, K. Aryan Mohit 108, D. Poorna 40, Ajeet Yadav 3/45) bt SK Blues CC 201 in 84.5 overs (Hritik Deshpande 69, Sandeep Kumar 4/45).   Hyd Cricket Academy 331 in 76.2 overs (Bhargav 69, K. Sriniketh 57, Satyajith Than 102, A. Sai Chandra 3/52) bt Saint Sai 204 in 54.3 overs (Karan Kumar 32, Chirag Yadav 76, K. Sriniketh 3/43, K. Satyanarayan 3/39).   Hyd Panthers 202 in 87.5 overs (Shivanand 38, Ruchith 71, Ritesh Sai 31, S. Chirag 3/31) bt Shanti CC 177 in 55.4 overs (C.H. Lokesh Chowdhary 31, Abdul Khader 54 n.o., Nidhish Daswani 4/37).   Bharat CC 252 in 77.1 overs (P. Akhilesh 59, Anshul Konda 96, N. Askhay 3/68) bt Noble CC 107 in 50.4 overs (V.A. Lakshan 5/36, T. Sahith 3/23).   Acrylic CC 333 in 87.5 overs (Chitransh 65, Sathvik 36, Sai Pratheek 102, Charan Chary 72, Abdul Malik Siddiqui 3/38) bt Adams XI 23 in 17.1 overs (Varun Dhatrak 3/4, Sai Pratheek 4/1).   Karimnagar District 143 in 43.3 overs (B. Rohan Rao 60, P. Praveen 4/16) bt Manikumar CC 91 in 57 overs (C.H. Siddharth Reddy 4/16).   Eleven XI 153 in 48.5 overs (V. Sai Gautam 38, Harish Reddy 3/59, Varun Teja 5/21) lost to Abhinav CC 157/6 in 37.3 overs (P. Madhava 44, Kandari 39).   Golconda CC 88 in 32.2 overs (T. Nandeesh 3/20, Pratik Raj 3/4) bt SN Group 67 in 26.4 overs (Sainath Buddhi 6/29).   Warangal District 208 in 39.2 overs (A. Ganesh 38, Ajay 39, Syed Riyaz 55 n.o., Faheem 3/53, Mohd Masi 4/41, Dheeraj Antin 3/81) bt Ameerpet CC 72 in 28.4 overs (N. Pavan Reddy 7/7).   Mayura CC 120 in 53.3 overs (Saketh Reddy 79, Md. Meraj 3/48, Md Vasiuddin Ahmed 3/17) lost to Saleemnagar 121/7 in 27.3 overs (D. Hemanth 78, Nirup Kumar 4/28).   Young Citizen CC 140 in 43.1 overs (Yuvraj 52, Jai Rohan 31, Vikas Gupta 5/22, Prince 3/14) lost to Akshit CC 141/6 in 36 overs (Nishanth Reddy 31, Anirudh Thakur 46).   Raju CC 102 in 35.4 overs (C. Sai Snehith 33, V. Sharath 4/24, S. Sai Charan Reddy 3/11) lost to LNCC 103/4 in 28.1 overs (Pranav 41, V. Sharath 40).   Kishoresons 252 in 69.1 overs (Omprakash 31, Sandeep 90, Sumit Ojha 34, Md. Fahad Rahman 3/41) bt Greenlands 143 in 61.5 overs (Pawan Kumar Sharma 3/6).   National CC 474 in 82.2 overs (Wasiq Shaik 54, Aaron George 122, Mahtab Ahmed 41, Yoganand 131, Sherank 53, Sunil Sirvi 5/88, Saketh Reddy 3/83) bt Rushiraj cc 264/10 in 62.2 overs (B Venkata Sai Chandra 126, K. Karunya Prasad 35, K. Sree Avinash 35, Wasiq N. Shaik 3/37, Mahtab Ahmed 4/37).   Deccan Colts 144 in 38.3 overs (A. Vinayak 36, S. Shyam 60, Vineeth Tinku 4/73, B. Avinash Ram 4/25) bt Manchester CC 133 in 38 overs (Md Saif 39, Syed Ershad Pasha 6/41).   CCOB 181 in 49.1 overs (Syed Azizuddin 50, Haryank Reddy 44, T.N.R. Mohit 6/81) lost to Cheerful Chums 185/6 in 54 overs (Syed Azizuddin 3/46).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aryan-mohit-cracks-century/article36529203.ece
18 September 2021||DUBAI,||Shamsi looks to make an instant impact||Rajasthan Royals is currently not in the IPL top-four, but the team’s World No. 1 T20 spinner Tabraiz Shamsi believes it won’t matter when the COVID-hit league resumes on Sunday as it will be a fresh start for all teams. “I think whether the team is on top or in the fifth, the position at the halfway mark doesn’t really count. It’s what you do in the second half that matters,” Shamsi was quoted in a press release. Right approach “I think we are in a good position right now and we have got half of the tournament to go. It depends on how we play the rest of the games,” said Shamsi, who is currently in quarantine after having arrived from Sri Lanka earlier this week. Shamsi, who has 40 wickets in 30 ODIs and 49 in 42 T20Is for South Africa, has never been much in demand at IPL auctions. He admitted it did affect him earlier. “When I was young, not being selected affected me a little bit. But as you grow older, you realise there are bigger things in life. You understand that there are certain things you can’t control, and I was certainly in that space. “I feel like I just have to do my work, and if a team feels I can benefit them with my services, they would pick me like Rajasthan has, and I‘m going to try my best to make sure that we win the competition.” Shamsi added that the definition of a good spell in T20s has evolved over time. “With reference to the conditions in UAE and the short boundaries in Sharjah, I think it is a challenge. But it also means that you have an opportunity to get wickets. Sometimes on grounds like that, a spell which goes for 35-40 runs can be a match-winning spell, whereas in other games, a spell of three or four wickets can change a game. “So, I think it’s not just about taking wickets,” said Shamsi, who took three wickets in four IPL games in 2016. Warne fan A Shane Warne fan, Shamsi added he had the opportunity to speak to the Australian a few times. “Shane was, of course, a legendary leg-spinner and he was always a go-to man for any spinner. From him, I have learned to keep things simple and to be able to remember that we’re all different and that cricket becomes as complicated as you make it in your head.”  I think we are in a good position right now and we have got half of the tournament to go. It depends on how we play the rest of the games   Shamsi, who has 40 wickets in 30 ODIs and 49 in 42 T20Is for South Africa, has never been much in demand at IPL auctions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/what-you-do-in-second-half-matters/article36528916.ece
18 September 2021||LONDON,||Osimhen to Napoli’s rescue||Victor Osimhen scored twice as Napoli came from 2-0 down to salvage a 2-2 draw at Leicester, while Celtic threw away a two-goal lead to lose 4-3 to Real Betis and West Ham was a convincing 2-0 winner away to Dinamo Zagreb. Leicester took the lead as Ayoze Perez fired home at the back post from Harvey Barnes’ cross after just nine minutes. Patson Daka then saw his first Leicester goal ruled out by a VAR review for a marginal offside call, but Barnes’ excellent finish doubled Leicester’s lead. Napoli boss Luciano Spalletti held nothing in reserve with his strongest side and the visitors responded in the final quarter thanks to Osimhen. The Nigerian, who cost €70 million from Lille last year, brilliantly flicked the ball over the imposing presence of Jannik Vestegaard and Kasper Schmeichel to get Napoli back in the game. Osimhen then outjumped Caglar Soyuncu to power home a head for a deserved equaliser. Leverkusen rallies Bayer Leverkusen was also a winner as the German side came from behind to beat Ferencvaros 2-1 thanks to a second-half winner from 18-year-old star Florian Wirtz.   Important results: Group B: PSV Eindhoven 2 (Goetze 32, Gakpo 54) drew with Real Sociedad 2 (Januzaj 34, Isak 39).   Group C: Leicester 2 (Perez 9, Barnes 64) drew with Napoli 2 (Osimhen 69, 87).   Group D: Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Lammers 41) drew with Fenerbahce 1 (Ozil 10).   Galatasaray 1 (Strakosha 67-og) bt Lazio 0.   Group G: Bayer Leverkusen 2 (Palacios 37, Wirtz 69) bt Ferencvaros 1 (Mmaee 8); Real Betis 4 (Miranda 32, Juanmi 35, 53 Borja Iglesias 51) bt Celtic 3 (Ajeti 15, Juranovic 27-pen, Ralston 87).   Group H: Dinamo Zagreb 0 lost to West Ham 2 (Antonio 22, Rice 50) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/osimhen-to-napolis-rescue/article36528967.ece
18 September 2021||Chennai,||A privilege and an honour: Sharath||His peak coinciding with the era of the Indian batting greats, S. Sharath missed out on an India spot by a short head. The left-hander played for India-A, made runs too, but the door to the National team remained shut for him. Now, 48, and with 8700 First Class runs behind him at 51.17, the left-hander from Tamil Nadu has been given an important responsibility. Sharath is now the chairman of the National junior selection panel. “It’s a privilege and an honour to be given such a key job, I thank the BCCI and the TNCA for showing faith in me,” said Sharath told The Hindu on Friday. Shrewd player A shrewd accumulator of runs, particularly in crisis situations with his jabs, dabs, cuts, drives and pulls, Sharath comprehended much about staying put at the crease and battling on. He wants to inculcate that fighting spirit in the boys. Actually, Sharath was a part of the India under-19 team and interestingly, Rahul Dravid was his captain. He shares a close bond with Dravid with whom Sharath would need to work closely since the legend from Karnataka heads the NCA. Sharath said, “Rahul is so insightful. He is not just such a great player, but has the rare ability to pass on that knowledge to youngsters. It will be wonderful working in close tandem with such a quality cricketer, coach, and a human being.” Rough road ahead The Tamil Nadu stalwart realises the road ahead could be rough. “You see, we have not had any junior cricket in the last one year because of the pandemic. So we need to set the ball rolling again.” He is confident there is talent aplenty at the under-19 level in the country. “We need to spot and harness all of that.” Sharath added, “India has been doing well at the under-19 level, making the final of the World Cup last time around.” The biggest challenge before him was “to produce cricketers who would go on to play Ranji Trophy for the respective States and then progress to represent the country.” Sharath is looking forward to the exciting days ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-privilege-and-an-honour-sharath/article36528918.ece
18 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Sharath to head junior panel||Former Tamil Nadu skipper S. Sharath will chair the National junior boys’ selection panel, the BCCI announced in a statement on Friday. Sharath, the first cricketer to play 100 Ranji Trophy matches for Tamil Nadu, has been appointed from the South Zone. The other members of the panel are former Madhya Pradesh pacer and coach Harvinder Singh Sodhi (Central), former Bengal swing bowler Ranadeb Bose (East), former Gujarat player Pathik Patel (West) and Punjab’s Kishan Mohan (North). The BCCI had invited applications for junior selectors last year but delayed the appointment as the domestic and international junior circuit was halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. With the BCCI’s under-19 tournaments scheduled to start later this month, the appointment was formalised on Friday. The new panel will also pick the squad for next year’s under-19 World Cup in the West Indies.  The junior selection committee: S. Sharath (South Zone), chairman; Pathik Patel (West); Ranadeb Bose (East); Kishan Mohan (North), and Harvinder Singh Sodhi (Central).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-to-head-junior-panel/article36528911.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Finns get off to a flying start||Otto Virtanen defied his ranking of 419, played a solid game and defeated the 165th-ranked Prajnesh Gunneswaran 6-3, 7-6(1) to give Finland a flying start in the Davis Cup World Group tie at the Espoo Metro Arena on Friday. The 74th-ranked Emil Ruusuvuori, Finnish No. 1, made it 2-0 beating Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-4, 7-5. India will have a mountain to climb on Saturday which will start with the doubles rubber featuring Rohan Bopanna and Divij Sharan against Henri Kontinen and Harri Heliovaara. The 20-year-old Virtanen, figuring in just his second Davis Cup tie, played like a champion. He served well, stroked with conviction and retained his composure despite facing a set-point in the 12th game of the second set before crossing the finish line in an hour and 25 minutes. A shaky sixth game of the opening set, when Virtanen produced a couple of sharp winners, saw Prajnesh lose serve and the initiative. Virtanen saved a break-point in the next game to tighten his grip over the set and served out the set in the ninth game. The 31-year-old Prajnesh played a lot better in the second set, but failed to capitalise on the chances that came his way. He saved three break-points in the ninth game to keep his nose in front, but missed an opportunity in the 11th game. Virtanen then saved a set-point with an ace in the 12th game and took the set to a tie-breaker. The Finn kept his cool, pulling away from the Indian and winning 7-1 much to the delight of the sparse gathering in the indoor arena. Virtanen served 10 aces and converted one of eight break-points. The trend of losing to opponents ranked much lower than him continued for Prajnesh, who had lost to Borna Gojo of Croatia in March last year. The second match went along expected lines as the 22-year-old Ruusuvuori dominated the 187th-ranked Ramkumar. The Indian, despite being involved in many good rallies, could not find an opening against the solid Finn.  The results: Finland leads India 2-0 [Otto Viratnen bt Prajnesh Gunneswaran 6-3, 7-6(1); Emil Ruusuvuori bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-4, 7-5].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-loses-to-virtanen/article36528913.ece
18 September 2021||Dubai,||Anrich Nortje wants to take it match by match this season||South African pacer Anrich Nortje wants to replicate his last year’s IPL performance in the upcoming second half of the T20 league to help Delhi Capitals win its maiden title here. Nortje, who picked up 22 wickets in 16 matches in his first-ever IPL season in 2020, played an key role in helping DC reach its maiden final, where it lost to to Mumbai Indians here last year. DC is set to take on Sunrisers Hyderabad on September 22. “It was here where things started to happen for me in the IPL, but I am looking to take it match by match this season. There’s a lot coming up, even after the IPL,” he said in a release issued by DC. “We have to try and remember what we did here the last time we were here and try and implement that again. Hopefully, we can repeat what we did in the UAE the last time we were here,” said the 27-year-old. The fast bowler added that the second half of the IPL 2021 season will be completely different from the first half of the season. Completely different “What worked at one place is not going to work at another place; so we have to take it game by game. The upcoming games in the UAE are going to be completely different from the games we had earlier in the season. “Maybe teams will field different strategies in the second half of the tournament. We have to be switched on now and just be ready,” Nortje said. He feels playing in the IPL before the T20 World Cup in the UAE is certainly going to be a big advantage for all the players. “It’s definitely a massive advantage to play the IPL before the T20 World Cup. We have a chance to acclimatise to the conditions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anrich-nortje-wants-to-take-it-match-by-match-this-season/article36528933.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Foreign coach is top-most priority, says Sharath Kamal||The appointment of a worthy foreign coach is of “top-most priority” for Sharath Kamal among the suggestions made to the Table Tennis Federation of India recently. The National team is without a foreign coach after the 2018 Asian Games. As part of the players’ representation pertaining to National training camps, domestic events and appointment of a panel of coaches, most of Sharath’s suggestions have got the nod from the TTFI. “I have discussed these points with the TTFI and they have agreed to almost all the points. They are also acting on the requests for training camps. They have assured, the National camps would be at a place suitable to us,” disclosed Sharath. “Ideally, we need a three-coach panel. The deputy head coach’s job should be to deal with under-19 and under-17 players. A third coach should not only assist the deputy head coach but also scout talent and train the under-17 and under-15 players. This system should help a steady flow of players from the junior and youth ranks to the men and women teams,” elaborated Sharath. About the requirements for the National camps, Sharath said, “The camp, with minimum eight players — including two sparring partners in each section apart from four coaches — should be at a venue where the players have access to gym and ground facilities, air-conditioned rooms with attached bath, recovery centre (sauna/ice bath) under a certified doctor. “Besides male physio and masseur, the camp should engage a female physio and masseur for our women trainees,” emphasised the nine-time National champion. Sharath also expressed concern over the packed schedule leading to the World championship in Houston from November 23-29. “Consider this. Players like G. Sathiyan, Archana Kamath, Sreeja Akula, Harmeet Desai, Manav Thakkar among others have been playing since August 15. Following the National camp, some of them have travelled to Doha for a WTT event (Sept.20-25). Then they play the Asian championship (Sept. 28-Oct.5). “During the following fortnight, there could be an all-India ranking event (North) which will be good to test our preparedness ahead of three WTT events between October 24 and November 14 (one in Tunisia and two in succession in Slovenia). Then we have a proposed preparatory camp at the Indian Community Centre, California, before heading for the World championship from Nov. 23 to 29. “As you can see there is a very brief period after the Asian championship when the players can return home. I hope the TTFI keeps it that way. We players need time to recuperate”, he urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/foreign-coach-is-top-most-priority-says-sharath-kamal/article36528920.ece
18 September 2021||Rawalpindi,||Kiwis withdraw from Pakistan series||New Zealand pulled out of its cricket series against Pakistan on Friday over security concerns, just as the first ODI was due to start, in a devastating blow to the South Asian country. The move is a massive setback for Pakistan, which has been trying to revive tours by foreign sides after home internationals were suspended in the aftermath of a 2009 terror attack on the Sri Lankan side. “Following an escalation in the New Zealand government threat levels for Pakistan, and advice from (New Zealand Cricket) security advisors on the ground, it has been decided the Blackcaps will not continue with the tour,” New Zealand Cricket (NZC) said in a statement. Arrangements are being made for the team to leave the country. NZC chief executive David White said Pakistan had been “wonderful hosts”, but “player safety is paramount and we believe this is the only responsible option”. The Kiwis are in Pakistan for the first time since 2003 and were due to play three ODIs, followed by five Twenty20 matches. The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) said New Zealand made the decision unilaterally. “The PCB is willing to continue the scheduled matches,” it said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-zealand-pulls-out-of-pakistan-series/article36528908.ece
18 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Good spell by Ganesh||E. Ganesh’s spell of seven for seven helped Mancherial score a 31-run win over Asifabad in the TCA inter-district (u-19) one-day cricket tournament, being played at different venues in the State.  The scores: Adilabad 180 in 43 overs (Babbu 3/20) lost to Bellampalli 181/8 in 45.5 overs (Raghuveer 49, Saddam Khan 4/35); Bhupalpally 154 in 27.1 overs (Abhinash Reddy 70, S. Avinash 6/36) bt Hanmakonda 119 in 32.5 overs.   Mancherial 124 in 22 overs (Syed Faisal Ali 4/16 ) bt Asifabad 93 in 25 overs (Vamshi Krishna 46, E. Ganesh 7/7).   Khammam 79 in 23 overss (Uday Kiran 4/13, Sk. Fareedh 3/18) lost to Bhadradri 90/6 in 16.1 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-spell-by-ganesh/article36529206.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shruti looks to make an impact in junior Slams||Shruti Ahlawat is 15 years of age and has played only seven ITF junior tournaments to emerge as the No. 1 junior girl in the country. From being viewed as one with “a heavy body structure” and injury-prone, the bespectacled Shruti has worked remarkably on her fitness and diet to become athletic and strong. Coach pleased Coach Pundreek Chaturvedi, who has been training Shruti for the last year and a half, is understandably pleased with the results, and the potential of his ward. “Shruti is dong an amazing job. In seven international junior tournaments, she won four titles and was runner-up in one. In doubles she was runner-up thrice. “Am excited about her performance and progress,” Pundreek said. Even as the 241st-ranked Shruti aspires to compete internationally and boost her world rank, a lot of work is being done on her game to prepare her for the grind in the higher echelons of the game. “We have been working on increasing the pace of her strokes and variation in her game. We are also working a lot on her serve,” observed the coach. “Shruti was very sensitive and could not digest her losses. It took a lot of time to make her realise that in order to become a better player, you have to be prepared to lose. At the higher level, the chances of losing are more. “Now, she fights from difficult situations to win matches. Over time, her personality has been moulded and mindset has been tuned to help her compete in bigger tournaments,” said Pundreek. Financial support The coach feels that with financial support from the government and the corporate sector, Shruti should be able to play about 25 weeks of tournaments in the US and Europe apart from Asia, in the coming season, so as to be ready to make an impact in the junior Grand Slams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shruti-looks-to-make-an-impact-in-junior-slams/article36529256.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Harsh and Dia finish on top||Harsh Fogaat and Dia Arora won the boys’ and girls’ titles in the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament on the clay courts of the Dhyan Chand National Stadium here on Friday. Harsh beat top seed Parag Jain 6-3, 7-5 for the boys’ crown. With rain washing out play on Thursday, the semifinals were also held on Friday. Harsh had sailed past Aditya Talwar for the loss of five games in the morning. Fifth seed Dia, who had outplayed the top seed in the quarterfinals, defeated Durganshi by an identical score (6-3, 7-5) in the girls final. In the semifinals, the fluent Dia eased past Sneha Sundaraneedi.  The results: Under-18: Boys (final): Harsh Fogaat bt Parag Jain 6-3, 7-5.   Semifinals: Parag bt Vedant Mehta 7-6(2), 6-1; Harsh bt Aditya Talwar 6-3, 6-2.   Girls (final): Dia Arora bt Durganshi 6-3, 7-5.   Semifinals: Dia bt Sneha Sundaraneedi 6-2, 6-3; Durganshi bt Sumeira Jaiswal 6-3, 7-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harsh-and-dia-finish-on-top/article36529309.ece
18 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Kauko included in ATK MB squad for AFC Cup||ATK Mohun Bagan coach Antonio Lopez Habas announced the squad for the AFC Cup inter-regional semifinal against FC Nasaf to be played in Qarshi in Uzbekistan on September 22. The names were announced after the players underwent a series of screening tests at Dubai, where ATK MB is currently camping. Habas brought in a few changes in the squad that participated in the group league stage. Joni Kauko, the midfielder who was a member of the Finland side that played the Euro 2020, has been included along with the two wingers, Michael Soosairaj and Prabir Das. Habas is looking to have the best available selection against FC Nasaf, which will be a very strong opponent to beat at home. According to information made available by the team, Habas is hoping that Kauko will use his big-league experience to inspire ATK MB to produce the right game and overcome its formidable opposition. Keeping this in mind, Habas has experimented with the team in various ways while pointing out the opponent's strengths and weaknesses to his players in the last six days at the Dubai camp.  The squad:   Goalkeepers: Amrinder Singh, Avilash Paul, Arsh Anwer.   Defenders: Pritam Kotal, Ashutosh Mehta, Carl McHugh, Subhasish Bose, Sumit Rathi.   Midfielders: Joni Kauko, Lenny Rodrigues, Liston Colaco, Prabir Das, M. Soosairaj, Bidyananda Singh, Engson Singh, Sekh Sahil, Ravi Bahadur Rana, Abhishek Dhananjay.   Forwards: Roy Krishna, David Williams, Manvir Singh, Kiyan Nassiri .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/habas-names-atk-mb-squad-for-afc-cup/article36528963.ece
18 September 2021||HOBART,||Paine ‘confident’ of being fit to lead Australia in first Ashes Test||Australia red-ball skipper Tim Paine, who went under the knife to fix a bulging disc in his neck earlier this week, is “extremely confident” of being fit to lead his country in the first Ashes Test against England in December. The 36-year-old is expected to be under recovery for six weeks while the first Ashes Test is slated to begin at the Gabba on Dec. 8. “As soon as this six week block is over I think I’ll be good to go. “I’m 36 years of age, I’ve done plenty of cricket training and I know my game fairly well," Paine told SEN Radio . “I’m pretty confident outside of that six-week time frame that I’d be right to go within a week if I needed to be, so that gives me plenty of time. I obviously won’t be as fit or as strong as I would like to be, but I think if I’m moving freely then I’ll give a good fist of it,” he added. The wicketkeeper-batsman hopes to get in a Shield game before the series. “It’s two and a half months (until the Ashes), and after that six weeks I’ll get straight into my cricket and I could be ready anywhere from a week to ten days. Dec. 8 is the first Test, and I’m extremely confident I’ll be right to go before then. “I’ll hopefully get a Shield game in for Tassie beforehand, and to be hopefully on the end of a third winning Ashes would be something really special for me and the team.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paine-confident-of-being-fit-to-lead-australia-in-first-ashes-test/article36529254.ece
18 September 2021||KOLKATA,||FC Goa crushes JFC, enters last eight in style||ISL outfit FC Goa and regimental side Army Green registered contrasting wins in their concluding Group B league match to reach the quarterfinals of the Durand Cup football tournament on Friday. FC Goa put up a dominant show against ISL rival Jamshedpur FC, defeating the latter 5-0 and finishing on top of the table with an all-win record (nine points). Devendra, Nemil shine Devendra Murgaokar scored twice and Princeton Rebello once as FC Goa took a 3-0 lead at half-time. JFC, which mostly fielded age-group players, failed to contain the Goan attacks after the break as Muhammed Nemil netted a brace to complete the tally. Deepak nets winner Former champion Army Green prevailed over I-League side Sudeva Delhi by a solitary goal to finish second in the group with six points. Deepak Singh struck early in the second half for Green.  The results:   Group B: FC Goa 5 (Devendra Murgaokar 20, 44, Princeton Rebello 26, Muhammed Nemil 46, 81) bt Jamshedpur FC 0.   Army Green 1 (Deepak Singh 51) bt Sudeva Delhi FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/army-green-fc-goa-in-last-eight/article36528964.ece
18 September 2021||RENNES (France),||Spurs share honours with Rennes||Substitute Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg’s equaliser allowed Tottenham Hotspur to come away with a 2-2 draw from its trip to France to play Rennes in the new Europa Conference League on Thursday. Loic Bade’s own goal had given Spurs the lead in Brittany but Flavien Tait equalised and Gaetan Laborde put Rennes ahead in the 72nd minute. That lead was swiftly cancelled out by Hojbjerg. The Conference League is the new third-tier of European club competition and features just one team from each of the continent’s biggest leagues. Roma is Italy’s representative and Jose Mourinho’s side thumped CSKA Sofia 5-1. Leading from the front Captain Lorenzo Pellegrini netted twice for Roma with Stephan El Shaarawy, Gianluca Mancini and Tammy Abraham also scoring. Union Berlin lost 3-1 at Slavia Prague.  Important results:   Group C: Roma 5 (L. Pellegrini 25, 62, El Shaarawy 38, Mancini 82, Abraham 84) bt CSKA Sofia 1 (Carey 10).   Group E: Slavia Prague 3 (Bah 18, Kuchta 84, Schranz 88) bt Union Berlin 1 (Behrens 70).   Group G: Rennes 2 (Tait 23, Laborde 72) drew with Tottenham 2 (Bade 11-og, Hojbjerg 76) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spurs-share-honours-with-rennes/article36528965.ece
18 September 2021||LONDON,||Ronaldo-driven Man United will look to bounce back||All eyes are once again on Cristiano Ronaldo as Manchester United aims make amends for a shock Champions League defeat to Young Boys when the Premier League leader heads to West Ham on Sunday. Second-placed Chelsea is behind United only on goals scored and will look to extend its unbeaten start in a London derby at Tottenham. Liverpool and Manchester City will not expect to be troubled when Crystal Palace and Southampton visit Anfield and the Etihad respectively on Saturday.  But the pressure is on Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta when the Gunners travel to fellow struggler Burnley. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has demanded an immediate response from United after the optimism engendered by Ronaldo’s return was punctured in Bern.  Chelsea striker Romelu Lukaku will go head to head with Tottenham’s Harry Kane in a fascinating shoot-out between two of the Premier League’s leading marksmen.    Weekend fixtures:   Saturday: Wolves v Brentford, Aston Villa v Everton, Burnley v Arsenal, Liverpool v Crystal Palace, Manchester City v Southampton, Norwich v Watford.   Sunday: Brighton v Leicester, West Ham v Manchester United, Tottenham v Chelsea .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ronaldo-driven-united-will-look-to-bounce-back/article36529033.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A shot in the arm for handball||With a vision to develop the Indian handball ecosystem, Bluesport Entertainment, the official licence holder of the Premier Handball League (PHL), had announced a mammoth investment of Rs. 240 crore recently. PHL will be held under the aegis of the Handball Federation of India (HFI). To accelerate growth The funding will be used to accelerate the growth of handball in the country in the next five years. “Apart from creating a professional handball league, we are also looking at a holistic approach to develop the sporting ecosystem through various strategic collaborations and customised programmes curated to train the players and coaches as well as upgrading the handball infrastructure in India,” said Bluesport Entertainment CEO and co-founder Manu Agrawal. 85,000 players Handball has more than 85,000 registered players currently. PHL’s inaugural edition, which will roll out next year, is expected to attract more people to the sport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-shot-in-the-arm-for-handball/article36528973.ece
18 September 2021||Luxembourg,||Sania and Zhang bow out in the doubles quarterfinals||Sania Mirza and Shaui Zhang of China lost 3-6, 6-3, [10-8] to Greet Minnen and Alison Van Uytvanck of Belgium in the doubles quarterfinals of the €189,708 WTA tennis tournament here. In the Challenger in France, fourth seeds Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan and Purav Raja missed two match points in the doubles semifinals, and were beaten 4-6, 7-6(7), [10-8] by the Dutch pair of Bart Stevens and Tim Van Rijthoven.   The results:   €189,708 WTA, Luxembourg: Quarterfinals: Greet Minnen & Alison Van Uytvanck (Bel) bt Shuai Zhang (Chn) & Sania Mirza 3-6, 6-3, [10-8].   €66,640 Challenger, Rennes, France: Semifinals: Bart Stevens & Tim Van Rijthoven (Ned) bt Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja 4-6, 7-6(7), [10-8].   $52,080 Challenger, Cary, USA: Second round: Michael Mmoh (USA) bt Sasikumar Mukund 6-4, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo, Egypt: Semifinals: Diego Augusto Barreto Sanchez (Esp) & Rishab Agarwal bt Davide Galoppini & Marco Miceli (Ita) 6-3, 7-6(3); Quarterfinals: Diego Augusto Barreto Sanchez & Rishab Agarwal bt Alessio De Bernards & Francesco Passaro (Ita) 7-6(5), 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Quarterfinals: Li Tu (Aus) bt Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-4, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF women, Melilla, Spain: Quarterfinals: Enola Chiesa (Ita) & Sathwika Sama bt Nina Rudiukova & Anastasia Veselova (Rus) 6-4, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Quarterfinals: Elena Milovanovic (Srb) bt Sravya Shivani 6-2, 6-3.   Doubles: Quarterfinals: Sharmada Balu & Sravya Shivani bt Alejandra Gutierrez (Col) & Shelby Prince (USA) 6-1, 6-3.   Yuka Hosoki (Jpn) & Ma YeXin (Chn) bt Emma Van Poppel (Ned) & Jennifer Luikham 6-1, 6-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-zhang-bow-out/article36528980.ece
18 September 2021||WARANGAL,||Aishwarya brushes aside bitter memories, clinches long jump gold||Early last year, B. Aishwarya was writhing in pain. She had hurt her left knee badly and that required surgery. After that, the Bengaluru girl went to coach B.P. Aiyappa for rehabilitation. The 24-year-old has now transformed impressively and on Friday, she won the long jump gold with a personal best 6.52m in the 60th National Open athletics championships at the Nehru Stadium here. Massive jump That was the best jump by an Indian woman in nearly four years and it improved her personal best by a massive 27cm. “I had a good take-off in my first jump, the winning one. My next goal is to do 6.70 and try to focus on the Asian Games,” said the Railways athlete after her maiden National gold. But Aishwarya’s favourite event is the triple jump. “I was expecting her to jump somewhere between 6.40 and 6.60 in the long jump. “She is an explosive jumper, she has improved on her speed and now she is able to convert her speed into her jumps well,” said Aiyappa. “She has the triple jump tomorrow and I’m expecting something like 13.80. And I won’t be surprised even if she does 14.” Sherin disappoints Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu’s Sherin Abdul Gafoor, the favourite for the long jump title with a personal best 6.32, could manage only 6.27. “I did not get the board properly in any of my jumps,” said the 21-year-old. On the track, Railway international Parul Chaudhary staved off a strong challenge from Maharashtra’s Komal Jagdale and clocked a personal best 9:51.01 — the fastest time by an Indian in nearly three years — for the women’s 3000m steeplechase gold, her second yellow here. Komal also finished with a personal best. Maharashtra’s 19-year-old Tejas Ashok Shirse, who competed in the recent under-20 Worlds in Nairobi, made his senior National debut a memorable one by taking the 110m hurdles gold while C. Kanimozhi of Railways clocked a personal best 13.54 for the women’s sprint hurdles title. Tamil Nadu, comprising T. Santhosh Kumar, Dhivya, Vithya Ramraj and P. Abimaniyu, broke the meet record while winning the 4x400m mixed relay gold which saw the fancied Railways being disqualified after the third-leg runner Kiran Pahal stepped inside the kerb while jostling for space on the inside with Delhi’s Pooja. There was a National record too, by UP’s Ram Baboo in the men’s 35km race walk, a new event.  The results:   Men, 3,000m steeplechase: 1. Shankar Lal Swami (Ser) 8:46.05, 2. Mohammed Nur Hasan (Ser) 8:50.00; 3. Balkishan (Ser) 8:50.45; 110m hurdles: 1. Tejas Ashok Shirse (Mah) 14.09, 2. Sachin Binu (Ser) 14.22, 3. Tarundeep Singh (Ser) 14.22; High jump: 1. Jesse Sandesh (Rly) 2.17, 2. Bharathi Vishwanathan (Ser) 2.17, 3. Sarvesh Anil Kushare (Ser) 2.17; Shot put: 1. Karanveer Singh (Rly) 18.46, 2. Devinder Singh (Pun) 18.02, 3. Vanam Sharma (Raj) 17.96; 35km race walk: 1. Ram Baboo (UP) 2:46:31.00 — NR, OR: 2:49:12.00, Manish Singh Rawat, Ranchi, 2021, 2. Sagar Satishchandra Joshi (Guj) 2:53:43.00; 3. Surinder Singh (Pun) 2:54:22.00.   Women, 3,000m steeplechase: 1. Parul Chaudhary (Rly) 9:51.01, 2. Komal Jagdale (Mah) 9:51.03, 3. Priti Lamba (Rly) 10:22.45; 100m hurdles: 1. C. Kanimozhi (Rly) 13.54; 2. Aparna Roy (Ker) 13.58; 3. K. Nandhini (TN) 13.90; Long jump: 1. B. Aishwarya (Rly) 6.62, 2. Sherin Abdul Gafoor (TN) 6.27, 3. Priyanka Kerketta (Rly) 6.05; 35km race walk: 1. Ramandeep Kaur (Pun) 3:15.17.00, 2. Sonal Sukhwal (Raj) 3:18:35.00, 3. Priyanka Patel (UP) 3:27:56.00.   Mixed 4x400m relay: 1. Tamil Nadu (T. Santhosh Kumar, I. Dhivya, Vithya Ramaraj, P. Abhimanyu) 3:26.22 — MR, OR: 3:27.93, Delhi team, 2019; 2. Punjab 3:27.49; 3. Delhi 3:28.01 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aishwarya-brushes-aside-bitter-memories-clinches-long-jump-gold/article36528607.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Sachin shocks Gaurav, enters second round||Reigning Youth World champion Sachin shocked former World championships bronze medallist Gaurav Bidhuri to reach the 57kg second round in the National boxing championships at the Inspire Institute of Sports, Vijaynagar, on Friday. The Haryana youngster, who had claimed the gold medal in 56kg in the World Youth event in Kielce, Poland, in April last, boxed bravely to beat Gaurav of Railways 4-1 in a closely-fought opening round bout. Another Worlds medallist and five-time Asian medallist Shiva Thapa knocked out Subham Namata of Steel Plant Sports Board in a 63.5kg first round bout.  Important results:   48kg: Kuldeep Kumar (Chd) bt Sushil Sahran (Raj) 4-0.   51kg: Deepak Kumar (SSCB) bt Mukesh Kumar (Del) 5-0; 54kg: Savio Michael (TS) bt Krishna Jora (Jha) 4-1; 57kg: Jobison Yengkopam (Man) bt Vaishak (Kar) 4-1, Mohd. Hussamuddin (SSCB) bt Karan Gupta (MP) 5-0.   60kg: Lokesh Chaudhary (Raj) bt Rahul Sresta (WB) 3-2; 63.5kg: Abhishek Yadav (U.P.) bt Bittu Kanwal (Utk) 3-2; 67kg: Ashok Patil (Goa) bt Chander Mohan (HP) 4-1.   71kg: Pawan Kumar (AIP) bt Brandon Oinam (Man) 3-2, Devendra Singh Jhekwan (Utk) bt Sivareddy Annem (AP) 4-1; 75kg: Gagandeep (U.P.) bt Pankaj Kumar (Utk) 4-1.   80kg: Sachin Kumar (SSCB) bt Bobin Chauhan (HP) 5-0, Sumit Poonia (Raj) bt Mudassir Khan (UP) 4-1; 86kg: Prayag Chauhan (RSPB) bt Kapil Pokhariya (Utk) 5-0; Gowtham Palani (TN) bt Vishal Yadav (U.P.) 5-0;   92kg: Harish Singh (Utk) bt Parvesh Musharaf (TN) 5-0; 92+kg: Sayeed Bin Ali (TS) bt Abhinav Chauhan (HP) 4-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sachin-shocks-gaurav-to-make-second-round/article36528909.ece
18 September 2021||CHENNAI:,||Emissary has the edge in feature event||Emissary has an edge over her rivals in the (Div. I) of the Royal Calcutta Turf Club Trophy (1,200m), the main event of the races to be held here on Saturday (Sept. 18).  TRANSITION HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 2-00 p.m.: 1. Mighty Princess (5) Gaurav Singh 60, 2 Majestic Wind (3) Yash Narredu 59, 3. Glorious Legend (7) Nikhil Naidu 58.5, 4. Attica (4) P. Trevor 58, 5. Victory Walk (6) C. Brisson 56, 6. Swiss Agatta (2) Ashhad Asbar 52, 7. Turf Beauty (1) Nakhat Singh 51.5 and 8. Roses In My Dreams (8) A. Ayaz Khan 50.  1. MAJESTIC WIND, 2. ATTICA, 3. SWISS AGATTA   TRUMP CARD HANDICAP (1,400m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Glorious Sunlight (7) Nikhil Naidu 60, 2. Supreme Exelsior (9) K. Mukesh Kumar 60, 3. Sanctuary Cove (2) Janardhan Paswan 58.5, 4. Thrill Of Power (8) Indrajeet Kumar 58.5, 5. Farewell (4) C. Brisson 57, 6. Fabulous Show (10) P. Sai Kumar 55.5, 7. Carnoustie (1) D.S. Deora 54.5, 8. Lord Of The Turf (5) Nakhat Singh 52, 9. Lady Zeen (6) Shahar Babu 50.5 and 10. Fine Teak (3) A. Ayaz Khan 50.  1. GLORIOUS SUNLIGHT, 2. FABULOUS SHOW, 3. CARNOUSTIE   HONOUR HANDICAP (1,000m), 6-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 3-00: 1. Pappa Rich (1) Koshi Kumar 60.5, 2. Pinewood (3) D.S. Deora 59, 3. Arithmetica (2) A. Ayaz Khan 58, 4. Royal Symphony (8) Azfar Syeed 58, 5. Star Convey (10) Ishwar Singh 58, 6. Full Bloom (6) Farid Ansari 57, 7. Palsy Walsy (5) K. Mukesh Kumar 57, 8. Platini (4) Gaurav Singh 55.5, 9. Obsession (9) Ramandeep Singh 52.5 and 10. Fantastic Hit (7) Ajeet Kumar 51.  1. PINEWOOD, 2. PALSY WALSY, 3. ARITHMETICA   MYSORE RACE CLUB LTD. CUP (1,000m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-30: 1. Air Marshall (8) C. Umesh 56, 2. Bay Of Naples (6) P. Sai Kumar 56, 3. Maverick Mitchell (1) Ramandeep Singh 56, 4. Muktsar’s Brave (2) Mukesh Kumar 56, 5. Regal Kid (3) D.S. Deora 56, 6. Geisha Girl (10) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 7. Gift Of Perfection (7) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 8. Glorious Symphony (4) Yash Narredu 54.5, 9. Innisbrook (5) Janardhan Paswan 54.5 and 10. Valeska (9) Nikhil Naidu 54.5.  1. VALESKA, 2. GLORIOUS SYMPHONY, 3. BAY OF NAPLES   ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB TROPHY (Div. II) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 60 to 85, 4-00: 1. Breaking Bounds (2) K.V. Baskar 60, 2. Pretty Gal (6) Gaurav Singh 59, 3. Mon General (7) C. Umesh 58, 4. Octavian (3) Nikhil Naidu 58, 5. Star Waves (5) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 6. Catelyn (1) Kuldeep Singh 57, 7. Queen Of Venice (4) R. Rupesh 56.5, and 8. Butterfly (8) Farid Ansari 54.5.  1. PRETTY GAL, 2. OCTAVIAN, 3. STAR WAVES   ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB TROPHY (Div. I) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 60 to 85, 4-30: 1. Chief Of Command (3) Farid Ansari 61, 2, Oscars Thunder (6) P. Trevor 60.5, 3. Fast Car (4) S. Sunil 60, 4. Gods Plan (1) P. Sai Kumar 60, 5. Galvarino (5) Koshi Kumar 59.5, 6. Cuban Pete (9) Ashhad Asbar 58, 7. Emissary (2) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 8. That’s My Class (8) K.V. Baskar 56 and 9. Storm Flag (7) Manikandan 55.  1. EMISSARY, 2. GODS PLAN, 3. OSCARS THUNDER   STARLIGHT PRINCESS HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65, 5-00: 1. Rutbedar (5) H.M. Akshay 62.5, 2. Thomas Hardy (6) P. Sai Kumar 62, 3. Excellent Phoenix (1) D.S. Deora 61, 4. Namaqua (1) Ishwar Singh 60.5, 5. Decisive (4) Shahar Babu 58, 6. Esteva (7) P. Trevor 58, 7. Wakanda (2) Kuldeep Singh 58, 8. Magical Wish (9) Yash Narredu 57 and 9. Star Proof (8) N. Murugan 52.5.  1. THOMAS HARDY, 2. ESTEVA, 3. MAGICAL WISH   STARLIGHT PRINCESS HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65, 5-30: 1. Royal Rules (7) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Texas Rose (6) R. Manish 60, 3. Princess Sasha (8) S. Sunil 59.5, 4. Despacito (1) P. Trevor 59, 5. Wonder Blaze (5) C. Umesh 59, 6. Shadow Of Love (9) Kuldeep Singh 58.5, 7. Branka (3) Nikhil Naidu 58, 8. Eyes Of Falcon (4) Nazar Alam 58, 9. Red Hot Jet (10) Md. Farhan Alam 55.5 and 10. Star Ranking (2) Ajeet Kumar 55.5.  1. DESPACITO, 2. ROYAL RULES, 3. BRANKA  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jkt: 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/emissary-has-the-edge-in-feature-event/article36529029.ece
18 September 2021||SYDNEY,||Australia pulls out of junior hockey WC||Australia on Friday pulled out of several upcoming FIH tournaments, including the junior men’s World Cup slated to be held in India later this year, citing COVID-19 related government travel restrictions. The junior men’s World Cup is scheduled in November-December. The venue is yet to be confirmed. Hockey Australia (HA) also announced that the Tokyo Olympics silver medallist and its trans-Tasman rival New Zealand will also skip season 3 of the Pro League, which starts next month. “Australia and New Zealand will not take part in Season 3 of the FIH Pro League (scheduled in October 2021) as a result of COVID related government travel restrictions and uncertainty in both nations,” HA said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-pulls-out-of-junior-hockey-wc/article36528914.ece
18 September 2021||LONDON,||MI can’t afford a slow start: Pietersen||Former England skipper Kevin Pietersen said defending champion Mumbai Indians can ill-afford a typical slow start when the IPL resumes and the M.S. Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings have a “fantastic shot” at regaining the title after a poor 2020 season. “Everybody will expect the holders of the competition, Mumbai Indians, to go well, but they don’t have a good history of hitting the ground running,” Pietersen wrote in a blog in betway.com . “Everybody wrote off CSK before the IPL started in April, so seeing them go so well was a bit of a surprise. The overseas players, Faf Du Plessis, Moeen Ali and Sam Curran, in particular, delivered the goods. “But I’m not sure how well this four-month absence will have suited them. If they are ready, it could be a historic few weeks for the franchise.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mi-cant-afford-a-slow-start-pietersen/article36528931.ece
18 September 2021||WARANGAL,||NADA on a testing spree||The NADA appears to be on an aggressive testing spree. Every gold medallist at the National Open athletics championships was tested and, in some cases, the minor medallists too. Since the National Open is the last major athletics meet this year, it looks like the NADA is in some sort of hurry to reach the year’s testing target. But the fact is, many of the top names are missing here, even though the World Championships (Oregon, USA, July 15-24) and the Olympics got over a month ago. It will be interesting to know how many out-of-competition tests the NADA conducted this year. With the Worlds, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and u-20 Worlds lined up next year, NADA will have much work to do.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nada-on-a-testing-spree/article36528622.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Sehaj and Sushmitha rule the roost||Sehaj Singh and Sushmitha Ravi emerged the boys’ and girls’ singles champions in the Transform Tennis Academy AITA CS7 under-14 tennis tournament, on Friday.  The results (finals):   Singles: Boys: Sehaj Singh bt S. Leethaesh 6-2, 6-3; Girls: Sushmitha Ravi bt Kashvi Sunil 6-3, 6-3   Doubles: Boys: Nikhil Sreenivas & Leethaesh bt Nihar & B. Shouriya 7-5, 6-2; Girls: Sanvi Misra & Kashvi bt Parthasarathi Mundhe & Lukshitha Gopinath 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 .    Bengaluru FC, on Friday, announced its plans to start under-11, 13 and 15 girls’ teams, marking the club’s entry into women’s football. In a media release, the club said it would start with age-group teams this year and the senior women’s team is expected to take shape in due course. Selection trials for all three age-group teams will be held on September 25 at the Bangalore Football Stadium. For details, contact: 81972 09753 / 88923 86170.   Modern Girls FC eased past Pink Panthers 3-0 in the KSFA A-division football league on Friday.  The results: Pioneer Women’s FC 1 (Sathya 11) bt Sai Sports Academy 0; Modern Girls FC 3 (Arushi 30, Rivka 41, Teria 49) bt Pink Panthers FC 0 .    Harsha and Nischal scored 20 points each as Halasuru pipped Dharwad 82-80 in the State C-division league championship for men. For Dharwad, Karthik top-scored with 25 points. In another match, Akshan and Tarun accounted for 28 and 27 points as BCBC defeated Pinakini Gauribidnur 100-56.     Varshaa Sanjeev defeated Vidya Pillai 3-1 (63 (42)-07, 62-69, 63-56, 70 (58)-00) to clinch the women’s snooker title in the State-ranking tournament at the KSBA.  Other results:   Men (semifinals): M.L. Lakshman bt D. Rajkumar 5-2 (28-66, 81-51, 49-66, 70-09, 103-41, 58-45, 77-33); B. Bhaskar bt Adil Sherazi 5-4 (48-73 (57), 74-15, 102-08, 20-69, 13-62, 67-06, 66-36, 17-70 (57), 77-30) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sehaj-and-sushmitha-rule-the-roost/article36528970.ece
18 September 2021||Alappuzha,||Tripunithura CC wins title||Tripunithura CC squeezed out a three run-win over Masters CC to lift the Byju's KCA Club championship title at the SD College ground here on Friday. Put in to bat, Mohammed Shanu (50) and Mohammed Ashiq (45) gave Tripunithura CC a good start, adding 75 runs for the first wicket. Later, M.S. Akhil (40 not out) played a breezy innings as TCC finished strongly to post a challenging score of 177 for five. Masters CC's chase was dented by M.D. Nidheesh's incisive first spell. But Atul Diamond (38) led the revival and Abhishek Mohan (54) took the fight to the enemy camp. Masters needed nine runs off the final over from medium pacer P.N. Afrad Reshab. Afrad dismissed the dangerous Abhishek Mohan and conceded only five runs to grab the win for Tripunithura CC.  The scores: Tripunithura CC 177/5 in 20 overs (T. Mohammed Shanu 50, Mohammed Ashiq 45, M.S. Akhil 40 n.o.) bt Masters CC 174/9 in 20 overs (Abhishek Mohan 54, Atul Diamond Sowri 38, M.D. Nidheesh 3/16, Nikhil Babu 3/29) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tripunithura-cc-wins-title/article36529252.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: V.A. Parthasarathy Memorial Trophy one-day tournament, Group A, Vijay vs Youngstars (IC-Gurunanak); Swaraj vs MCC (SRMC, turf); Nelson vs UFCC (T. Nagar), Nelson Wahe Guru ‘A’; Group B, Grand Slam vs MRC-A (VB Nest); Jolly Rovers vs India Pistons (IITM-Chemplast); Globe Trotters vs IOB (MAC Stadium), 9 a.m. KDCA league, II div., Fine Star vs Mani Memorial (12.30 p.m.), GE A; Asian Sports vs Asiatic CA (7.30 a.m.); Bharath CC vs CBI RC (12.30 p.m.), GE B; CDCA league, II div., Oz Sports vs Willow (7 a.m), Panagattupakkam ground. Harrington-Esbee Sports under-13 tournament (1 p.m.) Sumangali Reddy’s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article36529031.ece
18 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Sayan bowls Dazzlers to thrilling win||Sayan Ghosh picked up three wickets as Durgapur Dazzlers registered a narrow four-run win over Krishnanagar Challengers in a rain-hit Bengal T20 Challenge match at the Eden Gardens here on Friday. Dazzlers scored 67 for seven in the seven-over-a-side affair. Sayan and Writtick Chatterjee, who claimed two wickets, restricted Challengers to 63 for six. Challengers’ captain Arnab Nandi’s 44 went in vain.  The scores: Friday: Durgapur Dazzlers 67/7 in 7 overs (Shreyan Chakraborty 2/25) bt Krishnanagar Challengers 63/6 in 7 overs (Arban Nandi 44, Sayan Ghosh 3/15, Writtick Chatterjee 2/15).   Thursday: Kanchenjunga Warriors 122 in 19.3 overs (Sudip Gharami 55, Mukesh Kumar 4/15, Vikas Singh 3/27) lost to Barrackpore Bashers 126/1 in 13.4 overs (Sudip Chatterjee 78 n.o., Ankur Paul 37).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sayan-bowls-dazzlers-to-thrilling-win/article36529307.ece
18 September 2021||Caracas,||Rojas eyes long jump for double gold at Paris 2024||Olympic triple jump champion Yulimar Rojas will likely go for double gold in the Paris Olympics in 2024 after revealing she could also compete in the long jump. "I'm an athlete of challenges. If it was up to me, I'd compete in the two events," Rojas told Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro in a ceremony in her honour here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rojas-eyes-long-jump-for-double-gold-at-paris-2024/article36528962.ece
18 September 2021||STAVANGER,||Gukesh wins in Norway||GM D. Gukesh of India won the Norway Chess Open 2021 here on Friday, bagging 8.5 points out of 10 rounds with seven wins and three draws. Valentin Dragnev of Austria (7 points) came second while Russia's Evgeny Romanov (6.5) emerged third.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gukesh-wins-in-norway/article36528972.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Raise a negroni||In 2014, about a year before the negroni was to become such a cult in the US bar circuit, I found myself alone in Florence, a city I had never visited till then. It was an impulsive trip, as I caught a train from Turin to this miniature Tuscan gem. A friend of a Florentine friend, an Italian policeman, took it upon himself to show me around. And the best way to see Florence, indeed the only way, is to just wander. So it was that we crossed the Arno, to the less touristy, less expensive quarters, into the neighbourhood of the Basilica di Santo Spirito, an ancient church associated with humanism. The enclave around it was once populated by prominent Florentine families such as Frescobaldi, but also poor artisans and tradesmen. Centuries later, Santo Spirito still retains its arty character. In the square, stands a bar whose name I have never noted in all the time that I have visited Santo Spirito since (annually and sometimes twice a year from 2014 to 2019) to repeat a ritual picked up on that first visit: buy a negroni, sit on the church steps, listen to live music some amateur musician inevitably plays in the evenings. And watch the world go by. The negroni, a Florentine creation supposedly, has always been a symbol of la dolce vita , the sweet Italian life, that is also bitter-sweet and certainly lived intensely.  Skip the riffs   Bitter,sweet and strong mark the three characteristics of the classic drink, equal parts Campari, sweet vermouth and gin. It is the more sophisticated sibling of the spritz, the other Italian apéritif with a similar bitter-sweet profile but not as strong (soda water, prosecco, and aperol or Campari classically). But in the US, the negroni is a shape shifter. Countless marketing events since 2015 — when the world beyond the close-knit bartending community seemed to wake up to the negroni — have put out so many iterations of the cocktail that it is now not a cocktail, but a veritable category. Some of these global versions that are currently flooding Indian bars in Delhi and Mumbai are pretty good, but truth be told, many are terrible too. They destroy the essence of the bitter-sweet-strong classic, at once simple yet sophisticated. In 2019, the drink turned 100, prompting even more frenetic marketing events, including an entire week devoted to it in the US (September 13 to 19), which seems to have now rolled into India too. The original negroni came about when gin substituted or supplemented soda water in another Italian cocktail fashionable with Americans in Europe called the Americano (Campari, wine, soda water). Gin remains the most tampered with element in the cocktail even today: while old iterations such as the Boulevardier (Campari, vermouth, rye whisky), born in Paris in the 1930s, replace gin with whisky, in these hey days of craftiness in gin, infusions are fashionable. One of the worst negronis I had the misfortune of encountering was last week at a popular Delhi bar, where the ‘truffle negroni’ is supposedly made with gin infused with, well, truffle oil. Truffle negroni per se seems to have gained some international currency post an Australian promotional event for truffles, where they used black truffle salt on the rim and black truffle-infused gin in the drink. The drink I found myself clutching in Delhi was a riff on even this dodgy riff — with bits of black olive dust, all briny and blah, sticking to the single square ice cube in the glass. However, this masquerade for legit black truffles was enough to make fad-seeking Delhi society and social media ‘influencers’ go gaga over the version, never mind how it destroyed the sweet-bitter-strong essence of a negroni. In fact, even if the bar was to use a single slice of black truffle as a garnish, as a recipe by Gordon Ramsay restaurants does (blending truffle oil with bourbon, Campari and martini rosso), the umami of fresh truffle does nothing to the Campari and is a waste of a pricey ingredient.  Mezcal gets a yes   Somenegroni experiments, however, work quite well. The same week as I had the above disaster, I also tried the new international darling, a mezcal negroni. Mezcal, of course, is a spirit on the rise. But it is tough to find a good bottle in India and it is much dearer than your average gin. My drink was courtesy a dinner hosted by entrepreneur Vir Kotak. The mezcal worked well substituting the gin, being a strong spirit itself, adding its quintessential smokiness to the negroni. But I would definitely frown at the negroni getting fruitier, as some bar experimentations are leading it to in India (as also in the US), where typically palates prefer sweet and not bitter. Campari with its complex herbaceous notes is at the heart of the negroni. A fruitier negroni tampers with this heart. At the boutique hotel Narendra Bhawan in Bikaner, the bartender turned out a rather perfect negroni, only to spray our hands with orange perfume from a bottle before allowing us to pick up the drink. To my mind it did nothing to the drink, or experience. A single twist of orange is the classic garnish; some bartenders make a show of burning the peel to give you more of a whiff — but purists are not always more welcoming of any extra citrusy notes. Finally, ageing. The barrel fad hasn’t caught on in India, though barrel-aged negronis do make sporadic appearances in aspirational hotel bars. Because of the vermouth, the negroni is suitable to age; if done well, it makes it mellower and smoother. But without its intensity, is it really la dolce vita , the Italian classic we want?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/raise-a-negroni/article36528851.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Horn with the wind||For me, the most important news item — even bigger than the joyous revelation that James Bond’s No Time To Die will be the first Hollywood film to be dubbed into Gujarati — is what Union Road Transport Minister, Nitin Gadkari, said with regard to the new rules to make vehicle horn sounds more soothing. Gadkari ji lamented that even though he lives on the 11th floor, and does pranayama for one hour every morning, vehicle horns continue to disturb him. This led him to realise that the problem with automobile horns is not their sound but how they sound. What if, he proposed, instead of the horns being cacophonic honks and bleats, they sounded like the tabla , the violin, the bugle or the flute? I was so astounded by the sheer simplicity, brilliance and atmanirbhar -ness of this idea that I had to take it to the next level. As readers are aware, I am not one to wait for rules to be put in place. As we speak, the asthana mechanic, Clutch Kadiresan, who has kept my 17-year-old Honda City shipshape using old Sumeet mixie parts, is yanking out the car’s horns and pounding them to a fine pulp. What is the next step, you ask. You may be unaware of this, but I come from a highly cultured family so full of musicians, actors, dancers and snake charmers that we have run out of cupboard space. Fortunately for me, other than the ones who’ve migrated to the US, the rest are unemployed. Or institutionalised. First off, I have just put an uncle (who wishes to remain unnamed), an accomplished flautist, shehnai - and nadaswaram player, on a retainer. In family circles, he is known as the Wizard of Wind (the mellifluous kind, not the other) because he can play even a PVC pipe like Louis Armstrong. He has been assigned to travel in the back seat of my car. We are putting off his travelling on the bonnet on a special seat (like the one John Wayne used in Hatari! to lasso giraffes) for Stage 2. The vidwan will, of course, have his entire arsenal of wind instruments — from the nadaswaram to the pungi — by his side. As I negotiate the busy thoroughfares of our bustling city, Uncle will lower the window and, depending on the traffic situation, play the appropriate instrument at the appropriate volume. For instance, if I sense the traffic signal is about to change to green, the maestro will play a gently persuasive tune on the flute, something that tells the drivers ahead that they better be ready to step on it unless they want to be rear-ended. If, on the other hand, we are blocked by a herd of buffaloes, Uncle will bring out his invention, the double-barrelled nadaswaram (patent pending), stick it out of the window, and go full on Sivaji Ganesan from Thillana Mohanambal . Similarly, the saxophone, the shehnai , the Long Dizi, the Short Dizi and the bansuri will be employed in various permutations and combinations depending on time of day, locality and who is blocking our path. When I discussed this matter with long-time friend and mentor Ambujam Mami, team player that she is, offered to ride along. ‘Let’s make it a truly holistic audio-visual experience for everyone, no?’ she opined. As a bonus feature, she will be leaping out of the car like a renegade doe from IIT’s campus — dressed in her part-Bharatanatyam-part-Kabuki fusion costume — and performing short, spontaneous dance items that match Uncle’s virtuoso playing. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/horn-with-the-wind/article36528805.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Playing with decay and diamonds||In late August, a start-up Indian jewellery label dazzled in Las Vegas. Studio Renn, a three-year-old Mumbai-based jewellery firm, debuted internationally to win the Innovation award at Couture, a major annual event in the fine jewellery and luxury watches industry. The award winning piece, the Strangler ring, is an acid-treated concrete construct reinforced with blackened 18K grey gold and brilliant-cut round diamonds. Because of the US travel ban, the co-founders, spouses Rahul and Roshni Jhaveri, watched the ceremony virtually. “It was a surreal feeling,” says Rahul, 36, while Roshni, 37, explains that innovation is a significant part of their design practice. “It’s not just innovation using an unexpected material, but also through finishes and discovery.”  Beauty from destruction   Since inception, the duo’s creations have elevated jewel design into sculptural art forms. The Strangler is a by-product of their ongoing study of atrophy, or the impermanence of things. “It took multiple tries to get the edges absolutely perfect, and by acid treating it, the idea was to let go of the false sense of control we always have,” Rahul, Renn’s creative director, says. “It is this destructive act that softens the edges, partially exposes the inner form — to create the final ring. We are creating the work by seemingly destroying it, but also allowing the work to create itself serendipitously.” Respected art collector Czaee Shah came across Studio Renn during their first exhibit in Mumbai in 2019. “I had not encountered, and still have not encountered, another jewellery design practice like theirs in India — no one whose work straddles the worlds of art and adornment so uniquely,” she says. “The Studio stands apart by not referencing Indian antique jewellery, as everyone else does, but opts for avant-garde designs and innovative techniques.” Like the Boletus Sp Rotting rings, another discourse on atrophy. The trio of 18K white and rose gold rings have reverse-set Burmese rubies and diamonds, and when seen together, each depicts the progression of ‘rot’.  A material world   These highly-specialised pieces are a deliberate approach by Studio Renn to put design at the forefront of their jewellery. To do this, Rahul and Roshni interact with a host of creative individuals. “Architects, interior designers, visual artists, choreographers, performers, it’s from this tribe of creative people that we draw a lot of our inspiration,” Rahul says. The Strangler, for instance, is a collaboration with Mumbai-based architectural firm Material Immaterial Studio. One of the brand’s collaborations, titled (An) otherness, comprises 65 pieces that were the product of discussions between the studio and contemporary artist Prashant Salvi. It grew from a series of sketches to become an exploration of texture, materiality, shapes, and techniques. The results include pieces like the Orange Peel Ruby Reflections bracelet, in 18k white and high-gloss rose gold, set with Burmese rubies and diamonds. The rubies are hidden from sight but visible through reflections, a marvel of light and shadow. “We are constantly experimenting with and exploring materials to enhance the design experience,” Roshni says. Prior to the pandemic, Studio Renn debuted their collections in immersive installations in Mumbai, Kolkata and Ahmedabad (a Delhi exhibit is now on the cards). Working with leading design curator Divya Thakur on their first Mumbai show, Seeing the Unseen, in February 2019, or with American music composer Randall Taylor and Mumbai sculptor Nilesh Kinkale on The Fringe: Infinite Possibilities, in January 2020, resulted in exhibits that were more sensorial artistic expressions than typical commercial ones.  Putting design first   Prior to founding their fledgling label, Rahul and Roshni, who met as students at Carnegie Mellon University in Pennsylvania, had no experience in jewellery sales or retail. Roshni’s previous career was as a strategy consultant — she now oversees sales and marketing at Renn — while Rahul is from a third-generation diamond family that sources, cuts and polishes rough diamonds. At Studio Renn (Latin for ‘rebirth’), their five-person design team have a background in art studies or architectural degrees. The studio’s location in the northern Mumbai suburb of Borivali and the Jhaveris’ long daily commute from their home in Malabar Hill to work allows the founders to absorb the city’s transforming views. “The cities we live in are in a constant state of flux, so that’s where the fascination with atrophy began,” Rahul says. “We are influenced by the city but also the lack of it,” alluding perhaps to the forested Sanjay Gandhi National Park, a bio-diversity gem in the eastern end of Borivali. Working with both precious gemstones and gold, but also materials that would not otherwise be considered valuable — such as concrete or coins — expands on their idea of the impermanence of things. “Every single thing we do is a creative pursuit. Jewellery is just one important part,” Rahul concludes.  Studio Renn’s pieces start at price points of Rs. 2.5 lakh; commissioned works start at Rs. 3 lakh. Details: studiorenn.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/playing-with-decay-and-diamonds/article36528856.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||No, I don’t want to||Two days into an online friendship and the guy starts sexting. A break-up ends with private photos uploaded as revenge porn. Say hello to someone and he sends pics of his body parts. Just a few nightmarish scenarios in the lives of those pursuing digital romance, which is practically everyone from Gen Z. In my own younger, simpler days, a sweaty hand tried to hold yours in a darkened cinema hall or a smug little popinjay decided you owed him a kiss because he had treated you to chow mein and Fanta. Simpler yes, but the dice was as loaded against women then as it is today, with violation of consent as rampant as before. So it’s entirely apposite that popular dating app Tinder India should step into the fray with a short film, part of their ongoing #Let’sTalkConsent series. The film is about a young couple who met on Tinder, started to date, and then broke up because Ved misread Rhea’s no for a yes. Meeting up a year later, Rhea now reveals why she had walked away, telling Ved she wishes he had simply asked if she wanted sex rather than assume she did. It goes on to show Rhea in a new relationship, where her boyfriend asks for permission before he holds her hand or kisses her. At first glance, the film seems like an extremely simplistic approach to a subject that bristles with complexities, but on second thought, perhaps it’s good to keep it so basic — an ABC primer for dating — given India's near-total sexual ignorance. Look around at the entitled, boorish young men and unreal romance-inspired women, and you see the price we’re paying for the absence of healthy, socially-sanctioned male-female interactions. We have bred a cultural illiteracy that leads most men to imagine any woman seen online is available for sex because “good girls” won’t be online but rollingrotisin a kitchen somewhere. Women on dating apps are thus already slotted, and male responses predetermined. If this film literally spells it out — check to hold hands, ask if you can hug, take permission for a kiss — it’s doing nothing more than educating young men in the most elementary of dating courtesies. In fact, as much as the mechanics of sex, such conversations need to be part of school curricula, built around respect for all genders, friendship, love, physicality, boundaries. The longer we postpone talking about it, the guiltier we are of encouraging rape culture. Having said that, I hope Tinder will go on also to make a more evolved film around consent because this one’s oversimplification is likely to create its own problems, for instance, in the stereotypes it echoes. Look at how Rhea explains her actions to Ved: “I didn’t have the strength to say no”; “I didn’t want to look bad and seem difficult.” While it’s true that women find it hard to say no and men typically use this to force intimacies, I would hate popular culture to reinforce the idea that women should continue not wanting to look ‘bad’, wanting to ‘please’ the guy, afraid he will be upset if they deny sex. Generations of socialisation have tutored women to always be ‘nice’, to want to be ‘liked’, and they must undo this. They must refuse, push back, storm out without fearing labels like ‘difficult’, ‘repressed’, ‘tease’. Interestingly, in the film, the beauty salon employee does this. She simply shoves off the boyfriend when he gets fresh, doing what the upper-class Rhea could not do, showing indeed why a woman’s ‘no’ doesn’t have to be wrapped in gauze. When women stop feeling guilty or awkward to decline intimacy, when they stop worrying about male approval, that’s when they’ll be truly free. Anything less is still a compromise. Also, teaching men to respect consent, verbal and non-verbal, can continue as an ongoing project, but healthy sexual bonds can’t be built by second-guessing or asking artificial pre-set questions. It comes from equality and respect. Two people in love or lust will be driven by passion, impulse, desire, all of which is instinctively non-verbal. If they truly respect each other, consent will neither have to be asked for nor granted but will flow from one to the other naturally. Whether online or offline. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/no-i-dont-want-to/article36528847.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Shapewear’s Indian twist||Love it or hate it, the shapewear trend is here to stay. Be it body shapers, corsets, body tapes or nipple pasties, they are everywhere — from celeb Instagram accounts to the red carpet (rapper Lil’ Kim’s seashell nipple pasties outfit from the 1999 MTV Video Music Awards continues to be a hot topic of discussion!). They might be constantly criticised for glamourising an hourglass figure and creating unhealthy body standards (by making bellies and body fat taboo and, therefore, invisible via their promotions), when in fact they do quite the opposite. Shapewear — primarily ruled by the likes of Spanx and Marks & Spencers — in all its forms has been widely welcomed by women who say it improves posture, provides support and, most importantly, boosts confidence. Earlier this year, TikToker Adria Barich reviewed Kim Kardashian's iconic Skims collection and called it out for its small sizing, overly tight waistbands and the now viral video claiming they made her “look like the Pillsbury Doughboy”. No doubt, we need inclusive sizing and colours that match Indian skin tones — something New Delhi-based Butt Chique is striving to do by ‘reinventing shapewear as a tool for versatility and empowerment’. Launched last year by Kamakshi Agarwala, its offerings include body suits, nipple pasties (starting at Rs. 999), and body tapes (Rs. 1,299 onwards). Claimed to focus on ‘real women’, their Instagram account doesn’t shy away from bellies, stretch marks, and the catalogue features models in all sizes. “I personally went over to the homes of 150 women aged between 18 and 55 [friends, family members, etc] during the sampling and research phase in 2019. Based on their feedback on sizes and materials, the designs were reworked and new samples were created. This has proven to be vital since there is no size chart for the Indian woman and I prefer not to use a UK/US sizing,” says Agarwala, 25. Apt for both our backless cholis during the festive season and evening gowns with plunging necklines for a cocktail night, the shapewear collection for tummy, thighs and posterior is designed with a nylon blend, whereas the body tapes and pasties feature 100% cotton. All products are tagless and come in paper boxes. Given the fact that any kind of inner wear or shapewear has to be hidden and is a stigma, by including more sizes and Indian skin tones “we are trying to ensure that it comes across in a way that women can embrace it and be comfortable in their own skin”, she adds. Keeping in line with their inclusive approach, Agarwala says women with no prior modelling experience were used for the campaign shoot “to ensure authenticity”. “As the Indian lingerie landscape has primarily showcased petite fair skinned models, I never felt confident in my skin. I needed to change this imagery and made it a point to include different skin tones, body types and, wherever possible, different ethnicities. The entire crew was female too,” she concludes.  Shapewear at Rs. 2,999 onwards on buttchique.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/shapewears-indian-twist/article36528803.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Let’s talk masculinity||What do we mean when we say ‘masculinities’? If you grew up in India or certain parts of South Asia, the answers would be predictable: moustaches, automobiles, money, influence. But while external, society-approved markers are powerful in terms of what they convey (and codify in both law and convention), sometimes even small gestures of solidarity within groups of men can tell us important things about how patriarchy works. Although I am not an academic by profession, the reason I like reading academic books on this topic is that one gains insights about relatively lesser-known and barely-commented-upon dynamics of masculinity. During the M3 (Man, Male, Masculinities) International Conference organised by Goethe-Institut Chennai last week, Romit Chowdhury, a lecturer of sociology at Erasmus University, Rotterdam, narrated a series of fascinating ‘good Samaritan’ anecdotes from Kolkata. In one, an autorickshaw driver stops in the middle of the road and collects a standalone shoe because, earlier in the day, a colleague had informed him that he had dropped his while driving. The drivers rally around because they feel the pinch of having to buy new shoes in this economy; the ‘provider’ aspect of their patriarchal conditioning kicks in, manifesting in a gesture of solidarity. As Chowdhury said, “One of the major burdens preventing women’s full participation in urban life is precisely these seemingly innocent rituals of cooperation between men.” Or as comedian Aditi Mittal said during her performance at M3, “Women are not women’s worst enemies, as is often said. It’s just that a man is a man’s best friend!”  Unravelling the commonplace   Theconference was full of illustrative conversations like this, which focussed on the changing nature of masculinities. Writer Meena Kandasamy, for example, spoke about the way caste intersects with expressions of masculinity. Instances of young Dalit men facing physical violence for growing a flamboyant moustache or wearing a wristwatch are commonplace in India. Actor Tillotama Shome spoke passionately about onscreen depictions of masculinity. Other panel discussions covered realms as disparate as law, journalism, and the video gaming industry. What are the other areas where expressions of masculinity intersect with structures of power? In a country like India, there’s no shortage of evidence: Cabinet ministers have, in the past, referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s supposed manliness by using the phrase chhappan inch ki chhaati (56-inch chest in Hindi). Bollywood actors like Shahid Kapoor and Salman Khan have wildly popular dialogues and scenes about ‘ mardaangi ’ (masculinity). Advertising quite openly targets either men or women, depending upon the product, in blatantly regressive language.  Patriarchy impacts everyone   “Theidea for this conference came from my predecessor Helmut Schippert [who retired last year]. We wanted men to be a part of the conversation around gender equality, to ask them what they felt about masculinity,” says Katharina Görgen, director of Goethe-Institut/Max Mueller Bhavan Chennai. While she says that the conversation around men being allies is at “different stages in different countries”, what is common is “the reality that patriarchy hurts not just women but men, too. If you’re a young man growing up in a deeply patriarchal society, a lot of people will look at you and assume the worst and that can’t be nice.” She also points out that while the law tends to be many years behind the level of public discourse (“change is tough!”), it is up to writers, academics and journalists to keep these conversations going, to keep pushing for reform at every level of society.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lets-talk-masculinity/article36528797.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Adidas goes big in Delhi||This week past saw the opening of Adidas’ first flagship store in India. We have all been to an Adidas outlet. For some, it’s about timeless classics like the Stan Smith or lining up with the Yeezy craze, while others may have been browsing their next kit for a race or training. And then, of course, there are football fans and their never-ending sagas about the latest kit jersey. But in all this, if you ask me, while we have had great products, we may have never had them all under one roof, or any roof at all, finding them online in many cases. At other times, sizes may have been an issue, and there has always remained the unspoken yet slight segregation of the Originals lines vs the sports and performance gear. To launch the flagship now is a big move for times when social distancing and staying shut have become a norm. It surely seems to exemplify their motto, “Impossible is Nothing” for the brand has broken new ground in finding ways to make the offline shopping experience engaging all over again. For this flagship, it has it all. Four floors, separate sections for women, men, kids, and special areas for sustainable wear, outdoor gear, limited release lines, an entire area dedicated to football, and a very special ‘Delhi Shop’, which has customisation on offer and also some special release stuff. It made me think about how buying an Apple product in India, to draw a parallel, still doesn’t feel complete because we lack the ‘Genius Bar’ experience which truly sets the brand apart from the rest in their field. This flagship store manages to deliver not just the goods but the philosophy behind the three-striped brand. And we aren’t being shortchanged with some sort of ‘lite’ version just because it’s India. Once inside, you could at the Munich store, or the Dubai one. It’s all that and, as a bonus, has some local touches that it is tough to walk in and not feel a connection. And it will be tougher still to go past it and not walk in! Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/adidas-goes-big-in-delhi/article36528809.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Rise of the independents||After the last year, much depends on the success of events like Watches & Wonders and the more recent Geneva Watch Days. “Everybody was smiling so that’s a good sign that business is up for most,” says Meylan, adding, “Looking at most high prices at auctions, that too shows a very healthy market. If brands are doing well, then they have the time and money to focus on more creativity.” Auction houses like Sotheby’s and Phillips have had cross-category sales, where watches are being presented with jewellery and contemporary art. Or watches are paired with sneakers. Collectors are getting younger too. In fact, Phillips’ fourth edition of Intersect, a mixed online auction, is currently underway till September 23. Independent watch brands like H Moser & Cie are also closely monitoring the secondary market. “It is a very important parameter to take decisions: what is the market looking for, what is successful, how many should we produce… they are important indicators when taking decisions on budget,” says Meylan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/rise-of-the-independents/article36528839.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A bloody survival battle||From slow burn romances and horror to period dramas and comedies, K-dramas top viewership charts across the globe. Now, it is time to get acquainted with K-games — Ojingeo Geim (squid game), a popular Korean children’s game, to be exact. In its 2021 avatar, it’s a survival game and the plot of Netflix’s much-awaited drama series, Squid Game , which released on September 17.  What’s in a game?   Theeight-episode series is directed by Hwang Dong-hyuk ( The Fortress , Miss Granny ) and unfolds like a dystopian drama. Masked figures lure 456 contestants from diverse backgrounds to participate in the game with a cash prize of 45.6 million won (approx $40 million). But they don’t realise how extreme things will become. Played out on a board-like set, deceptively painted in pastel colours, contestants in green track suits are watched over by anonymous masked entities. It soon becomes a telling statement of class divide and the competitive battle for survival, as the angst and desperation of the characters surface, even as each tries to outwit the other. The drama (which calls to mind The Hunger Games and The Maze Runner ) stars Lee Jung-jae — known for his suave on-screen characters, be it the stoic bodyguard in Sandglass or the ruthless killer in Deliver Us From Evil . He plays Ki Hoon, a debt-ridden, unemployed man who becomes a willing participant in the game. “My character continues to change in terms of his personality and the emotions portrayed in the story as he perceives each game,” he says over a video call, accompanied by co-star Park Hae-soo and an interpreter. “As an actor, that intrigued me the most and making it look real was the challenge,” he says. Squid Game is now   streaming on Netflix   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-bloody-survival-battle/article36528842.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A modern love story||When director Deepmala started writing her second short fiction film, Ek Jhalak , she organically gravitated towards a community she had worked with in the past. “I’ve always had a soft spot for transgenders. I’ve made films on social issues with different governmental agencies and ministries. During one such project, I got a chance to work closely with the transgender community,” says the Delhi-based director. The 19-minute short starring Amit Sadh in the lead, revolves around a single father (Naman) who becomes attracted to his new neighbour without having met her. The enigmatic neighbour, Rasika, is played by Disha Yadav, a transgender actor. “I never thought of getting a non-transgendered actor for this role,” says Deepmala, who directed the 2018 short film, Ek Koshish . It took the 40-year-old over three months to find the perfect actor.  The big reveal   Trainedas a broadcast journalist, Deepmala worked with Star News and Zee News before she realised reporting wasn’t for her. For a little over a decade, she’s been heading The Visual House, a one-stop agency for design and communication in Faridabad, Haryana. While the work (ad films, documentaries) continues to have her attention, her forays into fiction are more to feed her creativity. “Making films for clients was beginning to feel like a factory. I wrote Ek Jhalak three years ago because I wanted to do something to satisfy myself artistically. It took me about an hour to write the whole screenplay.” Ek Jhalak is now streaming on Amazon Mini TV.   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-modern-love-story/article36528799.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Calling all podcasters||Hubhopper Studio, India’s largest podcast platform, has launched the ‘Power of Podcasts’, aimed at helping NGOs, activists and educators share their vision through podcasts. The project — developed in the run up to International Podcast Day (September 30) — encourages organisations to get their members to create new podcasts. Hubhopper will then support them with tutorial videos and self-help decks, and help amplify positive and meaningful conversations. hubhopper.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/calling-all-podcasters/article36528825.ece
18 September 2021||Emma Raducanu:,||Talking point||She trademarked her name within hours of her US Open win! Such is the hype around the 18-year-old, the first British woman to win a grand slam since 1977, who is being called ‘the most marketable British athlete since David Beckham’. But for now, we’d just like to read up about her debut at the Met Gala, her love of karting and motocross, and her ease with Mandarin, rather than why she’s a ’sponsor’s dream’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article36528827.ece
18 September 2021||World Bamboo Day:,||Instapick||This year’s theme is #PlantBamboo, and Tripura, which is hosting the India edition today, will focus on production and craftwork. Globally, designers are amping up their work. At the recent Paris Design Week, French-Cameroonian designer Pierre Christophe Gam showcased his bamboo raffia range of furniture, while at Milan’s Supersalone, Japanese architect Kengo Kuma’s multimedia installation, Bamboo Ring, was an eye-catcher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article36528811.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Break for song||Spend Saturday evening with playback singer Monali Thakur. The National Award winner and the voice behind songs such as ‘Sawaar Loon’ from the filmLooteraand ‘Moh Moh Ke Dhaage’ fromDum Laga Ke Haishawill share her experiences and the skills she learned in her career. In her Unlu masterclass, Thakur will focus on topics such as breathing, pitching and taking care of your voice. Tickets at Rs. 999. Every Saturday, till September 30, at 7 pm. Register on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/break-for-song/article36528813.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Of stories and auctions||Season 3 of 1947 Partition Archive’s Sunday Stories is live. Tomorrow, historian Andrew Whitehead will discuss ‘Understanding Kashmir via oral history’ on the global digital archive’s (which preserves and shares firsthand accounts of the Partition) YouTube and Facebook pages. At 8.30 pm. For something lighter, head to Prinseps for Wadia Movietone. The online auction will have rare and original film posters —Miss Frontier Mail(1936),Diamond Queen(1940), etc — going under the hammer. prinseps.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/of-stories-and-auctions/article36528815.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Push for pre-loved||Resale is picking up in India. Giving credence to this is Poshmark. The American peer-to-peer resale marketplace launched in the country three days ago, with localised categories and specialised social tools (Posh Parties, Reposh, etc) that make it easy to re-sell items. poshmark.in. If you are in Chennai, SunnyBee Market — which stocks both local foods and popular international brands — is now digital. Download the app from the Play Store and get your groceries home delivered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/push-for-pre-loved/article36528817.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Art, as you like it||Thukral & Tagra have put out their newest body of work as a solo exhibition at Nature Morte in Delhi.Conjecture, a series of large-scale paintings, looks at the “multiple levels of uncertainty that are now our collective reality”. Till October 1, naturemorte.com. If UAE is on the cards, Ishara Art Foundation hasGrowing Like A Tree: Static In The Air. Curator Sohrab Hura will showcase artists from Bangladesh, Germany, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, with live interventions open to the public. Till December 9,ishara.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/art-as-you-like-it/article36528819.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Cheer with Netflix||Netflix is acknowledging all those sleepless nights of binge watching. They are holding their first-ever ‘TUDUM: A Netflix Global Fan Event’ (September 25) and it promises to be special. Expect more than 145 of their biggest stars and creators — of over 70 series, films and specials (thinkStranger Things,Money Heist,Sex Education) — on a virtual stage. Besides exclusives and first looks, there will also be pre-shows spotlighting Korean and Indian dramas, and anime. Stream across YouTube, Twitter, Twitch and Facebook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cheer-with-netflix/article36528821.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Retail therapy||Tory Burch has launched its first boutique in India, at Delhi’s DLF Emporio. With floor-to-ceiling windows and oak panelled walls, it has a wide assortment of the American fashion label’s collection, including shoes, RTW and accessories. Meanwhile, elsewhere in Delhi, as brand Satya Paul pivots under creative director Rajesh Pratap Singh — bringing in relevance (incorporating RTW) and a contemporary aesthetic — it’s also experimenting with retail formats. Watch this space forWeekend’s take on thenewly-launched flagship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/retail-therapy/article36528823.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Edouard Meylan: Not stuck in time||I understand irony. This is the prompt to enter Pioneer Chronicles, the website introduced by Swiss watchmaker H. Moser & Cie as part of a campaign three years ago. Clicking on ‘I have no humour, let me out’ for those not feeling it ensures a quick exit. Much has been written about humour being employed recently as an effective tool to market luxury. But the irreverence you now see in Valentino and Gucci online campaigns was bravely explored much earlier by the independent watchmaker based in Schaffhausen. Edouard Meylan, H Moser & Cie’s CEO and owner since parent MELB Holding Group took over in 2012, is considered by some as a provocateur in the watchmaking world. The engineer and Wharton MBA made headlines in 2017 as the Swiss CEO who fashioned a fine watch out of cheese, an inside joke protesting the Swiss government’s legislation at the time to define what is ‘Swiss Made’ (see box on cover turn). A year earlier at SIHH, he had launched the Swiss Alp Watch, a dig at connected watches (rather, the Apple Watch). It was Moser’s reaction to the big question — will smartwatches destroy the watch industry? The dapper and outspoken Meylan, 44, has since starred in many of his quirky campaigns and the Swiss Alp Watch, with its rounded rectangular case and high-end calibre HMC 324 was an instant success at $24,900. Over the years, several models followed, from the Swiss Alp Watch Minute Repeater Tourbillon to this February’s Final Upgrade. And therein lies Moser’s success story, a brand backed by fine craftsmanship, clean design, all movements manufactured in-house and only 1,500 watches made each year. A productive year When we speak with Meylan on video call during Geneva Watch Days earlier this month, he is upbeat about how the brand has navigated the pandemic — it grew by 12% last year, something not many watch brands can boast of during the crisis. They had launched the Streamliner Chronograph early last year and set up an online platform within two weeks of lockdown. There have been collaborations with successful independent brands. Like with Max Büsser’s MB&F (where F stands for friends), which resulted in two watches that were distinctly different and yet with a common DNA. As for the Swiss Alp Watch Final Upgrade, marking the end of the series, it came with a dial made from Vantablack— the blackest material ever known, which absorbs 99.9 % of light. What created a bigger buzz was the seconds display at 6 o’clock, a cheeky reference to the spinning wheel on the iPhone. At $30,800, the 50 units were sold out instantly — in an interview with Austrian watch journalist Alexander Linz, Meylan commented that the Final Upgrade was selling in the secondary market at double the price. Moser is also known for its April Fool’s Day announcements, and the Endeavour Concept Watch collab with Parisian artist seconde/seconde/ resulted in no numerals or logo on the dial, just their Funky Blue fumé with sunburst pattern and the hour hand in the shape of a pixelated old-school eraser. Limited to 20 pieces, it was yet another reminder of the brand’s obsession about keeping it deceptively simple. Code minimalist And then comes the Geneva Watch Days launch, the Streamliner Perpetual Calendar, another home run for Moser. “I am someone who likes minimalism and symmetry. As a lot of brands are trying to make watches look complicated, we want to create watches that are as simple as possible to use and to read. I want any watch from Moser to look like a three-hand watch, even if it’s a perpetual calendar, even if it’s a chronograph, even if it’s a tourbillon on minute repeater. That makes the decision-making process much easier,” begins Meylan. The watch takes design cues from the Flyback Chronograph and the original perpetual calendar. It was one of the most talked about watches at Geneva Swatch Days, thanks to the centre seconds display and clean design philosophy, with all the data for a perpetual calendar being well accommodated (months, date, power reserve indicator). Withan almost disappearing logo (call it the ‘ghost’ logo) in transparent lacquer, fume dial, the red accents and the movement powering it being HMC 812, it’s no wonder the watch already has a two-year waiting list. “We are at the beginning of this collection, so we need to create an identity, be consistent and stick to the same codes across the different models,” says Meylan. Lounges to connect While the brand is one of the most talked about among the independents, Meylan knows this is thanks to their engagement with the watch community. With an active social media presence, he also has plans to set up lounges in key locations, including Dubai and the US, and open mono-brand boutiques as well. “Meanwhile we have pop-up stores in China, and a lounge in HK. Who knows, there may be one in India soon. Supply is a big issue for us at the moment, so before we open many points of sales, including boutiques, we need to first increase our production capacity,” says the CEO who had mentioned to Fortune magazine last year that they had reduced the time taken to assemble a perpetual calendar from 90 hours to 30 hours. The sustainability card Moser has a strong, though small, following in India, where the watch industry market size is at Rs. 7,000 crore. Meylan was in the country two years ago for a promotion with Ethos, India’s largest luxury watch retailer, and has plans to be back later this year. In fact, in May he got on a video call with RedBar, the Mumbai chapter of the watch society, where he discussed the brand’s strategy and vision with Moser enthusiasts. The question of sustainability comes up often, he agrees, as it is something all luxury brands are addressing these days. “We are RJC-certified (Responsible Jewellery Council), and it took years to get it. We are one of the few small brands with it,” Meylan explains. We try to compensate our carbon footprint. We don’t have the resources to build a manufacture like IWC, which cost a fortune to be self-sustainable. But that’s the future.” Adding that the average age of his watchmakers is 27, he agrees that this generation is more concerned about the future of our planet. I see it with my kids as well. Even if they are very young they tell me, ‘Dad you need to have an electric car’,” says the father of four. That said, he adds in his customary manner, “We are not a brand that does the recycled strap type of watch. It’s a good way to raise awareness, and has been done many times, but we try to do things in the background.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/edouard-meylan-not-stuck-in-time/article36528791.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Resilience in the residential||India moved up one spot up in the global home price index to 54th rank in the quarter ended June 2021 as against Q2 2020 owing to continued resilience shown by the residential segment amidst the global outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, according to the latest global home price index by Knight Frank, international property consultancy firm. The index report tracks the movement of mainstream residential prices across 55 countries and territories. The report further mentioned that Turkey (29.2%) continues to lead the annual rankings, but its rate of growth is slowing down. Australia at 16.4% recorded its highest rate of annual price growth since 2003. A breakdown by developed and developing economies shows a more nuanced picture with developed markets outperforming by some margin. Overall, 18 countries in Q2 2021 have reported double-digit growth, while India and Spain were the only countries to register an annual decline in home prices. However, this is the lowest proportion of markets registering a decline in prices since the Global House Price Index commenced in 2008. Concerning 6-month (Q4 2020 – Q2 2021) and 3-month changes (Q1 2021 – Q2 2021), mainstream residential prices in India witnessed a growth of 0.9% and -0.5%, respectively. “India’s mainstream residential prices have largely remained stable with negative bias despite recovery being impacted due to the second wave. Moving forward with the downward trajectory in COVID-19 cases and mass inoculation drive, the sector is expected to make a healthy recovery with demand for homes expected to increase in the coming quarter,” said Shishir Baijal, Chairman and Managing Director, Knight Frank India. The report cited that the index is rising at its fastest rate since Q1 2005. The pandemic-induced housing boom continues with prices rising by 9.2% on average across 55 countries and territories in the year to June 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/resilience-in-the-residential/article36528860.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Industrial and logistics park near Bengaluru||IndoSpace, investor, developer, and manager of Grade A industrial real estate and logistics parks, has announced the launch of its new industrial park at Narasapura, near Bengaluru. It is located near NH75 and offers connectivity to Chennai, Tirupati, and the Hoskote-Malur industrial area. The Bengaluru warehousing market has seen 4.30 mn. sq. ft. leasing in FY-2020. Developers are venturing into the city’s prominent clusters with land acquisitions for greenfield developments and making it a preferred destination for Japanese, European and Korean companies in the electronics, FMCG, and FMCD sectors. IndoSpace industrial and logistics park will offer Grade A infrastructure, making Narasapura an ideal choice for various sectors, including manufacturing, auto, auto component, and 3PL industries. Rajesh Jaggi, Vice-Chairman – Real Estate, Everstone Group, said, “By offering a solid foundation with our Grade A logistics infrastructure,we aim to tap into the manufacturing boom being witnessed in Karnataka. The launch of our new park will further help in attracting global manufacturers to the State.” IndoSpace has pioneered green warehousing in India. In June it launched two parks in Vallam and Oragadam areas in Tamil Nadu, adding 118 acres to its portfolio. IndoSpace has a portfolio of over 43 million sq. ft across 41 industrial and logistics parks pan India. It plans to add four million sq. ft of warehousing space by the end of 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/industrial-and-logistics-park-near-bengaluru/article36528857.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s toxic love affair with plastics||Come July 2022 and the Indian government’s ban on single-use plastics (SUPs) will come into force. At least that’s what a recent announcement by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) states. The Plastic Waste Management Amendment Rules, 2021, announced in August, state that 20 identified SUPs will be phased out by next year. Although an ambitious and what some might even consider a welcome change to India’s snowballing plastic crisis, the announcement has brought with it several questions. The ‘Report on Single Use Plastics’, worked on by an expert committee constituted by the Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals (DCPC), has categorised plastic products based on their environmental impact and utility — those found to have the lowest utility and highest environmental impact are recommended for a phase-out. These include thin carry bags (less than 50 micron); non-woven carry bags and covers (less than 80 gsm and 320 microns); small wrapping/ packing films; straws/ stirrers; cutlery such as foam cups, bowls; earbuds with plastic sticks; cigarette filters; small plastic bottles; plastic banners; among other products. Interestingly, the report also mentions that on examining bans and other restrictions on plastic products issued by various State governments and Union Territories, the expert committee ‘noted that the guidelines lack uniformity and vary widely in different parts of the country’.    Where are the corporations? A cursory glance at the list highlighting the environmental adverse impact score of SUPs makes it evident that these are products being churned out by small and medium manufacturers. Larger corporations that mass-produced everything from furniture and bags to multi-layered packaging and bottles are missing. Minderoo Foundation’s ‘Plastic Waste-Makers Index’, released earlier this year, reveals the companies that produce 90% of all SPU waste generated globally. The list includes Reliance Industries, GAIL India, Indian Oil Corporation, and Haldia Petrochemicals from India.  Packaging and EPR woes: Plastic packaging (flexible and rigid) contributes almost 60% of the total plastic waste generated, as a report from the Centre for Science and Environment finds. These include everyday products such as food wrappers, wrapping films, etc., but packaging waste hasn’t been listed for a phase-out. The Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 had proposed for these to be collected and managed in an environmentally sustainable way through extended producer responsibility (EPR) of the producer, importer and brand owner (PIBO). ‘Five years later, the EPR for plastic waste management remains only on paper, due to non-compliance by PIBOs and weak enforcement by authorities,’ states Down to Earth . ‘The Ministry’s assumption that the PIBOs will start complying now is puzzling.’ The expert committee’s report backs this, and states that the EPR concept in India is largely connected with litter and other environmental issues but has not even begun to be implemented. This is yet another missing link in India’s plastic ban policy.  Busting the bio-plastic bubble: Next come the infamous ‘bio-plastics’ and other compostable, oxo-degradable and oxo-biodegradable plastics — primarily used for grocery bags or carry bags. While you may feel a tad better opting for these bags rather than polythene ones, how ‘sustainable’ or ‘plastic-free’ they really are is an altogether different story. Remember, not all bio and plant-based plastics are biodegradable, and not all ‘green’ or biodegradable plastics are bio-based. In addition, they require separate composting facilities created with specific environmental conditions. The Report mentions that the conditions required for the decomposition of compostable bags do not exist in India’s municipal landfills. Most importantly, compostable plastic packaging is not a blanket solution, but rather one for specific, targeted applications as a majority of compostable plastics are more expensive than conventional plastics, and not available in sufficient quantities in India. The recycling process gets impacted when conventional and compostable plastics are mixed.  The informal workforce: According to the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), the plastics recycling industry in India employs over 1.6 million people and has more than 7,500 recycling units. It is a known fact that recycling has been managed by extremely small players, who employ elementary waste segregation processes and lack scientific know-how on waste collection, segregation, and disposal. The plastic industry not only needs an upgradation of technology for mechanical recycling, as the Report mentions, but requires investing in educating these players, and providing them incentives to manage waste wisely. Key in this list of players are the waste pickers — estimated to be between 1.5 million and 4 million. We need measures to improve the way they function. They need to be given ID cards, authorisations, incentives for their health, welfare, education, etc. If rules for source segregation and preventing the mix of plastics are enforced, it will go a long way in easing the lives of rag-pickers and making their job safer. Worse, the pandemic has made the battle against plastic tougher — given the rise in PPE kits and disposable masks — but the war against SUPs has been going on for decades. Like every other segment of Indian society, we have the rules, but there is no implementation. The polluters continue to pollute, and the dump yards grow higher by the minute. Unless there is strong data to support which product needs to be banned and how to go about it, besides putting existing rules into effect, India’s plastic crisis will be far from over.  A fortnightly column on environmental sustainability and urban issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/indias-toxic-love-affair-with-plastics/article36528869.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Demand for affordable housing to go up||The fact that the ongoing pandemic has brought along a much-needed realisation of the benefits of owning a home is not news. For the last year, buyers and industry experts alike have been discussing the need for a tangible asset that offers stability and security for the future that has been fuelled by the remote working trend. India’s residential sector has remained resilient throughout the pandemic and was quick to bounce back amongst all the other real estate asset classes. Historically low home loan rates, stable prices and reduced stamp-duty in certain states aided in the translation of pent-up demand into sales. Recovery continued in the beginning of 2021; however, the second half of March (2021) witnessed the resurgence of the Covid-19 pandemic. The growth trajectory derailed in Q2 2021 as the second wave of the pandemic hit the nation, nevertheless, residential sales were far more resilient during the second wave when compared to the first wave. City-wise snapshot Affordable and mid-housing segments are driving the demand for the residential market in India. The southern cities of Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad accounted for about 58% of the overall launches in H1 2021 out of which the affordable segment contributed to more than 20% of the launches. In the first half of 2021, Bengaluru dominated the new launches in the affordable segment amongst the southern cities with 4078 units being launched followed by Hyderabad with 2163 units and Chennai with 1264 units. Sales of more than 16,000 residential units were recorded by the southern cities in H1 2021. The sustained levels of residential sales present clear signs of demand and buyer confidence coming back to the market. This segment contributed to 10% of the sales in these markets. In Chennai, the affordable segment contributed to 12% of the overall sales, while in Bengaluru and Hyderabad it accounted for about 10% and 6% respectively. Price points Residential prices in the southern residential markets have almost remained in the range of Rs. 4000-Rs. 4200 per sq.ft. in the past few years. Developers have been providing moderate discounts, attractive freebies including payment schemes such as no EMIs for a year which has led to a reduction in ‘effective prices’ for prospective homebuyers and fence sitters. The property market, especially affordable housing, is driven primarily by the following factors: home loan rates, stability of jobs, pricing and incentives extended by developers and the government. All these parameters are now coming together which indicates a comprehensive revival of the realty sector. The home loan saga Home loan rates are at an all time low with rates hovering around 7%, the net interest rate taking inflation into consideration is around 2%. This, combined with special incentives by the government and existing IT exemptions (on interest and principal), will further reduce the net outflow. This trend is expected to continue for some time since the government and RBI are looking to revive the consumption story in the economy. According to JLL research, 85-90% of the home buyers, especially in the affordable segment, are dependent on institutional funding to buy a home. Nearly 95% of customers who buy in this category are either end users or quasi end users (long term investors) and any change in the interest will trigger this segment to look at the property market in a positive light. An all-time low interest rate coupled with an enhanced desire to own a home after the pandemic has reinvigorated this category to come back strongly into the property market. The lower rate of interest also means more affordability to buy a home, which is key for this segment. Impact of WFH trend While the Covid crisis has created stress in the stability of jobs in certain sectors, in the segments that drive the affordable category — IT/ITES, health, BFSI, industrial and logistics, e-commerce platforms — there’s a renewed enthusiasm and the recruitments are at an all-time high. The stability of jobs is at the forefront of propping up the sales in the affordable segment. The work-from-home (WFH) trend, even at 25%, is going to disrupt and accelerate the housing demand for the next few months. We are witnessing early signs of sustained revival with ready-to-move-in properties being consumed heavily in all micro markets followed by an upgradation from 2BHK to 3BHKs for want of space to accommodate the WFH concept. Every time the residential market revives, the first mover advantage is for the Ready-to-move-in category followed by under construction properties. This was seen soon after the Global Financial Crisis in 2008 where the ready homes, followed by the affordable category, created a revival of the property market. Launch trends The housing market witnessed muted sales in the last 4-5 years due to various aspects of the economy and the specific structural changes like RERA and GST. Developers are leveraging the pent-up demand witnessed post Covid-19. They are wary of increasing the pricing and are focussing on cash flows to complete the under-construction projects. It’s an important factor to note that the launches in the last 12-18 months have been abysmally low and with demand looking up, the supply side in certain micro markets has gone down. Some of the market prices have started going northwards due to this mismatch in supply and demand. Added to this is the fact that active developers in all markets have shrunk by 50-60% due to the inherent problems the sector witnessed as a result of low liquidity (primarily driven by low sales and thin margins). Launches going down in the last few months and with active developers in each market shrinking, the price can go up in coming months with demand coming back. Developers have extended discounts and incentives to the affordable category in the form of discounts and freebies. This has further pushed demand and is influencing the customer’s decision to make a purchase. It’s notable that the Government has given a lot of impetus to the affordable segment and for first-time home buyers-end users by extending and blending the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) interest subsidy schemes to suit the end users.  The writer is Managing Director, Residential, India, JLL   We are witnessing early signs of sustained revival with ready-to-move-in properties being consumed heavily in all micro markets followed by an upgradation from 2BHK to 3BHKs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/demand-for-affordable-housing-to-go-up/article36528861.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Original sale deed missing||I am planning to purchase a flat at West Mambalam, Chennai. The owner is furnishing a certified copy of the sale deed since he has lost the original sale deed. Along with the certified copy of the sale deed he is giving me the non traceable certificate from the police, the legal heirs certificate (the owner died leaving behind his wife and two sons), and the death certificate. Can I proceed to make the purchase? Will I face any legal hurdles when I resell it? A S Thirumalai Chennai You have to issue a public notice in widely circulated English and Tamil dailies about your intention to purchase the property as well as about the loss of the original document. On the other aspects, please take an opinion from a lawyer on the marketability of title before purchasing the property. I purchased a 2BHK flat from a reputed builder and completed the handing over process recently. When trying to fix the outdoor unit for air conditioners (for the bedrooms) at the allotted duct area given by the builder, we couldn’t find a single outdoor unit that can fit into the space. The builder has technically failed to make the provision, and this issue pertains to the whole block. When we questioned the builder, he accepted the mistake in the design and is now planning to make the provision elsewhere so that the current design isn’t impacted. However, this will disrupt the design of my room. If I agree to their terms, it will lead to a makeover of the bedroom interiors. How do I sort this out? Satish Kumar Chennai Since the issue is common to all the flat owners falling in your category, the same may be addressed collectively. If the alternate solutions provided by the builder are not acceptable to you and you are unable to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution, you may approach the Consumer Forum for compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/original-sale-deed-missing/article36528863.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Get crafty with the corners||Who doesn’t have a corner or two across the home that they see as dead space and don’t know what to do with? Corners often tend to be the most neglected spaces in any room. Be it the living room, the bedroom or dining area, there’s sure to be a spot that’s so dull that you can’t bear to look at it. More often than not, you push in a small table or a pile of shelves that tend to become clutter magnets over weeks and months. We give you 15 simple ways to liven up dead corners – and they’re as easy as your ABC. Place a potted plant The best way to liven up a dead corner is to bring in a tall indoor plant. Forget the ceramic planters; metal is where it’s at this season. Get a green corner A selection of potted plants of varying heights, colours and textures is perfect for the slightly larger corners. Pull in a small table A small table designed like a vignette — think books, a plant, an artefact and a candle — will never let you think that there was ever an empty corner. Get a ladder Bring in a ladder, be it wooden or metal, and use it to spice up the corner. You can add tapestries, interesting throws or lights. Try a ladder shelf A ladder shelf works in the same way, except that it gives you more surface area to put in colour and accents. String up a chair A hanging chair — our humble cane jhoola — can transform the way any corner looks. You get a new look and some additional seating. Display art on an easel Easels are available easily these days. We suggest you get one and display a favourite frame, be it a painting or a poster. Opt for a floor lamp Empty corners also seem to be the perfect place to put a floor lamp. This sculptural element creates shadows and adds to the visual appeal. Screen the area If you want to create an aura of mystery, may we suggest a screen? They may have gone out of fashion, but continue to retain their charm. Order a built-in A bespoke shelf to put away the many books and collectibles your family seems to gather over the month is another idea to explore. Make way for a high-back Or else, we suggest you try placing a solitary high-back chair in the corner. Over time, it will become a favourite me-time spot. Create a reading nook If you have a slightly larger corner, it could be just ideal to plonk a comfy chair, a lamp and a plant. Paint it a dark hue for maximum impact. Smuggle in a petite desk No space to place that desk? Why not place it in the corner so you get a small work area and enhance the appeal of your corner. Tack up a message board A made-to-order memo board can completely revitalise any corner. Soon, it will be the most frequented spot as the entire family will use it to post messages and photos. Design a vignette Use your corner to create a vignette that changes with the seasons. Pretty, and oh so appealing. Corners are more than dead zones; set up right they can be side actors that complement the main actors of your room: be it an accent wall, a striking tapestry, or a classic carpet. Make sure you work them well in all rooms to see the difference. After all, when your room is beautiful, why should the corners bring them down?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/get-crafty-with-the-corners/article36528867.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Where are NRIs investing?||In a significant trend reversal post COVID-19, a much higher percentage of NRI respondents in the latest CII-Anarock Consumer Sentiment survey are scouting for properties for self-use. At least 53% of NRI respondents who are looking to buy properties in India in the coming months will make the purchase for end-use, whereas 47% will do so for investment purposes. The pre-COVID-19 survey in H1 2019 saw a reverse trend, with the end-use to investment ratio at 32:68. One major factor influencing this change could be that many NRIs sought to return to India amid the pandemic-infused uncertainties and dwindling job prospects globally. Most saw the top seven cities as the best options, though many are also considering smaller cities to be close to their families. With many intending NRI property buyers preparing to return to India, the highest demand is for luxury properties with state-of-art amenities. Approximately 50% NRI respondents prefer luxury properties priced >Rs. 1.5 crore, and 32% favour premium properties priced between Rs. 90 lakh and Rs. 1.5 crore. Only 11% favour mid-segment homes (priced between Rs. 45 lakh and Rs. 90 lakh), and just 7% favour affordable properties. Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Group, says, “There has been a very perceptible increase in Indian housing demand from NRIs at this stage of the COVID-19 pandemic. In the recent years before the pandemic, many NRIs were in wait-and-watch mode amid the various structural reforms in the economy and the real estate industry.” He adds that before the pandemic, many NRIs keen on real estate preferred commercial properties — housing was low on their wish list. “In short, the fallout of COVID-19 on global economies and job prospects has once again rekindled housing demand from NRIs.” Sizing up The survey also highlighted the demand for bigger homes. At least 48% NRI respondents preferred larger homes of 3BHK configurations (>1,500 sq. ft.) while 28% favoured 2BHKs. A significant 24% stated a preference for 4BHKs or higher configurations. The demand for luxury homes had fallen over the past few years, especially after demonetisation, says Puri. “In the housing sector, affordable homes were the top pick for NRI buyers in this period. The fact that luxury housing is back on the NRI radar despite unaccounted monies no longer being a factor is notable. Currently, the top metros favoured by NRIs are Bengaluru, Pune, Chennai and Mumbai. Tier 2 and tier 3 cities are also gaining traction, most notably Chandigarh, Kochi, Surat, Ahmedabad and Lucknow,” he explains.  In comparison to the previous survey (H2 2020), trends indicate that Chennai is seeing increasing interest by NRIs, while their preference for the other top cities remained more or less the same. IT hub Bengaluru continues to be the hot favourite for at least 22% NRIs, followed by Pune with 18% in favour of it. Chennai drew 17% votes. Brand matters Developer credibility is the top priority for most NRI respondents scouting for property in India. Construction delays have cast a long, persistent shadow of doubt in the minds of expatriate Indians who have spent many years abroad — and therefore out of sync with on-ground market developments. Most NRIs will only deal with branded and leading developers now. Rational pricing and reliable after-sales service — which is perceived as assured with branded players — are NRI property buyers’ second and third top priorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/where-are-nris-investing/article36528873.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s FDI report||Financial advisory firm Deloitte India’s recent survey — India’s FDI Opportunity — has found that India remains an attractive destination for Foreign Direct Investments (FDI), scoring highly for its skilled workforce and prospects for economic growth. The global survey of multinational business leaders was conducted to gauge their perceptions of India as a destination for FDI. As a part of this exercise, 1,200 business leaders of multinational corporations in the US, UK, Japan and Singapore were surveyed during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India this year. It revealed that a large proportion of international business leaders remain confident in India’s short- and long-term prospects and are readying plans to make additional and first-time investments in the country. An accompanying Deloitte analysis shows that India will need US$8 trillion of gross capital formation (new greenfield assets) to become a US$5 trillion economy by FY2027. Based on past trends, India will need at least US$400 billion, cumulatively, over six years, in FDI.     A continued upward FDI trend : Approximately 44% of those surveyed across the US, UK, Japan, and Singapore said they were planning additional or first-time investments in India. Significantly, amongst first time investors, nearly two-thirds are planning investments in India within the next two years. When asked to identify sectors most likely to see new investments in India, utilities (energy infrastructure) led the way (57%), while financial services (49%) and healthcare (48%) also ranked highly.  Perception of India strongest in the US and UK: India has the strongest positive perception in the US when compared to markets such as China, Brazil, Mexico, and Vietnam. Given US and UK’s strong historic ties with India, US and UK business leaders expressed greater confidence in India’s stability. However, respondents from Japan and Singapore currently view Vietnam as their preferred investment destination.  Foreign investors rate India’s growth, stability, and skills: Business leaders rated India higher on economic growth and skilled workforce. While India is perceived as both politically and economically stable, it scored lower on institutional stability i.e., regulatory clarity and efficient judicial redress and mechanisms. Inadequate infrastructure was another negative factor cited by existing and potential investors. The survey predated the government’s recent decision to rectify the long-running retrospective taxation issue with an amendment in the tax law, a significant boost for investor confidence.  Reforms not widely known amongst investors: Despite recent reforms to improve ease of doing business in India, awareness among investors remains low. Business leaders in Japan (16%) and Singapore (9%) were least aware of initiatives such as the digitisation of customs clearance and production linked incentives for manufacturers. Accordingly, India was perceived as a more challenging environment to do business compared to China and Vietnam. Roughly 75% of business leaders said they were more willing to invest in India after being made aware of existing government programmes, incentives and reforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/indias-fdi-report/article36528864.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Demand for affordable housing to go up||The fact that the ongoing pandemic has brought along a much-needed realisation of the benefits of owning a home is not news. For the last year, buyers and industry experts alike have been discussing the need for a tangible asset that offers stability and security for the future that has been fuelled by the remote working trend. India’s residential sector has remained resilient throughout the pandemic and was quick to bounce back amongst all the other real estate asset classes. Historically low home loan rates, stable prices and reduced stamp-duty in certain states aided in the translation of pent-up demand into sales. Recovery continued in the beginning of 2021; however, the second half of March (2021) witnessed the resurgence of the Covid-19 pandemic. The growth trajectory derailed in Q2 2021 as the second wave of the pandemic hit the nation, nevertheless, residential sales were far more resilient during the second wave when compared to the first wave. City-wise snapshot Affordable and mid-housing segments are driving the demand for the residential market in India. The southern cities of Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad accounted for about 58% of the overall launches in H1 2021 out of which the affordable segment contributed to more than 20% of the launches. In the first half of 2021, Bengaluru dominated the new launches in the affordable segment amongst the southern cities with 4078 units being launched followed by Hyderabad with 2163 units and Chennai with 1264 units. Sales of more than 16,000 residential units were recorded by the southern cities in H1 2021. The sustained levels of residential sales present clear signs of demand and buyer confidence coming back to the market. This segment contributed to 10% of the sales in these markets. In Chennai, the affordable segment contributed to 12% of the overall sales, while in Bengaluru and Hyderabad it accounted for about 10% and 6% respectively. Price points Residential prices in the southern residential markets have almost remained in the range of Rs. 4000-Rs. 4200 per sq.ft. in the past few years. Developers have been providing moderate discounts, attractive freebies including payment schemes such as no EMIs for a year which has led to a reduction in ‘effective prices’ for prospective homebuyers and fence sitters. The property market, especially affordable housing, is driven primarily by the following factors: home loan rates, stability of jobs, pricing and incentives extended by developers and the government. All these parameters are now coming together which indicates a comprehensive revival of the realty sector. The home loan saga Home loan rates are at an all time low with rates hovering around 7%, the net interest rate taking inflation into consideration is around 2%. This, combined with special incentives by the government and existing IT exemptions (on interest and principal), will further reduce the net outflow. This trend is expected to continue for some time since the government and RBI are looking to revive the consumption story in the economy. According to JLL research, 85-90% of the home buyers, especially in the affordable segment, are dependent on institutional funding to buy a home. Nearly 95% of customers who buy in this category are either end users or quasi end users (long term investors) and any change in the interest will trigger this segment to look at the property market in a positive light. An all-time low interest rate coupled with an enhanced desire to own a home after the pandemic has reinvigorated this category to come back strongly into the property market. The lower rate of interest also means more affordability to buy a home, which is key for this segment. Impact of WFH trend While the Covid crisis has created stress in the stability of jobs in certain sectors, in the segments that drive the affordable category — IT/ITES, health, BFSI, industrial and logistics, e-commerce platforms — there’s a renewed enthusiasm and the recruitments are at an all-time high. The stability of jobs is at the forefront of propping up the sales in the affordable segment. The work-from-home (WFH) trend, even at 25%, is going to disrupt and accelerate the housing demand for the next few months. We are witnessing early signs of sustained revival with ready-to-move-in properties being consumed heavily in all micro markets followed by an upgradation from 2BHK to 3BHKs for want of space to accommodate the WFH concept. Every time the residential market revives, the first mover advantage is for the Ready-to-move-in category followed by under construction properties. This was seen soon after the Global Financial Crisis in 2008 where the ready homes, followed by the affordable category, created a revival of the property market. Launch trends The housing market witnessed muted sales in the last 4-5 years due to various aspects of the economy and the specific structural changes like RERA and GST. Developers are leveraging the pent-up demand witnessed post Covid-19. They are wary of increasing the pricing and are focussing on cash flows to complete the under-construction projects. It’s an important factor to note that the launches in the last 12-18 months have been abysmally low and with demand looking up, the supply side in certain micro markets has gone down. Some of the market prices have started going northwards due to this mismatch in supply and demand. Added to this is the fact that active developers in all markets have shrunk by 50-60% due to the inherent problems the sector witnessed as a result of low liquidity (primarily driven by low sales and thin margins). Launches going down in the last few months and with active developers in each market shrinking, the price can go up in coming months with demand coming back. Developers have extended discounts and incentives to the affordable category in the form of discounts and freebies. This has further pushed demand and is influencing the customer’s decision to make a purchase. It’s notable that the Government has given a lot of impetus to the affordable segment and for first-time home buyers-end users by extending and blending the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) interest subsidy schemes to suit the end users.  The writer is Managing Director, Residential, India, JLL   We are witnessing early signs of sustained revival with ready-to-move-in properties being consumed heavily in all micro markets followed by an upgradation from 2BHK to 3BHKs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/demand-for-affordable-housing-to-go-up/article36528874.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Horn with the wind||For me, the most important news item — even bigger than the joyous revelation that James Bond’s No Time To Die will be the first Hollywood film to be dubbed into Gujarati — is what Union Road Transport Minister, Nitin Gadkari, said with regard to the new rules to make vehicle horn sounds more soothing. Gadkari ji lamented that even though he lives on the 11th floor, and does pranayama for one hour every morning, vehicle horns continue to disturb him. This led him to realise that the problem with automobile horns is not their sound but how they sound. What if, he proposed, instead of the horns being cacophonic honks and bleats, they sounded like the tabla , the violin, the bugle or the flute? I was so astounded by the sheer simplicity, brilliance and atmanirbhar -ness of this idea that I had to take it to the next level. As readers are aware, I am not one to wait for rules to be put in place. As we speak, the asthana mechanic, Clutch Kadiresan, who has kept my 17-year-old Honda City shipshape using old Sumeet mixie parts, is yanking out the car’s horns and pounding them to a fine pulp. What is the next step, you ask. You may be unaware of this, but I come from a highly cultured family so full of musicians, actors, dancers and snake charmers that we have run out of cupboard space. Fortunately for me, other than the ones who’ve migrated to the US, the rest are unemployed. Or institutionalised. First off, I have just put an uncle (who wishes to remain unnamed), an accomplished flautist, shehnai - and nadaswaram player, on a retainer. In family circles, he is known as the Wizard of Wind (the mellifluous kind, not the other) because he can play even a PVC pipe like Louis Armstrong. He has been assigned to travel in the back seat of my car. We are putting off his travelling on the bonnet on a special seat (like the one John Wayne used in Hatari! to lasso giraffes) for Stage 2. The vidwan will, of course, have his entire arsenal of wind instruments — from the nadaswaram to the pungi — by his side. As I negotiate the busy thoroughfares of our bustling city, Uncle will lower the window and, depending on the traffic situation, play the appropriate instrument at the appropriate volume. For instance, if I sense the traffic signal is about to change to green, the maestro will play a gently persuasive tune on the flute, something that tells the drivers ahead that they better be ready to step on it unless they want to be rear-ended. If, on the other hand, we are blocked by a herd of buffaloes, Uncle will bring out his invention, the double-barrelled nadaswaram (patent pending), stick it out of the window, and go full on Sivaji Ganesan from Thillana Mohanambal . Similarly, the saxophone, the shehnai , the Long Dizi, the Short Dizi and the bansuri will be employed in various permutations and combinations depending on time of day, locality and who is blocking our path. When I discussed this matter with long-time friend and mentor Ambujam Mami, team player that she is, offered to ride along. ‘Let’s make it a truly holistic audio-visual experience for everyone, no?’ she opined. As a bonus feature, she will be leaping out of the car like a renegade doe from IIT’s campus — dressed in her part-Bharatanatyam-part-Kabuki fusion costume — and performing short, spontaneous dance items that match Uncle’s virtuoso playing. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/horn-with-the-wind/article36529234.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Shapewear’s Indian twist||Love it or hate it, the shapewear trend is here to stay. Be it body shapers, corsets, body tapes or nipple pasties, they are everywhere — from celeb Instagram accounts to the red carpet (rapper Lil’ Kim’s seashell nipple pasties outfit from the 1999 MTV Video Music Awards continues to be a hot topic of discussion!). They might be constantly criticised for glamourising an hourglass figure and creating unhealthy body standards (by making bellies and body fat taboo and, therefore, invisible via their promotions), when in fact they do quite the opposite. Shapewear — primarily ruled by the likes of Spanx and Marks & Spencers — in all its forms has been widely welcomed by women who say it improves posture, provides support and, most importantly, boosts confidence. Earlier this year, TikToker Adria Barich reviewed Kim Kardashian's iconic Skims collection and called it out for its small sizing, overly tight waistbands and the now viral video claiming they made her “look like the Pillsbury Doughboy”. No doubt, we need inclusive sizing and colours that match Indian skin tones — something New Delhi-based Butt Chique is striving to do by ‘reinventing shapewear as a tool for versatility and empowerment’. Launched last year by Kamakshi Agarwala, its offerings include body suits, nipple pasties (starting at Rs. 999), and body tapes (Rs. 1,299 onwards). Claimed to focus on ‘real women’, their Instagram account doesn’t shy away from bellies, stretch marks, and the catalogue features models in all sizes. “I personally went over to the homes of 150 women aged between 18 and 55 [friends, family members, etc] during the sampling and research phase in 2019. Based on their feedback on sizes and materials, the designs were reworked and new samples were created. This has proven to be vital since there is no size chart for the Indian woman and I prefer not to use a UK/US sizing,” says Agarwala, 25. Apt for both our backless cholis during the festive season and evening gowns with plunging necklines for a cocktail night, the shapewear collection for tummy, thighs and posterior is designed with a nylon blend, whereas the body tapes and pasties feature 100% cotton. All products are tagless and come in paper boxes. Given the fact that any kind of inner wear or shapewear has to be hidden and is a stigma, by including more sizes and Indian skin tones “we are trying to ensure that it comes across in a way that women can embrace it and be comfortable in their own skin”, she adds. Keeping in line with their inclusive approach, Agarwala says women with no prior modelling experience were used for the campaign shoot “to ensure authenticity”. “As the Indian lingerie landscape has primarily showcased petite fair skinned models, I never felt confident in my skin. I needed to change this imagery and made it a point to include different skin tones, body types and, wherever possible, different ethnicities. The entire crew was female too,” she concludes.  Shapewear at Rs. 2,999 onwards on buttchique.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shapewears-indian-twist/article36529233.ece
18 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder demands scrapping of farm laws||Punjab Chief Minister Captain (Retd.) Amarinder Singh on Friday demanded immediate scrapping of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre, while calling for detailed discussions with farmers to find a way forward. Pointing out that many farmers had died over the course of the ongoing protests against the laws, the Chief Minister said it was “high time the Central government realised its blunder and withdrew the legislations in the interests of the farmers and the nation”. The Chief Minister was speaking as he inaugurated the third State-level virtual “Kisan Mela” (farmer fair) organised by the Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. “Till date, the Indian Constitution has been amended as many as 127 times, so why can it not be amended once again to scrap the farm laws and resolve the imbroglio resulting from them?” asked the Chief Minister. “What is the problem in doing it a 128th time?” he demanded to know from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre, which he said was “out to ruin farmers”. “What is happening with farmers today is extremely sad, given the immense contribution made by them [farmers] to India’s development and progress,” Capt. Amarinder said, calling for immediate revocation of the laws, which he said were detrimental to the interests not only of the agricultural community but the entire country. Recalling that he had been asked by the Centre to stop Punjab’s farmers from going to Delhi in November 2020, the Chief Minister said he had refused point blank to do so as to protest is the democratic right of farmers. “Why should they not protest? How can I stop them?” he asked, stating that he continued to stand with farmers in their fight against the legislations. Punjab farmers hailed Noting the contribution of Punjab and its farmers to the country’s growth, the Chief Minister said that the State, with only 1.53% of India’s total geographical area, produces about 18% of the country’s wheat, 11% of paddy, 4.4% of cotton and 10% of milk. For the past many decades, Punjab had been contributing about 35-40% of wheat and 25-30% of rice to the Central pool, he said, expressing pride in the achievements of the State’s farmers.  Till date, the Constitution has been amended as many as 127 times, so why can it not be amended once again to scrap the three farm laws?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amarinder-demands-scrapping-of-farm-laws/article36529110.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Pleas driven by vendetta, Rakesh Asthana tells HC||Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana has informed the Delhi High Court that he was facing a barrage of social media campaigns and selective litigations over his appointment as Delhi Police Commissioner at the behest of some “undisclosed individual/ rival/ interest”. Mr. Asthana took charge as the Commissioner of Delhi Police on July 28. His appointment, which came just days before his superannuation on July 31, has been contested before the High Court by one Sadre Alam and NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL). “These petitions are not bona fide public interest litigations (PIL) but are a flagrant abuse of august forum of this court for some hidden personal vendetta of either of them or of someone on whose behest several attempts are being made against me to derail my career,” Mr. Asthana said in an affidavit before the High Court. Undisclosed reason Mr. Asthana said the individuals running the NGO has in recent past for “some oblique and ostensible undisclosed reason” have started a barrage of selective actions against him either “out of some vendetta about which I am not aware or at the behest of some individual/ interest”. The 60-year-old former Director General of Border Security Force (BSF) stated that apart from CPIL, another NGO named Common Cause has been selectively campaigning against him. People controlling these organisations have spearheaded a malicious campaign, he claimed, adding that this has been regularly happening since he was appointed as Special Director in Central Bureau of Investigation.  This week, the Centre had come in support of Mr. Asthana, saying that his appointment was done in “public interest”, taking into account the Capital’s policing issues, which had both national and cross-border security implications. CPIL and Mr. Alam, in their separate pleas, have contended that his appointment was “in clear and blatant breach” of the directions of the Supreme Court of India as Mr. Asthana “did not have a minimum residual tenure of six months”, and that no Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) panel was formed for the appointment of Delhi Police Commissioner. The pleas argued that the decision of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC) in appointing Mr. Asthana was “completely illegal on multiple grounds”. The High Court will hear the case on September 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pleas-driven-by-vendetta-rakesh-asthana-tells-hc/article36529119.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Adidas goes big in Delhi||This week past saw the opening of Adidas’ first flagship store in India, located in the heart of the Capital — Connaught Place. We have all been to an Adidas outlet. For some, it’s about timeless classics like the Stan Smith or lining up with the Yeezy craze, while others may have been browsing their next kit for a race or training. And then, of course, there are football fans and their never-ending sagas about the latest kit jersey. But in all this, if you ask me, while we have had great products, we may have never had them all under one roof, or any roof at all, finding them online in many cases. At other times, sizes may have been an issue, and there has always remained the unspoken yet slight segregation of the Originals lines vs the sports and performance gear. To launch the flagship now is a big move for times when social distancing and staying shut have become a norm. It surely seems to exemplify their motto, “Impossible is Nothing” for the brand has broken new ground in finding ways to make the offline shopping experience engaging all over again. For this flagship, it has it all. Four floors, separate sections for women, men, kids, and special areas for sustainable wear, outdoor gear, limited release lines, an entire area dedicated to football, and a very special ‘Delhi Shop’, which has customisation on offer and also some special release stuff. It made me think about how buying an Apple product in India, to draw a parallel, still doesn’t feel complete because we lack the ‘Genius Bar’ experience which truly sets the brand apart from the rest in their field. This flagship store manages to deliver not just the goods but the philosophy behind the three-striped brand. And we aren’t being shortchanged with some sort of ‘lite’ version just because it’s India. Once inside, you could at the Munich store, or the Dubai one. It’s all that and, as a bonus, has some local touches that it is tough to walk in and not feel a connection. And it will be tougher still to go past it and not walk in!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/adidas-goes-big-in-delhi/article36529235.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. tells pvt. agencies to follow guidelines to curb dust pollution||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Friday held a meeting with private construction agencies and gave strict instructions to follow the 14-point guidelines issued by the Delhi government to prevent dust pollution. Mr. Rai said private agencies engaged in construction work in Delhi will have to meet the norms issued to check dust pollution within 15 days and all private agencies should hold a review meeting at construction sites to see which guidelines are being followed and which are not. Stern action The Environment Minister warned that the government will take strict action against private agencies not following the norms under the winter action plan. Construction and demolition activity in Delhi, the government stated, can be undertaken only after ensuring dust mitigation measures. These include dust/wind breaking walls of appropriate height around the periphery of the construction site, the installation of anti-smog gun(s) and the use of tarpaulin or green net on scaffolding at construction sites. In addition, all vehicles carrying construction material and debris need to be fully covered, should be stored on site and not dumped on public roads or pavements, and construction and demolition waste needs to be recycled on-site or transported to authorised recycling facilities. Fight for breath “We all have to fight for our breath together. Therefore, all of us will have to fulfil our responsibility with full sincerity. All private agencies should appoint an employee at their construction sites to see whether the norms are being followed or not. Everyone has to make changes in their daily behaviour,” he said. “We are focusing on 10 focus points to efficiently execute our plans. One of the most important points among these is the problem of dust pollution. To curb dust pollution, we called for a meeting of all the agencies in Delhi which are involved in construction activities,” Mr. Rai added. These agencies included the municipal corporations, DDA, CPWD, PWD, Department of Irrigation and Flood Control, and DSIIDC. The Minister directed the agencies’ representatives to submit their action plan by September 21. Apart from these agencies, Mr. Rai said the government had observed that many private agencies involved in construction contribute to the dust pollution problem. So, more than 50 major construction agencies, which included L&T, GMR Group, Raheja Developers, NDMMPL and NBCC among others, were also informed of whatever shortcomings were observed at their end. “We have communicated strict directions to private construction agencies. They have to comply within 15 days with the guidelines. After that, the government will take action and start proceedings in accordance with the winter action plan,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-tells-pvt-agencies-to-follow-guidelines-to-curb-dust-pollution/article36529125.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Akali Dal chief, 16 others detained for protest march against farm laws||Delhi Police on Friday detained leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal following a call for a protest march against the new farm laws. Following that, there was heavy traffic in the Capital as a crowd gathered near Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib. DCP (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, and 15 other party leaders were detained at the Parliament Street police station and released in an hour. Disallowed march The police said they had disallowed the protest march and issued a letter to Mr. Badal regarding the same on September 15. In the letter, Mr. Yadav wrote that police were informed that a protest march is being organised by SAD from Gurudwara Rakab Ganj Sahib to Parliament on Friday morning and they were not allowed due to the existing COVID guidelines wherein no social or political gatherings are allowed till September 30. “The protest march not only symbolises the farmers’ dissent but will also be remembered as a historic event that struck at the root of tyranny. Let’s unite to mark this day as the beginning of a renewed revolt to bring justice for farmers,” the SAD president tweeted. Ms. Badal, in a tweet, said the massive participation in the protest march shows the public anger. “Farmers have been protesting at the Delhi border for a year, but the Centre is keen on quashing them. We are proud to have quit the NDA. Akali Dal will continue to resist despotism,” she said. As the crowd gathered near the Gurudwara, Delhi Traffic Police issued updates on social media asking commuters to avoid certain routes and suggested diversions. Heavy traffic was reported near New Delhi, Dhaula Kuan, ITO, Vikas Marg, Delhi Gate, Karol Bagh areas. “Gurdwara Rakabganj Road, RML Hospital, GPO, Ashoka Road, Baba Kharak Singh Marg will be full due to the farmers’ movement. Please refrain from using these routes,” the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. In another tweet, they said that the Jharoda Kalan border has been shut. Heavy traffic was witnessed at Sardar Patel Marg, but police later updated that the route was open for commuters. Intermittent checking of vehicles by the Delhi Police on Friday morning caused traffic snarls in Gurugram extending up to 2 km from the MCD toll plaza to Shankar Chowk on Delhi-Gurugram Expressway. The Delhi Police set up barricades and carried out checking of the vehicles crossing over to Delhi from Gurugram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/akali-dal-chief-16-others-detained-for-protest-march-against-farm-laws/article36529114.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||6 held for forging papers to send people abroad||Six persons, including Bangladeshi nationals, have been arrested for forging documents and obtaining passports fraudulently to send people abroad, the police said on Friday. DCP (IGIA) Vikram Porwal said the accused have been identified as Akhtauzzaman Talukder (54) from Bangladesh — the alleged mastermind behind the racket. The agents have been identified as Vibhor Saini (32), Saurabh Ghosh (36), Fahim Khan (24). Two Bangladeshi nationals — Fozil Rabbi Shipon (22) and Rasal (35) — who were being sent to foreign countries via India on fake documents were also arrested. Talukder worked as a travel agent and identified persons from Nepal and Bangladesh who are willing to go to foreign countries after which he called them to India on a medical visa. He then arranged fake documents and fraudulently obtained Indian passports for them with the help of his other co-agents in lieu of large amounts of money, the police said. Police said that the matter came to light on September 11, when Rasal, Shipon and Talukder were intercepted by the CISF officials at the IGIA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/6-held-for-forging-papers-to-send-people-abroad/article36529115.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Reconsider prohibition of hookah in public: HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the city government if it will reconsider its order prohibiting use of herbal hookah in public places to contain spread of COVID-19 when Delhi Police has also started breath analyser test. Justice Rekha Palli made the query on five separate pleas by restaurants and bars seeking direction to the State and police to not to interfere with the sale of herbal flavoured hookahs. “Delhi government counsel seeks time to get instructions as to why August 3, 2020 order is not reconsidered when breath analyser test is being allowed now. It is expected that DDMA will consider this aspect urgently,” the High Court said as it posted the case for further hearing on September 30. The petitions has challenged the order of Joint Commissioner of Police (Licensing Unit) prohibiting and excluding the sale or service of herbal flavoured hookahs in restaurant/ bar being run by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reconsider-prohibition-of-hookah-in-public-hc/article36529112.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP organises series of events on PM’s birthday||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday on Friday, organised various events across the Capital. BJP national president J.P. Nadda launched the ‘Sewa and Samarpan’ programme from the party’s national headquarters by inaugurating a photo exhibition depicting 20 years of public life of Mr. Modi. “The Sewa and Samarpan programme will continue for 21 days during the course of which several programmes will be organised,” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri organised a celebration among slum dwellers in the Badarpur area where a cake in the Prime Minster’s name was cut and distributed among residents. “The residents of unauthorised colonies are very happy that the Modi government has given them the ownership rights of their houses. The residents of Arpan Vihar in the Badarpur area organised a havan for his long life,” the LOP said. Former Union Ministers Vijay Goel and Satyanarayan Jatiya, along with hundreds of party cadres, took out a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ from Martyr Bhagat Singh Park, ITO to Red Fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-organises-series-of-events-on-pms-birthday/article36529123.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU to start 6-week English communication course||The Delhi University will launch a six-week certificate course — English Communications Skill Enhancement — for students from economically backward sections and reserved categories. Selection process Senior officials said the course will be free of cost and selection will be based on personal interaction with the applicants. As a pilot project, the course will first be conducted by Shyam Lal College in collaboration with the Institute of Eminence (University of Delhi). According to officials, students who are from a rural background or belong to the SC, ST, OBC, EWS categories and are enrolled in any DU college, can apply for the course. M.K. Pandit, CEO of IoE, DU, said: “The proposal for the certificate course was put forth by professors itself. We found merit in it as a large number of students who come to DU are unable to communicate efficiently in English due to their background. Given the kind of job market currently, in several instances, it becomes difficult to get employed if one is unable to communicate properly.” He added: “We thought that it was better to enable and empower such students by providing a certificate course, which will concentrate on communication skills, presentation skills, vocabulary building, personality development and reading habit development.” According to senior DU officials, the portal saw over 200 applications within an hour of the online portal being launched. Mr. Pandit said, “We are planning to launch the first certificate course on October 2, keeping in mind Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-to-start-6-week-english-communication-course/article36529117.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Court says no steps by top police officer for proper prosecution of riot cases||A Delhi court on Friday came down heavily on the city police for its “lackadaisical approach” and said no steps for the proper prosecution of 2020 riots cases have been taken by the Police Commissioner and other top officials. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg made the remarks after the prosecutor failed to appear before the court despite repeated calls and the investigating officer (IO) came to the court late without reading the police file and was unable to answer the court’s queries. The judge said the record reveals that the Special Public Prosecutor has not been appearing in the case for many dates and even on the last date of hearing, he appeared only after the matter was adjourned. The judge further said, “This court is pained to note that the SHO Gokalpuri has not only failed to depute the substitute IO but also to ensure that the IO while appearing at 3.25 p.m., should at least have gone to the case file. He has also failed to ensure the presence of SPP.” The court said: “Such lackadaisical approach on the part of the prosecution as well as the investigating agency in riots cases has been repeatedly brought to the notice of not only the DCP North East and Joint CP Eastern Range but has also been brought to the notice of the Commissioner of Police, Delhi.” However, no steps for proper prosecution of the cases seem to have been taken by either of them and if taken, have not yet been brought to the notice of this Court, the judge said. The judge said failure on the part of police officers to take appropriate measures for prosecution of the cases is causing “avoidable delay in the trial.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-says-no-steps-by-top-police-officer-for-proper-prosecution-of-riot-cases/article36529113.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for killing youth in Dwarka||A 23-year-old man has been arrested in connection with the murder of a youth in Dwarka’s Najafgarh, the police said on Friday. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said the accused has been identified as Deepak from Kakrola Dairy. The police said on Wednesday at 8 p.m., they received information regarding a firing incident near Ajay Park. On reaching the spot, they found a car with bullet holes. On inquiry, it was found that three persons indiscriminately fired at the victim — Amit Shokeen (35) —, who was declared brought dead in a hospital. During probe, it was found that Shokeen was attacked by three assailants when he was going to purchase liqour with his friends. He sustained 13 bullet injuries. His friends managed to flee from the spot. In aCCTV footage, the accused were identified and Deepak was arrested following a tip-off. During interrogation, the accused said he committed the crime because in January, Shokeen had got his father arrested after implicating him in a flase case. The other accused are said to be absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-killing-youth-in-dwarka/article36529116.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Delhi researchers make device||Researchers at IIT-Delhi have fabricated a device that can generate electricity from water drops, raindrops, water streams, and ocean waves using Triboelectric Effect and Electrostatic Induction and store it in batteries for further use, the institute said. Neeraj Khare from the Department of Physics and his group at the Nanoscale Research Facility developed the device.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iit-delhi-researchers-make-device/article36529517.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Ashram flyover underpass to be completed soon: Minister||Taking cognisance of issues faced by commuters, Public Works Department (PWD) Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday sought to issue an assurance that work on the under-construction Ashram underpass would be completed soon. Construction of an underpass on the existing Ashram flyover is underway and aimed at decongesting the flyover, one of the busiest roads in the city, especially during peak hours. The 410-meter-long underpass, being constructed at a cost of Rs. 78 crore, will have four lanes, and after its completion, 41% of the traffic on the stretch is expected to utilise it.  Mr. Jain said the work on the flyover is “almost complete” and some problems faced in work related to its construction near Ashram will be fixed at the earliest. “The work of this underpass near Ashram is almost complete. However, the construction of the underpass has faced some hindrances. This is due to the shifting of the heavy power cables near the under-construction ramp,” Mr. Jain stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ashram-flyover-underpass-to-be-completed-soon-minister/article36529126.ece
18 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP protests against farm laws in Punjab||To express solidarity with farmers amid their ongoing agitation against the three farm laws enacted a year ago on September 17, the Aam Admi Party hit the streets in Punjab on Friday. The party held candle marches in different parts of the State to extend homage to all those farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing agitation. AAP MLA and its farmer wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwa said party leaders and workers held candle marches with black bands on their arms in Mansa, Bathinda, Sangrur, Barnala, Pathankot, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur districts. “We demand immediate repealing of all the three farm laws,” he said. Terming the protest held by the Akali Dal in Delhi as a “drama”, Mr. Sandhwa said it was “the Badal family” that has contributed to enacting the farm laws. Mr. Sandhwan said along with the BJP and SAD, the ruling Congress government in Punjab was equally responsible for the destruction of agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-protests-against-farm-laws-in-punjab/article36529105.ece
18 September 2021||Guwahati,||Big storm over short pants in Assam||A 19-year-old girl appearing for an examination in Assam was made to wrap a curtain around her legs by an invigilator who chafed at her wearing shorts, provoking outrage and allegations of gender bias, and prompting university authorities to order an inquiry. The girl’s family has, however, decided against taking the matter further in the interest of her mental well-being and academic future. The incident occurred on Wednesday when the girl had gone from her hometown Biswanath Chariali to Tezpur to appear for the entrance examination of the Assam Agricultural University (AAU). She had unhindered access to the venue but an invigilator inside the examination hall objected to her wearing short pants. The AAU has, constituted a three-member committee to inquire into the “unfortunate incident”. Its registrar Tapan Kumar Gohain said the panel headed by dean of the agriculture faculty will conduct the probe and submit its report in 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/big-storm-over-short-pants-in-assam/article36529108.ece
18 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Promise of jobs made by Modi has remained unfulfilled’||The Indian Youth Congress on Friday marked the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi by observing it as a national day of protest against unemployment. The IYC said the country has seen a record level unemployment as the promise made by Mr. Modi has remained unfulfilled. Carrying out a protest march, it said that due to the wrong policies of the government, people are facing double burden of unemployment and inflation. National President of Indian Youth Congress Srinivas B.V. said: “On the occasion of Prime Minister Modi’s birthday, a revolution against unemployment is taking place. The birthday of Chacha Nehru is celebrated as Children’s Day and the birthday of PM Modi, who made India unemployed, is being celebrated as National Unemployment Day.” Mr. Srinivas said that Mr. Modi has to understand that employment is not provided by rhetoric, one has to work to provide employment, policies have to be implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/promise-of-jobs-made-by-modi-has-remained-unfulfilled/article36529122.ece
18 September 2021||New Delhi,||Capital logs 33 new COVID-19 cases, 1 death||Capital recorded 33 new COVID-19 cases on Friday along with one death, according to a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The bulletin added that 74,099 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours with a positivity rate of 0.04%. With 56 people being discharged, active cases now stand at 407, of which 109 are in home isolation. Friday’s death is the third fatality due to COVID-19 infection reported this month after one each on September 7 and September 16.The death toll in Delhi has increased to 25,085. The bulletin added that 22 positive cases pertaining to previous weeks were added on the ICMR portal on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the Capital since the pandemic began to 14,38,428. Vaccination  According to the vaccination update shared by the government, 1,36,083 beneficiaries were vaccinated, out of which 77,807 were administered their first dose. A total of 1,56,10,042 beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far with 46,21,761 having received both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-logs-33-new-covid-19-cases-1-death/article36529121.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||World Bamboo Day||This year’s theme is #PlantBamboo, and Tripura, which is hosting the India edition today, will focus on production and craftwork. Globally, designers are amping up their work. At the recent Paris Design Week, French-Cameroonian designer Pierre Christophe Gam showcased his bamboo raffia range of furniture, while at Milan’s Supersalone, Japanese architect Kengo Kuma’s multimedia installation, Bamboo Ring, was an eye-catcher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/world-bamboo-day/article36529236.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Break for song||Spend Saturday evening with playback singer Monali Thakur. The National Award winner and the voice behind songs such as ‘Sawaar Loon’ from the filmLooteraand ‘Moh Moh Ke Dhaage’ fromDum Laga Ke Haishawill share her experiences and the skills she learned in her career. In her Unlu masterclass, Thakur will focus on topics such as breathing, pitching and taking care of your voice. Tickets at Rs. 999. Every Saturday, till September 30, at 7 p.m. Register on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/break-for-song/article36529237.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Of stories and auctions||Season 3 of 1947 Partition Archive’s Sunday Stories is live. Tomorrow, historian Andrew Whitehead will discuss ‘Understanding Kashmir via oral history’ on the global digital archive’s (which preserves and shares firsthand accounts of the Partition) YouTube and Facebook pages. At 8.30 p.m. For something lighter, head to Prinseps for Wadia Movietone. The online auction will have rare and original film posters —Miss Frontier Mail(1936),Diamond Queen(1940), etc — going under the hammer. prinseps.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/of-stories-and-auctions/article36529238.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Push for pre-loved||Resale is picking up in India. Giving credence to this is Poshmark. The American peer-to-peer resale marketplace launched in the country three days ago, with localised categories and specialised social tools (Posh Parties, Reposh, etc) that make it easy to re-sell items. poshmark.in. If you are in Chennai, SunnyBee Market — which stocks both local foods and popular international brands — is now digital. Download the app from the Play Store and get your groceries home delivered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/push-for-pre-loved/article36529239.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Emma Raducanu||She trademarked her name within hours of her US Open win! Such is the hype around the 18-year-old, the first British woman to win a grand slam since 1977, who is being called ‘the most marketable British athlete since David Beckham’. But for now, we’d just like to read up about her debut at the Met Gala, her love of karting and motocross, and her ease with Mandarin, rather than why she’s a ’sponsor’s dream’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/emma-raducanu/article36529240.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Retail therapy||Tory Burch has launched its first boutique in India, at Delhi’s DLF Emporio. With floor-to-ceiling windows and oak panelled walls, it has a wide assortment of the American fashion label’s collection, including shoes, RTW and accessories. Meanwhile, elsewhere in Delhi, as brand Satya Paul pivots under creative director Rajesh Pratap Singh — bringing in relevance (incorporating RTW) and a contemporary aesthetic — it’s also experimenting with retail formats. Watch this space forWeekend’s take on thenewly-launched flagship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/retail-therapy/article36529241.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Calling all podcasters||Hubhopper Studio, India’s largest podcast platform, has launched the ‘Power of Podcasts’, aimed at helping NGOs, activists and educators share their vision through podcasts. The project — developed in the run up to International Podcast Day (September 30) — encourages organisations to get their members to create new podcasts. Hubhopper will then support them with tutorial videos and self-help decks, and help amplify positive and meaningful conversations. hubhopper.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/calling-all-podcasters/article36529242.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Art, as you like it||Thukral & Tagra have put out their newest body of work as a solo exhibition at Nature Morte in Delhi.Conjecture, a series of large-scale paintings, looks at the “multiple levels of uncertainty that are now our collective reality”. Till October 1, naturemorte.com. If UAE is on the cards, Ishara Art Foundation hasGrowing Like A Tree: Static In The Air. Curator Sohrab Hura will showcase artists from Bangladesh, Germany, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, with live interventions open to the public. Till December 9,ishara.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/art-as-you-like-it/article36529243.ece
18 September 2021||September 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Cheer with Netflix||Netflix is acknowledging all those sleepless nights of binge watching. They are holding their first-ever ‘TUDUM: A Netflix Global Fan Event’ (September 25) and it promises to be special. Expect more than 145 of their biggest stars and creators — of over 70 series, films and specials (thinkStranger Things,Money Heist,Sex Education) — on a virtual stage. Besides exclusives and first looks, there will also be pre-shows spotlighting Korean and Indian dramas, and anime. Stream across YouTube, Twitter, Twitch and Facebook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cheer-with-netflix/article36529244.ece
