19 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder quits amid turmoil in Cong.||In a day of high political drama, the Congress high command forced the resignation of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday ahead of a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting convened by the AICC. The final decision of the new Chief Minister was left to the party president Sonia Gandhi. According to party sources, former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar is a front runner as the Congress wants to appoint a Hindu leader as Chief Minister, after appointing Navjot Singh Sidhu, a Jat Sikh as the PCC chief. Capt. Amarinder handed over his resignation to Governor Banwarilal Purohit ahead of the CLP meeting — widely seen as a move to remove him — citing continued humiliation by the Congress leadership over the past two months. “I was humiliated three times by the Congress leadership in the past two months… they called the MLAs to Delhi twice and now convened a CLP here in Chandigarh today,” said Capt. Amarinder, after submitting his resignation letter to the Governor. He added that he had informed Congress president Sonia Gandhi in the morning that he would resign. Before meeting the Governor, Capt. Amarinder held discussions with a few MLAs and MPs at his official residence. “Apparently they (Congress high command) do not have confidence in me and did not think I could handle my job. But I felt humiliated at the manner in which they handled the whole affair,” he said. “Let them appoint who they trust,” he said, taking a dig at the party leadership. Capt. Amarinder said he would decide his future political course of action in consultation with his supporters, who had stood by him for over five decades. Lashing out at Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Capt. Amarinder dubbed him as anti-national, dangerous, unstable and incompetent. He added that he would fight any move to make the former cricketer the Chief Minister “tooth and nail.” ‘A danger for Punjab’ “There was no question of supporting Sidhu, who was clearly mixed up with Pakistan and a danger, as well as a disaster, for Punjab and the country. I cannot allow such a man to destroy us, I will continue to fight the issues that are bad for this State and its people,” he said. “We have all seen Sidhu hugging Imran Khan and General Bajwa, and singing praises for the Pakistan Prime Minister at the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor while our soldiers were being killed at the borders every day,” Capt. Amarinder said. He pointed out that the ex-cricketer had attended Mr. Imran Khan’s swearing-in ceremony even after he (Capt Amarinder) categorically told him not to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amarinder-quits-amid-turmoil-in-cong/article36545774.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,||State planning 15,000 start-ups in five years||Kerala is aiming at a fourfold increase in the number of start-ups, taking it to 15,000 in the next five years, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Launching virtually the Kerala Startup Mission’s ambitious Digital Hub at its Kalamassery-based Technology Innovation Zone here on Saturday, Mr. Vijayan said technology labs and incubators would be set up to achieve that goal and turn the State into a knowledge society. Corpus of Rs. 750 crore Venture funding with a corpus of Rs. 750 crore will be made available in addition to interest-free loans to start-ups by the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM). Additionally, venture capital worth Rs. 250 crore is expected from financial institutions such as Kerala Bank, Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation, Kerala Financial Corporation, and Kerala State Financial Enterprises, the Chief Minister said. “We are determined to ensure that shortage of funds does not hinder the conversion of a brilliant innovative idea into a reality,” Mr. Vijayan said, while citing Digital Hub’s prospective emergence as one of south Asia’s largest product development centres for technology start-ups. The Digital Hub can support 200 start-ups and 165 start-ups can be hosted in the adjoining Integrated Start-up Complex of the KSUM. Mr. Vijayan said the international emergence of Kerala start-ups would put the KSUM on the global technological map. “We will organise programmes such as ‘Innovation Challenge’ for youths to prove their competence. The winners will get government assistance to market their product,” the Chief Minister added. Capital as AI hub Thiruvananthapuram is envisioned to become a hub of Artificial Intelligence. “Realising the importance of data collection, distribution, and analysis as shown by the COVID-19 pandemic, the government is exploring the scope for strengthening the data parks,” Mr. Vijayan said while emphasising the need for reducing the dependence on foreign countries for software and hardware. In his presidential address, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said the government was determined to go ahead with its plans to encourage the State’s young entrepreneurs. “We are focussing on the semiconductor sector and are in talks with companies in Belgium,” he said. Principal Secretary (Electronics & IT) Biswanath Sinha said the government was charting a special scheme for start-ups that function outside the IT sector. Hibi Eden, MP, Chief Secretary V. P. Joy and Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board CEO K. M. Abraham were present. KSUM Chief Executive Officer John M. Thomas proposed thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-plans-15000-start-ups-in-5-years/article36546125.ece
19 September 2021||KOLLAM,||Lakshadweep tourism may aid Kollam port||With the Lakshadweep administration set to turn the archipelago into a top-rated tourist destination, the Kollam port stands to gain a lot due to its strategic location. The shortest sea route from Minicoy island to mainland India, the port has the potential to become a centre of cruise tourism and cargo movement once it becomes fully operational. Located around 200 nautical miles from Minicoy, it can function as a major transit point and transform Kollam into a bustling seaport city. "Since the biggest ecotourism project announced by the administration is coming up on Minicoy island, the Kollam port will be an ideal choice for tourism and cargo operations. If they are planning to develop the island into a global destination within a couple of years, they can't ignore the Kollam port," says an official. The Lakshadweep administration had expressed its willingness to start passenger services to the port after it was commissioned in 2007 and multiple delegations from the island have visited the port over the years. At present, the port has an exclusive wharf for passenger vessels, while various works are progressing towards completion of the terminal. Though the Kochi and Beypore ports have been operating passenger services to the island, they lack Kollam port's proximity. The monsoon often hits sea connectivity from Beypore and a large number of islanders depend on the State for higher education and health care. “South Kerala offers a range of options in both sectors and the islanders will definitely prefer this route to save travelling hours,” says the official. With only a handful of ships calling at the port since its commissioning, the project has seen negligible traffic so far. Since Kollam is the hub of cashew industry, cargo vessels with raw cashew nut (RCN) containers were expected to arrive shortly, but the port development did not progress much during the early years. While the passenger-cum-cargo terminal and Dhwani tugboat were commissioned in 2020, the latest additions to the port include mechanical workshop, store and mobile crane shelter. According to authorities, the main glitch facing the port to become functional is the delay in setting up an immigration checkpoint (ICP). The Ministry of Home Affairs had instructed the State government in June 2020 to arrange the physical and electronic infrastructure required for the ICP. Sabotage? “All requirements, including the six-counter facility, will be arranged soon. We can handle crew change with a single counter, but they are insisting on six. Even after we arrange that, they may come up with requirements and this delay is quite unreasonable. Since the Kollam port can be a threat to the business interest of many, we cannot ignore the allegation that a strong lobby has been trying to sabotage the project,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dweep-tourism-may-aid-kollam-port/article36546200.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. bars officials from going to media with complaints||Cracking the whip on government officials, including IAS officers, the State government has issued a circular on the public conduct of officials, restraining them from approaching the media with complaints on political or administrative matters. Responding to legislators’ concerns that some IAS officials were directly approaching the media to air their grievances instead of raising the issue with the Chief Secretary, the State government on Saturday issued the circular asking officials not to approach the media on such matters. A public spat between two IAS officers in Mysuru had recently embarrassed the government, and the Legislative Assembly had discussed the issue on Thursday. MLAs demanded that the government restrain IAS/IPS and government officials from approaching the media to level allegations against each other or against political representatives. Using social media The officials also should not use their private social media handles to claim their department’s achievements, the circular stated, asking them to use social media accounts opened in the name of the government to do so. The circular quoted the Karnataka State Civil Service Rules, 2021, and said it barred employees/officials from criticising the policies of the Union and State governments. The circular, issued by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, also stated that disciplinary action would be taken against officials who embarrassed the government by going to the media or putting out social media posts about the dispensation. Officials are permitted to use media only to disseminate information regarding government schemes and not for pointing out loopholes in the administration, the circular stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/officials-barred-from-going-to-media-with-complaints/article36545788.ece
19 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Tier-2 cities to spearhead ‘Beyond Bengaluru’ initiative||Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM) chairman B.V. Naidu said on Saturday that three clusters — Mangaluru, Mysuru, and Hubballi — would spearhead the ‘Beyond Bengaluru’ initiative by attracting Global Capability Centres (GCCs) to establish their offices and operate from these cities. Addressing the KDEM Mangaluru Cluster Policy Talk event attended by about 40 people in person in Mangaluru and about 70 online, he said, “Mangaluru is being projected as a fintech hub. The vision for Mangaluru includes three large, 30 medium, and 120 mid-size companies to be added in the next five years.” Additional Chief Secretary, IT & BT and Industries and Commerce departments, E.V. Ramana Reddy, said the KEDM’s ‘Beyond Bengaluru’ initiative was capable of ushering dividends from IT, ITES, and Business Process Management (BPM) sectors along with employment creation in tier-2 cities of Karnataka. With accessibility to a port, rail lines and an airport, Mangaluru offers a unique selling proposition in Karnataka. Collaboration between academia and industry would trigger growth in the cluster and make it the second largest among IT&BT hubs in Karnataka. Sanjeev Gupta, MD and CEO, of Lahari presented the Policy Pack document of the Karnataka government, consisting of eight core policies, including for startups, IT, ER&D, ESDM, AVGC, and skill development. The incentives under each of these policies were designed to facilitate the needs of industries and bring down their operational costs. Policy orientation The event was organised by KDEM Mangaluru cluster industry anchors Gaurav Hegde, vice-chairman of CII Mangaluru, Praveen Kumar Kalbavi, MD & CEO of Novigo Solutions, Prashant Shenoy, director of Mangalore Infotech Solutions, and Johnson Tellis, director of Sahyadri Hub for Innovation and Entrepreneurship and CEO of TCE. The event’s objective was having a policy orientation session among entrepreneurs of the region with the Department of IT, BT & ST. IT & BT director Meena Nagaraj, Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Issac Vas, and CII Mangaluru chairman Jeevan Saldanha were among the participants.  Mangaluru is being projected as a fintech hub. The vision for Mangaluru includes three large, 30 medium, and 120 mid-size companies to be added in the next five years B.V. Naidu, chairman, Karnataka Digital Economy Mission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tier-2-cities-to-spearhead-beyond-bengaluru-initiative/article36546060.ece
19 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Diaphragm wall along Shangumugham road||Transport Minister Antony Raju has said that the reconstruction of the Shangumugham road will be undertaken in a time-bound manner. Mr. Raju, who represents the Thiruvananthapuram constituency, assessed the ongoing works at site on Saturday, a day after he had convened a meeting to review the preparatory steps for the project. Considering the perennial problem of sea erosion that affected the region, the Minister called for a permanent solution rather than focussing on short-term repair works. As part of such measures, the government has decided to construct a diaphragm wall along the coast after piling at considerable depths. The Public Works Department has sanctioned additional funds for the work, he said. The government had sanctioned an amount of Rs. 6.39 crore under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative to restore the Shangumugham road. Mr. Raju issued directions to prepare the project estimate to increase the length of the proposed diaphragm wall from 245 metres to 330 metres. While the government had earlier fixed a schedule of six months for the project, the Minister urged steps to complete the work within four months in view of the hardships faced by coastal residents as well as travellers who struggled to reach the domestic terminal of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport. Senior officials of the Public Works Department accompanied the Minister during the inspection. The ongoing project is being closely reviewed by him on a weekly basis.  The government has sanctioned Rs. 6.39 crore under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative to restore the roadwork.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/diaphragm-wall-along-shangumugham-road/article36546386.ece
19 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pneumonia vaccination for small children||The State is introducing a new vaccine -- pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) -- in the schedule of the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) from October, which will protect small children from pneumonia, meningitis, and blood infections induced by streptococcus pneumonia bacteria, which causes over one lakh infant deaths annually in the country. Though PCV has been available for a long time in the private health sector, it was first introduced in the UIP schedule by the Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare in May 2017 in the States of Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, select districts of Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan. The vaccine will be administered to all infants in public sector hospitals free of cost from October as soon as health workers’ training is completed. The vaccine will be given in three doses to infants at one-and-a-half months, three-and-a-half months, and nine months. With the introduction of PCV, children will be protected against 12 vaccine-preventable diseases. The other vaccines in the current UIP schedule in Kerala include BCG (severe form of childhood tuberculosis), pentavalent vaccine (diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, hepatitis B and haemophilus influenza B)), polio (oral vaccine and inactivated injectable vaccine), rotavirus, and MR (Measles-Rubella), and JE vaccine in three select districts. Pneumococcal pneumonia is one of the leading causes of mortality among children below five years. It is important to prevent this disease, as it presents suddenly “like a storm,’ leaving the clinician little room for any intervention. The vaccine is also very expensive. Now that it has been included in the UIP, all children below one year of age in the State will receive the same vaccines as are being given in the private sector. The vaccine is safe and can be given along with other vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pneumonia-vaccine-for-small-children/article36546122.ece
19 September 2021||Mangaluru,||Curbs on people’s entry at Subrahmanya and Dharmasthala lifted||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Saturday lifted restrictions on the entry of devotees and the performance of sevas in two popular pilgrimage centres in the district, Dharmasthala and Kukke Subrahmanya, with immediate effect. In his order, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, however, put a rider on those intending to render sevas at temples in these places. Such devotees should possess RT-PCR negative certificate not older than 72 hours despite being fully vaccinated, he said. Besides, all the staff in the two pilgrimage centres, including priests and administrative staff, should compulsorily undergo an RT-PCR test once a fortnight and possess COVID-19 negative certificate, the DC said. All COVID-19 protocol should compulsorily be followed in the temples and their management may arrange vaccination centres to inoculate devotees who were not yet vaccinated, Dr. Rajendra said. Managements should attempt to minimise the number of sevas performed in the temples as far as possible, the DC said, adding managements should ensure there was no crowding at places of the seva performance. The move comes in the backdrop of the reduction in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district, he said. Also, Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari D. Veerendra Heggade and Kukke Subrahmanya Temple executive officer urged the DC on Friday to lift the restrictions, he said. For over a month, the district administration had imposed curbs on devotees visiting popular temples in the district, including prohibition of entry into temples on Saturdays and Sundays. Sevas were not allowed to be performed during the weekdays during which time darshan was allowed between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. Devotees intending to stay at these places were expected to produce COVID-19 negative certificate while no stay was to be offered during weekends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-on-peoples-entry-at-subrahmanya-and-dharmasthala-lifted/article36546217.ece
19 September 2021||MYSURU,||Tiger which killed boy suspected to be dead||The tiger found dead at Nagarahole National Park on Friday is now suspected to be the same one that attacked and killed a teenager in Hunsur a few days ago.Ganesh, of Ayanakere Haadi in Muddanahalli forest reserve, a buffer area of Nagarahole National Park in Hunsur taluk, was found dead on September 8. The body bore injury marks which confirmed that he had been attacked by a tiger. Though a combing operation was launched the same day and thermal drones deployed, apart from the installation of nearly 70 camera traps, the tiger remained elusive all these days. But a carcass was found in Hunsur range of Nagarahole and officials now suspect it could be the same tiger. The tiger was aged around eight and the cause of death has not been established. But this tiger bore marks of an earlier injury, caused by another wild animal, and it is suspected that infection could have led to its death, according to Nagarahole National Park director Mahesh Kumar. He said camera trap images of the tiger which killed the boy indicated that it was injured and hence efforts were on to establish if it was the same tiger. “The stripe patterns will be matched and we are looking for other scientific and corroborative evidence to ascertain if it was the same tiger,” said Mr. Kumar. Officials have also ruled out foul play in the death of the tiger as all its parts are intact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiger-which-killed-boy-suspected-to-be-dead/article36545798.ece
19 September 2021||Kolkata,||MP Babul Supriyo quits BJP, joins Trinamool||In one of the biggest defections in West Bengal after the 2021 Assembly polls, former Union Minister and two-time BJP Member of Parliament from Asansol Babul Supriyo on Saturday joined the Trinamool Congress. Mr. Supriyo visited the office of Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee here and joined the ruling party. On July 31, Mr. Supriyo announced on social media that he will resign as MP and stay away from active politics. He later said he will continue as MP. The BJP earlier received a blow when Mukul Roy quit the party and joined the Trinamool. At least four MLAs of the party have joined the Trinamool in four months. After joining the Trinamool, Mr. Supriyo told journalists that a “great opportunity” has been extended to him by the party leadership and he has decided to take it up. Speculation is rife in political circles that Mr. Supriyo may be nominated to the Rajya Sabha by the Trinamool as replacement for Arpita Ghosh who had quit the Upper House on Wednesday. “It was with great disillusionment that I had announced that I will quit politics. A great opportunity has been extended by Didi [Mamata Banerjee] and Abhishek Banerjee and I am happy to accept that,” he said. Speculation is rife in political circles that Mr. Supriyo may be nominated to the Rajya Sabha by the Trinamool as replacement for Arpita Ghosh who had quit the Upper House on Wednesday. Mr. Supriyo lost the 2021 Assembly poll from Tollyganj on the BJP ticket. He had to resign as Union Minister of State during the Cabinet reshuffle in July. Since then, he had been expressing discontent towards the party leadership, saying he was not given enough responsibility.“I was expecting something more after seven years as a Union Minister of State. Then differences started growing with the party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mp-babul-supriyo-quits-bjp-joins-trinamool/article36545766.ece
19 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Vaccination drive: Belagavi second in country||By administering over 2.57 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine in a single day on Friday, Belagavi district stood second in the entire nation, according to Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath. In a press release, Mr. Hiremath said that the district executed its plan well leading to the administration of 2,57,604 doses of vaccine on Friday, while the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike topped the nation by administering 4,09,777 doses. He said that although the district could not achieve its target of three lakh doses, it had performed well in terms of number of doses and coming second was a “proud achievement”. The DC thanked all the officials, local bodies, elected representatives, volunteers and the public for their work and cooperation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-drive-belagavi-second-in-country/article36546061.ece
19 September 2021||Vijayawada,||Attack on Naidu’s house planned one, alleges TDP||The TDP leaders on Saturday appealed to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to order an inquiry into the alleged conspiracy to attack the house of former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, at Undavalli on Friday. In a representation submitted to the Governor at Raj Bhavan here, a TDP delegation, comprising MLA Gadde Rammohan, MLC P. Ashok Babu and others, alleged that the attempted attack of the YSRCP leaders and activists on the residence of Mr. Naidu, who is having ‘Z plus’ category security, was a planned one. Though Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh announced in advance that he would express protest and attack the house of Mr. Naidu, no steps had been taken to prevent it, the TDP leaders alleged. Moreover, about 100 persons, along with the MLA, were allowed into the secured zone, they alleged. After the YSRCP came to power, the law and order deteriorated, the TDP leaders told the Governor. More than six persons suffered injuries in the stone pelting at Undavalli on Friday, the TDP representatives alleged, and appealed for an inquiry. Cases booked Meanwhile, the Tadepalli police registered cases under different sections against YSRCP and TDP leaders over the clash that had taken place near Mr. Naidu’s residence, and started investigation. Leaders of the ruling YSRCP criticised the TDP for the Undavalli incident on Krishna river bank, which led to the clash. The TDP workers had provoked and attacked the YSRCP cadres, they alleged. Meanwhile, YSRCP Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh accused Mr. Naidu of being behind the attack on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/attack-on-naidus-house-planned-one-alleges-tdp/article36545764.ece
19 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Inter admissions to be in offline mode; application forms to be given from today||Following the High Court orders, the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) is switching to offline mode for admissions to save the academic year 2021-22. In a statement on Saturday, Board Secretary V. Ramakrishna directed principals of government, private aided, private unaided, co-operative, A.P. Residential, Social Welfare Residential, Tribal Welfare Residential, Incentive, A.P. Model Junior Colleges and Composite Degree Colleges offering two-year Intermediate course in general and vocational streams, to take special care in enrolment of students for the academic year 2021-22. According to the schedule for admissions in the first phase, application forms would be made available from September 19; the last date for receipt of applications in the college and date of completion of admissions is September 28, while admissions would commence and classes for first year students would start from September 29. The principals could make provisional admissions on the basis of Internet marks memos and these admissions would be confirmed after the students produce their SSC pass certificate and Transfer Certificate issued by their previous school authorities. Mr. Ramakrishna said the original SSC pass certificate, caste certificate and other documents should be returned to the candidate immediately after verification and he warned of stringent action against the management if it tried to hold the certificates. For students who paid the application fee of Rs. 100 or Rs. 50 while applying for online admission, the amount would be deducted at the time of collecting recognition fee of Rs. 200. The Principals, said Mr. Ramakrishna, should strictly follow the rules of reservation in admissions as per the norms and any deviation would be viewed seriously, he warned. The BIE Secretary made it clear that the admissions should be made based on the SSC pass or equivalency obtained in the qualifying test and no separate exam should be conducted. Principals of unaided junior colleges had been directed to make admissions only up to the sanctioned sections and up to the ceiling strength of 88 in each section as per the High Court orders. Students who studied their first year in Telangana or any other State are not eligible for admission into the second year in Andhra Pradesh, as the curriculum of the syllabus are different.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inter-admissions-to-be-in-offline-mode-in-ap/article36545736.ece
19 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Traders oppose ‘taxes’ by Naga armed groups||Traders and business associations in Nagaland have asked the State government to clarify if it feels the collection of “taxes” by armed groups is legal. The business community in the State said they have had enough of paying multiple “taxes” to at least 10 armed groups. Shops and business establishments had shut down in the State on Thursday in protest. These groups include the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (I-M). “We have asked the government to clarify if such taxes are legal or illegal. If it says this is illegal, it has to control this with the help of resources and manpower at its disposal. If the government says it is legal, we have to increase the prices of commodities manifold for our survival,” said Khekugha Muru, the chairman of the Confederation of Nagaland Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CNCCI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traders-oppose-taxes-by-naga-armed-groups/article36545973.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Raring to go||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/raring-to-go/article36546175.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping fit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/keeping-fit/article36546220.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||New recruits||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-recruits/article36546058.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||255 COVID-19 cases on Saturday||Comparatively low number of COVID-19 tests were conducted for the third consecutive day on Saturday. Usually, around 70,000 to 75,000 samples are tested in a day. However, only around 50,000-60,000 samples were tested in the past two days. On Saturday, 52,244 samples were tested and 255 were found with coronavirus. Results of 1,527 are awaited. Of the 255 new infections, 70 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 22 from Khammam, and 20 from Karimnagar. No infection was detected in five districts including Vikarabad, Nirmal, and Narayanpet. From March 2, 2020 to September 18 of this year, a total of 2.58 crore samples were examined and 6,63,281 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 5,148 were active cases, 6,54,230 have recovered, while 3,903 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-reports-255-covid-cases/article36546076.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Turbulent ties with Gandhis||A school friend of ex-PM late Rajiv Gandhi, Capt. Amarinder had literally forced the Gandhis in 2015 to declare him as the chief of Pradesh Congress Committee. Until then, he was a go-to person for the Gandhi family.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/turbulent-ties-with-gandhis/article36545770.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Is Chhattisgarh next in line?||With a change of guard in Punjab, the question that is being asked is if Chhattisgarh is going to be the next Congress-ruled State that may see a leadership change. In Rajasthan too, the issue of Cabinet expansion is pending.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/focus-shifts-to-chhattisgarh/article36545771.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Captain faces a tough battle||Captain Amarinder Singh has said that he would exercise his political options, but observers believe he does not stand a strong chance if he breaks away from the Congress, unless he is offered a leadership role by another political party.Page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/captain-faces-a-tough-battle/article36545772.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 20-cr. tax evasion by actor: I-T Dept.||Days after the Income-Tax Department searched the premises linked to actor Sonu Sood, it issued a statement on Saturday, without naming him, claiming it had detected tax evasion of over Rs. 20 crore so far. “A total of 28 premises spread over Mumbai, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jaipur, Delhi and Gurugram have been covered in the search,” the agency said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-20-cr-tax-evasion-by-actor-i-t-dept/article36546234.ece
19 September 2021||BENGLURU,||Usage of EV charging stations up to 15%||The rollout of Bescom's electric vehicle (EV) charging stations, which gathered momentum in January after many delays, has since seen increased patronage despite the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/usage-of-ev-charging-stations-up-to-15/article36545786.ece
19 September 2021||mysuru,||Drive against religious structures as per CS fiat||The drive against illegal religious structures in Mysuru is in compliance of directions by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar to the Deputy Commissioners to “demolish/ relocate/regularise” illegal structures” in line with repeated HC directions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drive-against-religious-structures-as-per-cs-fiat/article36545787.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. schools help parents battle COVID crunch||Reeling under financial stress induced by the pandemic, parents are withdrawing children from private schools in the NCR and moving them to government schools to ease the burden of fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-schools-help-parents-battle-covid-crunch/article36545979.ece
19 September 2021||Aligarh/Hathras,||Hindutva’s pull is intact, but Jats want more||As the Bharatiya Janata Party faces the Jat challenge in western Uttar Pradesh, the message from the ground in Aligarh and Hathras districts is mixed. While many still swear by the ruling party, others feel it has let down a vote bank known to be loyal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hindutvas-pull-is-intact-but-jats-want-more/article36545980.ece
19 September 2021||Mangaluru,||A musical therapy for traffic police personnel||It was not cacophonous horns or the emission from vehicles for 130 city traffic personnel on Saturday. But they had a pleasant start to the day as they were exposed to soothing music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-musical-therapy-for-traffic-police-personnel/article36546218.ece
19 September 2021||Mangaluru,||Batpady beach almost devastated by erosion||The verdant Batpady beach and its connecting fisheries road from Someshwara have almost been washed away, with hundreds of crores of rupees spent on the beach rejuvenation project going down the drain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/batpady-beach-almost-devastated-by-erosion/article36546222.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 20-cr. tax evasion by actor: I-T Dept.||Days after the Income-Tax Department searched the premises linked to actor Sonu Sood, it issued a statement, without naming him, claiming it had detected tax evasion of over Rs. 20 crore so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-20-cr-tax-evasion-by-actor-i-t-dept/article36546172.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Safdarjung Tomb needs urgent care’||Weeds growing on the dome of Safdarjung Tomb had damaged the monument, which required urgent care from the Archaeological Survey of India, historian S. Irfan Habib said on Saturday. He said in a tweet the “dome has developed cracks, with weeds growing all over it”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safdarjung-tomb-needs-urgent-care/article36546314.ece
19 September 2021||Aligarh/Hathras,||Hindutva’s pull is intact, but Jats want more||As the Bharatiya Janata Party faces the Jat challenge in western Uttar Pradesh, the message from the ground in Aligarh and Hathras districts is mixed. While many still swear by the ruling party, others feel the party has let down a vote bank that is known to be loyal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hindutvas-pull-is-intact-but-jats-want-more/article36546173.ece
19 September 2021||mysuru,||Drive against religious structures as per CS fiat||The drive against illegal religious structures in public places in Mysuru district is in compliance of directions by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar to the Deputy Commissioners to “demolish/relocate/ regularise” illegal structures” in line with the High Court’s repeated directions to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drive-against-religious-structures-as-per-cs-fiat/article36546062.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Task force set up for implementation of NEP||The State government has set up a task force for the implementation of the National Education Policy- 2020 in school education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/task-force-set-up-for-implementation-of-nep/article36546063.ece
19 September 2021||Chennai,||R.N. Ravi sworn in as Tamil Nadu Governor||R.N. Ravi, former Governor of Nagaland, was sworn in as Governor of Tamil Nadu at the Raj Bhavan on Saturday. The new Governor said he hoped to have a smooth relationship with the DMK government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rn-ravi-sworn-in-as-tamil-nadu-governor/article36545835.ece
19 September 2021||Chennai,||T.N. records 1,653 cases; no fatality in 26 districts||Fresh COVID-19 infections dropped marginally for the second day in a row, with the State logging 1,653 cases. Chennai, along with 25 other districts, recorded no fatality due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-1653-cases-no-fatality-in-26-districts/article36545836.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The CM who came from nowhere||It was around 10.30 p.m. on September 10 when the then Gujarat Chief Minister, Vijay Rupani, received a call from the BJP’s powerful national general secretary B.L. Santosh, conveying the party high command’s desire to effect a change of guard in the State. The next morning, Mr. Santosh and the Gujarat BJP in-charge, Bhupender Yadav, landed in Ahmedabad to prepare the ground for the change. The next day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed via videoconference an event to inaugurate the Patidar community’s social services campus on the outskirts of Ahmedabad. Chief Minister Rupani and senior Patidar leaders from the State, including Union Ministers Mansukh Mandaviya and Parshottam Rupala, were present in-person. As soon as the Prime Minister’s speech, in which he talked about the human values that provide solution to the menace of terrorism and tragedies like the September 11 terror attacks in the U.S., was over, Mr. Rupani drove to the Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar to hand over his resignation to the Governor, ending his five-year tenure as Chief Minister.  Mr. Rupani was installed as Chief Minister in 2016 in a dramatic manner when the then BJP chief Amit Shah, currently Union Home Minister, had thrown his weight behind him. After Mr. Rupani’s resignation, State BJP chief C.R. Paatil announced that the party’s legislature wing would meet the next day to select the new Chief Minister. “The successor would be announced tomorrow, but I am not in the race,” Mr. Paatil, who emer- ged as a power centre in the BJP’s State politics after he was appointed the party chief in 2020, said in a statement. On September 12, at the party’s headquarters that resembles more like a farmhouse than a political centre, State leaders and central observers, N.S. Tomar and Prahlad Joshi, presided over the legislature party meeting in which all legislators and parliamentarians were present. In the meeting, Mr. Rupani was asked to name his successor from a sealed envelope that was handed to him by the observers. High command decision When Mr. Rupani announced that the party high command had decided to pick Bhupendra Patel as the leader of the BJP legislative party, the first-time legislator was sitting on the sixth or seventh row in the conference hall. After his name was announced, he was asked to go to the dais, where the top leaders were sitting. The buzz in the political circles is that while Mr. Patel was going to Gandhinagar to attend the party’s meeting, he received a call asking whether he would be the next Chief Minister. Clueless of what was about to come, ‘Bhupendra bhai ’ apparently started laughing on the phone. Before his name was announced, the 59-year-old leader’s main political identity was that he was the MLA from Ghatlodia, a seat earlier held by Anandiben Patel, the former Chief Minister, who is now the Governor of Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Patel is a protege of Ms. Anandiben, who is popularly called Ben in the State’s political circles. It was Ms. Anandiben who ensured a ticket for Mr. Patel in the 2017 Assembly election, when she was the sitting legislator. Born on July 15, 1962, Mr. Patel studied in Ahmedabad. He has long been associated with the RSS. Mild-mannered and soft-spoken, Mr. Patel never had any previous ministerial experience or held any key positions in the State party organisation. Before contesting for the Assembly election, his career largely stayed limited to Ahmedabad city. He was the chief of Memnagar Municipality, a western Ahmedabad locality that was subsequently merged with the municipal corporation when the civic body’s boundaries were expanded in 2007-08. Later, he became a municipal councillor and was made the chairman of the standing committee, the main decision making body of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, in 2010-15, when Ms. Anandiben was a Minister in the Modi administration. In 2015, he was made the chairman of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA), a powerful body responsible for overseeing and sanctioning construction works across the suburbs of the city, when Ms. Anandiben was the Chief Minister. A builder by profession, Mr. Patel has kept a low profile within the party and stayed away from controversies, qualities that political analysts believe may have helped him earn the attention of the BJP high command. “He is low-profile, but has a good understanding of the State. Also has exposure in both AMC and AUDA in Ahmedabad, which is the commercial capital of the State,” said BJP Rajya Sabha member Narhari Amin, who earlier served as Congress Deputy Chief Minister in the 1990s in the Chimanbhai Patel government. He is a disciple of Akram Vignan Movement, a spiritual stream that was founded by one Ambalal Patel, known as Dada Bhagwan. Mr. Patel’s anointment suggests that the party leadership wanted a Patidar face ahead of the Assembly election but someone without any independent political base. The party seems to have banked upon two factors while catapulting him to the Chief Minister’s chair: first he is a Patidar leader and has strong association with the community’s social services outfits in Ahmedabad and second, he is a builder by profession and has a long experience in civic and urban management so he can ensure that main cities such as Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara and others remain bastions of the BJP in the coming election, say analysts and BJP insiders. “In Bhupendra bhai , the party has found a grassroots leader who rose from the cadre base in the State,” said Yamal Vyas, a spokesman of Gujarat BJP. According to him, Mr. Patel is a non-controversial personality whose development works in AMC and AUDA are well-known among the cadres.  The Patel clout The Patidars, who make up roughly 15% of the State’s population, hold a huge sway over the economy with their control over lucrative sectors such as private education, rural and urban cooperative banks and dairies. Nitin Patel, who was the Deputy Chief Minister in the Rupani government, also found Bhupendra Patel a “good” choice. “He is a good leader. He is my neighbour. We have worked together and have known each other for decades,” said Mr. Nitin Patel, a party veteran who was seen by many as a potential successor to Mr. Rupani. On September 16, Mr. Patel’s government was sworn in by Governor Acharya Devvrat. What surprised many was that no Minister who served in the erstwhile Rupani administration found a slot in the new government. Out of the 25 members, including the Chief Minister, only a handful have previous ministerial experience. This includes Rajendra Trivedi, who was a Minister in the Anandiben government; Kiritsinh Rana, who served in the government of Narendra Modi; and Raghavji Patel, who served in the Shankarsinh Vaghela government in the mid-1990s. The message the BJP’s central leadership wants to send is clear. They want the Gujarat government to start afresh and face the election as a new team. Bhupendra Patel would lead them from the front.  In Focus Born on July 15, 1962, Mr. Patel grew up in Ahmedabad and has long been associated with the RSS Before contesting polls to the Assembly, his career was largely limited to Ahmedabad city, where he was a municipal councillor and the chairman of the standing committee of the corporation In 2015, he was made the chairman of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority, a powerful urban body, when Anandiben Patel was the CM   No Minister who served in the Rupani administration found a slot in the new 25-member Cabinet of Bhupendra Patel, sworn in on Sept. 16||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-cm-who-came-from-nowhere/article36545438.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,||CJI calls for Indianising legal system||Indianisation of our legal system is the need of the hour, said Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana here on Saturday, while pointing out that working style of courts do not sit well with the complexities of India. Very often, justice delivery system poses multiple barriers for common man, he said. “Our systems, practice, and rules being colonial in origin may not be the best suited for the needs of Indian population. The need of the hour is Indianisation of our legal system. When I say Indianisation, I mean the need to adapt to the practical realities of our society and localise our justice delivery system,” he said. Chief Justice Ramana was speaking at an event organised by the Karnataka State Bar Council to pay tributes to Mohan M. Shantanagoudar, who succumbed to prolonged illness in April this year when he was serving as a judge of the Supreme Court. Citing an example, the CJI said, “The parties from a rural place fighting a family dispute are usually made to feel out of place in the court. They do not understand the arguments or pleadings which are mostly in English, a language alien to them. These days judgments have become lengthy, which further complicate the position of litigants. For the parties to understand the implication of the judgment, they are forced to spend more money.” The procedural barrier often undermines access to justice, the CJI said, and added, “The common man should not be apprehensive to approach the courts, and while approaching the courts he should not be scared of the judges and the courts. He should be able to speak the truth. It is the duty of the lawyers and the judges to create an environment which is comforting for the litigants and other stakeholders.” “The courts need to be litigant centric as they are the ultimate beneficiaries. The simplification of justice delivery system should be our pressing concern. It is crucial to make justice delivery system more transparent, accessible and effective,” Chief Justice Ramana said while pointing out these were the issues that he and Shantanagoudar used to discuss during their interactions. Quoting Warren Burger, a former chief justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, who had said people do not want well-dressed judges and lawyers in courtrooms to resolve dispute but they want quick and inexpensive relief for their problems, the CJI said that a judge who understands this is what our system requires, and Shantanagoundar was one such extraordinary judge. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai described Shantanagoudar as “a common man’s judge”.  The parties from a rural place fighting a family dispute are usually made to feel out of place in the court. They do not understand the arguments or pleadings which are mostly in English, a language alien to them. N.V. Ramana,Chief Justice of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-calls-for-indianising-legal-system/article36545790.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||CJI calls for ‘Indianising’ legal system||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday said the ordinary Indian felt out of place in courts, where proceedings were lengthy, expensive and in English. Besides, judgments were either too long or technical or managed to be both, he said. The CJI was speaking at an event organised by the Karnataka Bar Council in Bengaluru to pay tribute to the late Justice M.M. Shantanagoudar of the Supreme Court. He said it was time the courts woke up from their colonial stupor and faced the practical realities of Indian society. “The need of the hour is Indianisation of our legal system,” Chief Justice Ramana said. Simple delivery Rules and procedures of justice delivery should be made simple. The ordinary, poor and rural Indian should not be scared of judges or the courts or think twice before approaching the courts. “He should be able to speak the truth,” Chief Justice Ramana said. Instead, multiple barriers continued to thwart the citizen’s way to the courts. “The working and the style of courts do not sit well with the complexities of India,” he said. The systems, practices and rules of courts were foreign and sourced from our colonial days. They did not take care of the practical realities of India. “When I say Indianisation, I mean the need to adapt to the practical realities of our society and localise our justice delivery systems. For example, parties from a rural place fighting a family dispute are usually made to feel out of place in the court. They do not understand the arguments or pleadings which are mostly in English, a language alien to them. These days judgments have become lengthy, which further complicates the position of litigants. For the parties to understand the implications of a judgment, they are forced to spend more money,” he said. For whom do the courts function, the CJI asked. For the litigants, who are the “justice seekers”. They are the ultimate beneficiaries, the top judge said. “The simplification of justice delivery should be our pressing concern. It is crucial to make justice delivery more transparent, accessible and effective. Procedural barriers often undermine access to justice,” the CJI said. The Chief Justice said both judges and lawyers had to create an environment which was comforting for the litigants and other stakeholders. Alternative mechanisms The CJI said alternative dispute mechanisms such as mediation and conciliation would go a long way in reducing pendency and unnecessary litigation and save resources. Chief Justice Ramana quoted former Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court Warren Burger, “The notion that ordinary people want black-robed judges, well-dressed lawyers in fine courtrooms as settings to resolve their disputes is incorrect. People with problems, like people with pains, want relief and they want it as quickly and inexpensively as possible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-calls-for-indianising-legal-system/article36545393.ece
19 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Captain faces a tough battle||Following his resignation, citing ‘humiliation’ by the Congress high command, the two-time Chief Minister of Punjab, Captain Amarinder Singh made it clear that he would explore and exercise his political options at an appropriate time. The 79-year-old Capt. Amarinder said he would decide his future political course of action in consultation with his supporters who have stood by him for over five decades. “There is always an option, and I will use that option when the time comes…at the moment I am still in Congress,” he said after submitting his resignation. However, political observers believe that the Congress stalwart does not stand a strong chance if he breaks away from the Congress unless he is offered a leadership role by some other political party. “The only way Capt. Amarinder can survive is by joining another party. Floating a new party won’t be an easy task. His best bet could be the Bharatiya Janata Party. Capt. Amarinder has a moderate image and is an acceptable leader among Hindus in Punjab. He has been invoking his military background, national security issues, targeting Navjot Singh Sidhu on his Pakistan connection — it all blends well with the BJP line,” said Ashutosh Kumar, professor with political science department of Punjab University. “Floating a new party is not easy, but if he floats a new party it is unlikely to help him although it shall damage Congress’s electoral prospects. Also as Congress in Punjab is facing anti-incumbancy and especially Capt. Amarinder has been facing charges of ‘not having been seen on the ground’ and the government being run by bureaucrats is a baggage that he will have to carry all along,” he added. Ronki Ram, Shaheed Bhaghat Singh Chair Professor of Political Science at Panjab University, pointed out that if Capt. Amarinder had the support of a substantial number of MLAs he wouldn’t have resigned. “Floating a new party may not be feasible. Also, joining any other party is not an easy option unless he is offered a CM position,” he said. Capt. Amarinder on Saturday ruled out quitting politics and said that as an Army man, he had a lot of will and would remain active in the upcoming Assembly elections in Punjab. “I am not hanging my boots,” he declared. He also rejected claims by the Congress leadership that he had lost the confidence of the MLAs, terming it a lame excuse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/captain-faces-a-tough-battle/article36545422.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Serotype 2 dengue is a challenge: govt.||The Health Ministry has flagged the emerging challenge in 11 States across India of serotype 2 dengue, which it said is associated with “more cases and more complications” than other forms of the disease. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan presented this information on Saturday, while participating in a high-level meeting with Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba to review and discuss the strategy for COVID-19 management and response. Highlighting the rise of dengue cases, Mr. Bhushan suggested that States undertake early detection of cases; operationalise fever helplines; ensure adequate stocking of testing kits, larvicides and medicines and deploy rapid response teams for prompt investigation and public health actions such as fever survey, contact tracing and vector control. He added that alerting blood banks for maintaining adequate stocks of blood and blood components, especially platelets, is also required. “States have been asked to also undertake IEC (information, education, communication) campaigns regarding helplines, methods of vector control, source reduction at homes, and symptoms of dengue,” he said. COVID protocol V. K. Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog, and other senior officials also attended the meeting. The Cabinet Secretary, speaking about the COVID-19 situation, noted that while new cases of infections were coming down across India, “there is no room for complacency”. He stressed the need to strictly enforce COVID-appropriate behaviour, said a release issued by the Central government on Saturday. Drawing examples from other countries that saw multiple peaks of COVID-19, Mr. Gauba expressed concern over certain pockets in the country reporting high test positivity and advised State health administrators to undertake granular analysis of their COVID-19 trajectory, ramp up their health infrastructure, undertake stocking of essential medicines and augment human resources. According to the release, the Health Secretary said that, currently, 70 districts in 15 States are a cause for concern as 34 of these districts have positivity exceeding 10%, and in 36 districts, positivity is in the range of 5%-10%. “In view of the forthcoming festival season, States were directed to ensure all necessary precautions and effective enforcement for avoidance of mass gathering and congested closed spaces,” said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/serotype-2-dengue-is-a-challenge-govt/article36545426.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||For the cause of victims||The truth shall set you free, says Sister Teena Jose, citing verse 8:32 of St. John’s Gospel, responding to a question on what the cornerstone of her life was as a member of the Catholic religious order, Congregation of the Mother of Carmel. A busy lawyer practising in Ernakulam, the nun came out openly against a remark by the Bishop of Pala (near Kottayam in central Kerala) Joseph Kallarangatt that there was a case of ‘narcotic jihad’ going on in the State. The allegation was that people belonging to a particular religious community were trying to entice the young through sale of narcotic substances. The issue was raised in line with the ‘love jihad’ allegations. Sr. Teena’s defiance was rare within the Church hierarchy. She says that as a father of the family, the Bishop should have advised his children to be aware of the danger of the use of addictive substances and warned them against the loss of a precious period of their lives instead of using the church and the pulpit to spread a negative image about a community through the use of the word ‘jihad’. But she’s not bothered about what responses her open criticism would generate. “The words of Jesus have inspired me and provided sustenance to a fighting spirit,” she says. She took up various duties under her congregation before deciding to pursue a degree in law. She enrolled as a lawyer after her graduation in law and has been practising since 2008. Sr. Teena’s move to pursue a law degree followed the death of a former woman member of St. Mary’s Bala Bhavan in Ernakulam, of which she was in-charge. The young married woman was found dead under suspicious circumstances in her home. She had a young child. The case was not properly investigated, feels Sr. Teena. Sr. Teena comes from a family of seven children — five brothers and two sisters. Her elder sister, Annie Jaise, is also a member of the same congregation. Sr. Teena recalls how her father was staunchly against her joining a religious order but she gradually convinced him that she wanted to choose a life of service through her religious calling. She says it took about two years to convince her father that she wanted to join the congregation after passing the SSLC (10th) examinations in 1972. Pluralistic society She points out that the Indian Constitution allows each religion to be free. It is also a fact that there are inter-caste and inter-religious marriages taking place in the country. It is the fact of a pluralistic society. The Indian example has been highlighted as one of tolerance and harmony across the world, she says, to highlight the impact of the statement by the bishop. She is convinced that India does not belong to a particular community. All are guests here, who have come from different parts of the world. The call for harmony is all the more strong on that basis, she maintains. Though Kerala is described as ‘God’s own country’, there is a lot of deformity and anxiety in society now, she adds. Sr. Teena is “surprised” how the bishop could come out so openly against a community even as the church had not come out in support of T.J. Joseph, a Professor of Malayalam at Newman College in Thodupuzha, in Idukki district, after he was brutally attacked by a group of Islamist extremists in 2010. The college authorities, backed by the church, put him through hard times and the victim’s wife killed herself in despair, Sr. Teena says. She had also joined the demand in September 2018 for action against Bishop Franco Mulackal of Jalandhar, who was accused of sexually abusing a Catholic nun. At 68, Sr. Teena recalls how the women religious communities are under the dispensation of the church hierarchy. Pointing out the hardships, she said nuns from her own congregation were asked to give up claims on a convent and related institutions in Njarakkal, near Kochi, which they had built over 60 years. The church authorities did not side with the nuns despite court orders. Irrespective of the consequences, Sr. Teena is determined to fight on for the right causes. She says she has always sided with the victims as “Jesus has taught”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-the-cause-of-victims/article36545440.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The new teen sensation||In July this year, Britain’s Emma Raducanu was just another worried teenager awaiting her A-level results. Three months later, her purse is $2.5 million heavier, she was on two different American breakfast television shows on the same day and attended the Met Gala, rubbing shoulders with the who’s who of New York. Now, she has an A in Maths, but also a shiny US Open Grand Slam trophy. After a summer when the English football team came agonisingly close to creating history at the European Championship, it was Raducanu’s explosive run at the US Open that galvanised the nation. “We are taking her HOME,” she tweeted after her victorious final match. Breakout run But Raducanu thought it was she who would be going home. She was playing the qualifying rounds at the US Open and had her flight tickets booked for home because she didn’t expect to last a week longer. From then on, Raducanu played 10 matches and the breakout run finally culminated in her lifting the title: making her the first qualifier — male or female — to win a Major in the Open Era. The win has brought her a bevy of distinctions: she is the first British woman to win a Grand Slam title since Virginia Wade in 1977. At 18, she is the youngest champion since Maria Sharapova in 2004. But this was only Raducanu’s second Grand Slam main draw appearance. No woman in the Open era had ever won in such a few attempts. Raducanu’s achievement needs to be seen in tandem with the experience she has — which is close to nothing. She has not won a WTA tour-level match yet. This means she was neither accustomed to the tour grind of the sport — managing schedules, training regimes and time zones — nor to playing and defeating seasoned pros. But at the US Open, she played 20 nearly flawless sets of tennis, consistently hacking through her competition, right from a player ranked 285 till the reigning Olympic gold medallist Belinda Bencic. It was so flawless that none of her 10 opponents managed to even win a set against her. In fact, only once did she lose more than four games in a set. Her US Open run mirrors her meteoric rise into prominence earlier in the year at Wimbledon. She entered the tournament as a wildcard and reached the fourth round. She became a sudden sensation, thrust under the spotlight of the All England Club. But in her fourth round, trailing a set, Raducanu retired after having trouble in breathing. She later admitted that the occasion and pressure might have gotten to her. Playing style Raducanu is a clean ball-striker and her game is a good mix of power and precision. Relentless and aggressive baseline hitting has been her go-to method to eke out errors from the opponent. In the final against Leylah Fernandez, a formidable player who staged more upsets in the run-up to the title bid, she was able to quickly turn defence into attack, taking the ball early and redirecting it at will. Every match Raducanu played seemed to unlock a new dimension of her game. “I’ve started sliding, which I didn’t know I could do until now,” she said a few days before the final. She slid at the final, too, facing a breakpoint and needed a medical timeout. It was eerily similar to what happened at Wimbledon, but this time, in a clear indication of how much she has grown, Raducanu remained unfazed, returned and served out an ace to lift the championship. Raducanu’s Twitter bio simply reads “london|toronto|shenyang|bucharest”. She was born in Toronto to a Chinese mother and Romanian father and the family moved to England when she was two. Her mixed heritage, coupled with her win, has sparked a debate on multiculturalism in the United Kingdom. It is being seen as a strong repudiation of the anti-immigrant wave that spurred the Brexit vote in 2016. From Wimbledon to the US Open, Raducanu rose from 338 in ranking to 23. It remains to be seen how well she will deal with pressures of a different kind — from being one of the favourites at upcoming tournaments to navigating the immense commercial attention that being a teen star inevitably brings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-new-teen-sensation/article36545442.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Is Chhattisgarh going to be next?||After the change of guard in Punjab to end the leadership tussle, the question that is being asked in Congress circles is if Chhattisgarh is going to be the next State that may see a leadership change. On September 17, when Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel was posed this question, he played it down. “Our in-charge P.L. Punia had made a statement in this regard and that statement is final,” he told presspersons in Raipur, referring to AICC State in-charge saying there was no discussion on leadership change when the State leaders met former party chief Rahul Gandhi in August. But the issue is far from over though the circumstances are completely different from Punjab, where Capt. Amarinder Singh faced dissidence from party MLAs while Mr. Baghel enjoys the support of a majority of the Congress MLAs. But Mr. Gandhi is keen on honouring a commitment he had made to Mr. Baghel’s colleague and Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo, that he would be made Chief Minister after two-and-a-half years. The deadline for the rotation was June 16 but neither has the high command been able to decide nor has Mr. Baghel expressed his willingness to step down. Many believe that Mr. Gandhi’s proposed visit to Chhattisgarh has been delayed because the high command hasn’t been able to decide on the leadership issue. In Rajasthan too, the issue of Cabinet expansion is pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/is-chhattisgarh-going-to-be-next/article36545420.ece
19 September 2021||KOLKATA,||For most voters in Bhabanipur constituency, byelection only a formality||There was a time when it was easy to slip into a lengthy conversation about politics with even rank strangers in Kolkata — and this was not a very long time ago. But today, when you ask people about the September 30 byelection in the city’s Bhabanipur constituency, where West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting to seek entry to the State Assembly, many of them excuse themselves saying they are “non-political”. Their hesitance is understandable: the outcome of the election is a foregone conclusion and it is redundant to express an opinion, that too at a time when it is wise not to publicly take sides unless you belong to a political party. Bhabanipur — or Bhowanipore — is as diverse as an Assembly seat can get. It may lie in the heart of Kolkata but it could pass off as mini-India. A large chunk of its population is made up of non-Bengalis: Sikhs, Gujaratis, Marwaris, Marathis and Biharis. Many say this was why Ms. Banerjee, after registering successive victories from Bhabanipur in 2011 and 2016, chose to contest the 2021 election from Nandigram instead: she feared the non-Bengali votes would all go to the BJP following the aggressive campaign by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. Her party, the Trinamool Congress, insists that she stood from Nandigram only as an assurance to the electorate there, after local party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari switched over to the BJP. She, however, lost to Mr. Adhikari by a slender margin and is now once again seeking re-election from Bhabanipur, which has been vacated for her by the 2021 victor, her party’s Sovandeb Chattopadhyay. “I stick to my business, I am not interested in politics,” says a Sikh vendor outside the Bhabanipur gurdwara , selling knick-knacks related to his religion, such as steel bangles and headscarves. Across the road from his stall is a hoarding, in Gurmukhi, appealing to Sikh voters to vote for Bangal di beti — Bengal’s daughter. Ms. Banerjee paid a visit to the gurdwara earlier this week. While her opponents are politically lightweight — the BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal and the CPI(M)’s Srijib Biswas — and her victory may be certain, the Trinamool is not taking chances. Hoardings, in different languages, have mushroomed all over Bhabanipur, asking people to vote for their ‘own daughter’. Campaign meetings have begun, and party workers are already going door to door. “Mamata di faces no challenge. Her BJP opponent lost the 2021 election from Entally and her CPI(M) opponent had failed to win even the councillor election in 2015. If anything, she is more popular than ever,” says Shubhankar Roychoudhury, general secretary of the Bhowanipore Durgotsab Samity — a prominent Durga Puja committee. “And you know what’s going to be our theme for this year’s puja? It will be Khela Hobe [the Trinamool’s war cry during the Assembly election] — only that ours is intended to promote sports after India’s [impressive] performance at the Tokyo Olympics.” Hitesh Doshi (name changed), a Kolkata-born Gujarati who runs a boutique in Chakraberia, a part of the constituency, also agrees that Ms. Banerjee’s popularity has only soared in the past few months. “Earlier, she was in people’s minds, now she seems to be in their hearts. Her welfare schemes, especially Duare Sarkar [government at the doorstep], are turning out to be a big hit. This election is just a formality,” he says. Adds tea-seller Sailen Gupta, whose ancestors hail from Kanpur and who runs a stall nearby: “The BJP has no presence in this area. The local Trinamool men know each of us by our names and faces. They stand by us in times of need. The BJP has no such people here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-most-voters-in-bhabanipur-constituency-byelection-only-a-formality/article36545424.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||NIA needs infra, specialists: experts||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which was given the mandate to take up cases of cyberterrorism over two years ago, should be provided with additional infrastructure and domain experts to probe such offences more efficiently, according to experts. “While there are several designated laboratories for forensic analysis of evidence, domain experts equipped with all necessary state-of-the-art tools should be involved from the inception of investigation. Evidence collection in the field of cybercrimes requires an altogether different skill set,” said an official. Team investigation Navneet Rajan Wasan, former Bureau of Police Research and Development Director-General who also headed the NIA, stressed the concept of team investigation, which is prevalent in many countries. Referring to the ransomware attack on a pipeline network in the U.S. in May, he said such crimes were investigated there by teams comprising police officers and experts in the respective fields. “However, there is no enabling provision in the Indian legal system which empowers a domain expert to be formally part of the evidence gathering team. In the absence of such a provision, the prosecution is susceptible to charges of evidence tampering in case a domain expert is involved by any agency, as the Criminal Procedure Code authorises only the police to collect evidence,” he said. Mr. Wasan said domain experts were also essential for efficient handling of the tools deployed for probing such offences. During the UPA regime, investigating agencies had sent proposals for inducting experts and for a provision of adequate manpower training from time to time. A proposal was also raised for setting up an institute of excellence for the experts. Given that cross-border probe often became necessary in cybercrime cases, Mr. Wasan said the system of joint probe, by investigators from India and the countries concerned, should also be adopted. Mutual legal assistance A detailed proposal along with a draft Bill had earlier been sent to the then UPA government for legislation on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, to enable speedy collection of evidence from abroad. However, another official said, it was yet to see the light of the day. The NIA was empowered to probe cases of cyber terrorism under the National Investigation Agency (Amendment) Act, passed by Parliament in July 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-needs-infra-specialists-experts/article36545400.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 20-cr. tax evasion by actor: I-T Dept.||Days after the Income-Tax Department searched premises linked to Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, the agency on Saturday issued a statement, without naming him, claiming it had detected tax evasion of over Rs. 20 crore so far. “The Income Tax Department conducted a search and seizure operation on various premises of a prominent actor in Mumbai and also a Lucknow-based group of industries engaged in infrastructure development. A total of 28 premises spread over Mumbai, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jaipur, Delhi and Gurugram have been covered in the search operation,” it said. According to the agency, during the searches on the premises of the actor and his associates, incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion was found. “The main modus operandi followed by the actor had been to route his unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities,” said the department. “Investigations so far have revealed use of 20 such entries, the providers of which, on examination, have accepted on oath to have given bogus accommodation entries. There have been instances where professional receipts have been camouflaged as loans in the books of accounts for the purpose of evasion of tax,” it said. The agency said these “bogus” loans were used for making investments and acquiring properties. The charity foundation incorporated by the actor on July 21, 2020, had collected donations of Rs. 18.94 crore from April 1, 2021, till date, of which it spent around Rs. 1.9 crore towards various relief work and the balance of Rs. 17 crore was found lying in the foundation’s bank account. “Funds to the tune of Rs. 2.1 crore have also been raised by the charity foundation from overseas donors on a crowd-funding platform in violation of FCRA [Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act] regulations,” said the agency. The simultaneous searches on the Lucknow-based infrastructure group, in which the actor had entered into a joint venture real estate project and invested substantial funds, resulted in detection of tax evasion and irregularities in the books of account, said the I-T Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-20-cr-tax-evasion-by-actor-i-t-dept/article36545407.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Amarinder had tumultuous ties with the Gandhi family||As Captain Amarinder Singh (retd) stepped down from the Punjab Chief Minister’s post after feeling “humiliated,” it seems to have put a pause to a rather tumultuous relationship he has had with the Gandhi family in the past six years. A school friend of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and known for his proximity to the Gandhi family, Capt. Amarinder had literally forced the Gandhis in October-November 2015 to declare him the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief, a position that eventually made him the party’s chief ministerial face in 2017. Until then, Captain Amarinder was a go-to person for the Gandhi family. In 2014, when Ms. Gandhi asked several senior leaders to contest the Lok Sabha polls, Captain Amarinder was her choice against former Finance Minister Arun Jaitley from Amritsar. Post his victory, Ms. Gandhi appointed him the deputy leader of the party in the Lok Sabha. But Capt. Amarinder had always his eyes set on Punjab and kept pushing for the PCC chief’s post. A year later, when in 2015, when the party was reluctant to replace the incumbent PCC chief, Partap Singh Bajwa, the then party vice-president Rahul Gandhi’s appointee, the Captain explored the idea of floating his own party. In an authorised biography of the Punjab stalwart, Captain Amarinder Singh: The People’s Maharaja , biographer Khushwant Singh noted that Ms. Gandhi was open to naming Capt. Amarinder as the PCC chief but her son, Rahul, wasn’t keen. During a tense meeting in October 2015, Mr. Gandhi asked the Punjab leader if he had decided to float his own party. “What you’ve heard is absolutely correct,” the biographer quotes Capt. Amarinder as telling Mr .Gandhi. While the Captain got what he wanted and handsomely won the 2017 Assembly elections, the equations between him and the Gandhi family changed forever. In June this year, when Navjot Singh Sidhu raised the banner of revolt, Capt. Amarinder had come to Delhi but couldn’t meet the Gandhis in his first visit. In contrast, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had organised a meeting between Mr. Sidhu and Mr. Gandhi at the latter’s residence around the same time. Before Capt. Amarinder could finally meet Ms. Gandhi in the first week of July, he had to twice ‘explain’ his government’s performance before the Mallikarjun Kharge panel that was set up to resolve the infighting in the Punjab unit. Though Capt. Amarinder had strongly opposed the appointment of Mr. Sidhu as the new PCC chief, arguing that both the party and the government cannot be headed by Jat Sikhs, the high commanded simply overruled him. All India Congress Committee (AICC) leaders, dealing with the issue, insist that there had been no political interference by the high command and Harish Rawat, the AICC in-charge for Punjab, had publicly acknowledged Capt. Amarinder’s stature. However, they also claimed that many Punjab MLAs had ‘bluntly’ told Mr. Rawat that the party won’t win next year’s Assembly polls under Capt. Amarinder. Several MLAs also complained to the Kharge panel about “the Chief Minister’s inaccessibility and complete control over the administration by bureaucrats”. Leaders of the Amarinder Singh camp, however, argued that the Gandhis were no longer comfortable with him because “he was far too independent minded”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-had-tumultuous-ties-with-the-gandhi-family/article36545419.ece
19 September 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool’s successful outreach to women shines anew with Durga Puja||“Since Didi has announced it herself, we will definitely receive the money,” said Deepali Das, one of the key organisers of the community Durga Puja at the Bakpara Sporting Club in the economically backward Duttabad area of the Biddhanagar Municipal Corporation in Greater Kolkata. There is a festive buzz in the air as West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said that puja committees would receive a cash incentive of Rs. 50,000 for preparations. This is the second year that the State government has offered the grant. Ms. Das is particularly excited as the club is holding a “mahila” Durga Puja, with women taking care of all the preparations. Previously, women only had a small role, she said. Earlier this month, while announcing the protocols for celebrating the festival amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the Chief Minister said that there were 1,500 women’s Durga Puja committees entitled to receive the cash incentive. They are a part of the 36,000 community Durga pujas in West Bengal. Masumi Naskar, president of the Arjunpur Taltala Amra Sobai club, is happy that artist Bhabatosh Sutar will design their puja pandal this time. “Of course, having the puja organised entirely by women is very encouraging,” she added. Broader roles Women have have been taking on broader roles in the pujas recently. Be it the lone woman artist from Kumartuli, Kolkata’s famous potters’ colony, who crafts idols, or the group of all-woman priests performing pujas this year, more and more women are coming to the fore in organising the mega cultural event. The State government’s initiative in recognising the mahila Durga puja as a separate category is perceived to be part of the Trinamool Congress’s political strategy of reaching out to more women and creating groups of beneficiaries among them. It has been seen over the past few years that women voters have overwhelmingly supported the Trinamool Congress. “In the 2021 Assembly polls, the Trinamool Congress got 52% of the female votes and 44% of the male votes,” psephologist and Professor of political science Biswanath Chakraborty said. He also said that the trend of giving sops to women voters in West Bengal would continue till the Lok Sabha polls of 2024. In the past decade, many of the Trinamool’s flagship schemes have been aimed directly at benefiting women. Kanyashree, a conditional cash transfer for school-going girls was a great hit in the party’s first years in government. The scheme provides Rs. 750 a month for every school-going girl till Class 12, and Rs. 25,000 when she passes Class 12. Another scheme, Rupashree, provides Rs. 25,000 for the marriage of a girl child. Medical insurance Before the 2021 Assembly elections, the West Bengal government announced the Swastha Sathi Scheme, a medical insurance scheme of Rs. 5 lakh per household, with insurance cards issued in the name of the female head of the household. This scheme, too, generated a huge response. But the biggest draw has been the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme, in which every woman whose family has no government job is entitled to receive Rs. 500 (in the general category) and Rs. 1,000 (in the reserved category) every month. For weeks, women across the State queued up outside camps for enrolling in the scheme. Preliminary estimates by the State government suggest that nearly 2 crore women have signed up for it, making it the biggest cash roll-out scheme in West Bengal. Durga Puja is not only the largest cultural carnival in West Bengal but also intrinsically associated with politics in the State. The Left Front government tried to keep a distance from the religiosity of the puja, but it did not shy away from selling Communist literature at puja pandal s. Over the past few years, the pujas in Kolkata have seen the Trinamool and the Bharatiya Janata Party leadership competing to inaugurate pujas in Kolkata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamools-successful-outreach-to-women-shines-anew-with-durga-puja/article36545434.ece
19 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||HC raps Varanasi police over 4-year delay in tracing man||The Allahabad High Court has directed the Varanasi police to explain why it has been unable to trace a man who has been missing for over four years after a lower court directed him to pay maintenance to his wife in a domestic violence case. The court said the “pitiable predicament” of the woman, who was “going from pillar to post and getting hoodwinked by multifarious impediments,” was an “archetype illustration of the loopholes in our criminal justice system.” The woman had filed a case against her husband and on November 4, 2016, a lower court had directed him to provide a separate living room to his wife and their daughter along with Rs. 1,000 as maintenance. The court passed another order saying that if the husband did not comply with the first order, the SHO of Sarnath shall have to ensure compliance. The husband then approached the HC against the orders and on December 5, 2016 got an interim order ex-parte where both orders were stayed. However, when the man was asked to be produced before the High Court, his counsel said he has been missing since April 9, 2017. A missing person FIR was also lodged on May 16, 2018, his counsel told the court. In March this year, DSP Varuna zone, Vikrant Vir, filed an affidavit before the HC saying that a police team constituted to trace the man was still searching for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-raps-varanasi-police-over-4-year-delay-in-tracing-man/article36545429.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tender: SC objects to PIL pleas by bidders||The Supreme Court has taken strong objection to disgruntled participants of government tenders turning their ire into subjects of “public interest litigation (PIL)” petitions in constitutional courts. A Bench of Justices S.K. Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy noted how unsuccessful parties of a tender process approach the courts with their “imaginary grievances”. “Attempts by unsuccessful tenderers with imaginary grievances, wounded pride and business rivalry, to make mountains out of molehills of some technical/procedural violation or some prejudice to self, and persuade courts to interfere by exercising power of judicial review, should be resisted,” the apex court observed in its judgment on September 17. “The enlarged role of the government in economic activity and its corresponding ability to give economic ‘largesse’ was the bedrock of creating what is commonly called the ‘tender jurisdiction’,” the court explained how tender cases starting crowding court dockets. The law, to promote transparency, had allowed parties to approach the High Courts directly. The judgment reiterated that the power of judicial review in a tender process was limited. The judgment came in an appeal filed by Uflex Ltd against the Madras High Court order of April 29, giving Tamil Nadu government four months’ time to float a fresh tender for production and supply of holograms to be pasted across the caps of bottles of liquor sold by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tender-sc-objects-to-pils-by-parties/article36545402.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Safdarjung Tomb needs urgent care’||Weeds growing on the dome of Safdarjung Tomb had damaged the monument, which required urgent care from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), historian S. Irfan Habib said on Saturday. Sharing a photo of the 18th Century monument taken earlier this week, Mr. Habib said in a tweet the “dome has developed cracks, with weeds growing all over it”. Later he told The Hindu that the ASI had neglected several monuments. He said weeds tended to grow during the monsoon but it was vital to clear them soon as they could lead to cracks. Asked to respond to Professor Habib’s assertion, an ASI spokesperson said: “The ASI is aware of the damage and the remaining portion of repairs will soon start as per our team’s assessment. Conservation work at monuments is a round-the-year job and presently also the work is going on, but due to the rain in Delhi it got a bit delayed.” The spokesperson said repair and conservation work at the monument was ongoing in 2019-20, but was stopped due to the lockdown and shortage of workers caused by the pandemic. “There is no damage. Only grass has come up on the dome which needs to be cleaned.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/safdarjung-tomb-needs-urgent-care/article36545415.ece
19 September 2021||Shimla,||President lauds govt.’s fiscal measures amid pandemic||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday said the COVID pandemic hit the country’s economy hard and that the government had taken various fiscal measures to alleviate distress. Mr. Kovind was speaking at the valedictory ceremony of the National Academy of Audit and Accounts for the Indian Audit and Accounts Services (IA&AS) trainee officers here. The past 18 months have been very trying for the country, the President said. The government was taking fiscal measures for the welfare of the poor, he said. These are often financed through money that may be said to have been borrowed from our children and grandchildren, he added. “We owe it to them that these scarce resources are put to best possible use and are most effectively used for the welfare of the poor,” he said, adding that the Comptroller and Auditor General of India had a very important role in the effort. Mr. Kovind said audit engagements provided a unique opportunity of gaining a deep understanding of the system and the CAG was in a good position to suggest improvements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-lauds-govts-fiscal-measures-amid-pandemic/article36545759.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Global push must to protect rights of Afghan girls: Satyarthi||The global community should make it clear to the Taliban that international assistance and recognition is conditional on a more moderate policy that includes allowing girls to go to school, said child labour activist and Nobel peace prize winner Kailash Satyarthi. Mr. Satyarthi, who was appointed one of 17 global advocates for the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG) by UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Friday, called for the UN General Assembly (UNGA) this month to raise the issue of children in Afghanistan, along with other discussions on the situation in the country. “If children are not given education, particularly girls on an equal footing, then there are many more chances of perpetual exploitation, injustices and violence,” Mr. Satyarthi told The Hindu in an interview, after his appointment by the UNSDG was announced. Uncertain times Mr Satyarthi’s concerns come as the Taliban government announced on Saturday that it was reopening secondary schools, but called only boys and male teachers back, indicating that the Islamist group may not let girls and female teachers return. “This present [Taliban] regime, if they are really in power, cannot remain in isolation. They have to get financial support, they have to get political and diplomatic support, and they have to get recognition from many countries and from the international community. I’m hopeful that they will be moderate for girls and women, and only then the international community would extend their helping hand,” said Mr. Satyarthi, who is organising a special conference of “[Nobel] Laureates and Leaders” on the issue of child labour during the UNGA on September 22. International agencies now estimate that the situation in Afghanistan could add to the already growing numbers of children forced into labour or trafficked for sexual or commercial exploitation due to the coronavirus pandemic that has led to economic and job losses worldwide. According to the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the numbers have increased to 160 million estimated child labourers in 2021, the first such rise in more than two decades. According to Mr. Satyarthi, the numbers, if unchecked, would mean that the UN Sustainable Development Goals that mandate every country to “eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms,” (UN SDG 8.7) cannot be realised. Rescuing children A “Global Slavery Index” survey used by ILO also said that India has the highest number of men, women and children in “modern slavery”, a term the Modi government has objected to, calling for the use of “forced labour” instead. “Different governments agree with some phrases and terminologies and words and some other governments are very sensitive about it. But the reality is that the government has collaborated with us at the State level, at local levels in rescuing girls and boys being trafficked and who are bonded labour. And that is, in the broader definition, the contemporary form of slavery,” Mr. Satyarthi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/global-push-must-to-protect-rights-of-afghan-girls-satyarthi/article36545436.ece
19 September 2021||Mumbai,||Police on high alert ahead of Ganesha visarjan||The Mumbai police is on high alert and security has been beefed up across the city for the 10th and last day of the immersion of Ganesha idols on Sunday, especially in the wake of recent arrests of terror suspects, an officer said. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad on Friday had nabbed one person from Mumbai in connection with an alleged terror plot unearthed by the Delhi police. The 10-day Ganesha festival will come to an end on Sunday. The celebrations have been subdued this year due to the restrictions imposed in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Processions, the hallmark of immersion days, are banned. Anti-sabotage measures are being taken and security around vital installations has been increased, said Deputy Commissioner of Police S. Chaitanya, the Mumbai police spokesperson, on Saturday. Apart from intensified patrolling in sensitive areas, there will be heavy deployment of security personnel at immersion points, he said. Extra lights, cranes, swimmers/life guards, ambulances and fire brigade teams would be arranged to handle any eventuality, he added. As many as 100 additional officers and 1,500 personnel from the Local Arms and other branches will be deployed, the DCP said. Besides, at least three companies of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), one company of CRPF, 500 home guards and 275 constables from outside units will be stationed in the city. The police are also keeping tabs on known criminals and have increased surveillance at hotels, lodges, vital installations and sensitive locations. Officials also held meetings with Ganesha mandals, peace committees, mohalla committees and others stakeholders, the police spokesperson added. The Delhi police’s Special Cell had on Tuesday busted a terror module with the arrest of six men, including two Pakistan-trained terrorists. One of them was a resident of Dharavi in Mumbai, the police claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-on-high-alert-ahead-of-ganesha-visarjan/article36546178.ece
19 September 2021||Patna,||Seven girls drown in Jharkhand’s Latehar||Seven girls, aged between 12 and 20, drowned in a pond on Saturday in Latehar district of Jharkhand during “ karma puja ”. Chief Minister Hemant Soren and local MP Sunil Singh expressed shock over the incident. “The Deputy Development Commissioner of the district has been asked to hold an inquiry,” Deputy Commissioner Abu Imran said. According to district officials, the incident occurred at Bukru village under the Shregada panchayat of Balumath block when a group of 10 girls had gone to the village pond to celebrate karma puja , a tribal festival of the State. Officials said that when two girls started drowning in the pond and shouted for help, five others jumped in to save them and also drowned. Four girls died at the spot while three breathed their last on the way to the Balumath health centre, they said. Among the dead were three sisters, Rekha Kumari (18), Reena Kumari (16) and Luxmi Kumari (12). The others were identified as Sushma Kumari (12), Pinku Kumari (18), Sunita Kumari (20) and Basanti Kumari (12). The girls were studying in local schools and colleges. Mr. Soren tweeted: “Shocked to hear about the death of seven girls due to drowning during Karma dali puja at Shregada panchayat in Latehar district. May God grant peace to the departed souls and give courage to the bereaved families to bear the loss.” Villagers blocked the Balumath-Chatra road in protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seven-girls-drown-in-jharkhands-latehar/article36545398.ece
19 September 2021||Ambala,||Journalist arrested for ‘incorrect report’||A journalist was arrested and another was booked at the Ambala Cantonment here for allegedly mentioning an “incorrect place” of arrest of a suspected terrorist in a news report, prompting the Opposition to attack the Haryana government for “suppressing” the freedom of the press. The case against reporter Sunil Brar and news editor Sandeep Sharma of Dainik Bhaskar was registered on Thursday under different sections of the Indian Penal Code, the police said. Mr. Brar was taken into custody on Friday. Efforts are on to nab Mr. Sharma, they said. A suspected terrorist was arrested by the Punjab Police on Wednesday over an alleged tiffin bomb plot from Mardon Sahib village of Ambala. The newspaper headline on the following day stated, “Punjab police claims arrest of terrorist at Cantt near IOC depot”. The daily published a correction the next day on the location from where the suspected terrorist was arrested. Station House Officer, Ambala Cantonment, Vijay Kumar said the case against the journalists was registered as they published the news without any authentication. Journalist Sunil and Sandeep Sharma have created fear among the masses by publishing false news, he added. Opposition parties, including the Congress, the INLD, the Haryana Democratic Front and the BSP, criticised the arrest. Congress leader Rohit Jain said the arrest was in violation of a Supreme Court order. He said the police had not issued notice before the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/journalist-arrested-for-incorrect-report/article36545405.ece
19 September 2021||Srinagar,||A musical bridge across Kashmir’s bitter divide||In a Valley riven by decades of conflict and loss, a musical film of less than six minutes is seeking to bridge the divide between the Kashmir’s Muslims and Pandits. The 5.53-minute Ae Savere by a Kashmiri Muslim film-maker, Danish Renzu, has an earnest message to the displaced Pandits: “return to your roofs in the Valley”. With 1.18 lakh views within a month of the video’s release online, director Renzu, whose recent movie The Illegal made a noticeable mark on Netflix, said the protagonist of his musical short Viraat Dulari, played by actor Soni Razdan, shows the displaced community the way forward. “Dulari returns to Kashmir after three decades. Pandits should return and settle back in their culture, which is otherwise dying. They should return to their roots. This is the right time to return and live in harmony,” Mr. Renzu told The Hindu in an interview. The video shows pensive sadness grip Dulari as she drives home through narrow alleys of the old city in Srinagar with her grandson. Mr. Renzu, 35, a resident of Srinagar, belongs to a generation of Kashmiri Muslims which has no memory of Pandits as their neighbours or friends. His only memory of Pandits was visiting empty houses in the neighbourhood in the 1990s. “I saw these dilapidated Pandit houses in the neighbourhood. They had left behind all the belongings. My only memory was of the belongings but not the owners. That was a heart-breaking memory. People need to acknowledge what happened (in the 1990s) and move on to the narratives that takes the story forward and not backward,” he said. “People should see all the point of views. The Pandits’ narrative is also important as other narratives from Kashmir. Being a Kashmiri Muslim and a film-maker, it was important to highlight the plight of Kashmiri Pandits. My co-artist Kachroo also lost her home to exodus. It was very important for me to bring that on screen,” he added. The musical has evoked emotional reactions from both communities at a time when festering bitterness between them has only worsened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-musical-bridge-across-kashmirs-bitter-divide/article36545431.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Traders oppose ‘taxes’ by armed groups||According to the CNCCI, traders in Nagaland end up paying 12-13 taxes while their counterparts elsewhere only pay the Goods and Services Tax. They say the State’s traders are struggling because they cannot sell beyond the MRP and the “taxes” are eating into their profit margin. A traders’ body in Dimapur, Nagaland’s commercial hub, said the unresolved Naga political issue – peace settlement with NSCN (I-M) and the other groups – is the cause of the taxation problem. The groups have justified their “taxes” as they claim to run parallel governments. The traders have not refused to pay but have been insisting on “one group, one tax”. The Dimapur Chamber of Commerce and Industry lamented the random taxation from small shops to truckers, corporate houses and even government employees. The owner of a small shop pays Rs. 40,000-50,000 in “taxes” to the armed groups a year, traders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/traders-oppose-taxes-by-armed-groups/article36545982.ece
19 September 2021||Mumbai,||ED moves special court against Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has moved a court here against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh for failing to appear before the probe agency despite being summoned multiple times in amoney laundering case. The ED filed the plea in a special court on Friday seeking action against Mr. Deshmukh under IPC section 174 (non-attendance in obedience to an order from public servant). The section attracts a simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or fine up to Rs. 500 or both. The probe agency had issued multiple summonses to Mr. Deshmukh in the money laundering case registered against him by it. However, the NCP leader has failed to appear before it so far. Two ofMr. Deshmukh's aides—Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde—have been arrested in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-moves-special-court-against-anil-deshmukh/article36546176.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||MP Babul Supriyo quits BJP, joins Trinamool||After joining the Trinamool, Mr. Supriyo told journalists that a “great opportunity” has been extended to him by the party leadership and he has decided to take it up. Speculation is rife in political circles that Mr. Supriyo may be nominated to the Rajya Sabha by the Trinamool as replacement for Arpita Ghosh who had quit the Upper House on Wednesday. “It was with great disillusionment that I had announced that I will quit politics. A great opportunity has been extended by Didi [Mamata Banerjee] and Abhishek Banerjee and I am happy to accept that,” he said. Mr. Supriyo lost the 2021 Assembly poll from Tollyganj on the BJP ticket. He had to resign as Union Minister of State during the Cabinet reshuffle in July. Since then, he had been expressing discontent towards the party leadership, saying he was not given enough responsibility. “I was expecting something more after seven years as a Union Minister of State. Then differences started growing with the party.” Mr. Supriyo was elected to the Lok Sabha from Asansol in 2014 and 2019. The defection comes weeks before the crucial Bhabanipur bypoll where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting. Interestingly, the BJP had nominated Mr. Supriyo among the star campaigners for the seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-babul-supriyo-quits-bjp-joins-trinamool/article36545394.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Amarinder quits amid turmoil in Congress||“The government of Punjab means the security of India, and if Sidhu is made the face of the Congress for chief ministership, I will fight him at every step,” he added. Later in the evening, after the CLP meeting, Congress leader and party’s Punjab observer Ajay Maken said two resolutions were passed at the meeting, which was attended by 78 MLAs of the 80. “In first resolution, the contribution of Capt. Amarinder Singh towards the party and for Punjab was appreciated and also presented an expectation that his guidance will continue to be there in the future as well. In the second resolution, the Congress president was authorised to select the CLP leader. Whosoever she decided will be acceptable to all,” he said. With several rounds of meetings during the past few months failing to douse the infighting, the Congress leadership late on Friday night announced the Punjab CLP meeting, as yet another attempt to resolve the turmoil in the Punjab unit. Congress president Sonia Gandhi is learnt to have spoken to the Chief Minister, after nearly 40 MLAs wrote to the central leadership expressing “lack of faith in the leadership of the Chief Minister in fulfilling the party’s 2017 Assembly election promises.” They also said that hardly anything was being done towards fulfilment of the 18-point programme issued by the party high command and demanded a meeting of the CLP. “The AICC has received a representation from a large number of MLAs from the Congress party, requesting to immediately convene a meeting of the Congress Legislative Party of Punjab. Accordingly, a meeting of the CLP has been convened at 5 p.m. on September 18 at Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee office,” AICC in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat said in a tweet late on Friday, taking many legislators by surprise. In the past few months those who had raised the banner of revolt against Capt. Amarinder include four Ministers — Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria and Charanjit Channi — besides some MLAs. The disgruntled leaders pointed out that the Capt. Amarinder-led government had failed to resolve several issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-quits-amid-turmoil-in-congress/article36545395.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Olympians’ javelins, gloves get Rs. 10 crore bids||The second day of the online auction of mementos gifted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saw the price of sports gear of Olympic and Paralympic medal-winners reach Rs. 10 crore on September 18. The e-auction on pmmementos.gov.in, which was started on September 17 and will go on till October 7, includes javelins of Tokyo Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra and Paralympics gold winner Sumit Antil that were gifted by the athletes to the Prime Minister. Both javelins started with a base price of Rs. 1 crore and received bids of Rs. 10 crore each as on September 18 evening. The asking price for the boxing gloves worn by 2020 Olympics bronze medal-winner Lovlina Boroghain also reached Rs. 10 crore, starting with a base price of Rs. 80 lakh. A hockey stick signed by members of the Indian women’s team that placed fourth in the Olympics and the racket of bronze medal-winning badminton player P.V. Sindhu reached Rs. 9 crore each on the second day of the auction. Among the 1,330 mementos being auctioned to benefit the Namami Gange Mission are portraits of Mr. Modi, replicas of buildings, many shawls and stoles and other small objects gifted to the Prime Minister. This is the third edition of the e-auction, with the last one conducted in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/olympians-javelins-gloves-get-rs-10-crore-bids/article36545428.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Limits on airfares to stay for 15 days at a given time||The lower and upper limits on airfares will remain for 15 days at any given time and the airlines will be free to charge without any limits from the 16th day onwards, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Saturday. Since August 12, this roll-over period was of 30 days and the airlines have been charging without limits from the 31st day onwards. In a fresh order issued on Saturday, the Civil Aviation Ministry explained the change in rule: “If the current date is September 20, then the fare band shall be applicable till October 4. Any booking done on September 20 for travel on or after October 5 shall not be controlled by fare bands. On the following day, that is, if the current date is September 21, then the fare band shall be in force till October 5 and for travel on or after October 6, the fare bands shall not be applicable” India had imposed lower and upper limits on airfares when services were resumed on May 25, 2020, after the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/limits-on-airfares-to-stay-for-15-days-at-a-given-time/article36545432.ece
19 September 2021||Kochi,||‘We need permanent chief’||Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor on September 18 called for a “permanent president” to head the party, which is “now at an interim stage”. He said all the Congress leaders have sought a permanent president for the party. “We all liked the leadership of Sonia Gandhi. But we are now at an interim stage. For the last two years, we haven’t had a permanent president. That must be remedied. We need to instil energy in the organisational structure of the Congress party,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-need-permanent-chief/article36545417.ece
19 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘We need permanent chief’||On Saturday, Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Sashi Tharoor said the Congress needed permanent leadership at the national level. If Rahul Gandhi desired to make a comeback as president, he should not delay it any further, he added. Mr. Tharoor said nobody in the Congress would venture to speak against the immense contribution of Sonia Gandhi to the party. However, her presidentship was currently an interim arrangement. The party needed a permanent president at the national level to revitalise the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-need-permanent-chief/article36545757.ece
19 September 2021||Mumbai,||One more held in Pak. terror module case||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Friday night arrested a man from the Jogeshwari area in the western suburbs of Mumbai for his alleged links with a terror module busted by a special cell of the Delhi Police four days ago. According to officials, the man’s name came up during the investigation. The man, identified as Zakir, was arrested by the ATS on Friday night and will be taken to Delhi for interrogation. The arrest takes the total number of people held in the case to seven. ATS officials, however, did not divulge the details about Zakir. The special cell of the Delhi Police arrested six from different locations, claiming a plan was being hatched to conduct strikes at different locations. The Pakistan-based module involved the name of gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s brother Anees Ibrahim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-more-held-in-pak-terror-module-case/article36545396.ece
19 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Two of Assam extremist group killed||The Assam police on Saturday gunned down two members of a new extremist group in a region where peace was said to have returned. Special DGP G.P. Singh said a camp of the United Liberation of Bodoland (was busted in the Ultapani area in Kokrajhar district. Two cadres have been declared dead after an exchange of fire, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-of-assam-extremist-group-killed/article36545401.ece
19 September 2021||Srinagar,||Shootout in Srinagar, arms recovered||A brief encounter broke out between militants and the police in Srinagar on Saturday afternoon. “Terrorists fired on a police team when it was launching a cordon operation in Noorbagh area. It seems they managed to escape from the spot,” Inspector-General of P. Vijay Kumar said. He said the terrorists dropped one pistol and one AK-47 before fleeing. The police have rushed reinforcements, including CRPF personnel, to widen the cordon operation. “The search is on in the area,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shootout-in-srinagar-arms-recovered/article36545403.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Akademi awards presented||Politician-writer M. Veerappa Moily and poet Arundhathi Subramaniam were among the 20 authors who received the Sahitya Akademi Award for 2020 at a ceremony here on Saturday. While Mr. Moily received the prestigious award for his epic poetry Sri Bahubali Ahimsadigvijaya in Kannada, Ms. Subramaniam won it for her poetry collection When God is a Traveller in English. The other winners in poetry include Harish Meenakshi (Gujarati), Anamika (Hindi), R.S. Bhaskar (Konkani), Irungbam Deven (Manipuri), Rupchand Hansda (Santali) and Nikhileswar (Telugu). Nanda Khare (Marathi), Maheshchandra Sharma Gautam (Sanskrit), Imaiyam (Tamil) and Sri Hussain-ul-Haque bagged the award for their novels. Apurba Kumar Saikia (Assamese), the late Dharanidhar Owari (Bodo), the late Hiday Koul Bharti (Kashmiri), Kamalkant Jha (Maithili) and Gurdev Singh Rupana (Punjabi) hreceived the award for short stories. The Akademi has named Gian Singh (Dogri) and Jetho Lalwani (Sindhi) as winners for plays. Mani Shankar Mukhopadhyay, known as Shankar, received the award for memoir (Bengali).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akademi-awards-given-away/article36545404.ece
19 September 2021||Muzaffarnagar,||EC transfers out 28 police personnel from Muzaffarnagar ahead of UP polls||A total of 28 police inspectors, including 11 station house officers, posted in Muzaffarnagar for more than three years, have been shifted to other districts, an official said on Saturday. According to Preetinder Singh, DIG, Saharanpur range, the order came on Friday on the directive of the Election Commission, which stated that police officers cannot remain posted in the district going to polls if they have served in the same place for at least three years. The police personnel were transferred to Shamli and Saharanpur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-transfers-out-28-police-personnel-from-muzaffarnagar-ahead-of-up-polls/article36545984.ece
19 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland all-party government named UDA||Nagaland’s Opposition-less government has been named United Democratic Alliance (UDA). The nomenclature was approved at a meeting of all the MLAs at the State Banquet Hall in Kohima on September 18. The ruling coalition of Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP), the Bharatiya Janata Party and two Independent MLAs had inducted the Opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF) into the government on August 16. It was then called the Nagaland United Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-all-party-government-named-uda/article36545408.ece
19 September 2021||Mumbai,||Shiv Sena plays down Uddhav Thackeray’s ‘future friend’ remark||A day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray stirred political circles in Maharashtra by referring to Union Minister of State for Railways Raosaheb Danve as a “future colleague”, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday said the party chief was referring to the possibility of leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) defecting to the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). “We need to understand what the Chief Minister said. He meant that some people from the BJP might come to the Maha Vikas Aghadi. We are not going anywhere. This government will complete its five-year term,” Mr. Raut said after meeting Mr. Thackeray at his official residence. “There are many people in the State, including those from the BJP [who would like to join the MVA]. They can go anywhere... to any of the three parties that form the Maha Vikas Aghadi government,” he said. On Mr. Danve’s plans to meet Mr. Thackeray, the Sena MP said the senior BJP leader was a friend of the party and a Union Minister hailing from the State. “A number of railway projects are pending in the State. He should meet the Chief Minister if he has been called. It is very important to have good relations with the Centre,” he said. Pravin Darekar, Leader of the Opposition in the State Council, said the Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party were greedy for power and therefore continued to employ pressure tactics. “It could be the Chief Minister’s ploy to pressure his allies as he is being forced to change his decisions on every matter. But the BJP will not allow him to use us,” the BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shiv-sena-plays-down-uddhav-thackerays-future-friend-remark/article36545411.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||R.N. Ravi sworn in Governor||Governor R.N. Ravi on Saturday said he hoped to make his relationship with the DMK government “as beautiful as possible in the days to come”. He said governance was the responsibility of the government, and the role of the Governor was to function within the parameters laid out in the Constitution. Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Justice Sanjib Banerjee administered the oath of office to Mr. Ravi. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who accompanied Mr. Ravi to the stage, presented a book to the new Governor, after he took his oath of office. He also felicitated Mr. Ravi’s wife. Former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Union Minister of State L. Murugan of the BJP, Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan and MDMK general secretary Vaiko were among the other leaders who graced the occasion. While the Congress, the Left parties and the VCK did not attend the event, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri told The Hindu that the Congress was not boycotting the event, and that he had been invited to it. But he said he was travelling, and hence could not attend it. ‘Clean slate’ Minutes after being sworn in as the Governor, Mr. Ravi was asked about apprehensions among certain parties about a former Intelligence Bureau officer being made the Governor. “The slate of our relationship [the Governor and the Tamil Nadu government] is absolutely new and clean. My effort will be to make it as beautiful as possible in the days to come,” he said. Mr. Ravi said India had benefited enormously from the intellectual, spiritual and artistic wealth of Tamil Nadu and its political wisdom. “In fact, this place and the people have influenced and shaped to a great deal the very idea of India,” he said. The new Governor said Tamil Nadu had in place a popular government, mandated by the people. “Governance is the responsibility of the government. The Governor has to function within the parameters of the Constitution. I will try to keep that in mind,” he said. Asked about his assessment of the performance of the DMK government, he said it was too premature for him to speak on it, but the government seemed to be doing well, especially in the way it had handled COVID-19 and brought down the number of cases. To a question on whether he would play a role in bridging differences between Tamil Nadu and the Union government, either in procuring more vaccine doses or any political issue, he said a pandemic like COVID-19 was above party politics and differences, “if at all between a State and the Union [government]”. Mr. Ravi said collective efforts had to be made to defeat COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rn-ravi-sworn-in-governor/article36545905.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State sees 1,653 cases; no fatality due to COVID-19 in 26 districts||Fresh COVID-19 infections dropped marginally for the second day in a row, with the State logging 1,653 cases, taking its tally to 26,43,683. Chennai topped the table with 204 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 201. There were 139 cases in Erode and 101 in Chengalpattu. The remaining 34 districts logged under 100 cases each. There were 94 cases in Tiruppur and 91 in Thanjavur. Salem and Namakkal saw 69 and 62 cases respectively. Chennai, along with 25 other districts, recorded no fatality due to COVID-19. The State recorded 22 more deaths, taking its toll to 35,310. Of the 22 deaths, Coimbatore recorded five. There were four deaths in Thanjavur and two each in Cuddalore, Kancheepuram and Salem. Another 1,581 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,91,480. The State currently has 16,893 active cases. These include 2,201 people in Coimbatore, 1,941 people in Chennai, 1,377 people in Erode, 1,241 people in Chengalpattu and 1,025 people in Thanjavur. Five districts have under 100 active cases each — Perambalur (86), Ramanathapuram (55), Tenkasi (86), Theni (85) and Virudhunagar (89). As many as 1,56,175 samples were tested on Saturday, taking the total count to 4,51,44,520. A total of 2,01,443 persons, including 1,25,528 persons aged 18 to 44 and 57,496 persons aged 45 to 59, were inoculated across the State on Saturday. This took the coverage at government vaccination centres so far to 3,96,79,123. The cumulative coverage at private vaccination centres since May 1 stood at 23,74,777, according to the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-sees-1653-cases-no-fatality-due-to-covid-19-in-26-districts/article36545895.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A variety of projects open to public participation||The installation of energy-efficient street lights, solar high mast lights and CCTV cameras at vantage points such as traffic junctions and market places is among the list of projects that could be taken up by individuals or groups under the ‘Namakku Naame Thittam’ (Urban) rolled out by the Tamil Nadu government. The ‘Namakku Naame Thittam’ is aimed at improving the public participation in creation and maintenance of community infrastructure. The proposal for execution of projects can originate from individuals, groups such as resident welfare associations, institutions, public or private companies or from the community. Being re-introduced The scheme, originally introduced by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, has been re-introduced by the DMK government. It is to be implemented in the Greater Chennai Corporation, all 14 municipal corporations, all 121 municipalities and all 528 town panchayats across the State. A provision of Rs. 300 crore has been made. Requests for the work to be taken up, with the consent for contributing “at least one-third of the estimate” amount by the public, have to be given to the Commissioners of the municipal corporations or the municipalities. Renovation of waterbodies, formation and renovation of parks, playgrounds, traffic islands, fountains and street lights, planting of trees and installation of tree guards, construction and renovation of buildings for schools, colleges, hospitals, urban primary health centres, including compound walls and other amenities, could also be taken up under the scheme. Construction of modern libraries/knowledge centres, bridges, storm-water drains and related works, construction of shopping complexes or buildings of public benefit, purchase of computers or furniture for schools and libraries could also be taken up. Renovation of all community assets such anganwadis, community toilets, shops and markets and construction of new crematoria are the other options available.  Proposals for projects can originate from individuals, groups, institutions, public or private companies or from the community||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-variety-of-projects-open-to-public-participation/article36545910.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro takes over R.A. Puram playground for phase II work||Every morning at six, 18-year-old R. Ajay Kumar used to walk 3 km to Raja Annamalaipuram playground where he would do jogging for sometime. He would then play football with his friends. Not any more. He and his friends are now left scrambling to find other spaces in the locality, as Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. has taken over the playground for construction of an underground station as part of phase II project. The playground, which attained an iconic status after the release of the film Chennai 600028, is now barricaded and will soon be filled with construction material. “We were deeply disappointed to know that the playground will be closed to facilitate construction work. Now, we are looking at alternative spaces but it is not easy. People like us can’t afford to travel long distance every day to practise,” he said. B. Udhaya Kumar, an 18-year-old resident of Govindsamy Nagar, has been using the playground for seven years. He said it was unfair to take over playgrounds for construction purposes. “We tried to go to another playground in Pattinappakam but the problem is all playgrounds are crowded and we really can’t play a match or even go for a run. In COVID-19 times, the only recreation we have is to play here but now even that is stolen from us,” he said. R. Chandrasekaran, founder of R.A. Puram Residents’ Association, said CMRL should look for another site. “From the phase I project, we have seen how long it takes for them to restore a playground or a park; they can take any other nearby building to store the construction material,” he said. CMRL officials said the playground was about 8,500 sq m., which they will need for building the underground Greenways Road Metro Rail station. “After the construction is over, the station will be open to public, and we will restore this playground in good condition,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-takes-over-ra-puram-playground-for-phase-ii-work/article36545846.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM lauds winners of Akademi prize||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday commended the winners of the Sahitya Akademi Prize for Translation, who have translated Tamil works in other languages and vice versa. The Chief Minister extended his greetings to all prize winners. He extended his greetings to K. Chellappan, who translated Rabindranath Tagore's Bengali novel Gora in Tamil; T.E.S. Raghavan, who translated saint-poet Thiruvalluvar's Tirukkural in Hindi; and Sonali Navangul, who translated Tamil novel Irandam Jaamankalin Kathai by Salma in Marathi. In a statement issued here on Saturday, Mr. Stalin said translating noted works to Tamil and from Tamil to other languages facilitated the exchange of knowledge and was commendable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-lauds-winners-of-akademi-prize/article36545860.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poramboke land recovered||The Chennai district administration has begun eviction on 91.04 acres of poramboke land encroached upon at Semmencheri village in Sholinganallur taluk. The land was reportedly encroached upon by the Jeppiaar Educational Trust (JET), as per the records of the Revenue Department. The eviction followed an order by the Commissioner of Land Administration (CLA), dismissing the trust’s revision petition that challenged a 2011 order, asking it to vacate the land. In 2012, a report by an official of the Revenue Department estimated the guideline value of the land to be Rs. 595.9 crore and the market value to be Rs. 1,048.3 crore. Minister for Revenue K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, who inspected the land on Saturday, said it was worth around Rs. 2,010 crore. He said the government was keen to reclaim all encroached lands across the State. Officials said the encroached land had hostel buildings, a playground and other facilities. The recent order by CLA and the eviction come despite efforts by the trust for over two decades to get the government to transfer the land to its name. The trust approached the Revenue Department in 1996 to either transfer to it, through long-term lease or outright sale, the land which was classified as government manavari tharisu in the revenue records. The request was turned down in 2003 on the grounds that it would set a wrong precedent and the government would need the land for other purposes. Soon after, steps were initiated to recover the land under the Tamil Nadu Land Encroachment (TNLA) Act by revenue officials of the then composite Kancheepuram district. The trust moved the Madras High Court challenging the government’s action. In 2011, while upholding that the trust was an encroacher, the court, however, acknowledged lapses in the procedures initiated under the TNLA Act. The trust was subsequently given an opportunity to explain under Section 7 of the Act. However, the court later allowed the revenue officials to take appropriate action. Consequently, after hearing the explanation, the then District Collector issued orders to clear the encroachment in December 2011. In January 2012, the trust appealed to the CLA against this order through a revision petition. While this remained pending before the CLA, the trust approached the District Sub Court in Tambaram in 2012, seeking transfer of title of the land. The District Sub Judge ruled in favour of the trust in 2014. Though the government appealed against this court order, there was very little progress in the matter till 2020 when the Commissionerate of Land Administration started pursuing the subject.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/91-acres-of-poramboke-land-seized-from-educational-trust/article36545857.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corporation intensifies drive on mask rule||Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Saturday conducted an awareness campaign on compulsory wearing of masks and adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour. They made an on the spot assessment of compliance with rules as part of a special enforcement drive to make public wear masks in public places such as markets, beaches and railway stations. After noticing slackness in compliance of wearing masks among public in the city, Mr. Bedi and Mr. Jiwal held a meeting on Wednesday to devise a strategy to increase the compliance level by holding a special drive till September. On Saturday evening, the two senior officials visited crowded areas such as Ranganathan Street in T. Nagar, Marina Beach and Central Railway Station and created awareness among customers, passengers and traders to prevent spread of COVID-19, stressing the need for preventing a third wave. They interacted with traders on Ranganathan Street and urged them to follow all COVID norms while allowing customers inside their shops. They distributed masks to beach-goers and enquired with the public about vaccination status. Near the Central Railway Station, the two officials hopped on a bus and spoke to passengers about maintenance of hygiene in public places and houses. Mr. Jiwal told presspersons that on seeing a slackness in compliance of wearing masks, the officials decided two days ago to conduct special drive for 10 days. “We expect an increase of at least 15 to 20% compliance in 10 days. It will be easier to control the spread of COVID-19 further. We have taken a major effort to prevent third wave.” Mr. Bedi said: “People stepping out of their homes should wear masks compulsorily. The police and the Corporation certainly will impose fine on those who don’t wear masks. Special teams are on the job of monitoring and imposing fines at every ward.” Vaccination camp Saying that 1,600 camps would be conducted for mega vaccination in the city limits on Sunday, Mr. Bedi said the Corporation will administer second dose of Covaxin. “Last time, we did not have Covaxin. Now, the State government has given 1.2 lakh doses of Covaxin to the Corporation. We will administer the second dose for residents who are waiting for Covaxin. Over one lakh doses of Covishield will be administered on Sunday,” said Mr. Bedi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-police-intensify-drive-on-mask-rule/article36545849.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Horticulture agency holds camp to promote rooftop gardening||In an effort to promote rooftop vegetable garden among residents, Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency (Tanhoda) organised a special camp at Officers’ Colony Park, Anna Nagar Western Extension on Saturday. Plans are afoot to hold such camps in parks and public spaces across the city. Besides selling a variety of vegetable seeds, officials of Tanhoda, a special purpose vehicle affiliated to Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops, clarified residents’ doubts about herbal gardening and organic farming. V. Rajagopal, president, Anna Nagar Western Extension Phase II Residents Welfare Association, said it was a welcome move and many residents learned about use of medicinal plants and water conservation techniques. Officials said nearly 15,000 varieties of medicinal and ornamental plants, vegetable seeds and products such as honey and chocolates were sold at the camp. “Several residents purchased vermicompost and drip irrigation kits. We wanted to hold camps to popularise benefits of terrace gardening and encourage people to grow traditional herbs like Vallarai, Keezhanelli and Aadathodai in their gardens,” said an official. These saplings and drip irrigation kits were available at Horticulture depots in places such as Anna Nagar and Madhavaram. The department may soon start providing terrace garden kits at subsidised rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/camp-held-to-promote-rooftop-gardening/article36545847.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||17 lakh doses available for today’s mega camp||About 17 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines will be available for the State’s second mega vaccination camp to be held on Sunday. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian had said on Friday that the State had not received as many vaccine doses as it had expected. For the last mega vaccination camp held on September 12, as many as 29 lakh doses of vaccines were available in hand. It may be recalled that the State had achieved a coverage of nearly 28.91 lakh during the camp. Earlier this week, he had written to the Union Health Minister, seeking an allocation of 50 lakh additional doses of vaccines this week — five lakh a day for six days and 20 lakh for the mega camp on the seventh day. “The target is to vaccinate 15 lakh people. A total of 20,000 booths are being set up. We will have vaccines in the range of 17 lakh for the mega camp. We have told officials to exhaust whatever stock is available,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. Officials said the Union government was already supplying additional doses, which the State was utilising from time to time. T. S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, said they had distributed the vaccine doses to all health unit districts on the basis of both population and daily vaccination performance. Mr. Radhakrishnan added that special focus was being given to the border districts. Districts such as Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Namakkal were also being given special attention, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-lakh-doses-available-for-todays-mega-camp/article36545891.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Turtle float to help people ‘connect with the ocean’||To commemorate World Cleanup Day, the U.S. Consulate-General Chennai in partnership with Tree Foundation and United Way Chennai flagged off a mobile turtle float on Saturday. World Cleanup Day is a social action programme observed globally to combat the problem of solid waste, including marine debris. Kathryn Flachsbart, acting U.S. Consul General in Chennai, and Indian Coast Guard officials flagged off the float in a live-streamed event. From conservation organisation Tree Foundation in Neelankarai, the float travelled along the East Coast Road to Mahabalipuram. Till the campaign ends in November 2021, the float will be in public view and visit fishing villages, beaches, a tourist spot and a fishing harbour. “For more than 100 million years, sea turtles have been protecting the oceans by maintaining productive coral reef ecosystems and transporting essential nutrients from oceans to the beaches and coastal dunes. Protecting and increasing the sea turtle population will contribute to our oceans’ health for years to come,” said Ms. Flachsbart. Ocean health was a shared climate challenge, she added. “We hope that the instances of ghost nets, carelessly discarded nets, and plastic in the ocean will greatly reduce over time. Attitudinal change will become a part of the daily routine of the communities we work with,” said Supraja Dharini, founder, TREE Foundation. She said their Sea Turtle Protection force members organise annual coastal clean-up and community welfare programmes. The turtle float had been envisioned as a mobile visual exhibit depicting ocean biodiversity and is based on the theme of “connect with the ocean”. Recreated models made from ghost nets are a part of the float and on Saturday, volunteers from TREE Foundation and students on bicycles travelled with the float to create awareness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/turtle-float-to-help-people-connect-with-the-ocean/article36545855.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State poll body names election observers||The Tamil Nadu State Election Commission on Saturday named nine IAS officers as election observers to the nine districts where local body ordinary elections are scheduled to be held on October 6 and 9. It also named 11 IAS officers as election observers for the 28 districts where local body casual elections are scheduled to be held on October 9. “The election observers will proceed to their respective districts on the last day of filing nominations on September 22 and commence work. Contact details of the officials will be released by district election officers/Collectors,” the TNSEC said in a press release. Election observers for the 9 districts where ordinary elections are scheduled are: V. Amuthavalli (Kancheepuram); V. Sampath (Chengalpattu); K.S. Palanisamy (Villupuram); K. Vivekanandan (Kallakurichi); S. Vijayaraj Kumar (Vellore); S. Madumathi (Ranipet); C. Kamaraj (Tirupattur); J. Jayakanthan (Tirunelveli), and P. Sankar (Tenkasi). As for the casual elections scheduled in 28 districts, the election observers are: M. Mathivanan (Coimbatore and the Nilgiris); A. Gnanasekaran (Tiruvallur and Tiruvannamalai); T.N. Hariharan (Salem, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri); Anil Meshram (Perambalur, Ariyalur and Thanjavur); C.N. Maheswaran (Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Ramanathapuram); R. Selvaraj (Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur); K. Baskaran (Madurai, Theni and Dindigul); M. Karunakaran (Sivaganga and Virudhunagar); S. Sivashanmugaraja (Erode, Tiruppur and Namakkal); S. Ganesh (Tiruchi, Karur and Pudukkottai), and R. Nanthagopal (Cuddalore and Mayiladuthurai).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-poll-body-names-election-observers/article36545907.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work begins on clearing drains in Koyambedu||The Market Management Committee has launched the work to remove silt and repair the stormwater drain network in the Koyambedu wholesale market premises to prevent water-logging during northeast monsoon. The Federation of All Associations of Koyambedu Periyar Vegetable Market plans to provide bags for vegetable waste collection to avoid clogging of drains. S.S. Muthukumar, president, Koyambedu Semi-wholesalers Merchants Association, said rainwater stagnated in and around the market because storm drain network was damaged. Garbage strewn on the road too clogged the drains. “Some traders have already started collecting vegetable waste in sacks. The Market Management Committee must take stringent action against unauthorised shops that dump vegetable waste on roads. The sewer lines must be cleared of silt,” he said. Federation president G.D. Rajasekaran said the MMC had assured traders that work would soon be completed on drinking water lines in the market. “We have made several representations to improve other infrastructure. We want the working hours of semi-wholesale market to be extended up to 4 p.m. to help retailers buy produce,” he said. Besides clearing encroachments and road repair, the Federation has demanded a dedicated parking space with signages for various categories of vehicles. Sources at the MMC said the stormwater drain network, running 7 km within the market premises, was being cleared of plastic and vegetable waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-begins-on-clearing-drains-in-koyambedu/article36545842.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman arrested for cousin’s murder||A 20-year-old woman has been arrested for causing the death of her five-year-old cousin in Peerkankaranai police station limits. The name of the victim was given as Abel of Kattankulathur, son of Thiyagarajan, 35, and Susai Mary, 30. He was one of the four siblings. The couple sell samosas at a railway station and bus stand in a nearby area. Since they went out every day to earn a living, Susai Mary used to leave two children at her sister’s house in Kamaraj Nagar under the care of her niece Mary. On Friday morning, an unconscious Abel was taken to the Government General Hospital, Chromepet. The doctors found that the boy was brought dead with injuries on the body. A case of unnatural death was registered. The post-mortem report confirmed that the boy died of a head injury. During investigation, Mary was found to be involved in the murder. She used to hold the boy’s head and bang it on the wall. On one occasion, the boy fell unconscious but recovered. On Friday, the child died of a head injury. Later, she pretended that he was unwell, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-arrested-for-cousins-murder/article36545843.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lifestyle changes can reduce risks of dementia||There are a number of modifiable factors such as diabetes, midlife obesity, hypertension, sedentary lifestyle and smoking that increase the risk of dementia, said Madhav Thambisetty, unit head, Clinical & Translational Neuroscience Section, Johns Hopkins University, here on Saturday. Addressing a webinar moderated by Ennapadam S. Krishnamoorthy, behavioural neurologist and neuropsychiatrist and founder of Buddhi Clinic, on the topic ‘Alzheimer’s dementia: from ayurveda to precision medicine,’ Dr. Thambisetty said interventions to reduce these risk factors could help in preventing dementia. He said that while dementia was the broader term that referred to difficulties with memory, thinking and problem solving that affected a person’s day-to-day functioning, Alzheimer’s was the most common cause of dementia. Suhas Kumar Shettu, professor and head, Department of Manovijnana Avum Manasa Roga, Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara College of Ayurveda and Hospital, said ayurveda offered different options depending on patient’s stage of dementia. Dr. Krishnamoorthy stressed on the need to explore the integration of modern medicine with wisdom from ancient medicines to offer improved treatment options for dementia patients. Rema Raghu, clinical director, Buddhi Clinic, also spoke. The discussion was organised ahead of World Alzheimer’s Day on September 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lifestyle-changes-can-reduce-risks-of-dementia/article36545861.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for sexual assault on toddler||A 19-year-old youth was arrested on Saturday by the personnel of the All Women Police Station, Poonamallee, for allegedly committing aggravated sexual assault on a three-year-old girl. The police said the parents left the child with her grandmother and went to work. While the grandmother was sitting outside the house, the youth entered the house under the pretext of playing with the child and committed the offence. Following a complaint from parents, the police arrested the youth who was identified as Sakthivel alias Sappa, 19, of Nazarathpet, Tiruvallur district under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-sexual-assault-on-toddler/article36545850.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temple EOs plan protest||Executive officers of temples under the control of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department have planned to stage a black badge agitation if their demand for increasing the number of posts from the present 430 to 582 was not met. At a meeting on Saturday in Salem, the Association members, who passed a set of resolutions, said that the number of posts for other cadre, including joint commissioners, deputy commissioners and inspectors had been increased by the department. They said the number of posts had remained the same since 1990. However, the number of temples had increased manifold. The executive officers planned a series of agitations, including mass leave and protest in front of the office of the Commissioner of HR and CE, said a press release here. HR & CE Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran said that a cadre strength review committee had been formed and their demands would be looked into.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-eos-plan-protest/article36546028.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) leaders thank CM for Bills against Central laws||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan, along with Politburo member G. Ramakrishnan and other leaders, met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday, and thanked him for passing a resolution against the farm laws, the Bill against NEET and the resolution to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, among other announcements in the recently-concluded Assembly session. CPI(M) Kilvelur MLA Nagai Mali and former MLA Dilli Babu were also part of the meeting. They presented a memorandum on a slew of issues, demanding action. The CPI(M) requested the Chief Minister to increase the monthly assistance provided to persons with disabilities and waive farm loans that had been converted into medium term from short-term loans. It also sought measures to give community certificates to people from the Scheduled Tribes. The Chief Minister said he would review the memorandum and assured the party of action, according to a CPI(M) press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-leaders-thank-cm-for-bills-against-central-laws/article36545906.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop proposed expansion of private port’||Fishermen of Pulicat on Saturday urged the Centre to stop the proposed expansion of a private port in their area as it would lead to the death of the brackish water Pulicat lake. Submitting their requests to Union Minister of State for Fisheries L. Murugan, who visited the lake spread across Tiruvallur in Tamil Nadu and Nellore in Andhra Pradesh, representatives from villages along the lake said opening of the bar mouth where seawater entered/exited the lake was vital for the existence of the lake. The fishermen, many of whom had donated their land for the construction of the rocket launch centre at Sriharikotta, wanted pattas to be issued in their names. “Without pattas in our names we cannot apply for the Prime Minister’s housing scheme,” said a fisherman. Mr. Murugan said that Rs. 26.85 crore had been sanctioned to stabilise the Pulicat estuary. He said steps would be taken to provide houses to the fishermen of Pulicat under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. He added that Kisan cards would be issued to all fishermen, including to those who did not own boats. Fisheries Director K.S. Palanichamy, Tiruvallur District Collector Alby John Varghese and Ponneri MLA Durai Chandrashekhar were present. On Friday, the Minister visited Tiruvottiyur where work is on to construct a tuna landing centre at a cost of Rs. 200 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kisan-cards-for-fishermen-soon/article36545853.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five arrested for murder||Five persons were arrested on Friday in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old man last Tuesday at Erumaiyur near Padappai in Somangalam police station limits of Kancheepuram district. On Tuesday, a severed head was found on the road near a church at Erumaiyur. The police found the torso in the lakebed at Sitheri next day. The police identified the deceased as Vetrivel, 23, of Erumaiyur. He was one of the accused in the murder of a college student Abishek last year. He was a law graduate and looking for job. On investigation, the police arrested five accused who were identified as A. Raji, 26, S. Rishikesh, 25, G. Lawrence, 28, Mathi alias Mathivanan, 25, and Mohammed Ali, 25, of Nadu Veerapattu village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/severed-head-case-five-arrested/article36545844.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||There is more to life than exams: Suriya||Actor Suriya has reached out to students in Tamil Nadu via a video message and appealed against them taking their own lives. His appeal comes in the wake of death by suicide of three medical aspirants in the State last week. In the video message, the actor began by reciting poet Subramaniya Bharathiyar's poem Acchamillai acchamillai accham enbadhu illaiye and then appealed to the students as a brother, asking them not to have any fear. “If you have had any problem last week or even last month — think about it. It would have definitely lessened by now. An exam [NEET] is not bigger than your life. Please go and talk to someone you trust — like your parents, an older person, friends or teachers about everything on your mind if you are feeling depressed. Your fear, anxiety and dejection will disappear in a while,” the actor said. Death by suicide was a lifelong punishment that they were giving to their parents and other people who like and care for them. “I have failed in all exams, got bad marks and performed very badly academically. So as one among you, I will definitely say that marks and exams do not make up your life,” the actor said. He said that there was a lot more to achieve in life for them, beyond exams and marks. “To understand you and love you, there are lots of people. If you have belief, you can achieve a lot in life,” he said. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/there-is-more-to-life-than-exams-suriya/article36545912.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Silambam recognised by Centre’||Silambam, an Indian martial art developed by Tamils, has been recognised under the ‘Promotion of inclusiveness through sports’ initiative of the ‘Khelo India’ programme of the the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Tamil Nadu Minister for Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva V. Meyyanathan said on Saturday. “The recognition of Silambam, a martial art of the Tamils, by the Union government is a matter of pride to the Tamil community,” he said. The State government has sought for a recognition from the Union government on the advice of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, he said. The State has requested the Sports Development Authority of India to include Silambam in the list of tribal sports, and take steps for its development, the Minister said. The State is taking steps to make Silambam eligible for consideration under the 3% sports quota. It is also expediting work to set up a Silambam training centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silambam-recognised-by-centre/article36545911.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on Russian scholarship||Russian House in Chennai will hold a webinar on Russian government scholarship programme 2022-23 at 4 p.m. on September 20. Candidates can get information about scholarship, courses available, process of application and process of selection. More details available at: ruslang.chennai @ind.rs.gov. ru or call on 044-24990050. Zoom meeting ID is 89518987185 and password: russia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-russian-scholarship/article36545858.ece
19 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. aims to administer one lakh vaccine doses today||The district administration, Coimbatore Corporation and the Health Department are aiming to administer around one lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines to eligible population in the second mega vaccination drive on Sunday. A release issued by the district administration said the vaccination drive will be held at 706 centres in the district. A total of 1.51 lakh doses of vaccines were inoculated to those aged above 18 in the district in the first mega drive, which was held at 1,475 centres on September 12. The 706 centres that will operate on Sunday are primary health centres, anganwadis, government hospitals, infection-prone areas, hilly areas, remote locations and places close to Kerala border. Coimbatore Corporation limits will also have vaccination centres. District Collector G.S. Sameeran reviewed the arrangements on Saturday. He urged those aged above 18 who are yet to have their first dose and people who are due to take their second dose to make use of the drive. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian will launch the drive at the District Headquarters Hospital, Pollachi, on Sunday. He will also inaugurate an oxygen generator for the hospital. The Minister will visit the interstate check-post at Meenakshipuram. Vaccination certificate Meanwhile, Mr. Sameeran advised owners/supervisors of malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, TASMAC outlets, markets, large textile showrooms, entertainment halls, air-conditioned gymnasiums and resorts to check whether customers carry complete vaccination certificate. Mr. Sameeran said that the production of complete vaccination certificate was not a must for entries as of now. However, it might become mandatory in the future, he told The Hindu . “Owners shall encourage customers to produce complete vaccination certificate so that it will be easy if the certificate becomes mandatory for entries in future,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-aims-to-administer-one-lakh-vaccine-doses-today/article36545950.ece
19 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Codissia recruiting candidates for skill training programme||Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) in coordination with District Skill Training Officials organised a mobilisation drive on Saturday at the Government Industrial Training Institute, to select candidates for training as machinist, fitter, and CNC programmer-cum-operator. Of the 125 candidates who participated, 38 will be selected and trained for three to six months. They will then be deputed to work with a stipend of approximately Rs. 7000 a month at the member units of the association for one to two years. The candidates will receive a National Apprenticeship Training Certificate at the end of the apprentice period which is valid in India and abroad. Candidates who have completed Class X to those who have done post-graduation courses took part. A similar camp will be held on September 26 at the Government ITI. As many as 51 member MSME units of Codissia are taking part in the programme and will recruit totally 150 people. The National Apprentice Training programme is part of STRIVE (Skills Strengthening for Industrial Value Enhancement), which is implemented by Central and State governments with World Bank funding, said M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Codissia. This is a three-year programme in which the governments will give Rs. 1 crore as grant. It will be used for accommodation, food and uniform for the candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/codissia-recruiting-candidates-for-skill-training-programme/article36545933.ece
19 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Anti-hijack drill conducted at airport||An anti-hijack drill was conducted at the Coimbatore International Airport on Friday to check security preparedness. Officials and staff from various departments and airlines took part in the exercise which started at 8 a.m. As per the procedures for conducting the drill, the aerodrome committee was activated. The committee assembled at the anti-hijack control room set up at the airport. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor, who is the chairman of the committee, supervised the exercise. According to officials with the Airport Authority of India (AAI), the drill was attended by all airlines, staff from the Intelligence Bureau, police, immigration department and the Central Industrial Security Force, which is in charge of the security at the airport. Various stakeholders of the AAI also took part in the exercise which lasted for an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-hijack-drill-conducted-at-airport/article36545940.ece
19 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||27 recruit clerks attested into army||As many as 27 recruit clerks of Recruit Clerk Course – 10 were attested into the Indian Army during the Attestation Parade held at the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington on Saturday. The parade was held on the drill ground of Shrinagesh Barracks for the recruit clerks, who had completed year-long basic and advanced military training, a press release said. Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant of the MRC, reviewed the parade, which was held in adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocols. In his address, Brigadier Singh congratulated the recruit clerks and commended the efforts of the instructors and staff members at the MRC, who trained the soldier clerks for the Indian Army amid the COVID-19 pandemic. He also congratulated the parents of the recruits, who were not present in the audience to witness the parade due to the pandemic-induced restrictions. The Madras Regiment is one of the oldest Infantry Regiments of the Indian Army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-recruit-clerks-attested-into-army/article36545935.ece
19 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Si’Tarc to focus on support measures for MSMEs||The Scientific and Industrial Testing and Research Centre (Si’Tarc) will take efforts to become a certification body under the new importer-exporter code so that the products tested by it are eligible for exports even to developed countries. Potential products According to a press release from the centre, it will identify potential products and take up research and development on these so that MSME units can produce the products to match international standards. The micro and small scale industries are the foundation of the Coimbatore industrial cluster and the Centre will focus on improving this sector to be on a par with international standards. The office-bearers of the association for 2021-2022 are: Ma. Sendil Kumar (president), K. Mohan Senthil Kumar (vice-president), R. Karthikeyan (secretary) and C.G Sri Priya (treasurer).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sitarc-to-focus-on-support-measures-for-msmes/article36545931.ece
19 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special camp for Aadhaar enrollment||Department of Posts and Communist Party of India conducted a week-long special camp for Aadhaar enrollment and revision from September 11 to 17. CPI Secretary (Pappanaickenpudur Branch) N. Chandran said that 427 beneficiaries participated in the special camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camp-for-aadhaar-enrollment/article36545930.ece
19 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man falls to death in Valparai ghat section||A 37-year-old man from Karur died after he slipped into a gorge at the Valparai ghat section on Friday evening. The police said that Dinesh Kumar, a native of East Thavittupalayam in Karur, died after he fell from the 27th hairpin bend of the ghat section. The incident took place when Kumar came to Valaprai along with his friends for a trip. The police said that Kumar slipped into a gorge of about 100 feet and suffered severe injuries on his head. He was taken out from the gorge and taken to the Government Hospital at Valparai where doctors declared him brought dead. The Kadamparai police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-falls-to-death-in-valparai-ghat-section/article36545932.ece
19 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||INS Agrani celebrates 56th anniversary||INS Agrani, the leadership training establishment of the Indian Navy based at Red Fields in Coimbatore, celebrated its 56th anniversary here on Saturday. Commodore Ashok Rai, Commanding Officer of INS Agrani, launched the celebrations by cutting the anniversary cake along with the youngest sailor of the establishment and a representative of the civilian staff. INS Agrani has its origin from the erstwhile Petty Officer's Leadership School, INS Varakkal, which was shifted from West Hill in Kozhikode to the present campus. The unit was subsequently commissioned as INS Agrani on September 18, 1965. All the personnel and their families participated in the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ins-agrani-celebrates-56th-anniversary/article36545944.ece
19 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Head constable manhandled||A policeman was allegedly manhandled by the son of an accident victim as the former tried to prevent the latter and his friends from assaulting another man on the premises of the Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, on Saturday. Sundaramoorthy, head constable of the Mettupalayam police station, was manhandled by Anith Kumar (26), son of Devaraj from Kumarapuram on Annur Road. The police said that Devaraj and his wife Sreedevi were injured after a two-wheeler rammed them on Annur Road. Mr. Sundaramoorthy went to the hospital as part of investigating the accident. Mohan John, who rode the two-wheeler which caused the accident was also at the hospital. Kumar along with his friends attacked John. They allegedly manhandled Mr. Sundaramoorthy when he tried to pacify them. They escaped when he telephoned SI Damodaran, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/head-constable-manhandled/article36545941.ece
19 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Boy found dead||A 16-year-old boy ended his life here on Friday allegedly after his father questioned his performance in a test conducted by a training institute where he had been going for coaching for an entrance examination. The police said that the boy was found dead at his residence at the quarters for the staff of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. The Saibaba Colony police have registered a case.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-found-dead/article36545942.ece
19 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Consultative meeting for e-shram registration held||A consultative meeting was organised under the aegis of the district administration on the implementation of the registration of unorganised workers in the e-shram portal launched by the Union Government. e-shram portal has been launched to register unorganised workers to enable them to get benefits of various welfare schemes launched by the State and the Central governments. The scheme, implemented under the Department of Labour Welfare and Skill Development for unorganised workers, seeks to provide benefits from social security scheme. Over 150 categories of unorganised workers are covered under this. Presiding over the meeting, Collector S. Dhivyadarshini interacted with the various line departments including Magalir Thittam, department of social defence, agriculture, labour and fisheries. Underlining the importance of registration of unorganised workers that might include women of self-help groups with e-shram portal, the Collector said special camps were being organised for the purpose through the common service centres. Registration in the e-shram portal will require Aadhaar details, bank account number and age limit of 18 to 59.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consultative-meeting-for-e-shram-registration-held/article36546045.ece
19 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Temples remain closed on first Saturday of Purattasi||With temples remaining closed on weekends due to COVID-19, devotees offered prayers outside the temples here on the first Saturday of the Tamil month of Purattasi . The State government announced closure of temples from Friday to Sunday to prevent gathering of devotees, to control the spread of COVID-19. The Saturdays in Purattasi month are considered auspicious. However, as the temples were closed and barricades were placed near the entrances, the devotees offered prayers from outside the temples. Since offerings including pooja items and flowers were not allowed, shops near temples wore a deserted look.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temples-remain-closed-on-first-saturday-of-purattasi/article36546049.ece
19 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to supply yarn to cooperative societies||Tamil Nadu Federation of Power Looms Associations has urged the State government to immediately supply yarn to cooperative societies to begin the manufacturing free dhotis and saris for Pongal festival at the earliest. In a letter to the Chief Minister, federation coordinator P. Kandavel said there were 202 Power Loom Weavers Cooperative Societies in the State that received yarn and distributed it to its members for manufacturing free dhotis and saris. Usually, manufacturing began in the second week of June or in the first week of July so that dhotis and saris would be ready for distribution in January. “But this year, yarn is yet to be supplied to the societies,” he said. Tende rfloated Mr. Kandavel said the Department of Handlooms and Textiles had floated tender notice for purchase of 60s dyed cotton cone warp yarn and polyester texturised yarn for manufacturing dhotis and saris. “The tender issued earlier was cancelled and the last date for applying for a new tender is September 29,” he said. It would further delay the production and wanted societies empowered to purchase yarn from the open market. He said about 61,000 power loom units in Erode, Salem and Namakkal districts were dependent on the orders. The COVID-19 pandemic had already affected the industry much and any further delay in starting the production would affect the owners, workers and others indirectly associated with it. The letter also wanted the government to release the balance 25% dues pending for the societies for manufacturing school uniforms as workers were not paid yet. “Considering the grave situation, the government should take immediate steps,” the letter urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urged-to-supply-yarn-to-cooperative-societies/article36546047.ece
19 September 2021||ERODE/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Second mega vaccination camp in districts today||All arrangements are in place to conduct the mega vaccination camp at 548 centres across Erode district from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Sunday. A total of 97,198 persons aged above 18 years were vaccinated during the first mega vaccination camp held at 847 centres across the district on September 12. Collector H. Krishnanunni held a meeting with officials of various departments for the smooth conduct of the second camp and also to cover maximum people, including persons with disabilities. He asked officials to distribute awareness pamphlets and also use public address systems to disseminate information on the conduct of the camps to people on Sunday. Camps would be held at primary health centres, urban primary health centres and schools and adequate vaccine doses were available for persons to receive either first or second dose. Namakkal District Collector Shreya P. Singh said in a release that the drive would be conducted at 306 static centres. The district was targeting to administer 31,000 doses. In Salem Corporation limits, the vaccination drive would be conducted in 128 centres and field workers were deployed to identify persons who were yet to receive vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-mega-vaccination-camp-in-districts-today/article36546050.ece
19 September 2021||HUBBALLI,TAMIL NADU||Two-year-old boy found dead in open borewell||A two-year old boy who had gone missing on Friday was found dead trapped in an open borewell at Alakhanru village in Raibag taluk of Belagavi district on Saturday. As mystery surrounds the incident, Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbaragi has said that the police were looking into all angles, including allegations about the boy’s father having killed him. Sharath Siddappa Hasare, who was playing outside his home, had gone missing on Friday. Suspecting kidnap, his father Siddappa lodged a complaint with the Harogeri police. However, in a subsequent development on Saturday evening, it came to light that the boy had fallen into an open borewell in the farmland of Siddappa Hasare, which is few metres from the residence. On being alerted, Fire and Emergency Services personnel rushed to the spot and began a rescue operation. While they managed to pull the boy out, he was dead by that time. The body was shifted to Raibag Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-year-old-boy-found-dead-in-open-borewell/article36545761.ece
19 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,TAMIL NADU||Muslim body flays LDF govt. stand||The purported balancing act on the part of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and the party-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government on the controversy over the 'narcotic jihad' remark by Pala bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt has not apparently gone down well with a section of the Muslim community. The Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulema has assailed the LDF government over the visit of Minister of Cooperation V.N. Vasavan to the bishop’s house on Friday. The visit was to give a clean chit to the bishop who made the remark and was ‘shameful and deplorable,’ an article published on Saturday in the Suprabhatham daily, the mouthpiece of the Samastha, said. The article seeks to know whether the visit to "sing Hallelujah to the controversial preacher of hatred at Pala" is part of the official stand of the government. Close to IUML The Samastha, an influential Sunni scholarly body, is traditionally close to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), a coalition partner in the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF), unlike its rival, the All India Sunni Jamiyyathul Ulama led by Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar, who has a cosy relationship with the LDF. The bishop, in his address to the laity on September 8, had alleged that jihadists were trapping women of other religions through ‘love’ and ‘narcotic’ jihad to convert them and use them for terror activities. Though the Chief Minister's initial response was that religious leaders should not make divisive statements, he later said that while the term 'narcotic jihad' was not proper, the bishop had every right to highlight the dangers faced by his community. Echoing that subtle shift, CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan on Friday said the term 'narcotic jihad' was not used by the bishop with any sinister motive. Row over handbook The article takes exception to the content in a handbook issued by the Thamarassery diocese. It has alleged that the handbook is presenting baseless allegation that the Muslim community is encouraging conversion of Christian girls to Islam. The controversial sections in the handbook have been withdrawn following a meeting of an envoy of Muslim leaders led by IUML leader M.K. Muneer with the Thamarassery Bishop Mar Remigiose Inchananiyil on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muslim-body-flays-ldf-govt-stand/article36545739.ece
19 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Waterlogged, slushy roads are the bane of S. S. Colony||Come monsoon, Bharathiyar Main Road and Jawahar Main Road in SS Colony get waterlogged and become slushy and slippery once the rainwater recedes. V. Vasu, who works at a tailoring shop in the area, said, “Even if it rains for half-an-hour or so, these uneven roads get inundated for two to three days. Some of the stormwater drains are either clogged or not in level with the road.” After a heavy rain on Friday evening, the water was literally all over the place, causing much hardship to pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. V. P. Manikandan, a resident, said that when the roads become slushy and slippery, they pose a risk to elderly people as many have fallen down while walking or riding on such a surface. S. Sultan, another resident, said, “While digging works for laying drinking water pipelines and other works, the roads are not levelled again. This is the reason why these roads are uneven and prone to waterlogging, particularly in the past six months.” When contacted, Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan said that some of Madurai’s roads are quite narrow and it is not possible to block them while taking up civic work works are undertaken. “Water distribution and underground drainage work are under way in S.S. Colony area. Once the UGD work is over, the roads will be relaid. Till then people must bear with the inconvenience. But in case of waterlogging, if the residents inform us, we will look into the issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waterlogged-slushy-roads-are-the-bane-of-s-s-colony/article36546213.ece
19 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversions from tomorrow||As a flyover is to be constructed at the intersection of Melakkal Main Road and Theni Main Road at Mudukkusalai, following traffic diversions will come into effect on the Madurai-Kochi highway from Monday: There is no change in traffic regulation for all types of vehicles - heavy, light, and two-wheelers - going from the city towards the said intersection and beyond. But all vehicles, except heavy vehicles, coming from Nagamalai Pudukottai and from the four-lane highway may take the usual route, take a left turn into Doak Nagar before Susee petrol pump, join Melakkal Main Road by taking a right turn and proceed towards Mudukkusalai junction via passport office and Fenner. All buses and heavy vehicles coming from Nagamalai Pudukottai and the four-lane highway are prohibited from entering the city through Achampathu. These vehicles must enter the city from the four-lane highway via Melakkal Main Road via Thuvariman and Kochadai to reach Mudukkusalai. The traffic police expect the cooperation of drivers and the general public in obnserving these traffic regulations which will be in place till the flyover project is completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversions-from-tomorrow/article36546040.ece
19 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘A society’s response to the needy shows its real identity’||How a society responds to the needs of its disadvantaged people shows its real identity, observed Finance Minister P. T. R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan while distributing artificial limbs and calipers to physically challenged people at a function held at the Collectorate here on Saturday. “DMK leaders like late M. Karunanadhi and the present Chief Minister M. K. Stalin have set an example in empowering the disadvantaged people. While the former formed an exclusive department to look after the needs of differently abled people, the latter kept it under his direct control,” he said. Non-governmental organisations and charitable organisations also played a vital role in the welfare of such people and the government always counted on their service, the Minister said. All India Marwari Yuva Manch in Sivakasi has taken the initiative to distribute the artificial limbs and calipers to the differently abled people. It organised a camp at the Collectorate last month where physically challenged people registered their names and got the measurements taken for artificial leg or hand or calipers. About 180 beneficiaries received the customised limbs and calipers on Saturday. In other places The organisation had been helping the differently abled people from 2009, distributing the artificial limbs and calipers to 1,400 people so far. This year, it has been undertaking the exercise in Dindigul, Tirunelveli and Sivakasi to cover as many as 780 beneficiaries by this month-end, said Manch president Pankaj Jain. S. Aneesh Sekhar, Collector; Gaurav Gupta, chairman, Madurai Round Table 99; and R. Mukund, chairman, Madurai Round Table 14, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artificial-limbs-distributed/article36546034.ece
19 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Help desk to assist students get education loans without hitch||To help students get education loans without any hassles, the Collectorate has launched a help desk which will attend to phone queries from students. Students can dial 93630 05523 to make their queries. After Collector S Aneesh Sekhar and MP Su. Venkatesan announced in August that efforts will be made to provide educational loans to students, banks were instructed to not reject such loans without a valid reason. Special awareness sessions on educational loans were also conducted for students who had finished Class XII this year, in the beginning of this month. As a next step, the help desk with an exclusive phone number has been launched in the M-section of the Collectorate, to assist students via phone call or WhatsApp. Collector S Aneesh Sekhar told The Hindu , “We are continuously evaluating the banks’ vis-a-vis educational loans. It will be reviewed in an upcoming meeting. Students can clear their doubts on educational loans at the help desk which will be manned by three or four trained staff. If students route their complaints or grievances regarding the banks through this number, they will be escalated to me and the Lead Bank Manager of the district.” Students can also mail their queries tomaduraieducationalloan@ gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/help-desk-to-assist-students-get-education-loans-without-hitch/article36546210.ece
19 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks details on storage and disposal of contraband||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Special Courts dealing with cases under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act to inspect places where the contraband were stored to ascertain whether they were intact and in safe custody. The court also sought to know the total number of applications filed by the prosecuting agency seeking permission for the destruction of the contraband, whether a register was maintained for storage and disposal of contraband, and how it was reviewed and monitored. Justice B. Pugalendhi directed all the Special Courts under the High Court Bench jurisdiction to file a report after conducting the inspection. Earlier, the court sought details on the number of pending cases before the Special Courts. The court passed the common direction during the hearing of a batch of anticipatory bail and bail petitions filed by the accused who had illegally possessed large quantities of ganja. The court took a serious view of the offence. The approximate quantity of ganja involved in the cases filed in one month was 3,847.92 kg. This whopping quantity of ganja exposed the volume of ganja that was in circulation within a few districts, which was shocking and warrants serious consideration, the court said. During the course of the hearing, serious allegations were levelled against the police. It was said that cases were foisted by circulating ganja available in police stations by mixing it with horse dung and saw dust. Some of the petitioners were named as co-accused without any materials and only through confession statements. In some cases, though large quantities of ganja were seized only a lesser number was recorded on file, it was submitted. Under the NDPS Act there are specific provisions for seizure and sampling of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, its storage and destruction. In spite of the provisions available, the petitioners alleged there were procedural lapses. The court sought details on the contraband stored in safe custody and the total number of applications filed by the prosecuting agency seeking permission for the destruction of the contraband. The case was adjourned till September 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-details-on-storage-disposal-of-contraband/article36546043.ece
19 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Another mega vaccination camp across the district today||After vaccinating around 1.15 lakh people across the district on a single day during last Sunday’s vaccination drive, another mega camp has been planned for Sunday. Special vaccination camps will be held at 1,150 centres in rural and urban areas of the district from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. The district administration has urged all people aged 18 and above to make use of the opportunity to get themselves vaccinated against COVID-19. They must bring their Aadhaar card for on-the-spot registration. A three-member team - a trained medical professional to vaccinate the people, one data entry operator to register the details and a mobiliser to help people move in and out of the centres - will man each centre. In the last week exercise, of the 1.15 lakh vaccinated, 1,950 were inoculated at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai, 1,731 at other government hospitals across the district, 68,058 in rural centres and 43,995 people at centres within the Corporation limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-mega-vaccination-camp-across-the-district-today/article36546214.ece
19 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Give police protection to family facing threat: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered police protection to a Tirunelveli family facing threats from history-sheeter ‘Rocket’ Raja and his accomplices. The gang had murdered the petitioner’s son-in-law in 2018 in a case of mistaken identity. Justice G. Ilangovan ordered police protection to the family members of C. Rajkumar alias Kodiyankulam Kumar. In his petition, Rajkumar said that there was a land dispute between him and one Balamurugan, a relative of ‘Rocket’ Raja. He and his family members faced threats after he had filed a civil suit. ‘Rocket’ Raja threatened him to withdraw the suit. In these circumstances, the gang mistakenly murdered the petitioner’s son-in-law. The petitioner was the actual target. Following the incident, he had lodged a complaint and a case was registered against the accused. After the accused were released on bail, the family faced threats. He sought protection under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. A representation was made seeking police protection. But the police rejected the request on the ground that the petitioner was involved in at least 15 criminal cases. It was then said that there were only two cases pending against him. The court took note of the fact that the petitioner and his family members were facing threats from ‘Rocket Raja’ and the gang. The trial in the murder case was pending and the petitioner had to give evidence in the case. In these circumstances, under the provisions of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the petitioner was entitled for protection because he was facing threat from the accused. For the purpose of granting police protection, the grounds available were the threat perception, the court said. The court said that police protection shall be provided at the residence, and when the family members attend trial proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-police-protection-to-family-facing-threat-from-history-sheeter/article36546042.ece
19 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Missing NEET aspirant surrenders||A National Eligibility cum Entrance Test aspirant, who went missing from her residence after taking the examination, surrendered before the Theni police, said Saroj Kumar Thakur, Superintendent of Police, said here on Saturday. The girl from Namagiripettai near Rasipuram reportedly went missing on September 17. It was said that she had attended the recently held NEET examination. The girl’s parents had petitioned the Namagiripettai police. Mr. Thakur said special teams had been formed and they were on the look out for the girl. The teams had visited various districts in the west zone as part of the search. However, the girl surrendered at the Uthamapalayam police station, Theni. Further investigation was on, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-neet-aspirant-surrenders-in-theni/article36546044.ece
19 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||SDPA to protest against Centre from tomorrow||The Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance will hold a series of agitations against the Union government from Monday. PCC chief A.V. Subramanian, in a statement, said various forms of agitations would be organised against the policies of the Centre, especially to highlight the impact of three agriculture laws on farmers, NEET, price hike and unemployment. A meeting of alliance party leaders was held at the PCC office on Friday, he said. Workers of SDPA, including the Congress and Left Parties, would hoist black flag atop their homes as a mark of protest on September 25. The party would carry out rallies to drum up support for the ‘Bharat bandh’ on September 27 against the three farm laws. The agitations would go on till September 30, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sdpa-to-protest-against-centre-from-tomorrow/article36546332.ece
19 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||SEC publishes details of polling stations||The State Election Commission has identified the number of polling stations for the upcoming local body election and published the details on its websitehttps://sec.py.gov.in There would be 1,629 polling stations in the Union Territory. The Puducherry region has the highest number with 1,265 polling booths in 2 municipalities and 5 commune panchayats. Karaikal region would have 264 polling booths in one municipality and five commune panchayats, followed by Mahe, 47 and Yanam, 53, a release by SEC here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sec-publishes-details-of-polling-stations/article36546333.ece
19 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. Speaker cleans beach||Speaker R. Selvam on Saturday volunteered to take part in the cleaning exercise as part of the month-long birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The campaign was launched by the local unit of Bharatiya Janata Party. Mr. Selvam, along with his supporters, cleaned up the Pudukuppam beach. The waste collected from the beach was handed over to the commune panchayat officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-speaker-cleans-beach/article36546334.ece
19 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||128 new cases, 1 death in U.T.||The Union Territory on Saturday registered one COVID-19 death and 128 new cases from 5,004 tests. The death toll has gone up to 1,829 after a 75-year-old man succumbed to the virus while undergoing treatment at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research. As per latest data released by the Health Department, 88 new cases were reported in Puducherry region in the 24 hours ending 10 a.m. on Saturday. While Karaikal detected 32 new cases, Mahe region registered 8 new cases. The total number of people tested for the infection in the Union Territory rose to 17,32,264. The test positivity rate stood at 2.56%. There are currently 924 active cases in the Union Territory. Of the total number of active cases, 775 are under home isolation and 169 in various hospitals. The virus has so far infected 1,25,384 people, data revealed. Vaccination numbers are going up every day. In the 24 hours ending 10 a.m. on Saturday, 8,367 people were given the jab, taking the total number of people vaccinated in the Union Territory to 8,97,261.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-128-new-cases-one-death/article36546351.ece
19 September 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||35-year-old doctor drowns after car gets stuck in flooded underpass||A doctor attached to the Government Hospital in Hosur, Krishnagiri district, drowned after the car she was driving got stuck in a pool of stagnant rainwater, in an underpass near Thudaiyur, late Friday. According to sources, S. Sathya, 35, was heading to Thudaiyur, her hometown, from Hosur, with her mother-in-law Jayam, when their car got stuck in the underpass beneath a railway track. The underpass was filled with stagnant water after heavy rain. Sathya reportedly tried following a lorry, which managed to cross the underpass. But she could not cross it as water had entered the car, and subsequently, much of the vehicle got submerged. The crew of another lorry came to the passengers’ rescue and pulled them out of the car. However, they could only save Jayam, who has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital here. Sathya was reportedly wearing a seatbelt and it had got stuck, whereas Jayam was not wearing one. As news spread, residents of Thudaiyur and nearby villages staged a road roko on the Pudukottai-Tiruchi road near Keeranur, blaming the Southern Railway and the district administration for the incident. They said they had been demanding a road overbridge, instead of the existing underpass, for a long time. On information, the police and revenue officials from Keeranur and Pudukottai rushed to the spot and held negotiations with the agitators. The residents subsequently withdrew the protest on the promise that the demand would be taken to the notice of the officials concerned.  Residents said they had been demanding a road overbridge, instead of the existing underpass, for a long time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/35-year-old-doctor-drowns-after-car-gets-stuck-in-flooded-underpass/article36545899.ece
19 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||‘Withdraw Marine Fisheries Bill’||The Tamil Nadu government should immediately revive the welfare board for fishermen and include all the stakeholders in the scheme, was one of the major demands put forth at the fifth State conference of fishermen affiliated with the CITU here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, CITU State deputy general secretary V. Kumar said that the welfare board had remained dormant for the last 10 years during the AIADMK regime. The DMK government had promised to revive and give a new meaning to the lives of fishermen, he added. In a resolution passed at the conference, members had urged the government to give pension of Rs. 3,000 per month to men above 60 years and 55 years for women. The key resolution was that the Union government should withdraw the Marine Fisheries Bill 2021 as it was against the fishermen but was beneficial for corporate business houses engaged in fisheries sector, they charged. Though the BJP leaders claimed that it was advantageous for the fishermen, the members pointed out that it would only deprive the legitimate rights of the fishermen. For the country boat fishermen, who were already facing serious issues including poor catch due to restrictions in the nautical miles, the Marine Fisheries Bill 2021, tabled in the Parliament, would only seal their chances of survival. Among other resolutions that were passed, they wanted the diesel given for mechanised boat fishermen to be enhanced to 40,000 litres and kerosene quota be increased from 4,000 litres to 6,000 litres to card holders. The government should strictly step up surveillance against use of banned fish nets. Welcoming the DMK government’s announcement to enhance financial assistance to fishermen during the annual ban period from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 8,000, the conference demanded it to be made to Rs. 10,000 per fisherman. In recent times, atmosphere in the mid-seas has been tense due to the presence of the Sri Lankan Navy. As many fishermen have gone missing, the governments should provide helicopters to the fisheries department for effective surveillance. By intensifying the vigil, the lives of fishermen could be saved, speakers at the conference pointed out and underlined the need for stepping up infrastructural facilities. Fishermen Federation state president G. Selasteen presided. CITU district secretary M. Sivaji welcomed and M. Karunamoorthy proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-marine-fisheries-bill-2021-urge-fishermen/article36546036.ece
19 September 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||NIA quizzes suspects||A team from the National Investigating Agency (NIA) Bangaluru quizzed a few suspects on Saturday. The team was here in connection with the arrest of 39 Sri Lankans by the Mangalore police. The Sri Lankans had allegedly planned to flee to Canada enroute Tamil Nadu in July. The NIA had taken custody of Alankar Socrates, lodged in Madurai Central Prison till September 20. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nia-quizz-suspects/article36546037.ece
19 September 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||CCTVs, alarms in banks, ATMs to be linked with police stations||The Ranipet district police has decided to link surveillance systems, including CCTV cameras and alarms in banks, and ATMs with monitoring cells at police stations to strengthen its existing surveillance mechanism. As a first step, the district police, led by Superintendent of Police Deepa Satyan, would discuss with the representatives of banks early next week to chalk out plans to prevent crimes at cash spots such as ATMs. The initiative comes a day after an unidentified gang decamped with an ATM containing Rs. 3.91 lakh in Perungalathur near Arakkonam around 2.30 a.m on Friday. The private bank ATM is located at the entrance of an engineering college on the Tiruttani-Tiruvallur high road in Arakkonam taluk. “The ATM burglary is a detectable theft. Despite the lack of CCTV cameras in the ATM, we gathered vital clues to narrow down the suspects. Wait for a day,” Pugazhenthi Ganesan, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Arakkonam sub-division, Ranipet, told The Hindu . At present, Ranipet has more than 60 banks, including private ones, with around 350 ATMs in its limits. Most of the banks and its ATMs within the busy areas in major towns such as Walajah, Arcot, Sholinghur, Nemili, Visharam, Thimiri and Arakkonam have CCTV cameras. However, many ATMs on the outskirts do not have adequate surveillance systems. The ATM in Arakkonam that was stolen on Friday did not have CCTV camera. It lacked a security guard and alarm system too. Instead, the kiosk had only a camera fitted in the machine that could capture images only when an ATM card was inserted into the machine. Under the initiative, the Ranipet police would make it mandatory for all public facilities to have CCTV cameras and alarm systems that have to be connected to the surveillance system at the district police headquarters and local police stations. Keeping an eye These public facilities would be monitored by the bank staff and Information Technology wing of the district police round the clock. Each beat policeman, on an average, has to make entries in 25 point books with respective police station limits every day. Currently, the Ranipet district has 1,150 such point books. They are crime and accident prone spots in the district. The district has 18 police stations on Law & Order wing. On an average, each police station has at least three beat police teams.  At present, Ranipet has more than 60 banks including private ones, with around 350 ATMs in its limits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cctvs-alarms-in-banks-atms-to-be-linked-with-police-stations/article36546353.ece
19 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘President should accord assent to anti-NEET Bill’||The President should accord his assent to the Bill passed against NEET in the Assembly, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol. Thirumavalavan said on Saturday. Several students have lost their lives to NEET. The State government should take care of the medical expenses of the aspirant from Chengalpattu, who self immolated recently, he said. Students undergo severe mental pressure due to the exam. Therefore, the President should accord his assent to the Bill against NEET soon, he added. On being absent at the swearing-in ceremony of Governor R.N. Ravi, Mr. Thirumavalavan said he was invited to the event, but he had a difference of opinion about appointing the designated person as the Governor here. Black-flag protests would be held across Tamil Nadu on September 20, condemning the Narendra Modi-government’s anti-people policies, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/president-should-accord-assent-to-anti-neet-bill/article36546031.ece
19 September 2021||Salem/Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Mass cleaning camps in Salem, Namakkal from September 20||Following a directive from Chief Secretary, mass cleaning camps will be organised in Salem and Namakkal districts from September 20 to 25 ahead of monsoon. Chairing a meeting on monsoon preparedness here on Saturday, the Collector reviewed the preventive measures taken in rural and urban areas by respective local bodies. Mr. Karmegham said in a release that due to recent rain, waterlogging has occurred at few places here and measures are being taken to prevent water stagnation. Mr. Karmegham said that canals and storm water drains in the district would be cleaned to prevent water logging and breeding of mosquitoes. Officials have also been advised to take stern action against businesses using banned plastic items. In Namakkal, District Collector Shreya P. Singh advised officials to prevent encroachments in drains and waterbodies. Officials were advised to desilt drains during next week and take precautionary measures at low-lying areas. Highways department officials were advised to keep bulldozers, JCB machines and tree cutting machines ready and maintain record of contact details of road construction contractors. Fire department was advised to conduct awareness campaigns. Officials were advised to prepare a list of skilled swimmers in rural areas so that they could be included in rescue measures and COVID-19 safety protocols are followed in relief camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mass-cleaning-camps-in-salem-namakkal-from-september-20/article36546054.ece
19 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ cycle expedition concludes||The 700-km cycle expedition taken out by the Air Warriors from Air Force Station, Thanjavur, to commemorate the Golden Jubilee of 1971 Indo-Pak War culminated at the Air Force Station here on Saturday. A team of 16 Air Warriors embarked on the expedition from Thanjavur to Mamallapuram and back on September 10 and they travelled through Kumbakonam, Chidambaram and Puducherry to reach Mamallapuram and while on the return journey they touched Velankanni before reaching the Air Force Base at Thanjavur on September 18. The ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ was observed to commemorate the country’s extraordinary military operation in the 1971 War and the selfless sacrifice, dedication and devotion of the Indian Armed Forces personnel in protecting the sovereignty of the nation, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swarnim-vijay-varsh-cycle-expedition-concludes/article36546009.ece
19 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Swift action by railways welcomed||Residents of Papanasam are elated by the swift response from Southern Railway to the request from the elected representative of Papanasam Assembly to repair the uneven surface at the railway level-crossing gate on Papanasam-Saliyamangalam Road. The carriageway on both sides and the concrete-tile covered portion of the level-crossing gate was damaged due to increased flow of heavy vehicle. Subsequently, several pleas were made to Southern Railway and the State Highways Department by residential and railway users associations. Meanwhile, Papanasam MLA M.H. Jawahirullah took up the issue with senior railway officials in Tiruchi Railway Division and urged them to expedite the repair work before the onset of monsoon to ensure safe and smooth passage of vehicles through the level-crossing. Mr. Jawahirullah said the officials accepted his request and began levelling the uneven surface on their portion of the stretch by replacing or setting right the concrete slabs. The State Highways authorities had assured that the damaged portion of the carriageway on both sides would be repaired soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swift-action-by-railways-welcomed/article36546008.ece
19 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Tobacco products seized||The Kurumbur police have seized 264 kilogram of banned tobacco products as they intercepted a cargo vehicle at Panikkanadarkudiyiruppu in the district on Saturday. According to Superintendent of Police S.Jayakumar, a police team, led by Ramakrishnan, Inspector of Police, Kurumbur police station, intercepted a cargo vehicle at Panikkanadarkudiyiruppu in the district on Saturday when they were patrolling. Upon checking the vehicle, the police seized 264 Kg of banned tobacco products and nabbed driver of the vehicle A. Sudalaimani, 46, of Udaiyampalayam in Coimbatore district. During interrogation, Sudalaimani told the police that he was bringing the Rs. 2 lakh-worth tobacco products to be handed over to T. Maheshwaram of Panikkanadarkudiyiruppu. The police subsequently seized the vehicle also. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tobacco-products-seized/article36546410.ece
19 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation puts in place air quality management plan||As a measure to improve air quality and bring down dust pollution, Tiruchi City Corporation (TCC) has decided to form end-to-end roads on all arterial and interior stretches in the city. Tiruchi is among the Smart Cities that have been classified as non-attainment cities in the country under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). The programme is aimed at evolving a long-term, time-bound national and city-specific strategy to tackle air pollution in a comprehensive manner with a target to achieve 20% to 30% reduction in Particulate Matter concentrations within 2024. Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujubur Rahuman told The Hindu that an air quality management action plan had been prepared to improve the quality of air. Reducing vehicular and industrial emissions, reducing peak hour traffic, controlling smoke pollution, awareness creation and a team to monitor the implementation of emission control measures were among the action plan. It had been found that the city had to improve its performance in dust pollution level. Accumulation of sand along the sides of the roads and operation of sand lorries without covering the material had been the main reasons for the dust pollution in the city. It went up during the post-rainy days. While attention would be step up to remove the sand accumulated along the streets, steps would be taken to form end to end roads on all important and street roads. Standing instructions had been given to officials not to leave space while forming new roads or laying roads. Plan estimate would be prepared for the entire width from right to left. The approach was been followed for the last few months. If all roads were converted into end-to-end roads, the level of dust pollution could be brought down to a great extent. Smoke pollution caused by emission of vehicles would be checked with the help of stakeholders including police and road transport authorities. A periodic check up would be conducted to check whether the smoke emitted by two and four-wheelers was up to the permitted level. Reducing peak hours was on the agenda. An alert system would be in place to check the air pollution level regularly. An outreach programme would be carried out to create awareness among the people of the need to improve air quality. “Healthy air quality is important to the overall well-being of the residents. It could be improved with the participation of all stakeholders,” Mr. Rahuman said.  Action plan Tiruchi is classified as non-attainment city under NCAP Reducing vehicular, industrial emissions Reducing peak hour traffic Controlling smoke pollution||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-puts-in-place-air-quality-management-plan/article36546010.ece
19 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||All set for mega vaccine drive 2.0||As the district authorities prepare for the second mega vaccination drive on Sunday, Tiruchi Corporation and Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital have announced special prize to attract the public to the centres. At Tiruchi GH, the first 50 people to get the vaccine on Sunday will be given a tree sapling. At the end of the day, a lucky draw will be conducted and one person will be given a BP monitor as prize. Those who visit the vaccination centre as a large group of family or friends will also be recognised with an award. The civic body has announced attractive prizes for three zones within city limits. In K. Abishekapuram zone, the first and second prizes will be gift hampers worth Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 2,000. The third prize of gift hampers worth Rs. 1,000 will be given to 25 people. In Ariyamangalam zone, the first prize is a gift hamper worth Rs. 5,000, second Rs. 3,000 and third Rs. 1,000. In Ponmalai zone, a gift hamper worth Rs. 6,000 will be the first prize, a hamper worth Rs. 4,000 willbe given to two persons as second prize. The third prize will be a hamper worth Rs. 3,000 while five persons will get dinner vouchers. Similar to the drive conducted last week, vaccines will be administered through 623 camps, of which 497 will be in rural and semi-urban parts, while 126 camps will be in Tiruchi city. Places of public gathering such as Central Bus Stand and Tiruchi International Airport will also be covered. Within the city limits, each vaccination camp has been given 200 doses. “Because there are many camps, there will be no overcrowding. The public can visit the centres and get the jab without any hassle,” a senior health official toldThe Hindu. The public may visit www.trichycorporation.gov.in for further details and to locate the nearest vaccination camp. A mass awareness drive was conducted on Saturday prior to the drive. All 200 of the civic body's Light Commercial Vehicles were used to play audio messages about the event. This time around, the civic body has set a target of 25,000 vaccinations, while the aim for the district total is set at over 1.5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-set-for-mega-vaccine-drive-20/article36546018.ece
19 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Random sampling and vaccination gets under way||The Health Department has begun conducting random sampling among school and college-going children and in crowded areas in the central region to keep a check on the spread of COVID-19. Most districts in the region have a positivity rate below the State average, which is less than 1%. In Tiruchi district, the weekly average positivity rate is 1.01%. Throat swabs are being lifted at the Tiruchi Railway Junction, Tiruchi International Airport regularly. Mobile camps are also being conducted at areas where the public frequent- such as the Gandhi Market and Singarathope. The department traces at least 30 primary and secondary contacts of each patient who tests positive. Additionally, test samples are lifted at all Primary Healthcare Centres and health workers at various blocks. The sum total of the swabs comes up to an average of 5,000 a day, an official of the health department said. In Pudukottai, where at least nine students reported COVID-19 positive last week, the number of fresh cases is witnessing a dip, said B. Kalaivani, Deputy Director of Health Services. “There are no clusters being reported and even the students who reported positive were either asymptomatic or had mild symptoms,” she said. Health officials in the district began conducting random sampling among school students across the district after the first few cases were reported. Health workers would select students from schools in a randomised manner and lift samples, they said. Including these samples, a total of around 2,000 are lifted in the district each day. An average of around 25 cases are reported, which is well below the state average, Dr. Kalaivani said. Meanwhile, in Nagapattinam district, occasional spikes in cases can be attributed to gatherings where norms are not followed. “While the average number of cases in the district is around 30, on some days, 40 to 50 cases would be recorded. On investigating, we find that it would be people who attended a wedding or a funeral. People need to continue following COVID-19 norms,” District Epidemiologist Liakath Ali said. In Pudukottai, 3,000 samples are lifted daily and positivity. The authorities in these districts said that the focus had shifted to ensuring at least 70% of the population was vaccinated. “Research has shown that if 70% of the population is vaccinated, then the number of severe cases, if there is another spike, can be reduced. Through daily efforts, and through mega vaccination camps, we are attempting to reach the target,” Dr. Ali said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/random-sampling-and-vaccination-gets-under-way/article36546015.ece
19 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||287 fresh cases in delta||The central region reported less than 300 fresh cases and five fatalities on Saturday. Two hundred and eighty-seven patients reported positive across the nine districts in the region against Friday’s tally of 312. Five more patients died , four of whom hailed from Thanjavur and one from Nagapattinam, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. Thanjavur district reported a slight drop in fresh cases. On Saturday, 91 patients reported COVID-19 positive in Thanjavur and 47 in Tiruchi. Tiruvarur district recorded 38 fresh cases and Nagapattinam 37. Neighbouring Mayiladuthurai registered appreciable dip with 18 patients testing COVID-19 positive, while 17 fresh cases were reported in Karur. Fifteen patients reported positive each in both Pudukottai and Ariyalur. Perambalur continued to report the least number of fresh cases among the central districts with nine fresh cases reported on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/287-fresh-cases-in-delta/article36546014.ece
19 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||WoW introduced to librarians||The Post-Graduate and Research Department of Library and Information Science and the Deanery of Extension Activities, Bishop Heber College, organised an extension programme on National Digital Library of India, through World on Wheels for public librarians at District Central Library. A 20-seater World on Wheels (WoW) was the venue for the event. The WoW is a solution to help bridge the digital divide between urban and rural areas by bringing easy IT access to isolated and disadvantaged groups. A.P. Sivakumar, District Library Officer, addressed librarians from across the district and elaborated their role in sensitising people to a digital environment. J. Franklin, Assistant Professor and Head, Department of Library and Information Science, Bishop Heber College said the objectives included imparingt computer literacy and promoting digital literacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-on-wheels-introduced-to-librarians/article36546016.ece
19 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Recruitment drive tomorrow||The Department of Training and Career Guidance of Sadakkathulla Appa College, Palayamkottai, in association with TVS Groups, will organise its sixth recruitment drive on the college premises on September 20 for recruiting personnel for ICICI Bank. According to Principal, Sadakkathulla Appa College, M. Mohammed Sathik, BA, B.Sc., B.Com., BBA and BBM graduates below the age of 25 from Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Madurai may participate in the recruitment drive with their bio-data, photograph. The participants should register their names with the officials before 9 a.m. for which no fee will be collected. Aspirants may call 98403 79167 or 96000 44872. The aspirants may also register their names athttps://tinyurl.com/ 83m4csw3, Dr. Mohammed Sathik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recruitment-drive-tomorrow/article36546409.ece
19 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Gandhi Market civil work begins tomorrow||After smashing the legal hurdles for reconstructing the 60-year-old cramped and nauseating Mahatma Gandhi Market in Palayamkottai on an outlay of Rs. 14.90 crore, the Corporation is all set to commence the civil work for this market on September 20. Mahatma Gandhi Market, which is in filthy condition even without stormwater drain, is to be reconstructed under the Smart City project. Once the reconstruction is completed with basement and ground floor, it will fetch the Corporation the net revenue of Rs. 2.08 crore per year. The market, situated on well-connected 1.22 acres in the heart of Palayamkottai, has 266 shops with the units with size varying between 3 square metre and 10 square metre. The consignments received by the shops of Mahatma Gandhi Market can be transported into the market area only manually due to low corridor width. There is no parking facility for the commuters and ‘vehicle circulation space’ for the traders too. As the market’s floor is lower than the level of the roads, ankle-deep water would stagnate inside the market even after a drizzle to cause problems to the traders and the buyers as well. “Since the well-connected market building is 60-year-old, it is in dilapidated condition and hence waiting for long for an overall makeover. As this market is in a prime locality, its commercial value is quite high. So, we’ve decided to utilize its potential to the maximum possible extent by rebuilding the market again with excellent facilities to generate sizable income for Tirunelveli Corporation,” says B. Vishnu Chandran, Commissioner, Tirunelveli Corporation. As per the proposal, the new structure will have basement and ground floor with the total built up area of 3,877 square metre in the basement and 3,553 square metre in the ground floor. While the basement can accommodate 27 four-wheelers and 819 two-wheelers, the ground floor with the commercial area of 1,835 square metre will have 172 shops, which will collectively generate whopping income of 1.18 crore per year for the Corporation. A cold storage facility with the capacity of 50 tonnes will be created to store unsold perishable items of the traders in the market and hence it will ensure the revenue of Rs. 10.80 lakh. A pay-and-use toilet complex will also be a part of the project to augment the revenue by another Rs. 19.35 lakh. “While car parking will generate the annual income of Rs. 5.73 lakh, the two-wheeler parking lot will ensure another Rs. 77.82 lakh per year. In all, the reconstructed Gandhi Market will fetch the revenue of Rs. 2.08 crore per year for the Corporation after the gross expenditure of Rs. 48.23 lakh towards housekeeping,” says Mr. Vishnu Chandran. Since the traders now having their shops in the market are to be shifted to the adjacent Jawahar Grounds, those who are using this ground, where public meetings or protests were organised by the political parties, for parking their autorickshaws, vans, cargo vehicles etc. opposed it even though they were allotted the nearby Erumaikkidaa Ground behind Palayamkottai All Women Police Station. In the meanwhile, a group of Hindu outfits entered the scene opposing the move saying that the dussehra celebrations to be held in Jawahar Ground and Erumaikkida Ground for a couple of days every year would get spoilt if the temporary shops were put up there. They also approached the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court against the move to erect the temporary shops at Jawahar Grounds and parking the vehicles at Erumaikkida Ground. Since the petitions have been dismissed by the court, saying that the traders should be given the temporary shops on an early note, Mr. Vishnu Chandran, along with Deputy Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City, (Law and Order), T.P. Suresh Kumar, had a meeting on Saturday with the owners of cars, vans, autorickshaws and cargo vehicles being parked at Jawahar Ground now. “The vehicles parked at Jawahar Grounds should be shifted to Erumaikkida Ground to facilitate the setting-up of temporary shops for the Gandhi Market traders since civil work on construction of Gandhi Market is to commence on September 20. Since it has been declared by the Regional Transport Officer as ‘no parking zone’, due action will be taken against the violators,” the Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gandhi-market-civil-work-begins-tomorrow/article36546412.ece
19 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Randomisation of polling personnel held in Tirunelveli||Randomisation of polling personnel to be posted in 1,186 polling stations for the upcoming rural civic polls to be held in two phases for the rural civic bodies on October 6 and 9 was held at the Collectorate here on Saturday. In the presence of Collector V. Vishnu, the randomisation was done with the software of National Informatics Centre on Saturday. As polling for 2,069 positions in 9 panchayat unions of the district – 1,731 village panchayat ward members, 204 village panchayat presidents, 122 panchayat union ward councilors and 12 district panchayat ward councilors - is to be held in two phases, filing of nominations commenced on September 15. While Ambasmudram, Cheranmahadevi, Maanur, Palayamkottai and Paappaakudi unions will go in for polling on October 6 as the electorate will cast their votes in 621 polling stations, election will be held in the remaining Kalakkad, Nanguneri, Valliyoor and Radhapuram unions on October 9 in 565 polling stations A total of 9,524 polling personnel – 5,013 personnel for the first phase and 4,511 persons for the second phase – are to be deployed to ensure hassle-free polling. The polling personnel to be deployed in Ambasamudram panchayat union will undergo the first phase training to be held in Tilak Vidyalaya Higher Secondary School in Kallidaikurichi on September 24. On the same day, this training will be imparted at Periyar Government Higher Secondary School for the polling personnel to be posted in Cheranmahadevi union. The first phase training will also be conducted at Kalakkad Government Higher Secondary School (for Kalakkad union), Maanur Government Higher Secondary School (for Maanur union), RECT Polytechnic at South Vijayanarayanam (for Nanguneri union), Government Law College, Palayamkottai (for Palaayamkottai union) Merit Polytechnic, Idaikaal (for Paappaakudi union) NVC Government Higher Secondary School, Radhapuram (for Radhapuram union), Holy Cross Fatima Middle School, Valliyoor (for Valliyoor union). “Those who are selected for the election duty and subsequently receive the ‘poll duty orders’ should report for the training on time without fail to understand their responsibility and discharge their duty in meticulous and unbiased manner,” Mr. Vishnu said. Project Director, District Rural Development Agency A. Palani, National Informatics Centre Officer, Devarajan, Technical Director Arumuga Nainar and Returning Officers participated in the randomisation exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/randomisation-of-polling-personnel-held-in-tirunelveli/article36546414.ece
19 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur gears up for mega vaccination drive||As part of the second State-wide mega COVID-19 vaccination drive, Tiruppur district administration will set up over 600 camps on Sunday with a target of over 76,000 doses. Officials from the Health Department said that 631 stationary camps and 41 mobile camps will be available for the public across the district from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Some of the locations where the camps will be located include government hospitals, primary health centres, schools, panchayat offices, railway stations, bus terminuses, toll gates and private hospitals, where the vaccines will be available free of cost. As many as 2,688 healthcare workers and volunteers will be involved in the exercise, the officials said. A total of 1,23,163 vaccine doses were administered during the first mega drive held on September 12. The district plans to administer 76,821 doses in the second round. Out of the target population of 20,77,095 in the district, 13,81,390 beneficiaries or around 66.5% have been partially vaccinated. As many as 2,62,252 people or around 12.6% have been fully vaccinated with both doses, according to the officials. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian will visit Tiruppur on Sunday to inspect the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-gears-up-for-mega-vaccination-drive/article36545936.ece
19 September 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Curbs in Tiruvannamalai to continue till Sept. 26||Parks, swimming pools and dams in Tiruvannamalai will remain closed till September 26 owing to rising COVID-19 cases, Collector B. Murugesh, said on Saturday. Hotels, bakeries and tea shops can function between 6 a.m and 10 p.m on all days. Parcel service in these outlets are allowed up to 10 p.m. All shops, including roadside eateries, can operate between 6 a.m and 10 p.m. Only 50% of occupancy should be maintained in hotels and tea shops. Owners and staff of these outlets and establishments should have taken the second dose of vaccination. Fines will be imposed on those who are not wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing in public places. Occupancy in government buses are restricted to 50%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-in-tiruvannamalai-to-continue-till-sept-26/article36546348.ece
19 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 21 fresh cases of COVID-19||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,162 with 21 new cases reported on Saturday. While a total of 47,825 people have been discharged after treatment, the number of active cases in the district stands at 219. The death toll is 1,118. In Ranipet district, 13 fresh cases were reported and the total stood at 42,841. In Tirupattur district, 10 new cases took the total number of positive cases to 28,763. In Tiruvannamalai district, 28 fresh infections were recorded, taking the total number of cases to 53,904. Of them, 52,951 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 292.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-21-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/article36546352.ece
19 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Snakebite awareness day observed in Vellore||The clinical toxicology unit and poisons information centre of the department of medicine unit-1, Christian Medical College, Vellore, organised a webinar to mark the fourth international snakebite awareness day on Saturday. Professor S.P. Kalantri, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram, Maharashtra, said the importance of spreading awareness on snakebite prevention practices, especially in rural areas, remained key in saving hundreds of lives that were being lost due to snakebites every year. In many villages, access to better and timely treatment for snakebites still remained a challenge with snakebite victims having to travel long distances to get treated. Such treatment facilities should be available in primary healthcare centres especially in villages, he said. As part of the awareness day, CMC organised several activities, including educational programmes for schoolchildren on snake biology, a poster competition for school, paramedical and medical students on snake conservation and the annual snakebite survivors’ meet that was aimed to improve knowledge on snakebite prevention and appropriate first-aid care among communities in and around Vellore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snakebite-awareness-day-observed-in-vellore/article36546349.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Workers take a hit as Ford slams on the brakes||Shanmugham M., 36, joined the Ford Motor plant at Maraimalai Nagar in 2004, immediately after completing his diploma at an industrial training institute. In the past 17 years, he has come on time to work, rarely taken leave and met all work parameters set by the company. His salary has risen to Rs. 60,000 from a few thousands a month. He was the first person from his village then to join a multi-national company. But he is shattered and worried about his future following Ford’s announcement that it would cease manufacturing at the Chennai plant by the second half of 2022. “My parents are old and have health issues. Two years ago, I took a housing loan and got a place near the plant. I have two kids who are at junior school — the thought of not having this job is painful,” he cries. He says that since this news broke, many workers have been out hunting at nearby factories and other units, but there is a freeze on hiring at most places owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Like Shanmugham, there are 2,600 workers at this plant who have different stories to narrate. Some workers are yet to come to terms with the news. They still hope Ford will change its decision. A majority of the workers aged in the 30s and 40s have been on the company’s payroll for more than a decade. S. Mariappan says he has been at the plant since 2000 and he had never expected the factory to close down. “They have been telling us that sales have not been good — but we never thought it would lead to the closure of the plant.” He has worked on the iconic models such as Ford Ikon, Ford Fiesta Classic, Ford Figo and Ford EcoSport. The very thought that he would no longer work at Ford is scary for him. Bad news On September 9, when Ford workers were on leave and preparing for Ganesh Chaturthi, they got a message — “Ford India will cease manufacturing vehicles for sale in India immediately; manufacturing of vehicles for export will wind down at Sanand vehicle assembly plant by Q4 2021, and Chennai engine and vehicle assembly plants by Q2 2022.” A statement from Ford Motor Company quoted its president and CEO Jim Farley as saying, “Despite investing significantly in India, Ford has accumulated more than $2 billion in operating losses over the past 10 years, and the demand for new vehicles has been much weaker than the forecast.” Anurag Mehrotra, president and managing director of Ford India, added: “Ford has a long and proud history in India. We are committed to taking care of our customers and working closely with employees, unions, dealers and suppliers to care for those affected by the restructuring.” The workers who returned to duty held two rounds of talks with the plant heads and the human resource team. The talks failed. “The company has clearly told our union members that they are stopping manufacturing,” one of the workers said. P. Senthil Kumar, general secretary of the Chennai Ford Employees Union (CFEU), who attended the meetings, said the union had asked the company for a job guarantee, but the management rejected the demand. Sources at the plant said a section of the workers had requested a virtual meeting with the senior management in the United States and the APAC region in the coming week. The union members are reaching out to the State government for help. Analysts and experts who track the automobile industry in Tamil Nadu say this is the first biggest industrial issue that the DMK has to face after coming to power. “But this is happening because the carmaker failed in business and not because of the State government,” one analyst clarifies. What went wrong? Ashim Sharma, Partner & Group Head Business Performance Improvement Consulting at Nomura Research Institute, explains that Ford did have an early start in India and launched some successful products like EcoSport and Ikon. However, the lack of an elaborate portfolio covering all key segments and a longer time for refreshing the existing models led to declining sales. He points out that the other issue was the capacity which was created partly in anticipation of a higher growth of the Indian car market as well as exports (making India a hub for small car export) did not play out as expected. “In addition, this can also be seen in the light of there being a need to fund the electric vehicle vision of the company which would have limited the flow of funds for a loss-making entity,” he reasons. Lastly, the company might have run out of time to salvage its Indian operations because of its inability to find a local partner. Supplier troubles Supplier units, including several micro, small and medium enterprises in Tier 2 and 3 cities in Tamil Nadu, logistics-providers and dealers will also be adversely affected. “Due to the multiplier effect of the automotive industry, with each vehicle produced leading not just to primary but also secondary and tertiary employment, the shutting down of car plants is always a big blow in economic terms,” Mr. Sharma says. There are around 9 dealerships in the State which employ around 1,000 direct employees who will be affected, and there is no count of indirect job losses due to the dealership closure. Data provided by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) show there may be around 100 vehicles with dealers in the State which will cost anywhere around Rs. 15 crore. FADA president Vinkesh Gulati says the dealer community is trying to navigate its way out of the crisis caused by the pandemic; in these challenging circumstances, Ford’s exit has left them in a bind. “In India, dealers are already operating on very low margins, and any exit will not only hurt the dealers financially but will also undermine the customer’s trust in the global brands and the dealer.” According to the FADA, dealers invest Rs. 5 crore-Rs. 6 crore in setting up Ford dealerships in India. One of Ford’s dealers in Tamil Nadu says, “After the pandemic, I was looking forward to the upcoming festival season; with this announcement, it is bleaker than before. My consignments will get stuck.” Micro, small and medium enterprises that have been supplying to Ford since the late 1990s and early 2000 are calculating their possible losses. The head of one such unit says, “Around 70% of my components are for Ford, and I have a separate team that focuses on making them.” A few units at the Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate said their businesses would also bleed. The Hindu spoke to seven units and five of them said they would lose anywhere between Rs. 1 crore and Rs. 6 crore a year owing to Ford’s exit. The other two units said their business with Ford amounted to a few lakh rupees, and they had started focussing on other companies. After Ford’s announcement, employees at the Ford Suppliers Park were concerned about what would happen to their jobs. “Nothing has been communicated to us. But we are worried about our jobs,” said an employee working at one of the units in this park located on the campus of Ford India. Meanwhile, micro, small and medium enterprises that supply to Ford have been called to a meeting with the Industries Commissioner and the Director of Industries and Commerce on Monday. “We have been called to the SIDCO office for a meeting,” a unit owner said. Way forward With the sword of Damocles hanging over their head, workers at the Ford plant want a new job and a good separation package until June 2022. “One thing good about Ford is that they have trained us well. Every time there is a new trend in the automobile sector, they update us and ensure that we learn it. This means, we can be hired by any auto firm,” an employee pointed out. “We request the Chief Minister to intervene and help us with jobs based on our qualification and service.” Another section of Ford workers whom The Hindu spoke to while they were wrapping up their work and leaving home said the Tamil Nadu government had signed several memoranda of understanding in the last few months and laid the foundation for many industrial units that will start operations in the coming months. The Chief Minister should try and accommodate the Ford workers at these companies. When contacted, Ford’s spokesperson said, “We have started our discussion with the union and will keep you updated and informed as we progress on all important matters. We will work closely with unions to arrive at a fair and balanced separation package for represented employees who will leave our business.” Asked how much the separation package would be, the spokesperson did not give any answer. So far, Ford has invested $1 billion in its vehicle operations in Chennai. The spokesperson also said the company would maintain full customer support operations with service, after-market parts and warranty support. “We will work with our current dealer network to transition the majority of them from sales and service to the services and parts businesses, so that we can continue serving our customers.” Earlier this week, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin held a brief discussion with Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu on Ford’s announcement, but the government has not spelt out its views so far. ( The names of employees have been changed to protect their identity. )  Since this news broke, many workers have been out hunting for jobs at nearby factories and other units, but there is a freeze on hiring at most places owing to the COVID-19 pandemic Shanmugham M. A Worker   Due to the multiplier effect of the automotive industry, with each vehicle produced leading not just to primary but also secondary and tertiary employment, the shutting down of car plants is always a big blow Ashim Sharma Nomura Research Institute||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workers-take-a-hit-as-ford-slams-on-the-brakes/article36545887.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 201 new cases||Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 201 new cases of COVID-19. According to the Health Department, five persons from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 on Thursday and Friday, taking the district’s death toll to 2,313. The district on Saturday had 2,201 active cases of the disease and 215 persons recovered. The test positivity rate (TPR) of Coimbatore district stood at 1.7 % on Friday when it reported 205 new cases. Tiruppur district reported 94 fresh cases which took the tally to 91,937. The overall toll remained at 946 as no new deaths were reported. The district had 902 active cases and 107 patients from the district recovered on Saturday. Positivity rate of Tiruppur district based on Friday’s data was 1.8%. Another government school student in Tiruppur district was reported to be COVID-19 positive by the Department of School Education. Officials said that a Class IX boy from Government Higher Secondary School in Iduvampalayam tested positive and was hospitalised on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-201-new-cases/article36545946.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 139 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported 139 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total cases to 1,00,581. While 104 persons were discharged, 1,377 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem reported 69 positive and all cases were indigenous. In Namakkal, 62 indigenous cases were reported on Saturday. As per the bulletin, one death was reported in Namakkal and two deaths were reported in Salem district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-139-new-covid-19-cases/article36546046.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Public Dept. comes under malware attack||Soon after the attack, officials of C-DAC, with which the Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu (ELCOT) has a tie-up for e-governance and cybersecurity, inspected the desktop computers that displayed a message from the suspect demanding ransom, the sources said. Outdated OS Of the 12 desktop computers used at the particular section in the Public Department, about 8 were found to be operating on the Windows-7 Operating System which, cybersecurity experts said, was an outdated platform with little or no support from Microsoft. Because of this, the computers had no security/software updates and anti-virus mechanism to prevent ransomware or other cyberattacks. Though officials were trying to retrieve the content of the files that remain encrypted from other sources, cybersecurity officials of the Tamil Nadu police who inspected the computers said there was no compromise on VIP security protocol or any other matter that could affect the routine functions of the State government. “We need an effective IT security policy and first responders in computer forensics to handle such situations. The use of outdated operating systems with no software updates and anti-virus protection remains a threat. The ransomware is click-based and could have landed in the form of a WhatsApp message (opened on a desktop computer), email and pop-up,” said a senior official who is part of the investigation team. According to cybersecurity experts, there has been an increase in ransomware attacks in recent times. Suspects operating from unknown locations often target prominent personalities and demand ransom by claiming that they have access to sensitive personal data or websites visited by them. “Even if a few respond and make payments, that’s good enough for the suspects. Awareness of cyber-safe practices and updated systems supported by secure networks is the key,” the official said, adding that a formal complaint would soon be lodged with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-dept-comes-under-malware-attack/article36545914.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Computer Society of India Coimbatore Chapter: Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions - Online Counselling Guidelines, 10.30 a.m.  Nehru Group of Institutions and Kovai Pedallers: Mountain Train Bike Championship 2021, Palathurai, 7 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article36545952.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mega drive: Women marginally outnumber men in inoculations||During the mega COVID-19 vaccination drive in Karnataka on Friday, women outnumbered men in getting innoculated. While cumulatively 15,95,855 (51%) women got the jab, 15,47,208 (49%) men got it. Among the districts, Raichur recorded the highest number of female inoculations with 34,560 (55%) getting the jab. Tumakuru, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar followed with 54% female vaccinations. Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts recorded the lowest with 45% of the eligible women population getting inoculated there. These two districts recorded the highest male inoculations with 55%. BBMP which recorded 54% male vaccinations, saw a 46% turnout of women during the mega drive. Raichur recorded the lowest male turnout with 45%.  The top two districts that administered the highest number of doses in the country are from Karnataka. While BBMP that administered 4,40,168 doses topped the list of districts that administered the highest number of doses in the country, Belagavi followed with 2,74,967 doses. Bihar’s East Champaran administered the third highest number of doses with 2,25,000 doses. Per million Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said by inoculating 62,003 persons for every one million eligible population, Karnataka stands first in the entire country. As many as 14,401 vaccination centres were set up across the State and on an average 205 doses were administered in each centre. While 14 districts exceeded the target, only four districts recorded less than 75% of the target. He attributed the poor performance in these districts to vaccine hesitancy. Cumulatively, the State has administered 5,18,76,105 doses of which 1.45 crore have been fully inoculated. “We have administered one crore doses in the last 20 days and are planning to continue with the same pace to ensure the entire adult population of 4.97 crore in the State is vaccinated by December 30,” he said. Blood donation camps On Friday, a mega blood donation drive was also conducted in the State wherein 5,201 units of blood were collected. While BBMP topped by collecting 1,240 units, Bengaluru Urban followed by collecting 473 units. As many as 298 units and 295 units were collected in Ballari and Dakshina Kannada districts respectively. Kodagu recorded the lowest with a mere five units collected there. Health Department plans to conduct such camps over the week and the target is to collect one lakh units, as blood donations have reduced considerably due to the pandemic. Likewise, to promote organ donation, the State will start organ retrieval centres in district hospitals and medical colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mega-drive-women-marginally-outnumber-men-in-inoculations/article36545810.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Usage of EV charging stations up to 15%||The roll-out of Bangalore Electricity Supply Company’s (Bescom) electric vehicle (EV) charging stations, which gathered momentum in January this year after many delays, has since seen increased patronage despite the pandemic. This trend signals rising demand for EVs, say officials of the power utility. C.K. Sreenath, Deputy General Manager (smart grid and electric vehicles), Bescom, said there are 136 EV charging units within the city and the response has been very good. “Last month, 30,000 units were consumed and 5,000 sessions were recorded (each vehicle charging is considered one session). Our revenue has crossed Rs. 2 lakh from charging stations. By the end of December, we hope to add 140 more charging stations. Each station will have six charging units,” he explained. With the number of options available slowly increasing, it is heralding more interest in EVs, officials added, using the response the charging stations have been getting as an example. “We are seeing 15% utilisation now. It was less than 1% when we started. More people are embracing EV vehicles now. The maintenance is less, and more manufacturers are entering the market offering wide choices. So adoption is picking up,” Mr. Sreenath said. In July, Ola had announced that its electric scooter received a record breaking 1,00,000 reservations within the first 24 hours, making it the most pre-booked scooter in the world. Bhavish Aggarwal, Chairman and Group CEO, Ola, was quoted as saying, “The unprecedented demand is a clear indicator of shifting consumer preferences to EVs. This is a huge step forward in our mission to transition the world to sustainable mobility.” Ola Electric had, prior to this, also unveiled the Ola Hypercharger Network with “more than 100,000 charging points across 400 cities.” More recently, Ola Electric had crossed Rs. 1,100 crore in combined sales for the two days when the purchase window was open, which was touted to be a record for highest sales in a day (by value) for a single product in the Indian E-Commerce history. The focus for the State government too is on implementing the budget announcement of 1,000 EV charging stations across the State under the PPP model. Bescom has been designated as the State Nodal Agency for setting up charging infrastructure. “Apart from Bengaluru, we will be focussing on Smart Cities and major cities where 650 stations will be set up,” said Mr. Sreenath. More stations Bescom recently sought expression of interest from interested EV charging station/battery swapping service providers for setting up charging/battery swapping stations on the Bescom premises on a land rental basis. “The Government of Karnataka issued the Karnataka Electric Vehicle and Energy Storage Policy 2017 which envisages a compelling vision of making Benguluru the electric vehicle capital of India, besides attracting investment to the tune of Rs. 31,000 crore and creating 55,000 new jobs by 2022. Bescom has created a skeletal electric vehicle charging infrastructure in Bengaluru,” stated the document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/usage-of-ev-charging-stations-up-to-15/article36545793.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deemed forest land granted for court complex in Kolar||The allotment of deemed forest land for a court complex, advocates’ association, and residential quarters for judicial officers has kicked up a row in Kolar. According to environment activists, in August, the AEE of the Department of Public Works, Malur, received a letter from the Office of the Senior Civil Judge and JMFC, Malur, regarding handing over the possession of nine acres and 30 guntas of land in Yeshawanthpura village, Kasaba hobli, Malur. The document states that on 16-8-2021, the tahsildar of Malur taluk has physically handed over the possession of the land to the Senior Civil Judge and JMFC, Malur. However, Forest Department officials, who requested anonymity, said the transfer of land was an error which was a result of the lack of updating the records. Acknowledging the said land as a deemed forest area, an official said, “The nine acres odd land is a deemed forest area in the 2013 deemed forest list submitted by the State government to the Supreme Court. This was not updated in the revenue records, which led to the problem as the DC granted land because the RTC showed it as gomala land.” No work undertaken The official said no work has not been undertaken yet and land was only granted. “I have already brought it to the notice of the DC and the PWD. We will hold a joint meeting soon and sort this out. But there is no question of granting land on deemed forest land,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deemed-forest-land-granted-for-court-complex-in-kolar/article36545830.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police probing financial dispute behind death of four members of family||The Byadarahalli police, who are probing the suspected suicide case of the deaths of four adults and a nine-month-old boy, are questioning Hallagere Shankar. He returned to his residence at Thigalarapalya on Friday night to find his wife and three adult children dead. “In his statement he blamed his wife Bharathi. We suspect there was a financial dispute and are investigating all angles,” said a police officer. A few months ago, Bharathi and one of the deceased daughters Sindhurani consumed excess sleeping pills. At the time, the Rajajinagar police had counselled the family. Bharathi and her three children Sinchana, 34, Sindhurani, 31, and Madhusagar, 25, are suspected to have died by suicide around four days ago, but the bodies were discovered on Friday night. Sinchana’s 2.5 year old daughter survived the trauma without food and water for days, but Sindhurani’s infant was found dead. Medical evidence points to the fact that Madhusagar was the last person alive.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani ph:104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-probing-financial-dispute-behind-death-of-four-members-of-family/article36545796.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Task force set up for implementation of NEP||The State government has set up a task force for the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020 in school education. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has constituted the task force headed by retired IAS officer M. Madan Gopal. It has 20 other members. Draft framework According to a Government Order, responsibilities of the task force include preparing and finalising the draft implementation framework and working out details of draft implementation framework in consultation with stakeholders. The State government has suggested revision of the entire curriculum of the State syllabus from classes I to XII and has sought the guidance of the task force. The task force has been given the tasks of providing assistance to prepare long-term perspective plan for implementation of the NEP, working out details of the draft implementation framework in consultation with stakeholders, presenting papers on the status of implementation, allocating tasks, monitoring them, identifying gaps, and rebuilding policies to to bridge the gaps, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/task-force-set-up-for-implementation-of-nep/article36545833.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Most street lights on ORR are dysfunctional’||A majority of street lights on the 17-km stretch of Outer Ring Road from Silk Board Junction to K.R. Puram is dysfunctional, a survey carried out by the Outer Ring Road Companies Association (ORRCA) on Friday night showed. “In fact, our survey indicates that only about 30% of the street lights on this stretch are functional,” said Krishna Kumar Gowda, operations manager, ORRCA. The lack of functional streetlights has posed a multitude of challenges on the busy road especially concerns over safety of citizens. “There are concerns of accidents and crime rate increasing at. The ORR is already more prone to robbery and mugging with gangs offering lifts to commuters at night,” said a senior police official.  A senior civic official said that the issue was being looked into. “Faulty lights will be fixed by the contractor soon,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-street-lights-on-orr-are-dysfunctional/article36545792.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nataraj Budalu, Srinath Perur get akademi award||Kannada writer S. Nataraj Budalu has been awarded the Sahitya Akademi Translation Award for 2020 for the compilation and translation of Buddhist philosopher and teacher Sarahapada’s Charyageetes and other works. Srinath Perur has bagged the award for English for his translation of Kannada writer Vivek Shanbhag’s novella Ghachar Ghochar . Ranganatha Ramachandra Rao has won the award for Telugu for the translation of Shantinatha Desai’s Kannada work Om Namo . Mr. Budalu expressed happiness over the translation being recognised. “Sarahapada is a very important Buddhist philosopher and teacher who found philosophy in action and gave primacy to family and the material world. He was the teacher of Nagarjuna and was a mahaguru at Nalanda. His works should have come to Kannada long back,” he said. Mr. Perur said, “Since a good book is a prerequisite for a good translation, it is also an acknowledgement of the Kannada original.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nataraj-budalu-srinath-perur-get-akademi-award/article36545829.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) MLA Srinivas Gowda may join Cong.||In the latest instance of a Janata Dal (Secular) legislator showing the inclination to switch sides, K. Srinivas Gowda, MLA from Kolar, is said to be inching closer to the Congress. A few days ago, Mr. Gowda met Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar and reportedly expressed his desire to join the party, according to sources. Mr. Gowda, who served as Minister in the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led coalition government, made serious allegations against the BJP in 2019 stating that leaders from the saffron party had tried to poach him with money and ministership. He alleged that BJP leaders promised him a huge sum of money and a Cabinet berth if he quit the JD(S) and joined the BJP. GTD and others Already, JD(S) MLA from Chamundeshwari G.T. Deve Gowda has said he would join the Congress and contest next elections on the party ticket. Another MLA, from Gubbi constituency, S.R. Srinivas has reportedly decided to quit the party and join the Congress, sources said. A couple of months ago, JD(S) leader and former MLA Madhu Bangarappa joined the Congress along with his supporters. Earlier, the former JD(S) MLA M.S. Akki from Kundagol in Dharwad and the former JD(S) MLC Ramesh Babu joined the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-mla-srinivas-gowda-may-join-cong/article36545832.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown today||There will be no power supply on Sunday (Sept. 19) between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. in the areas serviced from 220/66/kV New Jigani MUSS in view of maintenance works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-today/article36545795.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Greening Bengaluru, the Basavanagudi way||It is not the traffic, but garbage and polluting transportation that are the most critical issues faced by Bengaluru today, said Bhaskar Rao, ADGP, Railways. “The mode of transport and the pollution it causes is the problem. If we can address these two issues effectively, I am sure Bengaluru will be a beautiful city,” said the former police commissioner. Participating in a greening initiative by Basavagudi Residents’ Welfare Association on Saturday, Mr. Rao said by planting more saplings year after year, Basavansgudi has been setting an example of how to continue to undertake greening activities and responsibly contribute to environmental protection. Motivating the audience at Sri Rama Mandira, he said, “It is important for each one of us to work together and sustain our welfare bodies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/greening-bengaluru-the-basavanagudi-way/article36545797.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Crackdown on drunk driving resumes after easing of curbs||Following a series of fatal road accidents, the Bengaluru Traffic Police resumed its special drive against drunk driving. On Friday night, from 9.30 p.m. to a little after midnight, the police caught as many as 44 motorists driving under the influence of alcohol. They also registered over 1,400 cases of various violations including performing wheelies and stunts, rash and negligent driving, overspeeding, etc. Precautionary measure The drive had been suspended as a precautionary measure during the peak of the pandemic, but with most restrictions eased, the police decided to resume these checks given that an increasing number of people are taking their cars out in violation of night curfew. On August 31, seven youngsters — all between 20 and 30 years — were killed when the car they were in rammed into a wall at Koramangala. More recently, two friends who were standing next to their motorcycle on the lay-by at Electronics City flyover were mowed down by a speeding car and thrown off the bridge. “Though FSL reports of these cases are yet to confirm whether the drivers were under the influence of alcohol, we have decided to crack the whip and enforce road safety and discipline among the motorists,” said B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic). He added that rash and negligent driving and consumption of alcohol are often the cause of fatal accidents. Booked Motorists caught during Friday’s drive have been booked for drunk driving. “Their vehicles and driving licenses were seized. The seized DLs will be sent to the RTO concerned with a recommendation for suspension,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crackdown-on-drunk-driving-resumes-after-easing-of-curbs/article36545808.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mantri mall served notice over property tax again||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike (BBMP) has served a notice to Mantri mall and all shopkeepers in the mall to pay property tax dues in a long ongoing dispute it has had with the developers. In the notice, the palike stated that it would initiate action including closure, freezing of accounts and auctioning off all movable assets to recover tax arrears if not paid within 30 days of the notice, served on September 7. A copy of the notice, available with The Hindu, stated that the mall has arrears due of Rs. 20.33 crore for the fiscals 2019-20 and 2020-21. Along with this year’s tax of Rs. 6.77 crore, the amount due is Rs. 27 crore. The BBMP notice pertains to the arrears of Rs. 20.33 crore. “Last year, after a similar action initiated by the civic body, the mall developers agreed to pay one year’s tax and issued a cheque for March 2021. But that cheque has bounced, following which we have filed a civil suit in the court over the issue,” said Prasanna Kumar, DC, Revenue, West Zone, BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mantri-mall-served-notice-over-property-tax-again/article36545794.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State’s share of total doses 11.5%||Karnataka, which administered the second highest number of doses in the country during the mega vaccination drive held on Friday, has accounted for 11.5% of the total doses administered in the country. Bihar, which pushed Karnataka to the second position marginally, contributed 11.7% of the total vaccinations. While Uttar Pradesh contributed 10.7%, Madhya Pradesh followed with 10.5% and Gujarat with 9.37%, of the total vaccinations. Health Minister K. Sudhakar, who said the State had achieved a cumulative coverage of (31,43,598) on Friday, said although the doses were administered on Friday all could not be uploaded on the Co-WIN portal. “The Centre had given us till 5 pm on Saturday to upload and we achieved 99% coverage,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/states-share-of-total-doses-115/article36545801.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4 from State bag NSS awards||After six years, four National Service Scheme (NSS) coordinators in Karnataka have been selected for the prestigious national NSS awards. B. Vasanth Shetty of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences has been selected for the university-level award. Sureshshappa K. Sajjan of JSS Banashankari College for Arts and Commerce in Dharwad, Sirish Gowardhan of K.S. Institute of Technology, Bengaluru, and Bindia Shetty of Govinda Dasa College, Surathkal near Mangaluru, have bagged awards for college-level NSS coordinators. NSS Day is observed on September 24. NSS award winners will be felicitated by President Ram Nath Kovind at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi on September 24. The NSS was launched by the former Prime Minister late Indira Gandhi in 1969 to mark Mahatma Gandhi’s birth centenary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-from-state-bag-nss-awards/article36545831.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 889 new COVID-19 cases, 14 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 889 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,67,083. Bengaluru Urban reported 263 and six deaths. With 14 deaths, the toll rose to 37,587. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,080 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,13,713. The State now has 15,755 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.63%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.57%. Testing As many as 1,38,920 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,12,335 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,61,43,315.  COVID-19 in Karnataka on September 18 Cases: 889 Deaths: 14 Discharges: 1,080 Tests: 1,38,920 Vaccinations: 2,24,444 Test Positivity Rate: 0.63% Case Fatality Rate: 1.57%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-889-new-covid-19-cases-14-deaths/article36545811.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Student harassed by hacker for months||A student’s Microsoft Teams account was allegedly hacked and used to make calls and send messages to her teachers and classmates. Unable to bear the harassment, her family blocked the account, following which the hacker(s) created a WhatsApp group under the name ‘hacker is back’ and added the victim’s mobile number to it. “She was subjected to constant harassment for over two months and was not able to attend online classes on account of the toll it took on her,” said a police officer. Based on the complaint filed by her father, the South East cybercrime police have registered a case against an unknown person(s). In his statement, the girl’s father stated that the harassment started from July 23. The police suspect that the perpetrator is someone known to the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-harassed-by-hacker-for-months/article36545791.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Encroachments cleared||In a special drive, Bengaluru district administration cleared encroachments of 32 acres and 10.04 guntas of land on 20 lakes in the district on Saturday. These include lakes in Adur, Tattanahalli, Iggaluru, Bidarakuppe and other villages in Anekal taluk. It also cleared 9 acres and 15 guntas of gomala land in Yelahanka, Anekal and Bengaluru South taluks apart from 3 acres and 36 gnats of gunduthopu and 7 guntas of kharab land in the district. The total market value of land cleared on Saturday is estimated at Rs. 30.73 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/encroachments-cleared/article36545803.ece
19 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Core engineering streams continue to provide great opportunities, says expert||Core subjects such as civil, mechanical, and electrical engineering streams continue to offer the highest number of job opportunities, said K. Mallikarjuna Babu, director and Head of AMC Institutions in Bengaluru. He was speaking on “Core Engineering Programmes” during The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling Digital Conclave on Saturday. Explaining how many sub-streams had emerged, he said civil engineering has architectural engineering, construction engineering, earthquake engineering, highway engineering, and so on. Similarly, mechanical engineers are required in making a product from start to finish, including its design, aesthetics, functionality, and durability. They are involved in making engine parts, aircraft engines, control systems, prosthetic devices, semiconductor tools, among others, Mr. Babu said. Electrical and electronics engineering work on a variety of projects. “Many of the engineers working in top software companies are basically electrical engineers. Their role in computers, robots, cellphones, radars, and navigation systems is significant,” he said. Though IT was lucrative, Mr. Babu said, it was the manufacturing sector which contributed 17% to the GDP of the country, while IT’s contribution was only 8%. He also gave a list of non-IT sectors in India that required human resources with a background in core engineering subjects. Mr. Babu stressed the need for developing skills to match the requirements of the industry. On cracking CET In another session on Saturday, A.S. Ravi, principal of Government Pre-University College for Girls at Malleswaram, Bengaluru, advised students appearing for CET counselling to be careful while choosing courses and colleges. Students would get sufficient time to enter their options on the KEA website. They could consult elders, friends and well-wishers before finalising their choices. “There will be a mock allotment of seats, which provides an opportunity for students to change their options,” he said. He advised students go through the cut-off analyser provided on the website while making their choices. The analyser would give them an idea of the allotment, given their ranking. “After the first round of allotment of seats, the students will have four choices. They can pick the seat fully satisfied with the allotment, can go for the second round keeping the allotted seat or after cancelling the allotted seat, or quit the process. The students have to be careful while making their choices,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/core-engineering-streams-provide-great-opportunities-expert/article36545802.ece
19 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||40 fresh cases||Hassan reported 40 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death due to the infection on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40-fresh-cases/article36546238.ece
19 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Raja nala: ‘Water treatment plant to be set up soon’||Jagadish Shettar, former Chief Minister and MLA, has said that under the first phase of the development of the Unakal Raja Nala, a 650-metre long retaining wall and a park are being built and a water treatment plant will also be set up soon. Addressing a gathering after dedicating link bridges built at a cost of Rs. 8.39 crore at Unakal Hulikoppa, Hanumanth Nagar, Devi Nagar, and Banashankari Nagar in Hubballi on Saturday, Mr. Shettar said that the development work was part of the ‘Green Mobility Corridor’ planned under the Smart City Scheme. It might be recalled that the project has received additional funding from Union government. Mr. Shettar said that after downpour and subsequent floods washed away the minor bridges along the stormwater drainage, then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was requested to sanction funds for rebuilding the bridges. “Mr. Yediyurappa had released Rs. 15 crore of which four bridges have been built at a cost of Rs. 8.39 crore. These bridges will be of great help to the residents of residential localities along the raja nala,” he said. This apart, the ‘Unakal Sante Maidan’ (vegetable market yard) had been developed under Smart City Scheme, he said. Mr. Shettar said that already L&T company had taken up works for extending round-the-clock water supply facility to all the wards in the twin cities. Steps will be taken to expedite the work and complete the project within the next two years, he said. Newly-elected councillors Mallikarjun Gundur, Rajanna Koravi, Umesh Kaujageri, Veena Chetan Bardwad, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Managing Director of Smart City Scheme Shakeel Ahmed, Director of Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Mallikarjun Savakar, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raja-nala-water-treatment-plant-to-be-set-up-soon/article36546069.ece
19 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Temple demolition: Seer slams govt.||The BJP which came to power promising to espouse the cause of Hindus was now trying to demolish places of worship and mutts belonging to Veerashaiva Lingayat community, seer of Balehosur Mutt Sri Dingaleswhwar Swami has alleged. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, the seer slammed the BJP government and said that it seemed people without brains were at the helm of affairs in the present government led by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. “After having demolished the temple at Nanjangud, the government is now saying that the records pertaining to the temple will be verified with the Archaeology Department,” he said. The seer challenged Mr. Bommai to first demolish the religious structure which was in the centre of the road at Bankapur, in his home constituency, if he was really committed to removing all structures that had become hurdle for development works. The seer said he would support the demand for 2A reservation for Lingayat Panchamasali community and wanted the government to provide requisite reservation to all the sub-castes of Veerashaiva Lingayat community. On the controversy surrounding the acquisition of land belonging to Shivanand Mutt in Mysuru, he said the government should immediately put a full stop to the process or else be prepared to face backlash. “Swami Vivekananda had only stayed for some days at the over 200-year-old Shivanand Mutt in Mysuru for few days in 1892. However, Ramakrishna Vivekananda Ashram claimed ownership of the mutt itself. The then Chief Minister Sadanand Gowda permitted the acquisition and allocated Rs. 5 crore for development, which was a foolish decision,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-demolition-seer-slams-govt/article36546074.ece
19 September 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||‘Branding of millets, millet products required’||Vice Chancellor of University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Dharwad Prof. M.B. Chetti has said that, along with cultivation of millets, there is need for focussing on value addition, branding and developing millet-based food items. Presiding over the ‘International Year of Millets 2023’ programme organised at UAS in partnership with ICAR and IFFCO in Dharwad on September 17, Prof. Chetti said that steps should be taken to ensure that nutri-cereals reached a large number of consumers. Referring to the traditional food habits in the region, former MLA Chandrakant Bellad said that traditionally rice cooked using millets, particularly foxtail millet, was consumed along with buttermilk in rural areas. Training based on value addition to millet, branding and marketing is needed to educate youths, he said. Prof. Sarojani Karakannavar spoke on ‘Nutri-cereals and their role on human health’ while Prof. Geeta T. threw light on ‘Nutrition home garden’, and Prof. Akkamahadevi Agasimani elaborated on ‘Role of plantation on sustainable agriculture and rural livelihood’. As part of the programme, millet technologies developed by the Food Science and Nutrition Department of UAS-D were exhibited. Farmers and youths were encouraged to implement nutrition gardening by distribution of seeds and seedlings. During the programme, 900 seedlings and 150 vegetable seed kits were distributed to farmers and youths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/branding-of-millets-millet-products-required/article36546070.ece
19 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Victory flame arrives at Karwar Naval Base||‘Vijay Jyoti’ (victory flame), which is being carried across the country to mark the golden jubilee of 1971 war victory, reached Karwar Naval Base on Friday. According to a press release from the PRO of Karwar Naval Base, ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ is being celebrated across the nation to commemorate the golden jubilee of the 1971 war victory and on Friday, the Vijay Jyoti, in its journey across the length and breadth of the country, arrived at the Naval Base at Karwar. Rear Admiral Mahesh Singh, Flag Officer Commanding Karnataka Naval Area, received the victory flame at the war memorial, erected to honour those who made the supreme sacrifice during ‘Operation Vijay’. Personnel of the Indian Army and Indian Navy were present. The victory flame will be in Karwar till September 24. Various ceremonies and activities are planned to be conducted onboard INS Vikramaditya, in schools, the local NCC units, and at the statue of Late Major Raghoba Rane, PVC, at the Rabindranath Tagore beach during the stay of the flame in Karwar, the release said. Subsequently, the flame will be taken to Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/victory-flame-arrives-at-karwar-naval-base/article36546072.ece
19 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Ganja crop seized, three held||The Dharwad District Police have arrested three persons on the charge of cultivating ganja and seized ganja crop worth over Rs. 2 lakh. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant said that the accused cultivated the crop illegally at Bullappanakoppa village in Kundgol taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganja-crop-seized-three-held/article36546065.ece
19 September 2021||hubballi,KARNATAKA||Loan expo today||Canara Bank has organised a mega retail loan expo at Centrum Building on Gokul Road on Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/loan-expo-today/article36546067.ece
19 September 2021||Hubballi/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Management need not be all about business’||A student today can pursue MBA in pretty much anything – forestry, rural management, healthcare, tourism, or data analytics. However, the basic premise of studying about production, finance, marketing, sales, and HR operations remains unchanged, said Dr. P.D. Jose, professor of strategy and chairperson, strategy, IIM-Bengaluru. He was delivering a talk on the ‘Scope for Business Management’ on the second day of The Hindu EducationPlus Career Counselling Digital conclave on Saturday. Over 10,000 students participated in the session. “We should understand that business is not management and management is not business. Not all organisations are business organisations. They can be hospitals, NGOs, colleges, and other agencies. Business is only one of the types of organisations. There is a scarcity of good managers at most of these places. They may be exciting places for young people to work,” he said. Dr. Jose had a word of advise for those keen to pursue business management: “If you are not in the top school, getting a good job is difficult. The way out is not to follow the crowd. Figure out which areas are emerging and which school is best for you. There are good and bad courses and colleges, and the way to choose them is to talk to alumni, faculty and read about the subjects taught. Ratings of institutions can also be considered.” Answering a query, he said he would recommend joining MBA after a few years of working in an organisation. EQ over IQ Delivering a talk on “Medicine as a noble profession”, Dr. C.N. Manjunath, director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardio Vascular Sciences and Research, Bengaluru, said: “In these days of hype over Artificial Intelligence, more than the IQ (Intelligence Quotient), EQ (Emotional Quotient) is important; that needs to be developed because self-esteem is the key. With positive attitude, even problems become solutions.” On how gratifying the medical profession can be, he said: “The gratitude that one receives for treating patients is unimaginable.” He shared anecdotes about show of love and affection towards him by patients. The senior doctor mentioned how lifestyle diseases account for 50% of deaths in India, as the country had now become the capital of heart diseases and diabetes. Mentioning that 30% of heart patients were aged below 40, he advised students not to have high expectations as it would lead to stress and consequently health issues. The pandemic had added another lifestyle disease to the list, of loneliness and screen addiction, he warned. Dr. Manjunath shared tips on the things to keep in mind while joining medical courses. He also said that B.Sc medical technologies too offer great potential. He cautioned students who opt to pursue medical courses abroad that were several issues, including getting duped by fake institutions. He asked students to be cautious, particularly about institutions in Russia, China, Philippines, and do a thorough verification. Gold sponsors The gold sponsors for the event are AMC Institutions, Bengaluru; Atria Institute of Technology, Bengaluru; and INSIGHTS IAS, Bengaluru. The silver sponsors are Sir M. Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Bengaluru; Hindustan Business School, Bengaluru; K.S. Group of Institutions, Bengaluru; Shaheen Group of Institutions, Bidar; Ramaiah University, Bengaluru; and Rajarajeshwari Group of Institutions, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/management-need-not-be-all-about-business/article36545807.ece
19 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Lok Adalat on Sept. 30||Chairman of District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) and Principal District and Sessions Judge K. Subramanya called upon litigants to take benefit of the mega Lok Adalat to be held at the district court on September 30. Addressing a press conference at the DLSA administrative office in Kalaburagi on Saturday, he said that cases relating to criminal compoundable offences, matrimonial disputes, labour disputes, land acquisition, services maters, revenue, and civil disputes would be taken up. He appealed to the litigants from all the taluks in the district to take advantage of it. Nearly 42,000 cases are pending in the Kalaburagi district and of these 22,000 were related to criminal cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lok-adalat-on-sept-30/article36546064.ece
19 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Batpady beach and approach road almost devastated by sea erosion||The verdant Batpady beach, on the southern tip of Karnataka bordering Kerala, and its connecting fisheries road from Someshwara have almost been washed away, with hundreds of crores of rupees spent on the beach rejuvenation project going down the drain. While the fisheries road was completely damaged last monsoon, it was temporarily restored this February. A massive sand wall of about 300 metres length too was built in Batpady to offer protection to the temporary road. Within a month of the monsoon, the sand wall washed away and in another month, the temporary road too. When The Hindu visited the beach on Saturday, even the endpoint, as called by the local people, which is about 500 metres before the State border, too was almost affected by the sea erosion. About 500 metres long and 300 metres wide beachfront in this region was seen swallowed by the raging waves with a small building structure built by a government department for tourist facilities precariously standing amid the threat of waves. The tall sand dune from Batpady to Kanva Tirtha in Kerala, about three kilometre in length and 300 metres in width, was broken by the waves near the endpoint itself allowing the three rivulet s — Uchchila, Talapady and Kunjathur — to join the sea at this point. Normally, the massive dune prevented these rivulets from joining the sea thereby forming a beautiful backwater lake. Within this backwater lake exists Uchchila Kudru (river island) surrounded by water on three sides and the Mangaluru-Shoranur railway line on the one side. Locals or the local panchayat get the sand dune opened whenever there was threat of flooding due to heavy rains. With the fisheries road being swallowed for a distance of about 300 metres, several houses and coconut gardens are under the threat of getting eroded. The houses have lost connectivity to the external world too. A local resident blamed haphazard implementation of the ADB-funded Someshwara Beach Rejuvenation project. Batpady Abdullah said the authorities did not construct two or three more groyens near the end-point. The beach was not much affected between Uchchila and Batpady where 10 groyens were built; but was completely devastated near the end-point, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/batpady-beach-and-approach-road-almost-devastated-by-sea-erosion/article36546223.ece
19 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||A musical therapy for 130 traffic police personnel||It was not cacophonous horns or the emission from vehicles for 130 city traffic personnel on Saturday morning. But they had a pleasant start to the day as they were exposed to soothing music for an hour at the deer park. The personnel took part in an hour-long music therapy session conducted by United Consciousness team, led by Marvin Fernandes. “They are under extreme stress in discharging their duty in the humid environment. We are exposing them to music therapy, which helps to keep the mind relaxed,” said Mr. Fernandes, whose team has conducted over 500 therapy sessions in the city and other parts of the country. In addition to these 130 personnel, some city police officers, including Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar, participated in the session held in a corner. The participants sat on the passageways by spreading out their mats, while Mr. Fernandes sat in the centre along with his two fellow artists Gautam C. Rao and Bhuvan Shetty. The team had brought a range of instruments including happy drum, tum drum, Tibetian bowls, and bongos. Speakers were placed at appropriate places for the participants to hear the music. The session started at 7.15 a.m. with Mr. Gautam playing guitar and singing a soulful Kannada song Nagu, konegu, ninagu.  Mr. Fernandes then took over and made the personnel do some breathing exercises. He then asked the participants to close their eyes and hear chirping bird and other sounds. Mr. Fernandes, followed by Mr. Shetty, rolled stick around Tibetian bowls of different sizes that produced humming sounds. Mr. Fernandes also played tum drum as participants laid down on the mat. Not everyone could go into meditative mode because of mosquito bites and problem in hearing the music. The hour-long session ended at 8.15 a.m. Thanking the team for holding the session, Mr. Kumar said he would explore with the team to expose more personnel to the new age music therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-musical-therapy-for-130-traffic-police-personnel/article36546226.ece
19 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for illegal manufacture of crackers||Continuing the action against illegal cracker manufacturers, the city police arrested two persons and seized material used for preparing crackers. The Surathkal police arrested persons are Gangadhar, 53, and his brother B.M. Yadava, 48, both residents of Vidyanagar in Kulai. The police on September 16 raided the shed owned by Gangadhar and seized several items including 10 kg of gun powder, 600 grams of aluminium beads, nine kg of charcoal, and four kg of sulphur powder. These materials were being used to prepare crackers to be used during fishing activity. The police booked the two persons under Section 286 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act, and Section 9 B of Explosive Act. On August 21, the Kankanady police arrested a person and seized Rs. 4.31 lakh worth crackers that were illegally stocked in a godown in Kottara Chowki. On August 16, the Mangaluru North police arrested a person and seized 1,400 kg of low grade explosive substances worth Rs. 1.1 lakh from a building in Azizuddin Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-illegal-manufacture-of-crackers/article36546232.ece
19 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Four deaths in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported two COVID-19 deaths and 133 new cases on Saturday. With 174 people discharged, the number of active cases stood at 1,264. The test positivity rate was at 1.31%. Udupi district reported two deaths and 86 new cases. Of the new cases, 61 are from Udupi taluk, 19 from Kundapur taluk, five from Karkala taluk, and one from outside the district. With 201 persons discharged, there were 1,399 active cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-deaths-in-dk-udupi/article36546231.ece
19 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Liquor shops in border areas allowed to open from Tuesday||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Saturday allowed opening of watering holes in areas of the district bordering Kerala with effect from September 21. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra in his order lifting the curbs said the liquor shops in 19 villages within 5 km from the border could function between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. subject to certain conditions. People from Kerala entering liquor shops without RTPCR negative certificate would be dealt with as per law, the DC said. Workers as well as customers in these liquor outlets should compulsorily wear face masks while shop managements should provide sanitisers, the DC said. The administration had ordered closure of liquor shops in border areas about a month ago on the ground that tipplers from Kerala, where COVID-19 positive cases were very high, flock these shops. There were chances of further spread of the pandemic in Dakshina Kannada because of this reason, the DC had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/liquor-shops-in-border-areas-allowed-to-open-from-tuesday/article36546229.ece
19 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||briefly||The 31st annual conference of Indian Psychiatric Society, Karnataka chapter, was inaugurated in association with Fr. Muller Medical College here on Saturday with the theme ‘Child Mental Health-Changing Horizons’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article36546224.ece
19 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Committee to study demand for abolishing super commercial tax||Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy on Saturday said a committee headed by the Additional Commissioner and comprising four to five officers from the MCC will be constituted to study the demand from traders for abolishing the “super commercial tax”. The Commissioner also suggested to the traders to constitute a committee on their side having four to five members to come out with solutions to the issue so that neither the MCC nor the traders are affected over the decision on the collection of “super commercial tax”. Speaking after meeting traders, businessmen and commercial establishments from Mysuru on the issues concerning property tax, trade licence and other tax related matters, he said the revenue of MCC will fall suddenly if the “super commercial tax” was withdrawn at one go besides causing a big burden to the corporation. “Let both the committees coordinate and discuss what best solution can be found on the issue so that the decisions did not affect both the parties. If the committees can meet once in a week and come up with their suggestions, a final decision can be made based on their observations. Whatever decision is taken will come into effect from the financial year of 2022-23 and not immediately. Now, everyone has to pay their taxes. This year, the super commercial tax has not been enhanced. Moreover, Mysuru cannot be compared with other cities,” he explained. Earlier, Federation of Organisations and Associations of Mysuru Vice-President C. Narayana Gowda questioned the logic behind separating the taxes into “commercial” and “super commercial tax”. This has caused a burden to cinema halls, hotels and marriage halls. The then Commissioner Shilpa Nag had categorised the “super commercial” into “commercial B” but the tax rate remained the same, and did not help the traders, he said. Properties without completion reports from the MCC are paying double taxes. Also, the renewal fee of trade licences of properties without CR (completion report) has been increased. A 15 per cent fine and 18 per cent interest are being levied on the properties for renewing the trade licence, he told the meeting. Also, the MCC levies separate fees on the commercial properties having ACs and generators even though the requisite electricity costs were paid to the electricity supply company. Such additional fees must go, he demanded. ‘Unscientific’ Vinay of Marriage Halls’ Association said the MCC should consider the cost incurred on the construction of the commercial properties while calculating the tax. However, the MCC was fixing the tax based on the present construction costs which was unscientific. The MCC should not levy tax based on the Bengaluru model. Bengaluru cannot be compared with Mysuru and so also the tax calculation, he argued. M.R. Rajaram of Mysuru Cinema Exhibitors Association sought simplification of the tax system here while stating that the tax in Mysuru has to be calculated in 48 stages while it was done in 7 stages in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committee-to-study-demand-for-abolishing-super-commercial-tax/article36546241.ece
19 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Dasara jumbo staff get vaccine||The staff associated with the Dasara elephants, including mahouts and kavadis, camping at the palace premises were vaccinated here on Saturday. Out of 65 staff members, including from the Forest Department, 24 received either their first or second doses of vaccines. Deputy Conservator of Forest K. Karikalan told The Hindu that the entire staff are either partially vaccinated or fully vaccinated. This includes those who supplied feeds to the elephants. The people associated with the elephants are now shielded with the vaccine, he added. Meanwhile, the elephants led by howdah-jumbo Abhimanyu are being taken around the palace premises for walk twice daily with each stretch covering a distance of 3.5 km. The elephants, numbering eight, arrived at the palace on September 16. Training “We are planning to start training with sandbags with matching weight of the golden howdah to acclimatise the tusker. The weight carrying training may start from Monday,” the Deputy Conservator of Forest said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dasara-jumbo-staff-get-vaccine/article36546246.ece
19 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||NEP fraught with danger: Dhruvanarayan||KPCC working president and former MP R. Dhruvanarayan has expressed apprehensions over ‘hasty’ implementation of the New Educational Policy (NEP) by the State. Speaking to mediapersons here on Saturday, he said the NEP was an attempt at ‘saffronisation’ of the education system and was being pushed through without debate and discussions by experts. He said it was fraught with danger to society and inimical to the interest of the State as the NEP amounted to “moving in the reverse gear” and would “take the country backwards”. He said there was a precedent of elaborate discussions on the educational policies when announced by Indira Gandhi in 1968 and Rajiv Gandhi in 1986. The views of experts in the field of education was sought and their opinions were accorded due weightage before implementation. But under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, there is no scope for consulting the experts or eliciting expert opinion. The Assembly session is on and the issue should be discussed but there are efforts to implement the NEP without ascertaining its pros and cons, he added. Expert committee Alleging that the NEP was rooted in religion and the glories of an imaginary past or based on assumptions, Mr. Dhruvanarayan claimed that even the expert committee members were sympathetic to or had RSS background. “While we respect Kasturirangan, he was not given a free hand and other members were RSS or BJP members.” He averred that the earlier policy should be persisted with by the government and expressed concern that the new policy would be detrimental to the interests and growth of Dalits, backward classes and the economically weaker section of the society. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha also came under flak for his criticism of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. The MP had questioned Mr. Siddaramaiah’s “new found interest in temples”, in connection with the demolition of a temple in Nanjangud by the local authorities. “Mr. Simha is not the custodian of Hinduism or representative of all Hindus. The demolition was a court order and the government has to implement it with due consultations with the local community after taking them into confidence. But this government lacks administrative acumen and experience as it is repeatedly faltering in handling sensitive issues or even upholding law and order’’, said Mr. Dhruvanarayan. Congress city unit president R. Murthy, district unit president B.J. Vijaykumar, KPCC spokesperson H.A. Venkatesh and others were present.  The Assembly session is on and the issue should be discussed but there are efforts to implement the NEP without ascertaining its pros and cons, the former MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-fraught-with-danger-dhruvanarayan/article36546244.ece
19 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Permission denied for installing statue||A statue of actor Vishnuvardhan meant for installation at a park opposite Chamaraja Circle was taken away by the city police and the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) on the grounds that there was no permission for its installation. The 6 ft. tall statue made of fibre and other materials was slated for installation on Saturday to mark the late actor’s birth anniversary. However, the city authorities foiled such plans which led to some tense moments near the park and Chamaraja Circle. There was also a demonstration by the fans of the late actor who demanded that the statue be returned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/permission-denied-for-installing-statue/article36546239.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Officials barred from going to media with complaints||The Legislative Assembly had discussed the issue on Thursday, and MLAs demanded that the government restrain IAS/IPS and government officials from approaching the media to level allegations against each other or against political representatives. Using social media The officials also should not use their private social media handles to claim their department’s achievements, the circular stated, asking them to use social media accounts opened in the name of the government to do so. The circular quoted the Karnataka State Civil Service Rules, 2021, and said it barred employees/officials from criticising the policies of the Union and State governments. The circular, issued by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, also stated that disciplinary action would be taken against officials who embarrassed the government by going to the media or putting out social media posts about the dispensation. Officials are permitted to use media only to disseminate information regarding government schemes and not for pointing out loopholes in the administration, the circular stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-barred-from-going-to-media-with-complaints/article36545812.ece
19 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Sudhakaran hits out at deserters||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran on Saturday hit out at those who broke ranks with the Congress party and joined the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] by calling them “flab” of the Congress. Mr. Sudhakaran said that the trio who shifted their allegiance to the CPI(M) had failed to win people’s faith. Three former Congress leaders, P.S. Prasanth, K.P. Anil Kumar, and G. Rathi Kumar, joined the CPI(M) following wrangling over the disputed appointment of DCC presidents last month. The KPCC president accompanied by KPCC working presidents P.T. Thomas and Kodikunnil Suresh held discussions with party leaders. Mr. Sudhakaran also met Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sudhakaran-hits-out-at-deserters/article36546198.ece
19 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Yatra Fuels outlet opened||A unit of Yatra Fuels, one among the eight outlets opened at various Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) depots in the State for public supply of diesel and petrol, has been inaugurated at the KSRTC depot in Munnar. Inaugurating the outlet on Saturday, Electricity Minister Roshy Augustine said that the facility would be an alternative source of income for the KSRTC, which at times would have to operate non-profitable routes in consideration of public need. The petrol bunks would provide the much-needed alternative income to the transport utility. In the second phase of the project, 75 Yatra Fuels units would be opened. As of now, only petrol and diesel are available. Slowly, CNG, LNG, and electric fast-charging utilities would be available, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yatra-fuels-outlet-opened-at-munnar/article36546197.ece
19 September 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Digital land resurvey to be completed in four years||Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said the digital resurvey process will be completed in the State in four years. Speaking after attending a meeting of senior officials of the Revenue Department here on Friday, Mr. Rajan said that a detailed project report (DPR) had been prepared for the project. The Minister said the government would spent Rs. 807.98 crore for the purpose under the Rebuild Kerala project. The rehabilitation drive for the families evicted for the Karapuzha irrigation project would be completed by the end of December 31, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-land-resurvey-to-be-completed-in-four-years/article36546129.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ED launches probe against police officers||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has launched a preliminary probe against four police officers in Ernakulam and Thrissur districts suspected to be involved in money laundering. Prasanth Kumar, Deputy Director of the ED, has sent a letter to the State Police Chief and Vigilance Director seeking information on cases, if any, registered against the officers. The police officers who have come under the radar of the central agency are Suresh Kumar, Station House Officer, Thadiyittaparambu in Ernakulam; Jacob, Assistant Sub Inspector; Jyothi George, Civil Police Officer; and Arun Gopalakrishnan, Station House Officer, Kodakara, Thrissur. The ED had conducted a preliminary inquiry before registering a case following a complaint that the officers were involved in money laundering. The agency had sought the details related to the officers to investigate the possibility of money laundering under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED has asked for copies of the first information report, if any, against the officers registered by the Police or Vigilance Departments. The agency suspects that the officers owned disproportionate assets amassed through corruption. The Vigilance has decided to conduct a preliminary inquiry against the police officers following the probe launched by the ED. The State Police Chief has forwarded the matter to the District Police Chiefs of Ernakulam Rural and Thrissur Rural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-launches-probe-against-four-cops/article36546145.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A digital hub that’s set to think globally||Imagine global technology giants such as Google or Apple hosting their product launch in Kochi a few years down the line. While it may sound preposterous, the Digital Hub of the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) launched in its Kalamassery-based Technology Innovation Zone (TIZ) on Saturday is fired by an ambition to turn the State into an intellectual hub for technology start-ups. A Rs. 10-crore design incubator is located at the heart of the hub, spread over 2 lakh sq ft. “It is a logical next step after setting up a couple of fablabs, 20 mini-fablabs on campuses and then a Super Fablab at TIZ. The design incubator is envisioned to emerge as the world’s biggest incubator for start-ups for turning their ideas into products by facilitating product design and rapid prototyping,” said Ashok Kurian Panjikaran, manager (business development and incubation), KSUM. TIZ boasts only the second Super Fablab across the world after the one at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It offers sophisticated machinery for turning ideas into products. Cancer research Rather than restricting themselves to a design incubator, the Digital Hub has proposed a slew of other innovative projects. A significant proposal is a health-care incubator primarily for cancer research with which the Kochi Cancer Centre will associate. Efforts are also on to bring in more partners into the project. Electronic hub A Memorandum of Understanding has been entered into with the global electronics giant Mouser Electronics Inc for setting up a Centre of Excellence at the Digital Hub, where technology start-ups will be provided the expertise. The idea is to turn it into an electronics hub for electronic hardware, chips, components and much more. Talks are also progressing with the United States-based Habitat Foundation for establishing a shelter incubator for innovative, sustainable and disruptive construction methods. “Innovative solutions from across the globe will be identified through scouting and hand-holding will be provided,” said Mr. Panjikaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-digital-hub-thats-set-to-think-globally/article36546171.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pass info on bishop’s charge to Centre: BJP||BJP leader and Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said here on Saturday that the claims made by Pala bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt should be taken up with due seriousness and the Kerala government should hand over information it had on the issue to the Union Home Ministry for investigation. The bishop had alleged that there were instances of “narcotics jihad” in which a particular community tried to entice young people from other communities through the sale of addictive substances. ‘Serious allegations’ Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan initially claimed that he was hearing of “narcotics jihad” for the first time, alleged Mr. Muraleedharan. “The Chief Minister also alleged that the bishop’s statement could create communal disharmony. The BJP stands for peace and harmony in society but when such serious allegations are raised, they should be properly investigated,” he said. Mr. Muraleedharan was addressing a meet-the-press organised by the Ernakulam Press Club on his arrival from Algeria, where he was on a three-day official visit. He said the bishop had made such a claim before the members of his community. “Similar information has been shared in the CPI(M) party fora in the past,” he claimed, and termed the Chief Minister’s stance political hypocrisy. He said extremist elements should be distanced by the community as a whole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pass-info-on-bishops-charge-to-centre-bjp/article36546168.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID-19 patient not given proper treatment at MCH, says family||The family members of an 86-year-old COVID-19 patient who died at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Ernakulam, on September 14 have alleged that the body was found infested with maggots when it was taken for cremation. However, the hospital authorities rejected the allegations while stating that they had proof to show that the body had no wounds or bedsores. The death occurred around 12.10 a.m. on September 14, and the body was shifted to the mortuary by 3 a.m. The mortuary was working properly, they said. The management said the complaint was part of efforts to tarnish the image of the hospital. The patient, a resident of Kunnathunad, was admitted to the hospital on September 5. The family members alleged that he was not given proper treatment at the hospital despite his poor health condition. They also accused the hospital management of not reporting the death in time. He was first admitted to the Taluk Hospital at Perumbavoor and was later shifted to the Medical College Hospital after his condition worsened. The family members have filed a complaint to the Chief Minister demanding action against those responsible for the alleged lapse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-patient-not-given-proper-treatment-at-mch-says-family/article36546146.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NCP plans to evaluate performance of leaders||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has mooted the idea of a performance evaluation system to review the performance of party leaders at all levels every three months. The idea was discussed at a State leadership meet of the party in Ernakulam on Saturday. Inaugurating the meet, P.C. Chacko, party State president, said a coming together of local parties at the national level led by NCP national president Sharad Pawar would succeed in creating a good alliance against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In Kerala, the NCP would regularly organise coaching sessions for workers at various levels, said State general secretary K.R. Rajan. The political resolution presented by Jacob Kattoor, general secretary, sought participation of NCP workers of Kerala in protests against the policies of the Union government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncp-plans-to-evaluate-performance-of-leaders/article36546143.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Leelavathi gets Kendra Akademi Fellowship||M. Leelavathi has said she is humbly accepting the recognition that has come her way in the form of the Kendra Sahitya Akademi Fellowship, announced on Saturday. She wins the recognition for her significant contributions to literature as a great academic, an incisive literary critic, as well as an observer of the social and political reality around her. At 94, she is involved in contemporary publications, writing criticism as well as observations on the developments in society. She said one of her recent works, Aasakal, Aakulathakal, Aashankakal , reflected her take on the rising tide of religious fundamentalism in society. “The book is an inquiry into whether we are going in the right direction,” she said. She considered the critical work Aadipraroopangal Saahithyathil as one of her more important works. She also referred to two of her biographical works on Mahatma Gandhi and Indira Gandhi. M. Thomas Mathew, literary critic and former professor of Malayalam, said it was a great honour not only for Prof. Leelavathi but also for all those who followed her works closely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leelavathi-gets-kendra-akademi-fellowship/article36546161.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,626 fresh COVID cases in Ernakulam||As many as 2,626 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday. A total of 2,626 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 28 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate is 14.84%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 50 included Thripunithura (95), Kuttampuzha (75), Kottuvally (75), Puthenvelikkara (74), Kavalangad (62), Ezhikkara (57), Kothamangalam (57), Nayarambalam (57), and Mulanthuruthy (54).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2626-fresh-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article36546144.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Nefertiti resumes sea cruises, packed to capacity||Signalling that the tourism sector is on the revival path following a spree of pandemic-related lockdowns, Nefertiti, the flagship luxury cruise vessel of the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), resumed operations, packed to capacity, on Saturday. The sea-going vessel’s forthcoming weekend cruise on September 26 too has been fully reserved to capacity. The resounding response is seen in view of the slashing of the per person fare from Rs. 3,500 to Rs. 1,999 and for children aged 5 to 10 years from Rs. 999 to Rs. 499. Entry is free for kids below five years. The cruise time has been increased to four hours, while buffet dinner will be served on board. The Egyptian-themed ship capable of hosting 200 people at a time has restricted the number to 120, in keeping with pandemic regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nefertiti-resumes-sea-cruises-packed-to-capacity/article36546142.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Nellikuzhi murder: SIT back after evidence collection||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the murder of a dental student and the suicide of her alleged murderer at Nellikuzhi near Kothamangalam town has returned after a five-day exhaustive evidence collection trip in North India. The team had taken Adithyan, friend and business partner of prime accused Rakhil, to Patna and Munger in Bihar and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh. Adithyan has been accused of accompanying Rakhil to Bihar to buy the pistol with which the alleged crime was committed. They stayed in three different hotels in as many days. Employees at the hotels identified Adithyan. The team also collected evidence from the house of Sonu Kumar who handed over the pistol to Rakhil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nellikuzhi-murder-sit-back-after-evidence-collection/article36546147.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy, Coast Guard, police tidy coast||Planting of mangrove saplings, restoration of existing ones, and clearing of plastic and non-biodegradable waste from along the Kochi waterfront by over 600 Naval personnel, their families, personnel of the Coast Guard and the police were the highlights of International Coastal Clean-up Day observed on Saturday. Personnel of the Southern Naval Command, the Coast Guard, and the police took part in the global campaign of keeping coastlines clean, at Fort Kochi and Cherai beaches, Thevara waterfront, Willingdon and Bolgatty islands, and along a two-km stretch of the Venduruthy Channel. Personnel and families helped restore around 1 lakh sq.m of mangroves to their pristine condition, said Navy sources. Efforts were undertaken to enhance green cover by conducting mass drives, including the planting of more than 75,000 trees using the Miyawaki forestation method, they added. The Southern Naval Command has implemented a ‘Green Initiative and Environment Conservation Roadmap’ with prime focus on carbon-footprint reduction. Vice Admiral Anil Kumar Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command, and Mayor M. Anilkumar participated in Saturday’s clean-up drive. Marine litter totalling 1,500 kg was collected by personnel of the Coast Guard and the police. District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju also took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-coast-guard-police-tidy-coast/article36546140.ece
19 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police bust sex racket||The Kalady police on Saturday busted an alleged sex racket and arrested five persons from a lodge at Mattoor Junction along Airport Road. The arrested are Jagan, 24, of Kollam; Ebin, 33, of Mookkannoor; Noyal, 21, of Vengoor; Dhanesh, 29, of Payyanur, and Sudheesh, 36, of Rayamangalam. A woman from Madhya Pradesh was also taken into custody. The raid was conducted following a tip-off received by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-bust-sex-racket/article36546148.ece
19 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Govt. asked to apprise HC of action on churches||The Kerala High Court has directed the State government to inform it about the action taken for implementing the directive of the Supreme Court to hand over the administration and management of various parishes in the Malankara Church to the Orthodox faction. Justice Devan Ramachandran passed the order on Saturday when petitions filed by the Orthodox faction seeking police protection for six churches came up for hearing. "There can be no doubt that the issues between the rival parties are still dangerously poised and, therefore, the government must disclose their stand in the matter," observed the court, adding that this was important because it was the machinery under the government that required to be used in the event of the court ordering police protection. Pending cases The court reminded the State government that there were several cases pending before it seeking protection for churches belonging to the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. Referring to the government stand that it was finding it difficult to comply with the SC directive due to fear of breach of peace and threat of violence, the judge observed: "The government cannot plead helplessness when they have the mechanism to ensure compliance of lawful orders.” The court asked the government to give its response on September 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-asked-to-apprise-hc-of-action-on-churches/article36546166.ece
19 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||SHRC registers case on ‘treatment denial’||The State Human Rights Commission has registered a case and ordered a probe into an incident where a woman was reportedly denied treatment at three hospitals and left to carry a dead foetus for days. The 23-year-old, who was eight months pregnant, later was delivered of a stillborn at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Parippally. Commission member V.K. Beenakumari has sought a report from the Kollam District Medical Officer and instructed her to look into the circumstances that led to the complaint. As per reports, Meera, a resident of Kalluvathukkal, and her husband visited three hospitals, including the Paravur taluk hospital, Kollam Victoria Hospital, and Thiruvananthapuram SAT Hospital for treatment. While a patient at the Paravur taluk hospital, Meera was referred to Victoria Hospital on September 11 after she complained of abdominal pain. Reportedly, Victoria Hospital denied her treatment since she had no women caregivers. She was then taken to the casualty of SAT Hospital, but as per reports, the doctor refused to examine her. Later, she was taken to the MCH at Parippally where she delivered the baby. According to the couple, the doctors told them that the baby must have died five or six days before delivery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-registers-case-on-treatment-denial/article36546150.ece
19 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Search on for missing fisher||Serach is on for Omanakuttan, the fisher who went missing from Kollam on September 15, District Collector Afsana Parveen says. He was part of the crew on KL 02-2330 that ventured into the sea from Neendakara. The 47-year-old was reported missing near Titanium. “Experts from the Navy, Coast Guard, Coastal police, and Marine Enforcement, are searching. Fishing boats are also helping out, said Ms. Parveen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/search-on-for-missing-fisher/article36546201.ece
19 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,342 cases reported in Kollam||Kollam reported 1,342 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,365 recoveries on Saturday. While 1,330 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include two NRIs, two persons from another State, and eight health workers. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 13.8 %. 1,013 in Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 1,013 persons testing positive. Of the fresh cases, 990 persons including three health workers contracted the virus through contact. With 94 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases. As many as 1,145 persons recovered. 933 in Alappuzha The district logged 933 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 14.58%. Of the fresh cases, 895 people contracted the disease through contact. Source of infection of 35 others remain unknown. Three health staff also tested positive. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 10,331. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 831 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 826 persons contracted the virus through contact. The source of two cases are yet to be ascertained. Meanwhile, the decease claimed three more lives. With 1,099 recoveries, the number of active cases stood at 8,789.  (With inputs from Kottayam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1342-cases-reported-in-kollam/article36546203.ece
19 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Fight communal forces: Mani||Amidst the raging debate over ‘narcotic jihad,’ Kerala Congress (M) chairman Jose K. Mani has urged the youth to come forward and respond against the growing threats of communalism and terrorism. Inaugurating the district convention of the Youth Front (M) in Kottayam here on Saturday, Mr. Mani highlighted the need for youngsters to be vigilant against the spread of racism and sectarianism through social media. “The warning by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) that terrorist organisations are trying to establish influence in our country through social media should be taken very seriously,” he said. Minority Morcha Meanwhile, Sayyed Ibrahim, general secretary, BJP Minority Morcha, visited the bishop of Pala. “The bishop is attempting to create awareness against the growing threats within his community. A particular section, however, took the opportunity to create division between the two religions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fight-communal-forces-mani/article36546204.ece
19 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||New Central scheme brings cheer to fishing boat operators||Fishermen and boat owners who have been financially struggling to improve facilities in their fishing boats have expressed delight over the Fisheries Department’s move to implement a Central scheme, which promises a subsidy of up to 40% on completion of upgrading works worth Rs. 15 lakh. The project implemented under the Centrally sponsored scheme, Development of Marine Fisheries, Infrastructure and Post-Harvest Operation, will come to the aid of a large number of mechanised boats in five small fishing harbours in Kozhikode district. According to Fisheries Department officials, the project is mainly aimed at promoting the export potential of marine resources and equipping fishermen to explore opportunities. Using the fund under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana, boat operators will be encouraged to improve cold storage facilities for keeping the daily catch, they said. Under the scheme, there are also proposals to improve scientific waste treatment facilities and installation of bio-toilets. All applicants will also be eligible to claim other support schemes aimed at ensuring the safety of fishing boats by fitting advanced safety devices. Representatives of fishermen welfare organisations say a mechanised boat owner will be able to get at least Rs. 6 lakh as subsidy under the project which is now under implementation across the country. Fisheries offices and Matsya Bhavans are expected to coordinate the district-level processing of applications which will be completed by September 30, they add. In Kozhikode district, there are 1,222 mechanised fishing boats registered with the Fisheries Department. Many of these boats are now conducting only limited services due to the heavy operational cost and difficulties in meeting the annual maintenance cost. There are also boat owners who are willing to sell off their boats to overcome financial crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-central-scheme-brings-cheer-to-fishing-boat-operators/article36546134.ece
19 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Nipah source remains a mystery||Health officials are still unclear about the source of the Nipah virus in Kozhikode even two weeks after the death of Mohammed Hashim, a 12-year-old boy, due to the infection. Sources said on Saturday that the samples of rambutan fruits and areca nut collected from Ward 9 of the Chathamangalam grama panchayat, where the boy’s house is located, have turned negative for the virus. Relatives, neighbours and parents of the boy had earlier told a Central team that he had eaten the fruits that could have been bitten by fruit bats, which are Nipah carriers. The samples were examined at the National Institute of Virology at Pune. Some wild boar samples in the area too did not have the virus presence. Now, results of the live bat samples collected by an NIV bat survey team are awaited. Goats, fruit bats Hashim had died on September 5. Last week, the body fluid samples collected from 25 goats on the premises of Hashim’s house had tested negative for the virus. So too did some of the fruit bat carcasses collected from nearby. Some bird droppings collected from a bat habitat across a river near a property owned by Vayoli Aboobacker, Hashim’s father, too gave negative results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nipah-source-remains-a-mystery/article36546149.ece
19 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A unique story of creating a ‘plantain bank’ at Vengeri||At first glance, they all look the same until you read the name boards kept on the foot of every plantain shoot and Babu Parambath describes the speciality of each of them. Then you start noticing the minor details that make this plantain grove one of its kind. Mr. Parambath, known for his several ventures in the waste management front as the project coordinator of Niravu waste management company, has collected 50 different varieties of plantains from not just India, but from other parts of the world too, over a period of one-and-a-half years since the first COVID-induced lockdown. He has one or two shoots of each of them planted in the 10 cents next to his home at Vengeri. “This land belongs to my sister. I had planted a few available saplings in one corner to avoid sitting idle during the lockdown. But then I started getting different types of saplings from various quarters, and it became a crazy hobby. I just completed planting the 50th sapling,” he said pointing to the ‘Gaali’ sapling that he had sourced from Karnataka the other day. What began as a hobby is now a ‘plantain bank’ with several endangered species of saplings finding place here. There are around 23 varieties of plantains cultivated in Kerala, while there are a total of around 45 varieties in the country. There are around 1,500 varieties of plantains across the world, most of which are found in Taiwan and African countries. Mr. Parambath has planted plantain varieties from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh besides exotic varieties from Taiwan, Israel and Sri Lanka. The collection includes ‘Tai Moosa’, the shortest variety that grows only up to three-feet height, which comes from Taiwan, and ‘Chingan’, one of the tallest varieties in the world available in Sri Lanka. Besides, there are ‘Namva’, ‘Botasna’ and ‘1000 figure’ from Taiwan, ‘Reino’, and ‘Big Ebaga’ from Africa and ‘William Robust’ from Israel. ‘1000 figure’ has the longest fruit that often touches the ground and is used for decorative purposes. The variety named ‘Praying Hand’ has its sections facing each other like a praying hand, rather than one above the other. “I am planning to develop this as a ‘plantain bank’ and record the movement of each sapling that I sell. I have been contacted by NABARD and the Kerala Agricultural University, both of which have extended help to develop this venture as a model project and for educational purposes for students,” Mr. Parambath said. Many of the saplings and banana bunches in this grove have already found takers, who have booked them in advance, especially since they are organically grown.  NABARD and Kerala Agricultural University have extended help to develop this venture as a model project Babu Parambath||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-unique-story-of-creating-a-plantain-bank-at-vengeri/article36546127.ece
19 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Stone laid for mini civil station at Balussery||Public Works and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Saturday laid the foundation stone for the proposed mini civil station building at Balussery. The six-storey building project, which was accorded administrative sanction last year, will be completed at a cost of Rs. 15 crore. Officials said a number of government offices such as the treasury office, sub-registrar’s office, and Excise Department office will be shifted to the new facility on its completion in two years. The local offices of Agriculture and Revenue departments currently functioning in rented buildings also could be shifted to the new facility with the completion of the allotment process, they said. Minister’s promise “The time-bound completion of the building will be ensured at all levels by the Public Works Department. The Revenue Department is also extending its cooperation to the project,” said Mr. Riyas. Revenue Minister K. Rajan chaired the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stone-laid-for-mini-civil-station-at-balussery/article36546132.ece
19 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Plea to allow cycles to be carried in KSRTC buses||It was the sight of a cycle being carried on a Karnataka Road Transport Corporation bus that made Sahir Abdul Jabbar, the Cycle Mayor of Kozhikode, curious. In a letter to Transport Minister Antony Raju, he pointed out the need for such a facility in Kerala RTC buses as well, to promote cycling culture among people. “A large number of people in Kerala have found cycling an effective, cheapest and healthy mode of transportation. More than a hobby, several people are turning professional cyclists too. Cycling competitions are organised across the State,” Jabbar said, pointing to the need to promote cycling among people to combat the rising vehicular population and resultant traffic congestion. “It is difficult to carry cycle with us while travelling in Kerala from one town to another. It is possible to transport cycles in low-floor buses, but it is not permitted,” he said. Jabbar met Mr. Raju to discuss the issue. “Let them [government] levy luggage charges. We just need a means to carry our cycles with us,” Sahir said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-allow-cycles-to-be-carried-in-ksrtc-buses/article36546131.ece
19 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Steady rate of COVID recoveries in Kozhikode||Kozhikode district continues to report a steady rate of recoveries from COVID-19 even as the fresh cases hovered around 2,000-mark. On Saturday, only 2,188 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 while 2,665 others recovered from the infection. There were 2,162 cases of locally acquired infections and the source of 16 others was not known. As many as 13,039 samples were tested. Active caseload from the district is 22,349.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steady-rate-of-covid-recoveries-in-kozhikode/article36546128.ece
19 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Coastal clean-up day observed||The Indian Coast Guard station at Beypore on Saturday observed the International Coastal Clean-up Day with the participation of volunteers representing various organisations. Francis Paul, Station Commander, led the drive which focussed on the Beypore beach. Officials said the drive, which drew the participation of over 75 volunteers along with the Coast Guard staff, was organised to educate people on the importance of saving marine life and make them aware of the marine debris issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coastal-clean-up-day-observed/article36546130.ece
19 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Two arrested with stolen vehicle||The Chevayur police on Saturday arrested two youths who attempted to steal a goods carrier from Malaparamba here. M.P. Abbas, 20, and Nidheesh Krishnankutty, 22, were nabbed after a long chase. The carrier that hit six other vehicles was finally intercepted near the Bilathikulam temple. Cases were registered against the youths for reckless driving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-with-stolen-vehicle/article36546133.ece
19 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Talk to community leaders, govt. told||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has asked the government to initiate a dialogue with community leaders to find a solution to the ‘narcotics jihad’ issue in the State. He said here on Saturday that the Opposition would support any move to restore peace between communities. The Opposition has no intention to reap dividends from the issue. Mr. Satheesan said the Congress initiated efforts for a solution as the government did not convene an all-party meeting. He accused the CPI(M) of taking no stand in the sensitive issue. The allegation raised by the CPI(M) in a party meeting about attempts by extremeist groups to rope in educated women on professional college campuses was ‘very serious.’ “If the CPI(M) has any evidence of it, the party should reveal it,” said Mr. Satheesan. Inaugurating a district leadership meeting of the Congress here later, Mr. Satheesan called upon the party workers and local leaders to become the voice of the ordinary people and that of the oppressed. ‘Corrective measures’ He said that the government had to correct the mistakes it committed in the name of COVID-19 many times because the Opposition pointed them out by standing up for the ordinary people. “The change in the number of COVID-19 deaths and the decision to permit opening of shops were part of those corrective measures,” he said. District Congress Committee (DCC) president A. Thankappan welcomed Mr. Satheesan. V.K. Sreekandan, MP; former DCC presidents V.S. Vijayaraghavan and C.V. Balachandran; and former minister V.C. Kabeer were among those who spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talk-to-community-leaders-govt-told/article36546307.ece
19 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Sasi promises to bring KTDC closer to people||The Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) is planning to launch several people-friendly projects to come closer to the people. “There is a feeling among the people that the KTDC is for the upper strata of society. We are trying to change this feeling,” said newly appointed KTDC chairman P.K. Sasi here on Saturday. Mr. Sasi said plans were afoot to build mini comfort stations on government land by the side of the National and State Highways. “Apart from facilities for parking and freshening up, we can set up coffee shops and breastfeeding rooms,” he said. Some rest houses in the possession of the Public Works Department (PWD) should be handed over to the KTDC. “We are also considering some innovative projects such as floating restaurants,” he said. A meeting to be held in Thiruvananthapuram on September 23 will discuss the future of Kerala tourism in detail. “We will come up with a solid plan to take tourism to further levels,” Mr. Sasi said. Case of Vellinezhi Laying emphasis on responsible tourism, Mr. Sasi said classical art forms should be used in sync with the pristine nature. “Vellinezhi village in Palakkad district is a fine example. The number of art forms and artists available in the village is amazingly high,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sasi-promises-to-bring-ktdc-closer-to-people/article36546308.ece
19 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Antigen tests in private labs halted||The State government has decided to stop rapid antigen tests for COVID-19 in private laboratories as the coverage of the population with the first dose of vaccine has neared 90%, it was decided at a COVID review meeting here on Saturday. Antigen tests will henceforth be performed only for emergencies in private/public sector hospitals, only at the discretion of a doctor. The meeting also decided to conduct a special drive to scout for people above 65 years who have not yet been vaccinated in the State and to administer the vaccine to them. Awareness campaigns Public awareness campaigns on the importance of COVID vaccination will also be taken up as the majority of deaths due to COVID-19 is being reported in those who are unvaccinated. It was also decided at the meeting that the Weekly Infection Prevention Ratio (WIPR) cut-off would be fixed at 10 and wards where the WIPR goes above 10 will be locked down. Earlier, the WIPR cut-off had been 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/antigen-tests-in-private-labs-halted/article36546167.ece
19 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Students should enjoy when schools reopen, says CM||Projects that provide current students and new ones an enjoyable experience when schools reopen post-COVID should be planned, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking at the first meeting of the Vidyakiranam State mission here on Saturday. The Chief Minister said there should be a good understanding of how post-COVID education should be. There should be interventions to address the social-emotional-academic problems faced by students. Programmes that help in understanding children personally should be drawn up. There should be a teacher mentor for 10-15 students. Skills of students should be nurtured once they return to school. The gaps in online learning should be addressed. There should be no digital divide. Training should be given to enhance teachers’ professionalism. A resource team should be deployed in each district. National-level experts should be made part of the training. Academic master plans should continue. Students from the marginalised sections and the differently abled should be given academic support. Social justice and equal opportunities should be the foundation for their education, Mr. Pinarayi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-should-enjoy-when-schools-reopen-says-cm/article36546387.ece
19 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Coast Guard Commander calls on Governor, CM||Deputy Inspector General N. Ravi, Commander of the Indian Coast Guard (Kerala and Mahe), on Saturday called on Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and senior officials during his maiden visit to Kerala after assuming charge. During his discussions with the Governor, Chief Minister and Chief Secretary V.P. Joy, Mr. Ravi briefed them about the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) infrastructure developments in the State. He also shared details on the augmentation of Coast Guard assets in the State to enhance its search, rescue and reconnaissance capability in the southern region, a press note said. Ports Minister He also paid visits to Ports Minister Ahammad Devarkovil, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, State Police Chief Anil Kant and the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Air Command. Besides visiting the ICG Station at Vizhinjam and reviewing the progress of ongoing infrastructure development, the Deputy Inspector General toured the sites of various projects at the Coast Guard jetty at Vizhinjam and the ICG air enclave being developed in the State capital. During his meetings, the ICG Commander requested the support of the government in expediting the works on the air enclave that could enhance ICG’s search, rescue and reconnaissance capabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coast-guard-commander-calls-on-cm/article36546152.ece
19 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||88,000 more houses to be built under LIFE project this year||As many as 88,000 more houses will be completed under the State government's Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) housing project this year, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan has said. He was speaking after handing over the keys to the house of a beneficiary and making the declaration of completion of 12,000 houses under the LIFE housing project as part of the government’s 100-day action plan. The government's aim is to complete four lakh more houses in the coming four years to reach the target of five lakh houses in five years, the Minister said.  Waste disposal project He stressed that the government was also planning to initiate a major project to remove solid waste from cities and villages in the State. To address joblessness, a project to provide jobs to at least five out of 1,000 persons in every grama panchayat, municipality and Corporation is being planned.  Speaking after making the declaration of completion of 12,000 houses under the LIFE housing project, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in the past five years, 2.62 lakh houses have been completed, for which the government spent Rs. 8,933 crore. These projects were implemented by combining with Central schemes too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/88000-more-houses-to-be-built-under-life-project-this-year/article36546165.ece
19 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||684 houses built in city under LIFE||A total of 684 houses were completed in the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation under the State Government's Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) housing project as part of the State Government's 100-day action plan. Transport Minister Antony Raju made the Corporation-level declaration to coincide with the Chief Minister's declaration of completion of 12,000 houses under the project across the State. Mayor Arya Rajendran presided over the function. Standing panel chairpersons, Corporation Secretary, councillors and LIFE project beneficiaries were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/684-houses-built-in-city-under-life/article36546390.ece
19 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Slow pace of housing project draws flak||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has come to the rescue of homeless families from the fishing community who have been staying at the Valiyathura UP School for years. The commission directed the government and the Kerala Coastal Area Development Corporation to speed up measures for their rehabilitation. The delay in the implementation of a housing project for the families amounted to denial of justice, commission chairman Antony Dominic observed. The government had entrusted the Kerala State Coastal Area Development Corporation with the construction of 32 flats. Eight flats have been completed. However, the government transferred 27.435 cents of land for building the remaining 24 flats to St Antony's Public School. Although the school provided substitute land, the corporation informed the government that seven more cents would be needed for the project. A decision on this matter is still awaited. Funds sanction The Fisheries Department is yet to sanction funds for the work, which also contributed to the delay, the commission noted. The Director, Fisheries Department, informed the Commission that the families can be rehabilitated at the flats proposed in 294 cents in Muttathara village. The Principal, St Antony's School, informed the commission that the land transferred by the school was suitable for construction. The commission said it will not intervene in matters related to the allocation of land. However, the delay in the housing project amounted to denial of justice, it noted, urging the Chief Secretary and the corporation to expedite the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slow-pace-of-housing-project-draws-flak/article36546392.ece
19 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 19,325 cases||The State reported 19,325 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 1,21,070 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool on Saturday dropped to 1,80,842, with 27,266 patients reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. Despite the decrease in hospitalisations, there has been no let-up in COVID-19 deaths. The official cumulative case fatality in the State now stands at 23,439, with it adding 143 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID-19 deaths on Saturday. ICU occupancy dropped to 2,226.  Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 2,626, followed by Thrissur 2,329 cases, Kozhikode 2,188, Thiruvananthapuram 2,050, Palakkad 1,775, Malappuram 1,596, Kollam 1,342, Kannur 1,119, Kottayam 1,013, Alappuzha 933, Pathanamthitta 831, Idukki 708, Wayanad 452 and Kasaragod 363 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-logs-19325-cases/article36546163.ece
19 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GST inclusion won’t lower fuel prices: Balagopal||The claim that the inclusion of petroleum products under Goods and Services Tax (GST) will bring down fuel prices is baseless, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. Fuel prices can be reduced if the Centre foregoes the huge amount collected as cess on petrol and diesel. There is a deliberate attempt to deceive the public by claiming that GST inclusion would bring down fuel prices, Mr. Balagopal, who had attended the 45th GST Council meet in Lucknow on Friday, said in New Delhi on Saturday. The GST Council’s decision to keep petroleum products out of the GST regime had, in fact, proven that there was a point in the stand taken by Kerala and other States, he said. “Moreover, if GST is applied to an item, the tax revenue of the State gets halved. Which means, the State stands to lose a big chunk of its present collection. This will have an adverse impact on the tax revenues of the States,” Mr. Balagopal said. For protecting the interests of the States, keeping petroleum products out of GST and maintaining the status quo was essential, he said. The GST Council had also decided to go for a detailed study before raising the tax on coconut oil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gst-inclusion-wont-lower-fuel-prices-balagopal/article36546151.ece
19 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,050 new COVID cases in capital||Thiruvananthapuram district recorded 2,050 COVID-19 cases and 2,042 recoveries as the active caseload stood at 16,474 on Saturday. As many as 42,311 people were undergoing quarantine in the district. The death toll stood at 3,767. New containment zones have been declared in ward 16 of Manamboor grama panchayat and ward three of Vamanapuram grama panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2050-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article36546389.ece
19 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IT sector on a recruitment drive in State||In the months immediately after the COVID-19 outbreak last year, the IT employees in Kerala had a tough time with lay-offs. It was a period of uncertainty even for those who had not lost their jobs, while the ones who were laid off found opportunities hard to come by. Some of the smaller IT firms had to cease operations too. However, the tide seems to have turned now with more recruitments happening and openings being reported. On Friday, Prathidhwani, welfare organisation of IT employees in Kerala opened a five-day long virtual job fair, with around 100 companies being part of it. The companies have made available a total of more than 2,000 job opportunities. Companies from Thiruvananthapuram Technopark, Kochi Infopark and Kozhikode Cyberpark are part of the mega virtual job fair. “Registrations are free. The companies have provided us a set of job descriptions. We have created an automated system by which the profiles of candidates are matched with these. The matching profiles will be forwarded to the company,” said a representative of Prathidhwani. Among the companies that are part of the job fair are UST Global, Allianz, HnR Block, Quest Global and Tata Elxsi. Openings include DevOps Engineer, Technical Architect, Automation Tester, DB developer, Big Data Analyst, Full Stack Developer, PHP, Mobile Developer, UI/UX, Java Developer, .NET Developer, Sales Executives and Technical Writers. Candidates can apply at jobs. prathidhwani. org/job-fair till September 21. Interview timeline is likely to be from September 22 to 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-sector-on-a-recruitment-drive-in-state/article36546313.ece
19 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Revised target for vaccination||Kerala has now covered 88.94 % of its population with the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine and 36.67% with second dose, now that the Centre has revised the estimated population of all States as per the reports of the Registrar General’s office and Census Commissioner According to the revised estimate, Kerala’s target population eligible for COVID vaccination has dropped from 2.87 crore to 2,67,09,000. More vaccines arrive With the State receiving 9,79,370 more doses of vaccines, adequate stock is available to cover all eligible persons (above 18 years) in the State with the first dose. Health Minister Veena George appealed to all to accept the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revised-target-for-vaccination/article36546153.ece
19 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU insurance scheme launched||Higher Education Minister R. Bindu has exhorted universities to strive to create a knowledge society that is equipped to build a robust and sustainable economy. Inaugurating the Suraksha insurance scheme rolled out by APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University here on Friday, Dr. Bindu said universities could become beacons of light to the youth only if they transitioned themselves into centres of learning that assured the all-round growth and development of students. The Minister launched the insurance scheme meant for university students by handing over a cheque of Rs. 5 lakh to the mother of Sooraj Krishna who succumbed to COVID-19 recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-insurance-scheme-launched/article36546164.ece
19 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Training for poverty survey inaugurated||Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V.Govindan on Saturday inaugurated the training programme for master trainers ahead of the survey to identify five lakh of the poorest families in the State. Training will be provided through the Kerala Institute of Local Administration for people's representatives, officials and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-for-poverty-survey-inaugurated/article36546391.ece
19 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New initiatives to help KSRTC: Minister||General Education Minister V.Sivankutty said here on Saturday that new initiatives like the Yatra fuel outlets would pull the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) out of the red and put the public transport utility back on the road to recovery. Inaugurating the Yatra Fuels outlet at the KSRTC bus stand, Kilimanoor, he said the decision to open fuel outlets for the public was expected to generate revenue for the corporation and help it tide over the financial crisis. The Minister also inaugurated the first sale of fuel from the outlet. O.S.Ambika, MLA, presided over the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-initiatives-to-help-ksrtc-minister/article36546393.ece
19 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur native in Indian team for world Wushu tourney||Aniyan Midhun, a native of Nattika in Thrissur, is all set to represent India in the World Wushu Sanda Championship organised by the International Wushu Federation. The championship will be held in Kyrgyzstan from September 23 to 27. Midhun, who is part of a four-member team from the country, is participating in the 70 kg category. First from south India The 28-year-old Midhun is the first person from south India to be selected to the national Wushu team. He won gold at the South Asian Wushu Championship held in Nepal early this year. Midhun has been into Wushu, a lesser known martial art in the State, from childhood. “It is a big challenge for me. I am practising well and am confident,” he said, after long hours of practice on the Nattika beach. It is not easy for a Keralite, where Wushu is not at all popular, to make it to a world championship. Getting sponsors is another challenge. He thanked his coach Kuldeep Handoo, an Arjuna Award winner, for his achievements. “The gold at the South Asian championship gave me lots of confidence. I know the World Championship will be much tougher. I hope to make my country proud,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-native-in-indian-team-for-world-wushu-tourney/article36546310.ece
19 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||IT dept. plants 500 saplings||The Income Tax Department, Thrissur, organised a tree planting drive here on Saturday as part of Amrutholsavam on the occasion of the 75th anniversary year of Independence. Around 500 tree saplings were planted at various educational institutions as part of the drive. Income Tax Chief Commissioner Seema Raj inaugurated the drive at Devamatha Public School here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-dept-plants-500-saplings/article36546311.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||NATPAC to ready new list of black spots||The National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC) will submit a revised list of accident-prone black spots in Ernakulam district within a month to the Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) for road-owning agencies to initiate accident mitigation measures. Safety measures Based on road accident data provided by the police, NATPAC had submitted a list of 39 black spots in the district in 2019 to the authority. The KRSA sanctioned funds to improve safety measures at locales where land acquisition is not needed. Improvements which entail land acquisition will be carried out in the next stage, official sources said. The upcoming report of 2021 will take into account accident data from 2018 and will have a list of accident-prone junctions and curves like the one at Elamkulam on SA Road, which claimed the life of about a dozen young two-wheeler riders during the past two years, they added. Officials of NATPAC, Motor Vehicles Department, and City Traffic Police had expressed concern at the steep curve, inadequate road gradient, and varying width of the carriageway at Elamkulam owing to a couple of buildings protruding into the road, as the main reasons for accidents. At Vyttila, Kundannoor They had also expressed concern at accidents beneath flyovers at Vyttila and Kundannoor, mainly due to inadequate width of the junctions. Such junctions often find mention in the list of black spots, since little is done to streamline traffic beneath flyovers and bridges. NATPAC had submitted designs to rectify 75 black spots across Kerala, based on its 2019 report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/natpac-to-ready-new-list-of-black-spots/article36546139.ece
19 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dismiss Jogi Ramesh from Assembly: Kalava||YSR Congress Party workers’ bid to attack the former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu by picketing his house in Narsipatnam on Saturday was an instigation from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, alleged TDP Polit Bureau member Kalava Srinivasulu. He sought a statement from the Chief Minister condemning the act of his partymen. TDP leaders and workers on Saturday staged a dharna at the Mahatma Gandhi statue near Clock Tower Circle here and demanded the dismissal of Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh from the Assembly for his alleged attack on the TDP cadres and the bid to picket the house of party chief and Opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu in Amaravati on Friday. “The wild, anti-democratic governance of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was visible when he did not stop his partymen from taking the law into their hands and the State police are hand in glove with the ruling party as they did not stop such a large crowd from proceeding towards Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu’s house,” Mr. Srinivasulu told reporters. In both incidents, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy should be made Accused No. 2 (A2) as these incidents happened with his full knowledge, the TDP leader alleged. At a time when the police were putting TDP leaders under house arrest even when they proposed a democratic protest, allowing Mr. Jogi Ramesh and a convoy of cars close to the house of a Z+ protectee showed the failure of the police, said Anantapur Urban former MLA Vykuntam Prabhakar Chowdary and Mr. Srinivas after participating in the dharna. Mr. Chowdary demanded immediate intervention of the Centre in these issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dismiss-jogi-ramesh-from-assembly/article36545775.ece
19 September 2021||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for counting of votes for local body polls||The stage is set for the counting of votes polled in the April elections for MPTCs and ZPTCs from 8 a.m. on Sunday. The process will take place at 17 centres in 13 locations in Anantapur district and at 16 centres in 11 towns in Kurnool district. For the 62 ZPTCs, 13,03,522 votes were polled (56.37% voting) and 12,23,073 votes for 782 MPTCs (55.99% voting). Superintendents of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli(Anantapur) and Ch. Sudheer Kumar Reddy(Kurnool) inspected strong rooms on Saturday and said all gaps were bridged for a peaceful counting process. Section 144 of CrPC will be in place on Sunday along with restrictions under Section 30 in all the towns where the counting process is proposed. No outsider will be allowed to move to the place of counting. Anantapur Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer Bhaskar Reddy said that while 925 supervisors have been deployed, 2,770 assistants would conduct the counting process on 62 ZPTC tables and 782 MPTC tables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-counting-of-votes-for-local-body-polls/article36545776.ece
19 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Air India flight develops technical snag on runway, delayed for over 5 hours||A New Delhi-bound Air India flight scheduled to take off at 10.25 a.m. from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) developed a technical snag on the runway Saturday morning. Mahendra Kumar Joshi, one of the passengers on the plane, claimed they were made to sit onboard for nearly two and a half hours with no clear information on alternate arrangements. “Many passengers had planned their travel as a stop over at Delhi to catch other flights to Srinagar, the North East and other international destinations, so they were very upset,” he said. The second runway at KIA was used to operate other flights due to this issue. “On September 18, a Delhi-bound Air India flight developed a technical issue while taxiing to the runway at the airport. There was no impact on the operations as South Runway was used to ensure smooth operations,” said a BIAL spokesperson. According to an Air India spokesperson, the snag was fixed and the same aircraft flew to New Delhi with the passengers at 3.45 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/air-india-flight-develops-technical-snag-on-runway-delayed-for-over-5-hours/article36545460.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. Public Dept. comes under malware attack||A ransomware attack is said to have encrypted certain sensitive documents of the Tamil Nadu Public Department since Friday morning. Official sources said some of those files related to VIP visits, programmes and arrangements made for them. While the suspect has demanded a ransom of $1,950 in cryptocurrency for handing over the decryption code, cybersecurity experts of the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) and the Computer Emergency Response Team are trying to retrieve the files, sources at the Secretariat told The Hindu on Saturday. Soon after the attack, officials of C-DAC, with which the Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu (ELCOT) has a tie-up for e-governance and cybersecurity, inspected the desktop computers that displayed a message from the suspect demanding ransom, the sources said. Outdated OS Of the 12 desktop computers used at the particular section in the Public Department, about 8 were found to be operating on the Windows-7 Operating System which, cybersecurity experts said, was an outdated platform with little or no support from Microsoft. Because of this, the computers had no security/software updates and anti-virus mechanism to prevent ransomware or other cyberattacks. Though officials were trying to retrieve the content of the files that remain encrypted from other sources, cybersecurity officials of the Tamil Nadu police who inspected the computers said there was no compromise on VIP security protocol or any other matter that could affect the routine functions of the State government.  “We need an effective IT security policy and first responders in computer forensics to handle such situations. The use of outdated operating systems with no software updates and anti-virus protection remains a threat. The ransomware is click-based and could have landed in the form of a WhatsApp message (opened on a desktop computer), email and pop-up,” said a senior official who is part of the investigation team. According to cybersecurity experts, there has been an increase in ransomware attacks in recent times. Suspects operating from unknown locations often target prominent personalities and demand ransom by claiming that they have access to sensitive personal data or websites visited by them. “Even if a few respond and make payments, that’s good enough for the suspects. Awareness of cyber-safe practices and updated systems supported by secure networks is the key,” the official said, adding that a formal complaint would soon be lodged with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tamil-nadu-public-department-comes-under-malware-attack/article36545814.ece
19 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modi selling country to corporates: Brinda||Communist Party of India (Marxist) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s monetisation policy would spell doom for India and it was high time all political parties, public and social groups with progressive ideologies waged a united battle against the ‘anti-poor’ policies of the NDA government. At the party’s ‘Save Nation’ campaign held at a function hall in Tirupati on Saturday, she said that in the name of monetisation, the NDA government was selling away the key assets of the country, endangering the future of the employees working in the public sector. “Even villages are brought under the onslaught of Modi’s privatisation move, selling away country’s landed properties to corporate groups,” she alleged. It was inhuman on the part of Mr. Narendra Modi to ‘hoard’ the COVID-19 vaccine stocks for a week, and use them for political advantage by going in for bulk vaccination on his birthday, she said. Ms. Brinda Karat said that farmers and industrial workers were the worst hit due to the failed economic policies of the NDA government. “Though the farmers’ federations have been hitting the streets in New Delhi for a year, their plight continues to become worse from bad. The privatisation policies have adversely impacted the lives of industrial workers,” she said. Ms. Karat said the BJP had betrayed the people of Andhra Pradesh by jumping its promise of special status to the State. She was critical of the move to privatise the Visakhapatnam steel plant. She called upon all the like-minded political parties and trade unions to extend their support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ proposed on September 27 by farmers’ unions. Senior leaders took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/modi-selling-country-to-corporates-brinda/article36546268.ece
19 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||50-year-old man held under POCSO Act||The police on Saturday took a 50-year-old man at a hamlet in Ramasamudram mandal, 20 km from Punganur, into custody on charges of molesting a nine-year-old girl. \ The Deputy SP (Palamaner) said that based on complaint from the girl’s parents, a criminal case under the POCSO Act was booked against the accused, and medical examination was conducted on the child. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-year-old-held-under-pocso-act/article36545777.ece
19 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spike in crime rate due to unemployment: Chinta||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan has said that India has been witnessing uninterrupted crime against women, drug and liquor mafia owing to spiralling unemployment and poverty. Addressing a press conference in Tirupati, Dr. Mohan said the underprivileged sections were mostly demoralised in the country due to lack of sources to lead a dignified life, and this had forced the youth, and even minors, to resort to crime. Criticising the BJP-led NDA government’s Assets Monetisation Plan, Dr. Mohan said that initiatives were on to sell away the Carriage Repair Shop of the Railways and International airport at Tirupati, and Satish Dhawan Space Research Center at Sriharikota. He said the future of thousands of employees of these central organisations was in peril, and the lands to the tune of thousands of acres were ready to land into the hands of the corporate companies. Dr. Mohan deplored that 50% of the country’s wealth was in the hands of less than 50 individuals. The CWC member alleged the Jagan Mohan Reddy government had stooped to the level of accommodating those with criminal history into the TTD Trust Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spike-in-crime-rate-due-to-unemployment-chinta/article36545781.ece
19 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for counting of votes for local body polls||All arrangements are in place for the counting of votes for ZPTC/MPTC elections across the district on Sunday. District Collector Vivek Yadav said arrangements had been made for counting of votes for elections held for 571 MPTCs and 45 ZPTCs in the district. The counting arrangements were done at 14 centres and 620 counting tables. Every counting centre would be manned by Deputy Collector and a district level official. Two rounds of training had been given and the third and final round of counting would be done on Sunday morning. Earlier, State Election Commissioner Neelam Sawhney reviewed the counting arrangements in Guntur and said counting of votes for ZPTCs and MPTCs was being taken up across the State. Counting personnel would be following all COVID-19 precautions. CCLA Appellate Commissioner and district election officer P. Lakshmi Narasimham, District Collector Vivek Yadav, Joint Collectors A.S. Dinesh Kumar, Rajakumari and Anumapa Anjali, and others were present. “I want to ensure that the entire district administration is involved and the counting personnel should be thorough with all the procedures, like identifying a valid vote etc. Adequate security should be provided when the ballot boxes are transported from strong rooms to counting halls. Security should be beefed up in sensitive areas,’’ said Ms. Sawhney in Guntur. Mr. Yadav said that the entire process of counting of votes would be videographed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-counting-of-votes-for-local-body-polls/article36546423.ece
19 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sucharitha deplores remarks||Home Minister M. Sucharitha has said the remarks of TDP leader Ch. Ayanna Patradu are deplorable. “The opposition leaders are unable digest the fact of having a Dalit woman as Home Minister,” Ms. Sucharitha said while addressing the media here on Saturday. “The TDP leaders have been using abusive language and speaking ill of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and other Ministers without any restraint,” she said. “Mr. Patrudu should be ashamed of himself for the language he used in addressing a woman Home Minister. I can never speak in such a filthy language as I have some ethics,” Ms. Sucharitha said. Wondering whether TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu had respect for women, she sought to know what action would he initiate against Mr. Patrudu for making such comments. “If Mr. Naidu has respect for women, he should take action against Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu,” she said. Slamming Mr. Patrudu for demanding her resignation, Ms. Sucharitha questioned the TDP leader’s authority in making such a demand. “I will resign if the Chief Minister asks me to do so,” she said. Daring the TDP to reveal what its government had done to do justice to women, the Home Minister said several crimes against women had been reported during the TDP term. “But there was no effort to put an end to them. On the contrary, the YSRCP government has brought in the Disha Act to ensure the safety and security of women,” she said. Asking the opposition party to prove its allegation that women were not safe under the YSRCP dispensation, Ms. Sucharitha, quoting the National Crime Records Bureau, said crimes in the State had dropped by 15%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sucharitha-deplores-remarks/article36546275.ece
19 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu behind attack, alleges Jogi Ramesh||YSRCP MLA from Pedana Jogi Ramesh on Saturday slammed a section of the media for “distorting facts” with regard to his protest at TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s house on Friday. “In fact, Mr. Naidu was behind the attack on me,” Mr. Ramesh told the media here. The MLA said he had gone to Mr. Naidu’s house to submit a petition and stage a protest there against the derogatory remarks made by TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Home Minister M. Sucharitha. “The TDP leaders had attacked my car even before I got out of the vehicle,” Mr. Ramesh said. Accusing Mr. Naidu of being behind the attack on him, Mr. Ramesh alleged that a section of the media was spreading false information in this regard. The MLA demanded an unconditional apology from Mr. Naidu as Mr. Patrudu had used abusive language. Stating that the party would take the issue to the Governor’s notice, Mr. Ramesh asked the TDP leaders to refrain from using abusive language against Mr. Jagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-behind-attack-alleges-jogi-ramesh/article36546269.ece
19 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. will not hesitate to file sedition cases against Oppn.’||TRS working president and MA&UD Minister K.T. Rama Rao has threatened that the government will not hesitate to file sedition cases against people who were trying to defame Telangana’s growth and belittle the achievements with false figures and allegations. In response to criticism from both the Congress and BJP, “which have taken a criticism route loaded with personal abuses targeting Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao”, he said on Saturday, “We don’t mind if they abuse us personally but if they try to defame Telangana, we won’t hesitate to file sedition cases.” Drug charges Ridiculing TPCC president Revanth Reddy for repeatedly targeting him as the “brand ambassador for drugs”, he said that he was ready for a drug analysis test to prove his innocence but Mr. Reddy should also ensure that Congress MP and former AICC president Rahul Gandhi takes the same tests. Referring to the ‘chargesheet’ filed by the Congress at the Gajwel ‘Dalita Girijana Dandora’ meeting on Friday, he said that those who were “involved in criminal cases focus on filing chargesheets only” hinting at Mr. Revanth Reddy. The TRS Minister said that Congress leaders themselves have openly claimed that the PCC top post was bought for Rs. 50 crore and no decency could be expected from such people in politics. He reiterated that TRS leaders would rebuke the criticism in the same language used by Congress leaders. KTR also ridiculed BJP’s criticism on TRS not celebrating September 17 as TS Liberation Day. He said that the party’s stand was clear and it would recognise June 2 (When TS was formed) as Liberation Day. On questioning that June 2 was the date when Telangana was separated and not liberated, he said, “Don’t get into nuances and understand the spirit.” Referring to Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s outburst against TRS in his meeting at Nirmal on Friday, he said that Mr. Shah should have spoken on how much the Centre contributed to projects in Telangana. “The BJP, which speaks of September 17 as Liberation Day, has failed to approve pensions for freedom fighters of the Telangana Armed Struggle, which was against the Nizam’s tyranny.” On BJP accusation that TRS was afraid of AIMIM, he said that no one was scared of it except BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-not-hesitate-to-file-sedition-cases-against-oppn/article36545465.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kitex inks investment pact with Telangana||The Telangana government and Kitex Group, one of the largest garment manufacturers, signed an MoU under which the latter would invest Rs. 2,400 crore in the State and generate employment for 22,000 people, majority of whom will be women. The Kitex Group will commence operations in Warangal in November 2022, IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao said. Speaking on the occasion on Saturday, Kitex Group MD Sabu Jacob said, “I committed Rs. 1,000 crore investment and 4,000 employment. Today, I am glad to announce that I increased it and met more than the expectation.” He gave credit to Mr. Rao for this investment in Telangana. “I am here today only because of one person, and that is Minister K.T. Rama Rao. He is the first person to call and invite me to Telangana. I met him the first time, and the words he used were, ‘I will meet or beat’. That is what attracted me,” Mr. Jacob said, adding that Mr. Rao showed his commitment to the people of Telangana when he said that he wanted employment generation in the State. The Kitex Group will invest Rs. 2,400 crore in units to be set up in Warangal and Sitarampur, where employees will enjoy PF and ESI benefits. The facility will also include food security in the form of food to employees at subsidised rates. Mr. Rao said that 85-90% of the 22,000 workforce would be women. He lauded the Kitex Group’s target of supplying 3 million pieces of garments. Assuring the State government’s support, Mr. Rao said that Ministers, including P. Sabita Indra Reddy and Errabelli Dayakar Rao, were invited to the event to ensure that the Group did not experience teething problems. “We wanted to ensure that your entry into Warangal and Sitarampur is smooth and without teething pains. We will cooperate with you fully. Already enough spade work has been done by collectors and officials,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kitex-inks-investment-pact-with-telangana/article36545737.ece
19 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hyderabad police chief gets ‘abusive and threat’ calls||Amid growing concerns in the wake of women being abused in Hyderabad, an unknown caller has been allegedly repeatedly ‘abusing and threatening’ Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar in the past couple of days. Before caller ID became common, the average citizen would get a call or two from a rude man misbehaving about nothing. Strangely enough, there is someone still calling people randomly and abusing them, but the twist in the tale is that the city’s top cop is at the receiving end! In this unusual instance, an unidentified caller had the temerity to use choicest words against the top police personnel over the phone. Speaking to The Hindu , a police officer in Mr. Kumar’s office said that the act of the caller was viewed very seriously and indications were that the call might have originated from the Karnataka circle. “Soon after Lord Ganesha immersion process, teams will be sent to Karnataka to identify and nab the suspect, who has been repeatedly abusing and threatening our unit officer in unparliamentary language,” he said. When contacted, Mr. Kumar denied it. ‘Case registered’ On September 14, based on the complaint lodged by constable K. Murali, a case under Sections 189 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act was registered and a technical probe was launched. In his complaint, Mr. Murali, who is posted at Main Police Control Room, stated that the caller was ‘abusing and threatening’ Mr. Kumar in unparliamentary language. “On September 14, the Commissioner has sent a WhatsApp message to the main PCR official number and asked to find out what the problem/issue was. At 9.55 a.m., when I called the said number and asked him about the problem, the caller refused to tell anything and suddenly disconnected the call. Again when I called him back, instead of telling his problem, he started using filthy language and threatened,” he said. An officer said that Mr. Kumar received the call from this ‘strange caller’ more than five times and every time he was ‘abusing and threatening’ him in filthy language and vented his anger. “The boss [Mr. Kumar] lost his patience and asked us to probe,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hyderabad-police-chief-gets-abusive-and-threat-calls/article36546100.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganesh immersion to regain old glory||After a year of lull due to pandemic, the mega Ganesh immersion returns to Hyderabad on Sunday with the usual fanfare witnessed in 2019 and earlier. But for the permission granted by the Supreme Court, the event ‘Sobha yatra’ as it was called had become uncertain in the wake of the High Court saying no to immersion of idols made of Plaster of Paris (PoP). In fact, all the idols that head to Hussainsagar and 33 other lakes in and around Hyderabad were made of PoP, making the yatra a non-starter if the ban was implemented. The Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samiti expected immersion of nearly one lakh idols in all lakes and lakhs of people coming out on roads over a length of 320 kms from all corners of the city to witness. The main procession, however, will be over 17 kms from Balapur to Hussainsagar. In view of the staggering number of idols likely to head to Hussainsagar, the PV Marg skirting the lake will also be opened up for immersion for the first time. The police expected about 40,000 idols of four feet and above to be immersed. As many as 55 cranes were installed to lift the idols and leave them in water. About 27,000 police personnel will be on duty. At least one constable will accompany the idols from the point of installation to the lake. The government has arranged boats and expert swimmers at Hussainsagar, Saroornagar and a few other lakes meet any emergencies. Lighting of the routes and installation of a large number of transformers was taken up by TRANSCO. The police made elaborate traffic restrictions from 6 a.m. on Sunday to 6 a.m. on Monday. The inter-State lorries were barred entry into the city from Saturday midnight. The traffic position will be updated on Google map on a regular basis. Wine shops, bars, pubs and toddy outlets will be closed from 9 a.m on Sunday to 6 p.m. on Monday in Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police comissionerates. The 40-ft Ganesh at Khairatabad will as usual hog the limelight till its immersion at Hussainsagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganesh-immersion-set-to-regain-past-glory/article36546075.ece
19 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dwarampudi plotting to unseat me, alleges Kakinada Mayor||Kakinada Mayor Sunkara Pavani from the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has alleged that the city MLA Dwarampudi Chandrashekhar Reddy from the YSR Congress Party hatched a plot to move a no-confidence motion in the council against her. On Friday, 33 corporators served a notice on the Collector for a special council meeting to move the no-confidence motion against Ms. Pavani. On September 15, the council completed four years. “In the office, I have been threatened by Mr. Chandrasekhar Reddy. He never allows the officials to follow Mayor protocol and procedures. The TDP corporators, who joined the YSRCP, were threatened by Mr. Reddy in various ways,” alleged Ms. Pavani during a press conference. “It is evident that the MLA is dictating terms in the civic body. I will continue my fight, exposing his role and activities. I will also launch a legal fight against the TDP corporators joining the YSRCP,” Ms. Pavani added. “In the past two years, the civic body has spent funds from the corporation general fund and the Smart City fund. The State government did not grant any funds for the development of the city. But Mr. Reddy has never attempted to get fund from the State,” the Mayor alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dwarampudi-plotting-to-unseat-me-alleges-kakinada-mayor/article36546373.ece
19 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ICG personnel take part in beach clean-up drive||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG-Kakinada) personnel on Saturday cleaned up the NTR Beach collecting the solid and plastic waste on the beach as part of the International Coastal Clean-Up Day-2021. ICG Kakinada Station Commander Venu Madhav and Assistant Commandant Surendra Lakra on Saturday led the drive on the beach and later handed over the non-biodegradable waste to the Kakinada Municipal Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/icg-personnel-take-part-in-beach-clean-up-drive/article36546371.ece
19 September 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veteran journalist K.M. Roy no more||Veteran journalist K.M. Roy died at his residence on K.P. Vallon Road, Kadavanthra, here on Saturday noon. He was 82. A multifaceted personality, he made his mark as an author and teacher. Mr. Roy was secretary general of the Indian Federation of Working Journalists and State president of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) twice. He made his foray into journalism in 1961 by joining the Keralaprakasham while pursuing his master’s at Maharaja’s College here. The other publications he served include the Deshabandhu , Keralabhushanam , The Economic Times and The Hindu , apart from the news agency UNI. He retired from active journalism as general editor of the Mangalam . He was a recipient of numerous awards and recognitions from within the country and abroad. An editorial he wrote following the demolition of the Babri Masjid fetched him a national award. During the past two decades, he found time to write in many publications and had a column titled ‘Irulum Velichavum’ in the Mangalam weekly. The books he authored include Irulum Velichavum and Kaalathinu Munpe Nadanna Manjooraan .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veteran-journalist-km-roy-no-more/article36545467.ece
19 September 2021||MOPIDEVI,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed as car plunges into canal||One person was killed and two others suffered injuries when a car in which they were travelling plunged into an irrigation canal at K. Kothapalem village in the district in the early hours of Saturday. The accident took place when the driver reportedly lost control of the vehicle on the Krishna river bund. Six persons were travelling in the vehicle from Vijayawada to Chiruvolu village when the accident occurred. The deceased was identified as K. Prasanth (24). Villagers broke open the glass panes, saved the passengers from the car, gave first aid and shifted them to a hospital. Police rushed to the spot, retrieved the vehicle from the canal and registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-killed-as-car-plunges-into-canal/article36545471.ece
19 September 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demolition of illegal structures draws ire||The drive against unauthorised religious structures in public places in Mysuru district, which has drawn the ire of Hindutva organisations and politicians cutting across party lines as well as devotees, is in compliance of directions by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar to the Deputy Commissioners to “demolish/relocate/regularise” illegal structures in line with the Karnataka High Court’s repeated directions to the State government. This, in turn, flows from a Supreme Court order of 2009 in this regard. In a letter dated July 1, 2021 from the Chief Secretary to the Deputy Commissioners, district administrations were “directed to prepare and execute an action plan from July 15, 2021, for demolishing at least one illegal religious structure per taluk every week”. All urban local bodies too were directed toprepare an action plan from July 15, 2021, to demolish at least one illegal religious structure per division every week. Amonthly compliance report is to be submitted to the Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Bengaluru, by the seventh of every month.  On September 29, 2009, the Supreme Court had directed that henceforth no unauthorised construction should be permitted in the name of temple, mosque, church or gurudwara on public streets, public parks or other public places, and directed the State governments and Union Territories to review the unauthorised construction of religious nature which had already taken place on public streets, public parks, and other public places, on “a case-to-case basis” and take appropriate steps as expeditiously as possible. Chief Secretaries, in consultation with the respective State governments, were directed to frame a policy with respect to unauthorised construction of religious nature that existed prior to September 2009. Also, the High Courts were asked to supervise implementation of the Supreme Court’s order in an effective manner. The High Court of Karnataka, which had taken up the matter several times, had issued directions to the State government on unauthorised religious structures in public places from time to time. HC’s directions In October 2019, the High Court pointed out that the Karnataka government had failed to abide by the 10-year-old directions of the Supreme Court while directing the Chief Secretary to file an affidavit on a time-bound programme to enforce the same. The court had also directed the then Chief Secretary to give reasons for not abiding by the directions. In a December 2020 order, the High Court directed the Karnataka government to implement the Supreme Court direction in “letter and spirit”, and give necessary directions for identification of unauthorised structures and ascertain if they were built before the apex court’s September 2009 order. The process of identification of unauthorised religious structures was being carried out at taluk level in each district and was in various stages of implementation when demolition of the Mahadevamma temple at Hucchagani in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district sparked off a wave of protests. Objection by politicians BJP MP Pratap Simha criticised demolition of the temple in Nanjangud. Congress leader and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah criticised the BJP government for pulling down the place of worship without consultations. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president R. Dhruvanarayan, who is also a former MP representing Chamarajanagar which includes Nanjangud Assembly segment, pointed out that the government should have considered relocation of the old temple. Demolition drive halted Karnataka has temporarily halted the demolition drive, with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai making it clear that the government would discuss the matter in the Cabinet and come up with a fresh set of guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/demolition-of-illegal-structures-draws-ire/article36545463.ece
19 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI leader calls for massive movement to save VSP||Communist Party of India(CPI) State Secretary K. Ramakrishna on Saturday called for a massive movement cutting across partylines to press their demand for retaining the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant in the public sector and early grounding of the Kadapa Steel Plant. Leading a ‘Jan Andolan Padayatra’ from the RTC Bus stand centre to the Kanagamahal centre here on Saturday to drum up support for ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 27, he lamented that residuary State of Andhra Pradesh had been meted out a raw deal by the Centre. The Narendra Modi government reneged on major promises made at the time of the bifurcation of the undivided Andhra Pradesh, including Special Category Status and a public sector steel plant at Kadapa. As if that was not enough, the Centre was bent upon privatising the only major public sector unit(VSP) in the State which was achieved after a long-drawn struggle during which 32 people had sacrificed their lives, he said, adding that it was time all parties waged a protracted struggle as the self-esteem of Andhra people was now at stake. The BJP-led government at the Centre had no moral right to monetise Rs. 6 trillion worth of the assets of public sector units(PSUs) built over decades with workers toil, he maintained. Making matters worse for the common people, the ruling YSR Congress Party in the State was not only toeing the saffron party’s line in the Parliament but also competing with it to impose a heavy dose of taxes on fuel in the State resulting in all essential commodities going out of the reach of the people. He said the electricity true up charges had come as a rude shock to the people. The YSRCP government should allocate necessary funds from the State Budget to the power distribution companies, he added. He condemned YSRCP MLA Jogi Ramesh’s march to the residence of Telugu Desam Party supremo N. Chandrababu Naidu to stage a protest leading to a clash with TDP workers. At the same time, he asked TDP leader Ayyana Patrudu not to make personal accusations against the Chief Minister and other YSRCP leaders. It would be better if the TDP men restricted themselves to criticising the government’s policies, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/what-we-need-is-a-movement-to-save-vsp/article36545780.ece
19 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||283 new COVID cases in South Coastal A.P.||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh reported 283 new COVID-19 infections and one death in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. The toll climbed to 2,109 as one person in Prakasam district succumbed to the virus. SPSR Nellore district reported zero deaths for the second day in a row. At least 240 persons recovered in Nellore district, while 78 persons recovered in Prakasam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/283-new-covid-cases-in-south-coastal-ap/article36545778.ece
19 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Techie’s COVID-19 aid tool wins laurels||Bodhish Thomas, a 25-year-old techie from Pandalam, has long championed the importance of open-source technology as a force for good in uncertain times. In 2018, when the State was reeling under one of the worst floods in its history, he teamed up with a few of his friends and came up with afterflood.in , a crowd-sourced data hub for post-flood-related content focussing on health and well-being. The website, which immediately found a place in keralarescue.in, run  by the Government of Kerala, has assisted people not just in Kerala but in Tamil Nadu as well when the cyclonic storm of Gaja made its landfall, and in Karnataka during the Kodagu floods last year. A couple of years later, when the world confronted one of its toughest problems in the form of COVID-19, this open-source technology once again propelled more contributions from the youngster. Multifunctional tool With the support of some 300-odd software professionals, Mr. Thomas has overseen the development of Coronasafe Network — an open-source pandemic management software solution that serves as the digital war room of several districts across six States, including Kerala, Maharastra, Haryana and Tamil Nadu. The network has also been co-opted for the remote tele-ICU management under the 10-bed ICU project in 150 districts across the country. “Launched on the lines of afterfloods.in , it took us about 75 days to develop it as a digital war room for a particular region. It's a multifunctional tool that provides real-time analytics of hospital facilities available, oxygen monitoring, capacity utilisation, patient management, telemedicine, ambulance and so on,” explains Mr.Thomas. The tool has now won him global recognition in the form of an open-source grant from GitHub — the world’s largest open-source developer community platform. The network has also been recognised by the United Nations as a Global Digital Public Good – an acknowledgement accorded to open-source software that can help achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Having made a full-time career as a professional software developer, Mr. Thomas has now set his eyes on building a community-driven education programme for the poor using the open-source technology. “We are in the process of developing a volunteer community to develop an open approach to learning and education,'' he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/techies-covid-19-aid-tool-wins-laurels/article36545462.ece
19 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala schools set to reopen on Nov. 1||More than one-and-a-half years after schools in the State closed in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, students are set to return to campuses on November 1. The phased reopening will see primary students from classes 1 to 7 go back first for in-person classes. They will be accompanied by students of classes 10 and 12 who will appear for board examinations later this academic year. From November 15, students of the remaining classes too will reach schools. The decision on school reopening was taken at a COVID-19 review meeting here on Saturday. The meeting decided to permit the resumption from October 18 of all classes for college students who have received the COVID-19 vaccination. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in a statement, stressed that health experts were of the opinion that schools should reopen for primary classes first. The General Education Department and the Health Department will together decide on the arrangements to be put in place for schools to resume. These should be completed 15 days before the classes begin. The meeting was of the opinion that it would be better for students with low immunity not to attend school. The steps to be adopted while transporting students to schools in vehicles also needed to be discussed. Measures would be initiated to restart the school health programme to ensure complete health safety. Steps should be taken to prevent infections from spreading once schools reopen. Special masks should be prepared for children. Masks should be stocked by schools. Vaccination for teaching and non-teaching school staff is under way as a prelude to school reopening. A seroprevalence study to estimate the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in children in the 5-17 age group, among others, is on. The survey is expected to be completed this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-schools-set-to-reopen-on-nov-1/article36545470.ece
19 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Class 11 exams to be held from Sept. 24 in State||The Plus One higher secondary and vocational higher secondary examinations will get under way on September 24. The Plus One HSE (Higher Secondary Education) exams will go on till October 18, while the VHSE (Vocational Higher Secondary Education) exams will conclude on October 13. The timetable will be available on the portalhttp://dhsekerala.gov.in Safety protocol There will be a gap of one to five days between the exams following requests from students and parents for allowing adequate time for preparation. The exams will be held in the mornings by adhering to all COVID-19 protocols. Students who have registered in the private compartmental, re-admission, lateral entry, and private full course categories and those still to register will appear for a special examination.  The revised timetable has been published in the wake of the Supreme Court on Friday allowing the State to conduct the exams offline. The court earlier this month had stayed the examinations by terming the COVID-19 situation in the State alarming. The exams were to begin on September 6. In an affidavit, the State had urged lifting of the stay citing difficulties in conducting the exams online owing to lack of students’ access to digital devices and connectivity issues. The General Education Department has also stepped up preparations for conducting the exams in schools. The Supreme Court had asked the State to take every precaution necessary while holding the exams. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty said sanitisation of schools and classrooms would be taken up again with public participation. Cleaning activities General Education Principal Secretary A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish said cleaning of classrooms, toilets, and so in schools had been completed. Disinfection too would be taken up. A high-level meeting with the General Education Minister would be held to decide on further measures. School reopening With the exams going ahead, discussions on school reopening have also intensified. The Minister said a decision would be taken after receiving inputs from other departments such as Health and Local Self-Governments, besides the State expert committee on COVID-19. The Education Department’s recommendations too would be submitted to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Only after discussions with the Chief Minister would a decision be taken, Mr. Sivankutty said.  There will be a gap of one to five days between the exams following requests from students and parents for allowing adequate time for preparation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/class-11-exams-to-be-held-from-sept-24-in-state/article36545468.ece
19 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remarks sans decency: Roja||YSRCP MLA Roja on Saturday termed the remarks made by TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and other Ministers as “highly outrageous and unfortunate.” The language used was highly derogatory in nature and lacked minimum decency, Ms. Roja said. ‘Civility needed’ “It is time for you to realise that the people of the State had stripped you of the MLA post. People had shown former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son Lokesh the door,” she said, and advised the TDP leaders to act in a more civilised way. Film tickets online Defending the move to provide cinema tickets online, Ms. Roja said it was at the request of leading actors such as Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna that the State government had taken a positive look at the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remarks-sans-decency-roja/article36546277.ece
19 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more take oath as TTD trustees||Five more nominees on Saturday took oath as members of the newly constituted TTD trust board. At a brief ceremony inside the temple, Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy administered them the oath of office. Those who took oath included N. Srinivasan, Vemireddy Prashanti Reddy, P. Sanathkumar, Bandi Parthasaradhi Reddy, and Burra Madhusudhan Yadav. Meanwhile, the TTD was pushed into an embarrassing situation with the members taking oath in turns, much to the inconvenience of the pilgrims and the temple staff. Though for a brief period, the darshan lines were interrupted every time a new member was administered the oath. Besides Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, the board comprises 24 members, four ex officio members, two special invitees (who can attend the meetings but do not have any voting rights). These apart, the government has nominated another 50 members as special invitees who cannot take part in the meetings but enjoy all the privileges on a par with the other members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-more-take-oath-as-ttd-trustees/article36546276.ece
19 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for counting of votes today||The State Election Commission (SEC) has made elaborate arrangements for the counting of votes cast in the MPTC and ZPTC elections, from 8 a.m. on September 19. The polling was conducted on April 8, 2021. State Election Commissioner Nilam Sawhney reviewed the arrangements made for counting, law and order, and COVID-19 safety precautions with the District Collectors, District Election Authorities, Superintendents, and Commissioners of Police through a teleconference on Saturday. According to a release by SEC Secretary K. Kanna Babu, training had been imparted to the counting personnel and arrangements were made for COVID-19 testing and vaccination of the officials engaged in the counting process, candidates and their counting agents. Prohibitory orders Steps were taken for maintenance of law and order, including imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 at the counting centres and for closure of liquor shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-counting-of-votes-today/article36546266.ece
19 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 death toll dips to 9 in State||COVID-19 claimed nine more lives in the State in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. During the same period, 1,174 infections were reported. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,061 and 20,37,353  respectively. The number of active cases came down to 14,653 as 1,309 patients recovered in the past day. The recovery rate stands at 98.59% as the total recoveries increased to 20,08,639. The test positivity rate of 55,525 samples tested in the past day was 2.11% and that of the 2.76 crore tests conducted so far was 7.37%. Guntur reported three deaths while Chittoor reported two and Kadapa, Krishna, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. East Godavari reported 208 new cases. It was followed by Prakasam (161), Chittoor (159), Krishna (140), Guntur (131), Nellore (122), West Godavari (80), Kadapa (69), Visakhapatnam (55), Anantapur (18), Srikakulam (16), Vizianagaram (10) and Kurnool (5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-death-toll-dips-to-9-in-state/article36546264.ece
19 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||AP Chambers new executive committee||The Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation constituted its new executive committee for 2021-23 in its annual general meeting held here on Saturday. The committee has P. Bhaskara Rao as the president- elect, Pydah Krishna Prasad president, K.V.S. Prakash Rao past-president, Rajasekhar general secretary, Kallam Mohan Reddy vice-president (central zone), M. Sudheer vice-president (Visakhapatnam), K.V. Chowdary vice-president (Rayalaseema), Akkaiah Naidu treasurer, Ch. Siddharth joint secretary and P. Koti Rao, K. Kumar Varma, K.V.S. Varma and P. Sobhan Prakash members. L. Raghurami Reddy and Ravi Gopala Krishna have been appointed central zone chairman and vice-chairman, Vijaya Kumar Reddy and Ranga Reddy chairman and vice-chairman of Rayalaseema zone and K.R.B. Prakash and Ch. Srinath chairman and vice-chairman of Visakhapatnam zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-chambers-new-executive-committee/article36546415.ece
19 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to reunite mentally ill people with families||Recognising the need to address the growing problem of mentally ill destitutes wandering in streets, unfed, uncared for and some of them even unclothed, social activist B. Ramakrishnam Raju, in collaboration with NGO Annam Seva Foundation, has taken up the task of reaching out to such people to get them treated and reunite with their families, in Bhimavaram town of West Godavari district. Two mentally ill persons were admitted in the Government hospital, Visakhapatnam, for treatment after presenting them in the One Town police station and completing the procedures with the help of the DSP Veeranjaneya Reddy and Inspector Krishna Bhagwan at Bhimavaram. “A large number of mentally ill persons, many of them patients of schizophrenia, roam aimlessly in the streets. If treated, many of them can be cured and reunited with their families. But for a few NGOs in the country, there is lack of concern and action from the governments,” said Mr. Ramakrishnam Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-reunite-mentally-ill-people-with-families/article36546416.ece
19 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ALIET receives green champion award||The management of Andhra Loyola Institute of Engineering and Technology (ALIET) received the “One District One Green Champion” award from District Collector J. Nivas here on Saturday. The award was announced by the Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education recently to ALIET for its green practices on the campus. Mr. Nivas appreciated the college for green initiatives and said colleges played a key role in taking forward the message of clean environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aliet-receives-green-champion-award/article36546420.ece
19 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tight security in place||Tight security has been arranged at 958 halls in 206 centres, where counting of votes polled in the the MPTC and ZPTC elections will begin on Sunday at 9 a.m. The elections were held in April this year but counting was delayed due to court cases. Police imposed Section 144 at the centres, and no victory rallies are permitted. Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang said that foolproof arrangements had been made to conduct the process peacefully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tight-security-in-place/article36546418.ece
19 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three roads in State declared as national highways||The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has declared three roads in Andhra Pradesh as national highways and issued draft notifications to that effect. They are Amalapuram (NH-216) - Ravulapalem (NH-216A) via Palivela; Pedana (NH-216)-Lakshmipuram (NH-30) via Vissannapet; and Mancherial (Telangana)-Vijayawada greenfield alignment (part of Nagpur-Vijayawada corridor), according to tweets by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari. BJP State president Somu Veerraju said the new NHs would give a fillip to highway connectivity in the State and thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Gadkari for sanctioning the projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-roads-in-state-declared-as-national-highways/article36546421.ece
19 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-MD of INCAP arrested in fibernet ‘scam’||Officials of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Crime Investigation Department (CID), who are investigating the alleged multi-crore scam in AP State Fibernet Limited, arrested the former Managing Director of the Infrastructure Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (INCAP) Limited, K. Sambasiva Rao, on Saturday. He was the first person arrested in the alleged Rs. 321 crore fibernet scam by the CID police. Mr. Sambasiva Rao was produced in a court after conducting medical tests. Following a complaint, the CID police of Guntur district recently booked a case against 19 persons and some government officers over the alleged irregularities in allotting tenders for laying optical fibre cables over towers and poles as part of Fibergrid project in the State in 2015. Investigation officers questioned a few accused on violation of government norms in allotting tenders, colluding with the managements of private firms and causing loss to the government’s exchequer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-md-of-incap-held-in-fibernet-scam/article36546419.ece
19 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||An insult to society, say police officers||Members of the A.P. IPS Officers’ Association have condemned the comments of former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu against some SPs and other senior police personnel. In a statement on Saturday, association State secretary Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said the comments were an insult to society. Many officers were discharging duties facing many problems, including mental stress. Insulting the officers was nothing but insulting the Constitution, he said. “ Political leaders are requested to maintain decorum and not to attack police personnel who are discharging their legitimate duties,” Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-insult-to-society-say-police-officers/article36546278.ece
19 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy-sheeter expelled||A rowdy-sheeter, Shaik Samdhani, who was involved in many cases was expelled from Vijayawada for six months to provide safety to the public, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. The resident of Raman Katta, Tadigadapa village, was booked in ganja peddling cases. He was arrested and sent to jail, but he continued indulging in criminal activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowdy-sheeter-expelled/article36546417.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. will be a trendsetter in higher education, says Minister Suresh||Probably nowhere in the country do we have a separate planning board for higher education as the one the A.P. government has formed, to improve coordination among institutes of higher education and universities and to better the prospects of research through exchange, said State Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh. At the second meeting of the AP Higher Education Planning Board (APHEB) here on Saturday, he said about 30 Vice-Chancellors of various universities in the State and directors from the institutes of national importance such as IIM-Visakhapatnam, NIT, IIPE and IIT were attending the two-day meet. The board was constituted to see that higher education improves in the State and education is accessible for all. “It is the dream of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to make good education accessible and affordable to all. The fruits of the board will roll out in two years from now. The suggestions from this meeting will guide us towards that goal,” he said. “Every student needs to be groomed as a global citizen. Mother tongue will be promoted while the English language will be taught. The government is ready to bear any cost for the creation of infrastructure,” he said. Mr. Suresh also said that the performance of the Vice-Chancellors would be reviewed soon and the progress achieved by the students would become the yardstick for the universities. Way forward Earlier, inaugurating the conference, Prof. Ramgopal Rao, Director, IIT-Delhi, said that the universities in the State need to be transformed into multidisciplinary institutions. There should be an effort to turn knowledge into wealth and the focus should be on increasing the number patents and admission of more international students, as this would better the international ranking of a university. About 2.4% of the GDP needed to be allocated to the higher education sector. It was important to connect universities with the community, and professors should drive students towards innovation and research, and startups. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said universities should also focus on sports. The Chief Minister had sanctioned around Rs. 6.5 crore for sports in the last two years. Prof. Hemachandra Reddy, Chairman, AP State Council of Higher Education, explained the functioning of the AP State Research Board, provision of laptops for students, establishment of digital libraries in 13,000 villages and other programmes. He said dividing universities into five clusters would help them work in coordination and cooperation with local industries and design courses that suited their needs. Mr. Suresh and Mr. Srinivasa Rao jointly launched the Learning Management System (LMS) developed by the Board of Higher Education. Andhra University Vice-Chancellor Prof. P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy said today’s education policy should move in a way that prepares the youth for the future. The higher education system needed to embrace new changes. There was an urgent need for students to become entrepreneurs in order to find and generate employment. He said efforts were being made to increase the number of engineering seats in AU, establish an AU trans-disciplinary research hub and incubation centres to inculcate skills and creativity among youth. Prof. Chandrasekhar, Director, IIM Visakhapatnam, IIPE Director Prof. V.S.R.K. Prasad, Pola Bhaskar, Commissioner of Collegiate Education and Prof. K. Ram Mohana Rao, Vice-Chairman, Higher Education Council, spoke. The conference was jointly hosted by Andhra University, the Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam and the Indian Institute of Petroleum Energy (IIPE).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-will-be-a-trendsetter-in-higher-education-says-minister-suresh/article36546282.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC meet approves proposals to develop seven theme parks||Amid stiff resistance from the Opposition parties such as the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), BJP, Jana Sena Party (JSP), CPI (M) and the CPI, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Council (GVMC) council passed seven proposals to establish theme parks at various colonies, during the third council meet held here on Saturday. A budget of Rs. 12.71 crore has been proposed for all the seven theme parks such as sports theme park at Bakkannapalem with Rs. 1.92 crore, yoga and meditation theme park at Shipyard Layout with Rs. 1.92 crore, dogs theme park at Ratnagiri Layout with Rs. 1.94 crore, Rainbow theme park at MVP Sector – 11 with Rs. 1.12 crore, palm gardens theme park at Yendada with a budget of Rs. 1.34 crore, butterfly theme park at MSR Layout with Rs. 1.94 crore and another park at Ward 14, with Rs. 2.50 crore. Heated arguments TDP floor leader Peela Srinivasa Rao and other party corporators strongly objected to the proposals. Heated words were exchanged between the ruling and the Opposition parties when the TDP leaders took a dig at poor condition of roads and suggested that the funds could be utilised for repairing roads rather than creating theme parks. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that roads and drains in the city were in a bad shape. He alleged that the condition of roads in merged areas like Pendurthi, Madhurawada and Gajuwaka and a few other localities have gone from bad to worse. TDP corporator K. Govinda Rao also questioned under whose request were these theme parks proposed in the agenda. JSP corporator, P. Murthy Yadav suggested that YSR Congress Party corporators should request MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy to adopt or develop all the GVMC parks through his MPLAD funds. The YSRCP leaders said that they had requested Mr. Vijaya Sai to create theme parks in their localities, following which the proposals were made. Responding to it, Chief Engineer P. Ravi Krishna Raju said that development plans of all the 98 wards have been prepared. Among the development activities proposed, roads and drains were found to be most important and will be taken up on a priority from October-end and efforts would be made to complete them by end of March 2022, he said. With the YSRCP enjoying absolute majority in the Council, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari announced that the proposals from Agenda 12 to 19 related to seven theme parks were approved. Earlier in the morning, the CPI(M) party staged a protest with dogs at the GVMC office protesting the sanctioning of around Rs. 1.94 crore for dogs theme park at Zone III, when the city has a number of civic issues. Party corporator B. Ganga Rao said that there should be a comprehensive development of parks in the corporation. He said that since the last six months, several corporators have submitted various representations to the GVMC officials over issues in their locality, but none of them figured in the council meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-meet-approves-proposals-to-develop-seven-theme-parks/article36546357.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition parties allege rise in dengue cases||The third council meet of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) was a stormy affair, with the Opposition parties like the TDP, CPI(M) and the JSP taking a dig at the corporation over increase in seasonal diseases, poor sanitation and irregularities in Nadu-Nedu scheme. The opposition took the centrestage when the GVMC secretary proposed the sixth point in the agenda that dealt with extension of services of 85 malaria workers and health care assistants. Responding to it, TDP corporator K. Govinda Reddy alleged that extension of services was an eyewash and in reality the staff strength in malaria department and the Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) was minimal. CPI corporator A.J. Stalin pointed out that many wards in the GVMC limits do not have a Sanitary Inspector. Seeking steps to mitigate seasonal diseases on a war-footing, CPI(M) corporator B. Ganga Rao questioned the Public Health Department, why dengue tests are not being done in UPHCs, at a time when private labs were collecting hefty amounts. A few corporators from the Opposition parties said that there has been a rapid increase in dengue cases this year. They also alleged that door-to-door garbage collection is not up to the mark and dump bins are not cleared till 11 a.m. at many areas. The corporators alleged that the GVMC was lagging behind in fogging operations and other effective measures were not being taken in the wards despite rise in the seasonal diseases. The TDP leaders asked the Mayor to give clarity on the introduction of new garbage clearance vehicles. They said that the civic body was claiming the introduction of new vehicles since many months but so far not a single vehicle has arrived. They alleged that due to shortage of vehicles, garbage is not being cleared on time causing health hazards. GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao said that the city reported 375 dengue cases in this year as against 1,400 in 2019. He attributed the rise in cases to increase in testing. He said that as of now, there were 78 sanitary inspectors in the GVMC and they have written a letter to the authorities concerned for further recruitment. He also said that sanitation drives and fogging operations are being effectively conducted. Mr. Sanyasi Rao said that the GVMC would receive 678 garbage collection vehicles by October 2. The corporators alleged irregularities in Nadu-Nedu works in many schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-parties-allege-rise-in-dengue-cases/article36546358.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||International Coastal Clean-up Day observed by Navy and Coast Guard||The 36th International Coastal Clean-up Day was organised for the tenth year on the trot by the Eastern Naval Command (ENC), here on Saturday. On the occasion, the ENC undertook the drive at Yarada Beach, Bheemunipatnam Beach and other sea fronts that are within the purview of naval units inVisakhapatnam. About 500 naval personnel, defence civilians and their families participated in the drive, adhering to the COVID-19 protocols. The drive was aimed at creating awareness among people to keep the beaches clean, safeguarding the environment and inculcating the habit of respecting coastlines which in turn nurtures marine biodiversity. The International Coastal Clean-up Day began more than 30 years ago when communities rallied together with the common goal of collecting and documenting the trash littering their coastline. Every year, on the third Saturday of September, the International Coastal Clean-up Community encourages people around the world to remove trash and debris from beaches, waterways and other water bodies. Indian Coast Guard District Headquarters No.6 (Andhra Pradesh) also organised a beach clean-up activity at Yarada beach. Around 400 Coast Guard personnel, Coastal Security Police, personnel from Gangavaram port and students from Coast Guard School, Visakhapatnam, participated in the event and collected about 2.5 tonness of plastic and debris during the drive. The event was conducted in coordination with the Gangavaram Port, GVMC and the Coastal Police. Deputy Inspector General Yoginder Dhaka, Commander Coast Guard District Headquarters No.6 (AP), led the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/international-coastal-clean-up-day-observed-by-navy-and-coast-guard/article36546363.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna has links with ganja smugglers, alleges MLA||Chodavaram MLA Karanam Dharmasri said that former TDP Minister Ch. Ayyyanna Patrudu’s comments against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the YSRCP leaders has revealed his true colours. He alleged that Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu had links with ganja smugglers and is a corrupt politician and a man of no values. Demanding an apology for his comments against the YSRCP leaders, Mr. Dharmasri said that the State government will put all his corrupt activities before the media soon. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Dharmasri alleged that Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu has purchased around 100 acres of tribal land on benami names in Golugonda mandal in the Visakhapatnam district. The Chodavaram MLA alleged that when Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu was Roads & Building (R&B) Minister, he was involved in many irregularities and looted crores of rupees by threatening many contractors.  ‘Derogatory statements’ Mr. Dharmasri said that Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu had also once made some derogatory statements against the Narsipatnam Municipal Chairperson. Former Narsipatnam Municipal Chairman and brother of Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu, Ch Sanyasi Patrudu, who is now with the YSR Congress Party, said that the former TDP Minister has no sense what to talk and what not to, despite being a public servant for many years. Mr. Sanyasi Patrudu alleged that despite being one of his family members, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu has betrayed and ignored him. He alleged that Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu was involved in ganja smuggling, land grabbing, liquor business, laterite mining and had made crores of rupees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayyanna-has-links-with-ganja-smugglers-alleges-mla/article36546367.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna should apologise for remarks against Jagan: MLA||Tension prevailed at the house of senior TDP leader Ayyanna Patrudu at Narsipatnam when a large number of YSRCP cadres, led by Narsipatnam MLA P. Uma Sankara Ganesh, marched up to his house and tried to surround it on Saturday afternoon. This led to a heated argument between the TDP workers and the YSRCP functionaries. Besides resorting to jostling, workers of both the parties hurled abuses at each other. “On Friday, the YSRC leaders and workers attacked TDP national president N. Chandrbabu Naidu’s house in Amaravati and today they have targeted Mr. Patrudu’s house here,” the TDP leaders alleged. Mr. Ganesh said Mr. Patrudu should tender an apology for making derogatory comments against the Chief Minister and other party leaders at a meeting in Guntur recently. “Ever since Mr. Jagan assumed power, he has been trying to create unrest by stoking religious sentiments and creating a rift between castes. What Mr. Patrudu has said pales into insignificance when compared to the remarks of Mr. Jagan against Mr. Naidu in the past,” the TDP leaders said. “The YSRCP government does not believe in inclusive politics. Whenever the TDP tried to suggest ways for better management of the COVID-19 pandemic, it was not allowed to do so,” they alleged. Later, it was learnt that Mr. Ganesh submitted a representation to the Narsipatnam police. The police said the YSRCP workers and leaders were stopped from going near Mr. Patrudu’s house anticipating trouble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayyanna-should-apologise-for-remarks-against-jagan-mla/article36546280.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam district reports one death, 55 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 55 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,616. The death toll rose to 1,082 after one more person succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. During the same time period, as many as 68 persons recovered from the coronavirus. The number of active cases hasreduced to 1,048 and the recoveries have increased to 1,54,486.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-reports-one-death-55-new-covid-cases/article36546369.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth ‘killed’ by friend after drunken brawl||A 22-year-old youth was allegedly murdered by his friend over a petty issue at Palteru village under the Payakaraopeta police station limits in the Visakhapatnam district. Though the incident occurred in the early hours of Friday, it came to light on Friday night after police registered a case. The deceased has been identified as K. Venkateswara Rao. Sub-Inspector of Payakaraopeta police station P. Prasad Rao said that K. Venkateswara Rao and his friend J. Rama Govind allegedly quarrelled over a petty issue and both were reportedly in an inebriated condition. Rama Govind allegedly took a wooden block and hit Venkateswara Rao on head, and the latter died on the spot with severe head injuries. The police reportedly took Rama Govind into custody. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-killed-by-friend-after-drunken-brawl/article36546360.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||We will speak against govt.’s wrongdoings, says Ayyanna Patrudu||“We will speak against all wrongdoings and injustice committed by the State government and nobody can stop us. We are in the Opposition, and the Constitution has given us right to speak up,” said TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu. Releasing a video on Saturday night after YSRCP workers, led by Narsipatnam MLA P. Uma Sankara Ganesh, tried to stage a protest near his house, Mr. Patrudu said, “They (YSRCP) can stage protests and even get us arrested, but we are not scared or deterred from such acts. We shall continue to speak against the government, if we find that things are going in the wrong direction.” ‘Debt trap’ The former TDP Minister said the government was getting into a debt trap just to fund its welfare schemes. “What is the necessity? Even intellectuals are questioning the administration, which is pushing the State to the brink,” he said. According to Mr. Patrudu, the government was now getting scared, as there was a rising negative trend against the YSRCP and that was why they were indulging in such coercive tactics against the Opposition. Commenting on the statements made by R&B Minister Dharmana Krishna Das against him, he said, “It is very evident that he was forced to speak, as there is a threat to his ministerial berth.” Clarifying his comments made in Guntur, he said, “There is recording of every word that I had spoken in the meeting. I challenge the YSRCP leaders to prove that I was abusive. Yes I called the CM ‘Tughlaq’, what is wrong in it. History proves that Muhammad bin Tughlaq had tried to shift his capital and paid the price. The same is the case here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/we-will-speak-against-govts-wrongdoings-says-ayyanna-patrudu/article36546284.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth dies in road accident||A 27-year-old youth died in a road accident after reportedly being hit by a concrete mixture lorry near Dockyard substation here on Saturday. The youth was identified as K. Abhilash of Shipyard Colony. The Malkapuram police have reached the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-dies-in-road-accident/article36546361.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hearing aids distributed to the poor||The Association of Alliance Clubs International in collaboration with Deendayal Sravana Foundation, Vijayawada, provided hearing aid machines to 200 white ration card holders, free of cost, at a programme, at Marripalem VUDA Colony, here, on Friday. Deendaya Sravana Foundation Chairman Regula Ramanjaneyulu presided over the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hearing-aids-distributed-to-the-poor/article36546365.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandaru slams YSRCP over ruckus at Naidu’s house||Former Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MLA Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy on Saturday found fault with senior leaders of the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) for supporting the ruckus near the residence of former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’s house on Friday. He said that in democracy everyone has a right to protest but not in this manner. ‘Faults DGP’s inaction’ Addressing the media here on Saturday, he alleged that if the YSRCP leaders were hurt with Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu’s comments, they should counter his words or stage a protest, but should not try to create problems at Mr. Naidu’s house. He questioned what DGP Gautam Sawang was doing when Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh had gone to Mr. Naidu’s house with his followers. The TDP leader alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is scared to address a press conference or a public meet and spends most of his time in his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bandaru-slams-ysrcp-over-ruckus-at-naidus-house/article36546370.ece
19 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSFL will expand services: Goutham Reddy||Andhra Pradesh State FiberNet Limited (APFSL) Chairman P. Goutham Reddy said that the State government is committed to strengthen the APFSL and make all efforts to expand its services. He was addressing a press conference at APFSL office in Andhra University, here on Saturday. RBKs Mr. Goutham Reddy said that the APFSL internet connections were provided to 1,000 Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK) and they would be providing the services to all Jagananna Housing colonies also. Apart from it, about 4,800 villages in the State would receive internet connectivity, he said. The main motto of the APFSL is to have villages with internet connectivity, Mr. Goutham Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsfl-will-expand-services-goutham-reddy/article36546359.ece
19 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clear pending financial bills, APPTA urges govt.||Andhra Pradesh Primary Teachers’ Association (APPTA) State president A.G.S. Ganapathi Rao and general secretary Kaki Prakasa Rao on Saturday urged the State government to clear pending financial bills and applications related to provident fund, medical reimbursement, earned leaves and others as early as possible. Delay in processing “Teachers and other government employees have been facing many financial problems due to the inordinate delay in processing the applications at the Comprehensive Financial Management System. Pensioners, sick employees and others are moving around treasury and other offices for claims. The government has not cleared many death claims of coronavirus victims also. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should look into the issue and do justice to the teachers and others,” said Mr. Ganapathi Rao. Mr. Prakasa Rao said that many employees were forced to take loans from private persons at higher interest rates for marriages and higher education of their children with the delay in clearing pending bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clear-pending-financial-bills-appta-urges-govt/article36546375.ece
19 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed in accident||Two schoolchildren were killed on the spot when the mtorcycle on which they were riding was knocked down by a lorry at Cheepurupalli town of Vizianagaram district on Saturday. Chandana Eshitha (4) and Chandana Jnaneswari (9) were travelling along with their uncle on the motorcycle when the accident occurred. The police took the lorry driver into custody and filed case against him for rash and negligent driving. Many parents who were shocked with the incident urged the police department to regulate the traffic and ensure safety of the kids. Vizianagaram SP Deepika Patil directed the local police to submit a report about the traffic condition and safety measures in the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-in-accident/article36546374.ece
19 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vinayaka Navaratri ends||Vinayaka Navaratri festival concluded on Saturday in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam district. However, the festivities and fanfare generally witnessed on the last day of the festival for immersion of Ganesh idols was missing this year due to the restrictions on celebrations in public places owing to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vinayaka-navaratri-concludes/article36546376.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Riding the waves!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/riding-the-waves/article36546355.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book release||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-release/article36546378.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||On the safe side||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-the-safe-side/article36546425.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Soul music||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/soul-music/article36545742.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC undertakes another survey of nala encroachments||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is embarking on another round of survey of the stormwater drains in the city, to enumerate the encroachments which have to be removed, to widen the streams to their original glory. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao has reportedly issued instructions during a recent review meeting, to conduct such a survey in all the six zones and submit reports. As per instructions, the zonal commissioners will have to select a major drain in their jurisdiction and carry out the survey. They will need to collect and summarise details such as the length of the drain, number of encroachments, size of each encroachment, socio-economic profile of the occupants and need for rehabilitation, besides determining whether the encroachers may be provided housing units under the double-bedroom housing scheme of the Telangana government. All depts. involved The survey is to be carried out with the participation of all the departments concerned, including Town Planning, Irrigation, Revenue and Planning. “The government is looking at the possibility of clearing all encroachments to provide free passage of water, thereby preventing flooding. Rehabilitation package may be determined for the eligible poor,” revealed an official, seeking anonymity. Two reports, respectively by Kirloskar and Voyants committees, already exist about the encroachment of stormwater drains in the city, due to which successive floods have taken place. However, officials said, there were parts of drains which were excluded from the earlier surveys due to political pressure. Musheerabad is one such area which hosts the surplus drain of the Hussainsagar. Not all encroachments are by the economically-deprived, as vouched by apartment complexes and schools that have come up right on the drains which carry flood water from one lake to the other. The city had experienced major flooding in October last year, when torrential rains demolished lake bunds, breached drains, flooded hundreds of colonies and resulted in the death of over 50 persons. Though last year’s was an exceptional occurrence with record rainfall, a miniature instance of such disaster is in waiting every year when there is copious amount of monsoon rains, necessitating a permanent solution to the problem.  The government is looking at the possibility of clearing all encroachments to provide free passage of water, thereby preventing flooding. An official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-undertakes-another-survey-of-nala-encroachments/article36546087.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Migrant kids return to pre-school||While educational institutions in Telangana reopened from September 1, a learning centre for children of migrant workers in Nallagandla, too, has reopened. Around 30 children up to the age of six are provided pre-school education, preparing them for formal education. Their mothers said that with the children taken care of until evening, they too have resumed work. Since several high-rise buildings have and are coming up in Nallagandla, thousands of construction workers stay near the sites. The ‘Child Care and Learning Center’ run by Aide et Action, an NGO, was closed following the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak in the State in March 2020. Regional manager of the NGO, Suresh Gutta said they run eight such centres in and around Hyderabad which have reopened since September 1. Given that the workers are hail from various States including Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Bihar, the centres cater to children speaking in their respective native language. “It is like a mini-India. They are taught basics such as the alphabet and numbers. The classes are taught using pictures. They are provided one meal by Integrated Child Development Services,” said G. Bhikshapati, State coordinator of the NGO. Baseline survey He added that they conduct a baseline survey to know how many workers and how many children reside in a locality, which helps them decide if a learning centre has to be opened. M. Lakshmi, a native of Mahbubnagar, said her two children study at the centre. The family returned to their hometown during the first lockdown last year. During the second lockdown, however, they stayed put in the city. Though her husband worked, she had to stay back at home to take care of the children. “Now, my children are at the learning centre till evening. So, we too can go to work now,” said Ms. Lakshmi, who works in nearby flats as a maid. Two other women in the locality said they have also been able to resume work as their children have started going to the centre again. K. Neela, whose two sons study at a nearby government school, said that when schools were shut, their children could not access online education due to erratic power supply. “They started to forget what they had learnt. Now that schools have opened up, they are back in the classroomss after one-and-a-half years,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/migrant-kids-return-to-pre-school/article36546103.ece
19 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Brace for traffic curbs as city gets ready to bid farewell to Ganesh||Hyderabad police have imposed traffic restrictions in view of Ganesh idol immersion on Sunday and no vehicles would be allowed on the main procession route from Keshavaigiri in Old City to Tank Bund-NTR Marg via MJ Market and Abids. Elaborate traffic arrangements have also been made for the smooth movement of vehicles carrying Ganesh idols and all tributary processions will join with the main procession, which starts at Katta Maisamma temple, Keshavgiri and ends at Hussainsagar. Movement of vehicles other than those part of the idol processions will not be allowed to move on the main procession route between 9 a.m. on Sunday to 8 a.m. on Monday. Traffic restrictions would be extended if the situation demands so, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said. Roads to be barricaded “Facility to cross from west to east or vice-versa is available at Basheerbagh junction only. Commuters are advised to use the Ring Road and Begumpet area to avoid diversions. All roads leading to the main procession route will be barricaded,” he said. The main procession starts from Keshavagiri and passes through Old PS Chandrayangutta–Chandrayangutta crossroad– Nallavagu – Kandikalgate Flyover – OP Chatrinaka – Laldarwaza Temple – Nagulchinta – Charminar – Madina – Afzalgunj – SA Bazar - M.J.Market – Abids – Basheerbagh – Liberty – Ambedkar Statue towards NTR Marg, PVNR Marg (Necklace Road) or Upper Tankbund. Processions from Secunderabad area will pass through RP Road – MG Road – Karbala Maidan – Kawadiguda – Musheerabad crossroads – RTC crossroads – Narayanaguda crossroads – Himayathnagar ‘Y’ Junction and join the main procession at Liberty. Idols coming from Chilkalguda crossroads will join Musheerabad ‘X’ Roads via Gandhi Hospital. Processions from East zone (Amberpet, Nallakunta, Ramanthapur and other area) will pass from Uppal – Ramanthapur- 6 No. Junction Amberpet – Shivam Road - NCC at OU - Durga Bai Deshmukh Hospital – Hindi Mahavidyalaya crossroads – Fever Hospital – Barkathpura crossroads – Narayanaguda crossroad and join the procession coming from RTC crossroads. Also, Ganesh idols from Dilsukhnagar will join the procession coming from IS Sadan – Saidabad – Chanchalguda at Nalgonda crossroads and some big idols can proceeds towards Amberpet via Moosarambagh. Idols coming from Tarnaka side will proceed through Osmania University Distance Education Road, Adikmet and join the main procession at Fever Hospital via Vidyanagar. Mr. Kumar said processions from Tolichowki, Rethibowli and Mehdipatnam side will pass through Masab Tank, Ayodhya Junction – Nirankari Bhavan – Old PS Saifabad – Iqbal Minar to NTR Marg. Idols from Erragadda will pass through SR Nagar – Ameerpet – Panjagutta – V.V. Statue and join the procession coming from Mehdipatnam at Nirankari Bhavan and proceed to NTR Marg. Those from Tappachabutra and Asifnagar side will pass through Sitarambagh – Boiguda Kaman – Voulga Hotel – Goshamahal Baradari – Alaska and join the main procession at MJ Market and proceed towards Abids – Basheerbagh – Liberty – Ambedkar Statue - NTR Marg, PVNR Marg (Necklace Road) or Upper Tank bund. Thick security blanket Over 27,000 police personal, including 1,000-plus women officers, will be deployed in the city as part of security arrangements for the last day of immersion of Ganesh idols on Sunday. Thousands of volunteers will also assist cops in the task. Hundreds of CCTV cameras have been installed to keep an eye on public movements. This is the first time that over 1,000 women police personnel are deployed for Ganesh bandobast duty in the city. Police said nearly 10 SHE Teams will go incognito to trace and nab those who tease or misbehave with women during the immersion procession. Teams would also monitor the movement of the crowd in general or any suspicious person/ activity by using binoculars from the rooftop of several high-rises in the city. Several bomb squads, metal detectors, and special forces have been deployed as part of the security arrangements.  Facility to cross from west to east or vice-versa is available at Basheerbagh junction only. Commuters are advised to use the Ring Road and Begumpet area to avoid diversions. Anjani Kumar, Hyderabad Police Commisssioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brace-for-traffic-curbs-as-city-gets-ready-to-bid-farewell-to-ganesh/article36546090.ece
19 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth Reddy throws ‘white challenge’ against drug abuse||Allegations and counter-allegations on drug culture in the State took an interesting turn on Saturday with TPCC president Revanth Reddy throwing a ‘white challenge’, where he wanted politicians and celebrities to undergo drug analysis tests to send a positive message against drug abuse. “Being role models for youngsters, people in public life should accept my challenge to undergo the tests and invite some more to take up the same,” he said, revealing that he was inviting Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao and former Chevella MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy to be part of the challenge. The Congress leader said that he would be present at the Telangana Martyrs’ Memorial at 12 noon on Monday and from there, he would go to any hospital that the Minister suggests for the drug tests. He said that TRS MP Joginapally Santosh has started the Green Challenge inviting celebrities to promote greenery by planting saplings and this ‘white challenge’ was similar to that. Earlier, KTR offered to go through a drug test in response to criticism from Mr. Reddy that he had become the ‘brand ambassador of drugs’. An angry KTR said that the Congress leader was crossing all the limits of decency in linking him to the drugs’ issue and as a matter of fact offered himself for the test. The rider here, however, was that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi too, should come along. When asked about KTR’s challenge at a press conference, Mr. Revanth Reddy responded with the ‘white challenge’ stating that he believed drugs were white in colour going by what he saw in films. ‘Govt. saving filmstars’ Mr. Revanth Reddy alleged that the government was trying to save some filmstars in the drug scandal and it was evident in the way the Enforcement Directorate had called stars like Rakul Preet Singh and Daggubati Rana. He said that these actors were not in the list of celebrities called for investigation when the Prohibition and Excise Department officials conducted the same probe a few years ago. “We want to know if the government has deliberately excluded them and if there are some more who were not called despite being in the dragnet,” the TPCC president said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-reddy-throws-white-challenge-against-drug-abuse/article36546117.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Engg seat allotment out: CSE, IT are top choices||Computer Science Engineering (CSE) and Information Technology (IT) streams emerged as the top favourites of students with more than 99% seats in these two streams filled in the first phase of engineering seat allotment done on Saturday. Over all, out of the 74,071 available seats, 60,941 seats were taken while 13,130 seats went vacant in the engineering stream while only 228 seats for Pharmacy courses were allotted out of the 3,971 available seats.  In 31 colleges, all the seats were filled and these include 6 university and 25 private. The Convenor of EAMCET 2021 admissions, Navin Mittal said that this year 5,108 students secured seats under the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota and 8,624 students could not be allotted seats despite giving options. Among the popular streams with large number of seats, Electronic and Communications Engineering (ECE) could attract 12,308 students out of the 13,935 seats. In the Electrical and Electronics Engineering stream, only 4,035 out of the 7,019 seats were taken. CSE (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning) stream was opted by 5,429 students for the 5,884 seats. CSE (Data Science) was opted by 3,229 students for the 3,528 seats, and CSE (Cyber Security) saw 1,634 seats taken from 1,915 available. Civil Engineering could attract 3,177 students for the 6,221 seats and Mechanical Engineering was way behind with just 2,550 students opting for it from the 5,881 available seats. All the seats were taken in Agriculture Engineering (27), Bio-Technology (24) and Dairying (24). With regard to engineering, in the 15 university colleges, 3,852 seats were filled out of the 3,994 available while in the private colleges, 55,695 seats were filled of the 68,512 seats in 158 colleges. In two private universities, 1,394 seats were filled out of the 1,565 available seats. Online fee payment Students who received the messages can download their allotment letter and pay the fee online before September 23 or else their admission will stand cancelled. Parents should pay the tuition fee from their bank accounts as in case of refunds the amount will be remitted back to the same account. Students have to self report to the allotted colleges by logging into the website ‘https://tseamcet.nic.in’ and it is mandatory to confirm the admission. Candidates have to report at the allotted college after final phase of counselling and the dates for it would be announced in the due course. All the eligible candidates can participate in next round of counselling, if any, for change of college or branch, if desired. Sports and NCC quota seats earmarked will be considered for allotment in final phase of counselling after receiving priorities from the departments concerned.  All the eligible candidates can participate in next round of counselling, if any, for change of college or branch, if desired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engg-seat-allotment-cse-it-top-choices/article36546091.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central scheme for ryots has few takers||Registration of farmers for the Central government scheme, PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, is very low in the State, even while a large number of farmers, who registered, have benefited from it, a study has found. The study by Libtech India has recommended that the State government conduct campaigns during the registration period to ensure that maximum number of farmers benefit from the scheme. Data from 32 districts The data driven study from 32 districts of the State, notes that only 38.4 lakh farmers have been registered so far for the scheme since inception, eligible to receive over 2.8 crore instalments amounting to Rs. 5,664 crore cash benefit. Huge gap However, considering that Rythu Bandhu scheme in the same lines by the State government covers 25 lakh more farmers, which shows huge unachieved gap for the Kisan Nidhi scheme, the report noted. On the implementation side, 89% of the farmers in the beneficiary list have received all the instalments, with 9% receiving partial and less than 2% not receiving any instalment. Total amount of missed instalments in Telangana accounts for Rs. 353 crore and the reasons largely include bank rejections, payments stopped by the State, and Aadhaar verifications. Even after excluding farmers who are income tax payees, ROFR farmers and multiple beneficiaries from single family, 25 lakh is a huge number, and indicates that eligible farmers are losing money from the central government, the study notes. It is high time that the State government had reviewed the scheme’s implementation and ensured that all the eligible farmers receive the benefits. Bank rejections Apart from conducting campaigns, the Department of Agriculture should seek support from Panchayat Raj Department for resolution of bank rejections, the study recommended. The Prime Minister’s Kisan Samman Nidhi devised in 2018 — in the lines of Rythu Bandhu scheme of Telangana government, promises cash benefit of Rs. 6,000 per annum for the registered farmers, payable in three instalments of Rs. 2,000 each through Direct Benefit Transfer mode. All bank accounts are vetted through various steps for valid Aadhaar cards before States check the applicant’s eligibility to receive the amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/few-takers-for-central-scheme-on-ryots/article36546110.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Don’t dispossess petitioners of assets’||Justice K. Lakshman of the Telangana High Court has instructed the State government to ensure that persons from Bandavaripakula of Waranparthy district, who were affected by construction of Veeranjaneya balancing reservoir under Palamuru Ranga Reddy Lift Irrigation scheme project, were not dispossessed of their assets. The interim direction was issued after hearing a writ petition filed by B. Shiva Kumar and 79 others seeking complete benefits under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act. The petitioners were majors, sons and daughters of farmers whose lands and houses were being acquired for construction of the balancing reservoir. The petitioners’ counsel N.S. Arjun Kumar contended that clause (m) of section 3 of the Act envisaged that an adult of either gender with or without spouse or children or dependents shall be treated as separate family. Hence, all the petitioners (who are in the age group of 18 years to 30 years) should be treated as separate families. They should be awarded complete benefits given to displaced families under the Act, Mr. Arjun Kumar argued. The authorities had considered each petitioner as separate family and paid them a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each. However, the petitioners were denied complete benefits under the Act. The authorities maintained that the petitioners cannot be treated as a separate family since they were not married. This was against the provisions of the Act, counsel told the bench. Justice K. Lakshman instructed the authorities not to dispossess the petitioners of their properties. He directed the officials to file a detailed counter affidavit on the matter. The plea was posted for September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-dispossess-petitioners-of-assets/article36546105.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 2-lakh aid for bereaved dependents of ex-servicemen||The third managing committee meeting of the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund, Telangana, on Saturday decided to extend immediate financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh to the families of deceased ex-servicemen with dependent unemployed and unmarried children. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday chaired the meeting held at Raj Bhavan, where it was also decided to enhance the marriage grant for girl children of ex-servicemen from Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 40,000, provide educational assistance for children of ex-servicemen for pursuing CA, CS, ICWA, and Ph.D. courses. The committee also agreed to enhance the educational assistance for the children of ex-servicemen pursuing professional courses, from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 25,000, besides sanctioning Rs. 20,00,000 each for the construction of Sainik Bhavans at Adilabad, and Kothagudem. The members who were present in the meeting included Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Principal Secretary-Home Ravi Gupta, Finance Secretary D. Ronald Rose, Telangana and Andhra Sub Area general officer commanding Maj. Gen. R.K. Singh, Maj. Gen. N. Srinivas Rao (retired), Wg Cdr T.J. Reddy (retired), Brig P. Ganesham (retired), Cdr CSM Raj (retired), and Hyderabad Collector L. Sharman. Sainik Welfare director Col P. Ramesh Kumar gave a detailed briefing on the state of the Fund. Speaking on the occasion, the Governor, Dr. Soundararajan, stressed the need for identifying and reaching out to all ex-servicemen and widows of ex-servicemen in distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-2-lakh-aid-for-bereaved-dependents-of-ex-servicemen/article36546097.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Collecting antique clocks is this techie’s passion||For someone who is a software engineer by profession, T. Balasubramanya Kumar has a different and unique ‘timeline’ to follow at home! Well, this 45-year-old gentleman has a rare collection of some of the antique clocks and watches from across Europe, US, Japan and about 1,000 alone from the city-based HMT itself for the simple reason that he loves the Hyderabad touch. “My father late Satyanarayana worked in HMT and since my childhood I got fascinated with the varieties of clocks they made,” says Kumar, whose wife Syamala Rupakula is an avid wildlife photographer. “Definitely, there were days when I started collecting these clocks when my family members wondered what purpose they would serve. But as days passed by, they got a better perspective of my passion,” he said. Interestingly, the city has a Hyderabad Watch Group with some of the 30 members from it even being ‘proud owners’ of antique clocks and watches costing close to Rs. 1 crore. And, he is also grateful to the HMT Collectors Group which meets regularly every year to upgrade their know-how on the collections. “Definitely, the most challenging aspect is maintenance as sometime I have to wait for months to get the spare parts for some of them. I do spend a lot of time to ensure they are functional. For instance, one of my priceless possessions is the Gustav Becker clock (made in Germany) purchased in The Netherlands nine years ago for $10, which was made in the late 19th century,” Kumar said. “I try to wear each one of them on different days. It is some kind of joy which I cannot explain in words,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collecting-antique-clocks-is-this-techies-passion/article36546109.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC suspends NCLT Hyderabad order||The Telangana High Court had passed an interim direction suspending the order of National Company Law Tribunal’s Special Bench of Hyderabad which rejected the Resolution Plan presented by M/s CFM Asset Reconstruction Private Limited. The Resolution Plan was presented in a matter involving Viceroy Hotels Limited and Union Hotels Private Limited. A Bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Vinod Kumar, which passed the interim direction, observed that “it appears that the parties have not been taken into confidence” by the NCLT Bench while rejecting the RP. The Bench said, “It is settled principle that justice should not only be done but it must be seen to be done”. Prima facie it did not appear so in the present case and hence, the NCLT order was being suspended temporarily, the Bench said in its order. NCLT’s Hyderabad Bench initiated the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) of Corporate Debtor M/s Viceroy Hotels by an order on March 12, 2018. Subsequently, the Committee of Creditors appointed a Resolution Professional. The CoC approved the Resolution Plan presented by CFM ARC which offered Rs. 185 crore. Another RP submitted by Unison Hotels was rejected by the CoC. Challenging this, the Unison Hotels moved NCLT. After NCLT rejected Unison Hotel’s plea, the latter went for an appeal at NCLAT-Delhi. The appeal too, was dismissed. Meanwhile, CFM ARC filed an interim application proposing some changes to the RP without changing the total amount committed. The Unison Hotels got impleaded as party in the addendum to the RP presented by CFM ARC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-suspends-nclt-hyderabad-order/article36546111.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water Board gears up for immersion gala||Managing Director of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board M. Dana Kishore has informed that elaborate arrangements have been made for smooth conduct of the Ganesh idol immersion gala on Sunday. On Saturday, after inspecting the drinking water camps set up by the Board for devotees arriving for immersion, he said 119 such camps have been set up across the city, to distribute 30.72 lakh water sachets. The camps are available along the route of immersion procession, and based on the need, measures are being taken to provide drinking water in drums too apart from sachets. These apart, water is being supplied by tankers to the camps where free food will also be provided on the occasion. Quality assurance teams from the water board will keep checking the water quality at the camps. Mr. Dana Kishore urged the officials to ensure there are no water leakages or sewage overflows and to inspect manhole covers, and carry out repairs wherever necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-board-gears-up-for-immersion-gala/article36546088.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC to operate 565 special buses||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) will be pressing into service 565 special buses for the those participating in the Ganesh idol immersion scheduled on Sunday. The transport juggernaut has informed that buses will be plied on as many as 31 routes. Some of these are Basheerbagh to Kachiguda, Basheerbagh to Ramnagar, Old MLA Quarters to Kothapet, Old MLA Quarters to L.B. Nagar, Old MLA Quarters to Vanasthalipuram, Old MLA Quarters to Midhani, TTD Kalyana Mandapam (Liberty) to Uppal, Indira Park to Uppal, Indira Park to Secunderabad Station, Indira Park to Risala Bazaar, Indira Park to ECIL Crossroads, Indira Park to Secunderabad Station, Indira Park to Jambagh, Lakdikapul to Toli Chowki, Lakdikapul/Khairtabad to BHEL via MP, Lakdikapul/Khairtabad to Kondapur. The TSRTC will post the depot managers of Bandlaguda and Midhani at the PCR law and order main control room. Officers will be on duty from 8 a.m. on Sunday till the immersion concludes. These officers will coordinate with police in connection with operation of buses at the joint control rooms at NTR Marg, Gandhi Marg Outpost at Tank Bund, and the control room in Basheerbagh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-to-operate-565-special-buses/article36546093.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Record jabs in a day, 5.27 lakh inoculated||A total of 5.27 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine were administered on Friday, said Health officials, adding that it is the highest single-day coverage. Earlier, 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh doses were being administered in a day. On Thursday, the State Cabinet directed officials to vaccinate three lakh people in a day as part of a special vaccination drive. Thereafter, the number of jabs given in a day has increased. On Thursday, 4.01 lakh doses were given, which increased to 5.27 lakh doses on Friday. It included 3,77,391 first doses and 1,50,166 second doses. CS inspects drive Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar inspected vaccination drive at BRKR Bhavan where the Secretariat employees, including contract and outsourcing staff, were given the second dose of vaccination. As per instructions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the first dose of special vaccination drive was taken up on June 11 and 12. GAD Principal Secretary Vikas Raj, Health Secretary S.A.M. Rizvi, GAD Joint Secretary Chitti Rani and Deputy DMHO Padmaja participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/record-jabs-in-a-day-527-lakh-inoculated/article36546084.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Metro timings extended||In view of the Ganesh idol immersion processions in the city, Hyderabad Metro Rail has decided to extend its services on September 19 for the convenience of commuters. Instead of running the last services at 10.15 p.m., it has been extended till 1 a.m. of September 20 (Monday), with the trains reaching all terminating stations by about 2 a.m. Passengers are advised to strictly follow COVID-19 safety guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/metro-timings-extended/article36546085.ece
19 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man charred to death in car||A man was charred to death after the car he was driving caught fire on the Nehru Outer Ring Road near Shamshabad here on Saturday. According to police, the accident took place around 8 p.m. near 135 km board on the ORR and the body was charred beyond identification. “We suspect he is native of Jaggaiahpet in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh and short-circuit is suspected to be the reason for the fire,” Shamshabad police said, adding that the victim was going towards Vijayawada from Nanakramguda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-charred-to-death-in-car/article36546101.ece
19 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Graduation, placement day at GNITS||Guru Nanak Institutions celebrated their 17th Graduation and Placement Day when 1,200 students received medals and degree certificates. Twenty six gold and silver medals were presented to first and second rankers of all branches in UG and PG programmes at the event by Meka Venkata Chalapathy, Head Talent Management, Virtusa Consulting, and Debashish Ghosh, Country HR Head, Berkadia. Gagandeep Singh Kohli, Vice-Chairman, Guru Nanak Institutions, and H S Saini, Managing Director, said that more than 1,000 students received appointment letters from about 100 companies that participated in the on-campus and off-campus placement drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/graduation-placement-day-at-gnits/article36546102.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Improve healthcare for snakebite victims’||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has called for improved healthcare infrastructure in primary health centres to offer timely and better treatment to snakebite victims. She said timely treatment and availability of anti-venom injection, and trained medical staff would help save snakebite victims. The Governor was addressing the National Snakebite Awareness Summit, organised in virtual mode by the Integrated Health and Wellbeing Council, New Delhi, from the Raj Bhavan, here, on Saturday. Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan called for region-specific treatment protocols to treat snakebite victims. IHWC CEO Kamal Narayan, and Bharat Serums & Vaccines Limited chief operating officer Vishwanath Swarup were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/improve-healthcare-for-snakebite-victims/article36546098.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet sub-panel on podu land meets||The Cabinet sub-committee on podu land met on Saturday under the chairmanship of Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod at BRKR Bhavan. The meeting in Hyderabad was attended by Forest Minister Indrakaran Reddy, Energy Minister Jagadish Reddy, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Forest Special Chief Secretary Shanti Kumari, Tribal Welfare Secretary Christina Chongthu, and Principal Chief Conservator of Forests P. Shobha. As per the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the sub-committee was formed to find a permanent solution to problems related to podu land in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cabinet-sub-panel-on-podu-land-meets/article36546112.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A few celebrities test negative for drugs||The test results of the samples given by a few Tollywood celebrities in 2017 to examine for drugs and narcotics were negative. While Telangana Prohibition and Excise Department officials who collected hair, nail, or other samples from around four celebrities and gave it to the State Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in 2017, results of the tests were received in December-2020. The Excise department issued notices to 12 celebrities from the film fraternity. While all 12 celebrities appeared before the SIT, only around four of them gave samples to get tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-few-celebrities-test-negative-for-drugs/article36546095.ece
19 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. to stage protests over ‘unemployment’ from Oct. 2||After the Dalita Girijana Dandora, the Telangana Congress has decided to conduct agitations in support of the unemployed from October 2 to December 9, with the first programme likely to be in Sircilla, represented by Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao. Senior TPCC vice-president Mallu Ravi told this to the media on Saturday after the party executive committee meeting. He said that leaders suggested programmes in support of the unemployed youngsters after the success of Dalita Girijana Dandora. Congress leaders planned to visit universities and colleges to meet students and take their feedback. He said that the Political Affairs Committee (PAC) will discuss on the modalities and venues of the meetings. Efforts would be made to bring in AICC president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi for the last meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-protests-on-joblessness-from-october-2/article36546118.ece
19 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||17 TMREIS students crack JEE (Mains)||The Telangana Minorities Residential Educational Institutions Society’s professional development programme bore fruit with secretary B. Shafiullah announcing that 17 students from these institutions cracked JEE (Mains) exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/17-tmreis-students-crack-jee-mains/article36546120.ece
19 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||10-day programme on Cybercromes and Cybersecurity at MANUU||The Maulana Azad National Urdu University is organising a 10-day online faculty development programme on cyber crimes and cyber security from September 20. The programme is being sponsored by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10-day-programme-on-cybercromes-and-cybersecurity-at-manuu/article36546106.ece
19 September 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nine Nalgonda municipal employees held||The Nalgonda Town-II police, after investigations following financial audit reports, arrested accused persons in the Rs. 5.04-crore fraud in the Nalgonda municipality recorded in 2015. As of Saturday, nine persons were arrested and remanded in judicial custody and search for the remaining officials was on. The administration, following their remand, also placed six of them under suspension. The arrests, three on each day, were made on Sunday, Wednesday and Friday. The incident refers to the accumulated financial irregularities in the local body office in the town between 2011 and 2015. The police launched an investigation after the then municipal commissioner A. Mangathayaru reported the violations. The imbalances, of about Rs. 5 crore, arose after close to 40 officials in various ranks allegedly siphoned off funds, mostly through revenue collection, irregularities in water connections and water bills. Soon after the case was opened, the said officials approached the court and paid penalties and made good the fund to an extent and resumed their jobs. Over the period, two officials retired from service and four others died while several officials got transferred to Hyderabad and mandals in undivided Nalgonda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/9-nalgonda-municipal-employees-held/article36546082.ece
19 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two-day ‘Japan Day’ job fair from Sept. 24||Japan External Trade Organisation (JETRO), Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), and IIT-Hyderabad are co-hosting the fourth edition of job fair, Japan Day, on September 24 and 25. The event will be organised online, same as last year, due to COVID-19, and 13 Japanese companies, comprising of startups, SMEs, and large corporates are participating to promote their businesses/cutting-edge technologies to attract students from IIT-H. In response to last year’s survey, which showed that more than half of the companies were interested in future collaborative research with IIT Hyderabad, an industry-academia-government session is planned for day 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-day-japan-day-job-fair-from-sept-24/article36546384.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. schools help parents battle COVID crunch||The COVID-19 pandemic has effected an exodus of a different kind. Several children studying in private schools in the National Capital Region have moved to government schools as their parents, reeling under financial difficulties brought about by consecutive lockdowns, have not been able to afford the school fees. Given their precarious financial position, parents say free education will help ease the burden of school fees at a time when education has moved online and private school education has become a luxury they can no longer afford. Vijay Verma, a photographer living on rent in Indirapuram, said at the start of the pandemic, getting through the month on his salary was impossible despite cutting down on expenditure. With two personal loans and a home loan to pay off, he decided to shift his son, who had just completed Class X from a private school, to a government school in Moti Bagh. His son, an avid football player, he said, did not protest as the government school had a reputation of encouraging football players. “For over a year now, my son has not attended football practice as schools have been closed. What has made it worse is that we have now shifted to Greater Noida and to attend school, my son has to leave home at 6 a.m. to make it to the first class at 8 a.m. His school is approximately 40 km away. This is impacting his studies but we cannot afford to stay closer to his school,” Mr. Verma said. At Happy Model Senior Secondary School — a budget school in Gurugram’s Sheetla Colony, which mostly caters to lower middle class families such as migrant workers, autorickshaw drivers, vegetable vendors and rickshaw pullers — almost one-fourth of the students, mostly in the primary wing, have withdrawn. The school’s director, Gaurav Arora, attributed the trend to a host of factors, the most compelling being the inability of the parents to pay the dues due to loss of livelihood or salary cuts. Mr. Arora said the school had a strength of around 750, but 200-odd students had left over the past one year. “The sudden lockdown pushed many families to hand-to-mouth existence due to loss of livelihood and cut in salaries and they decided to shift their children to government schools to avoid paying hefty fees for online classes. Also, there were families who withdrew their children to keep them at home for the fear of the pandemic or they could not afford smartphones for online classes. Besides, many migrants who left for their homes during the lockdown are yet to return,” said Mr. Arora. The school management offered several concessions to the parents, such as 20-50% discount in fees, flexibility to pay the dues in instalments and also waived the annual charges to discourage them from withdrawing their kids. More girls exiting At the school that charges a monthly fee ranging from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 3,500 for different classes, Mr. Arora said the majority of students who left were girls. “I saw this trend in our school. Also, my wife, a teacher at a government school, told me how girls from good private schools took admission in her school,” he said. Confirming the trend of growing admissions in government schools, Geeta Arya, Principal, Government Senior Secondary School (Boys), said the student strength in her school had gone up to 1,183 from 977 a year ago. “We still have five days to go before the admission process for the present session ends. We are expecting to touch the 1,200-mark this time.” Ashwini Kumar, School Cadre Lecturer, Fine Arts, said: “Compared to private schools, the charges in government schools are almost nil and this is the main reason for the exodus.” In some cases, financial burden has forced students to stay out of schools as well. Manju Kumari, who works as a domestic help in Greater Noida, said she was forced to pull out her two daughters, studying in Class IX and Class II, and son, a Class 1 student, from a private school during the lockdown and she has not been able to send them back to school yet. “I have still not cleared the dues at the school, so I cannot secure admission in another one. As of now, they are not studying but as the pandemic situation gets better, I hope to start earning again and get them admitted to a government school nearby,” said Ms. Kumari. She added that even for a government school, she needs to pay admission fee that she cannot afford yet. Some parents who have opted to make the shift from private to government schools feel that in junior classes, in the online education mode, there is not much difference in the quality of the two. Yogesh Dutta, a resident of Jahangirpuri who used to set up stalls at weekly markets, said that due to the closure of markets, he was forced to take his son out of a private school. “My son is in Class III. Learning through the mobile phone in private school is similar to that in a government school. My son sits with the phone and listens to the teacher at home. Why should I pay money for a private school when schools are shut?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-schools-help-parents-battle-covid-crunch/article36546002.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Metro’s Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand section opens for public||Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal jointly inaugurated the Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand extension of the Grey Line of Delhi Metro via videoconferencing here on Saturday. The opening of the 1.5-km corridor makes the Grey Line Metro accessible to a sizeable chunk of population living in Outer Delhi. Mr. Kejriwal sought to emphasise that the extension may seem short but it will cater to densely populated areas. Delhi’s Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot, Ambassador of Japan in India Satoshi Suzuki, Managing Director, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), Mangu Singh and several other dignitaries and officials were present at the virtual function. Passenger services on this section commenced at 5 p.m., DMRC officials said. With the opening of this section, the Dwarka-Dhansa Bus Stand Grey Line has become a 6.1-km-long corridor with four stations, including an interchange at Dwarka. The Grey Line will provide seamless connectivity from Najafgarh and Dhansa Bus Stand to different parts of the city, the government said. “It is a moment of great delight for all the people of Outer Delhi, especially the residents of Najafgarh,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “So far, the route of Delhi Metro was ending at the Delhi Gate region of Najafgarh. There are about 50 villages in the area from where a huge number of people come to inner Delhi to work. All these people had to cross the Phirni Road Chowk to get to the metro station, which would result in a huge traffic jam at the Chowk.” Ease of movement “Now that the metro service has been extended to the Dhansa Bus Stand, people won’t need to cross the chowk and stand in the traffic. The extension may be just 1.5-km-long but it is very significant for the residents,” the Chief Minister said, adding that a large number of people who come from Jhajjar, Haryana, to work in Delhi will also benefit from it. The Dhansa Bus Stand metro station, the Delhi government said, is the first ever underground station of the Delhi Metro network to have an entire underground floor dedicated to parking. The Delhi government, Mr. Kejriwal said, had put forth a proposal with regard to the Grey line, which the Centre approved. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta took a swipe at Mr. Kejriwal for allegedly taking credit for a project which was originally planned by the Centre. “First delay the project, then take credit for someone else’s work! Wow, Arvind Kejriwal, well done! Thanks to Modiji for the commencement of the Najafgarh – Dhansa Bus Stand Metro Rail Corridor!” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/metros-najafgarh-dhansa-bus-stand-section-opens-for-public/article36545997.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||DU first cut-off likely on Oct. 1||Delhi University officials will hold a series of meetings with college principals to finalise the cut-off schedule which is likely to be released by next week, officials said on Saturday. The university plans to release its first cut-off on October 1 to accommodate students who are appearing for improvement or compartment exams, they added. Professor Rajeev Gupta, chairman of the university’s admission committee said, “We will finalise the cut-off schedule very soon. October 1 is a tentative date for the first cut-off. We plan to release the cut-off on that day. We will be holding meetings with college principals and nodal officers to finalise the schedule.” He said they plan to release a cut-off schedule for at least five cut-offs by next week. A college principal, requesting anonymity, said they have started holding meetings at their level to analyse the cut-off trend. Another principal said they are yet to receive the data of applications from the university and will decide accordingly. 2.87 lakh applicants Most of the principals were unanimous in saying that the cut-offs are going to be higher this time, with more students scoring above 95% this year in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Board exams. Over 2.87 lakh students have applied for Delhi University’s undergraduate courses, down from 3.53 lakh applications last year, with the maximum aspirants from the CBSE. Over 2.29 lakh applicants are from CBSE-affiliated schools, followed by Board of School Education Haryana (9,918), Council for the Indian School Certification Examination (9,659) and UP Board of High School and Intermediate Education (8,007).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-first-cut-off-likely-on-oct-1/article36545995.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two held over drunken brawl in Seemapuri||Two men were arrested after a quarrel broke out between them in Shahdara’s Seemapuri on Friday night, the police said on Saturday. Legal action has been taken against the duo who belong to different communities, the police said. They have ruled out any communal angle in the incident. DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said that a call was received from Kalandar Colony in Seemapuri wherein the caller stated “ Do samudayon mein jhagda ho raha hai, need police [A fight broke out between two communities, need police help]”. 3 admitted to hospital Three persons were admitted to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital. “It was revealed that a quarrel broke out between two neighbours — Veeru, 32, and Shezhad, 22, — over a trivial issue of verbal abuse. Both were found to be drunk at that time. Later, Veeru’s sister-in-law, Pushpa, 35, came out in his support and one Meenakshi (another neighbour) joined Shezhad,” Mr. Sahiyasundaram said. The police said that a case under Section 160 (punishment for committing affray) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Shehzad, Meenakshi, Veeru and Pushpa. Both Shehzad and Veeru were arrested under Section 107/151 of the Criminal Procedure Code and a report in a non-cognisable matter has been lodged against the four persons.  The quarrel broke out between Veeru and Shezhad over a trivial issue R. Sathiyasundaram DCP (Shahdara)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-held-over-drunken-brawl-in-seemapuri/article36545987.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Sisodia inaugurates ‘music bus’ at govt. school||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday launched a mobile music classroom and recording studio, dubbed as “music bus”, at Delhi government-run School of Specialised Excellence (SoSE) in performing and visual arts. “SoSE in performing and visual arts is a special school where students interested in different visual art forms will be taken. This school will be for Classes XI-XII and most of the subjects will be related to arts,” an official said. Classes for the first batch of students at this school will begin later this year and the bus will be stationed at the school, he said. “From here, with a team, including music teachers, the bus will go to 15 other government schools. Students in those schools will be given a chance to showcase their talent and teachers will help them too,” the official added. Interested students from these schools will be then selected to SoSE in performing and visual arts. More than 5,000 students studying in government-run schools are expected to benefit from it. Under this project, a bus has been transformed into a moving music class, a high-quality music recording studio and a performing stage. The bus studio is equipped with a Smart TV, which will be used to share digital educational music videos on issues related to social-emotional health and well-being, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sisodia-inaugurates-music-bus-at-govt-school/article36546001.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: 2 charged with setting shrine on fire, damaging property||A Delhi court has framed charges of rioting, arson and property damage against two men for allegedly setting a shrine on fire, vandalising and looting houses and shops during the riots last year. As per the chargesheet, while accused Gaurav allegedly put a shrine on fire with a petrol bomb in Delhi’s Bhajanpura, accused Prashant Malhotra looted and vandalised shops, houses, and vehicles in the same area on February 24, 2020. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav framed charges under requisite sections against the two accused. The two pleaded not guilty and claimed trial in the case. According to the police, both the accused were part of a riotous mob. Their call data record (CDR) location has also been found to be at the Bhajanpura intersection and in nearby areas where the alleged incident took place. The case was registered on the complaint of an assistant sub-inspector and the two were arrested on April 3, 2020. They were, however, released on bail by the court 10 days later, according to the final report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-riots-2-charged-with-setting-shrine-on-fire-damaging-property/article36545993.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP blames govt. for delay in Ashram underpass work||Terming the vicinity of the under-construction Ashram underpass a “chaos”, Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Saturday accused the Delhi government of turning a blind eye to commuters’ woes. The leader questioned the consecutive deadlines that were missed for the completion of the project. This comes a day after Public Works Department Minister Satyendra Jain sought to issue an assurance that the construction of the underpass would be completed within two months. “Despite being such an important road, it is totally neglected by the government,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-blames-govt-for-delay-in-ashram-underpass-work/article36546000.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 arrested for duping women in ‘friendship gift scam’||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly running a friendship scam wherein they duped innocent women on the pretext of sending them gifts from abroad and asked them to pay Customs clearance, the police said on Saturday. DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh said the accused have been identified as Damodar and Rehmat Khan. The police said the matter came to light on August 24 when a woman, a resident of Rani Bagh, approached them and stated that she befriended one Jeams, who claimed to be from the U.K., on Instagram. He asked her to pay his agent Rs. 60,000 on the pretext of sending gifts to her. He claimed the amount was required for Customs clearance. However, even when she paid the sum, no goods were ever sent to her, the police said. It was found that the money had gone to a bank account but the address attached to it was fake. With the help of technical and human surveillance, the police arrested the accused. Iit was revealed that the accused would lure women on social media by posing as men from foreign countries and then promise to send a gift even if the women denied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2-arrested-for-duping-women-in-friendship-gift-scam/article36545990.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Pain of Partition in letter and spirit||Many of us know what ‘long COVID’ is but have little idea about the term ‘long Partition’. Over the years, the trauma that Partition caused to 20 million displaced Indians has spurred the imagination of many artists and writers. Decades have not diminished Saadat Hasan Manto’s Toba Tek Singh that captured the madness of the idea of Partition. Years later, historian Vazira F.Y. Zamindar explored the stories of many real-life victims of Partition in her seminal work The Long Partition and the Making of Modern South Asia (Penguin/Viking). One of them was Ghulam Ali, a havildar in the British Indian Army. Posted in Rawalpindi at the time of Partition, he chose to serve in India as his family home was in Lucknow. But as riots broke out in Rawalpindi, he could not cross the border and continued to serve in Pakistan. He worked as a ‘limb fitter’ in the Limb Fitting Wing of the Army and the title stuck to his name. When things became normal, the Pakistan Army decided to discharge him as he originally opted for India. But the Indian government didn’t accept him and he was deported. He had to spend time in a Hindu refugee camp in Lahore where most considered him an Indian spy. After a long legal battle, Indian diplomats in Pakistan agreed to grant him a restricted visa to the country on humanitarian grounds. Recently, writer Sachin Garg came up with a novelised version of the story of Ghulam Ali. In Hindu Refugee Camp, Lahore (Grapevine), Sachin has built on the limited information available in Zamindar’s book to create an imaginary narrative that unravels through the letters exchanged between Ghulam Ali and his beloved Zahira Raza. In 2016, Sachin recounts, he attended a Dastangoi performance called Dastan-e-taqseem-e-Hind in Lucknow where the performers narrated true stories about the Partition. “They must’ve narrated seven-eight stories but the story of Havildar Ghulam Ali ‘Limb Fitter’ struck a chord with me for several reasons.” The next year, when Sachin decided to write a book on the subject, he approached Dastangoi performer Ankit Chadha for his sources. It led him to Zamindar’s account. “I tried contacting Ms. Zamindar but could not get through to her. I approached some other Partition historians but they confirmed that Ms. Zamindar is the only source of Ghulam Ali’s story. Hence, I had to base my research to only what she had written about him,” says Sachin. However, he adds, he did ample research about other aspects of the story. “I had to read up about women’s lives in Muslim households in the 1950s. The book also captures the history of courtesan culture in Lahore and how it evolved in the 19th and 20th century.” Sachin also visited Lahore, Karachi, and Islamabad to gather the Pakistani perspective on the Partition and how they view it. The book, he maintains, is part historical romance, part social commentary, and part kick-in-the-throat storytelling. Sachin feels there is something about reading someone else’s letters and that led him to use the exchange of letters format to tell the compelling story. “It makes us feel we are eavesdropping into someone’s private life and it feels a lot more real.” Also, he says, Zamindar wrote that Ghulam Ali sent letters to different authorities. For Sachin, whose literary journey started as a blog writer, the emotional hook of the story is that there was a man and a woman, who were separated by a border for no fault of theirs. “The story starts with the man being on the brink of death, as he is broken physically and emotionally. His beloved lives with her maternal grandmother and her sister, and is a working woman in a male-dominated world, fighting to make a place for herself. Where will fate lead both of them?” On how the ‘Limb Fitter’ remained largely unnoticed, Sachin says, in the bigger scheme of things, Ghulam Ali was just a number in a very large data set. One of the major challenges for Sachin was creating the world of Zahira. “She lived in an all-woman household. I tried to recreate the women’s banter that I had seen as a child during weddings. I wanted to keep the women real and have clear motivations for the way they behave,” says the writer who left his corporate job to be a full-time writer. Partition memories are always haunting and Sachin feels the book, his seventh, will resonate with the young reader. “Be it Hindus or Muslims, we’re all emotional about our religion. Politicians use this to manipulate us and keep us busy in fighting among each other, so that we don’t ask real questions about topics like education, healthcare and infrastructure. This was as true then as it is today.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pain-of-partition-in-letter-and-spirit/article36546007.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A culinary journey across Asia||The best part about travel is that it stays with you long after the last suitcase has been unpacked and put away. I had been thinking of Chiang Mai, a beautiful and somewhat hilly region in Thailand where we spent a marvellous few days in a lychee orchard some years ago. And, as it happens, while I was wondering when travel would be possible again, I found that a new restaurant in town had a dish called ‘Chicken Chiang Mai’. The plush dining place in Vasant Vihar is called Kiko-Ba, and it specialises in Pan-Asian cuisine, focusing on the food of Japan, Thailand and China. I had a mix of cuisines, and came to the conclusion that the food was rather good, indeed. The chicken Chiang Mai, for instance, had a sauce that had been prepared with a bit of curry powder (which is really a mix of spices), powdered coconut milk and a few aromatic herbs. The chicken had soaked in the sauce, and the outcome was a dish that brought to mind the happy ambience of Chiang Mai. The restaurant (62, Basant Lok Market, tel: 9811000589) has an interesting menu, with a focus on various kinds of grills, including the Japanese robatayaki, which is a lip-smacking form of barbecued food. I had some dishes from their takeaway menu, and while most were delightful, it made me realise that there is nothing quite like a grill that comes off a sizzling hot plate. I was happy with the opening dish — spinach gomai, a traditional Japanese salad, which had been given a tasty tweak. Kiko-Ba turned the blanched spinach leaves into little rolls and tossed them in a nutty dressing. I enjoyed it, and happily mopped up the sauce after I was done with the spinach. Another dish that I discovered in Thailand — and have loved it ever since — is stir-fried morning glory. A dish of lightly sautéed greens, this had the distinctive aromas of garlic and basil — flavours that I am greatly fond of. Then came the clay pot mushrooms — stir fried and flavoured with Sichuan pepper and vegan soy sauce. I moved to the main course — prawns tossed in a buttery-garlic sauce. The prawns were juicy, and the sauce was sinfully delicious. The dish that didn’t work for me was the pork rib. It had been marinated with black pepper, star anise, Sichuan pepper, cinnamon powder and ginger powder but sadly there was too much of everything —including, alas, salt. The toffee pudding was nothing to write home about either. The rates are somewhat high — varying between Rs. 450 and Rs. 950 for the takeaway menu. The full menu includes dishes such as Scottish salmon carpaccio (Rs. 800), crispy squid (Rs. 750), steamed tofu and asparagus (Rs. 800), grilled avocado (Rs. 700) and slow braised lamb chops (Rs. 1,300). The food celebrates tradition, flavour and craftsmanship with a modern and refined twist, the restaurant’s consultant chef Vaibhav Bhargava tells me. “It takes you through a culinary journey,” he says. In these gloomy times, it is good to know that new resta-urants are opening up in the city. It tells us that if we continue to take care, we will beat this persistent virus. Meanwhile, stay masked, folks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-culinary-journey-across-asia/article36546005.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A modern love story||When director Deepmala started writing her second short fiction film, Ek Jhalak , she organically gravitated towards a community she had worked with in the past. “I’ve always had a soft spot for transgenders. I’ve made films on social issues with different governmental agencies and ministries, including the National Aids Control Organization (NACO) for whom I made documentaries on HIV. During one such project, I got a chance to work closely with the transgender community,” says the Delhi-based director. The 19-minute short starring Amit Sadh in the lead, along with Sushma Seth, Ashish Ghosh and Zeeshan Ayyub as the narrator, revolves around a single father (Naman) who becomes attracted to his new neighbour without having met her. Through the course of Ek Jhalak , he catches glimpses of her and discovers facets that intrigue him. The enigmatic neighbour, Rasika, is played by Disha Yadav, a transgender actor. “I never thought of getting a non-transgendered actor for this role. It would not have been authentic,” says Deepmala, who directed the 2018 short film, Ek Koshish . It took the 40-year-old over three months to find the perfect actor. “There was a very specific look that I had in mind when I wrote Rasika. We met with and auditioned a lot of actors from the community, but I couldn’t find my Rasika. Someone suggested Disha’s name and, even though she hadn’t acted much in the past, as soon as I met her I knew she was great for the part,” she adds.  The big reveal   Trainedas a broadcast journalist, Deepmala worked with Star News and Zee News before she realised reporting wasn’t for her. For a little over a decade, she’s been heading The Visual House, a one-stop agency for design and communication in Faridabad, Haryana. While the work (ad films, documentaries) continues to have her attention, her forays into fiction are more to feed her creativity. “Making films for clients was beginning to feel like a factory. I wrote Ek Jhalak three years ago because I wanted to do something to satisfy myself artistically. It took me about an hour to write the whole screenplay.” Shot almost in sequence in Noida, Uttar Pradesh, Deepmala didn’t allow the two main actors to meet until the last day when they shot the film’s big reveal. “I wanted Amit’s reaction to be authentic. They were both dying to meet each other but I was very strict,” she concludes with a laugh. Ek Jhalak is now streaming on Amazon miniTV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-modern-love-story/article36546195.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||No, I don’t want to||Two days into an online friendship and the guy starts sexting. A break-up ends with private photos uploaded as revenge porn. Say hello to someone and he sends pics of his body parts. Just a few nightmarish scenarios in the lives of those pursuing digital romance, which is practically everyone from Gen Z. In my own younger, simpler days, a sweaty hand tried to hold yours in a darkened cinema hall or a smug little popinjay decided you owed him a kiss because he had treated you to chow mein and Fanta. Simpler yes, but the dice was as loaded against women then as it is today, with violation of consent as rampant as before. So it’s entirely apposite that popular dating app Tinder India should step into the fray with a short film, part of their ongoing #Let’sTalkConsent series. The film is about a young couple who met on Tinder, started to date, and then broke up because Ved misread Rhea’s no for a yes. Meeting up a year later, Rhea now reveals why she had walked away, telling Ved she wishes he had simply asked if she wanted sex rather than assume she did. It goes on to show Rhea in a new relationship, where her boyfriend asks for permission before he holds her hand or kisses her. At first glance, the film seems like an extremely simplistic approach to a subject that bristles with complexities, but on second thought, perhaps it’s good to keep it so basic — an ABC primer for dating — given India’s near-total sexual ignorance. Look around at the entitled, boorish young men and unreal romance-inspired women, and you see the price we’re paying for the absence of healthy, socially-sanctioned male-female interactions. We have bred a cultural illiteracy that leads most men to imagine any woman seen online is available for sex because “good girls” won’t be online but rollingrotisin a kitchen somewhere. Women on dating apps are thus already slotted, and male responses predetermined. If this film literally spells it out — check to hold hands, ask if you can hug, take permission for a kiss — it’s doing nothing more than educating young men in the most elementary of dating courtesies. In fact, as much as the mechanics of sex, such conversations need to be part of school curricula, built around respect for all genders, friendship, love, physicality, boundaries. The longer we postpone talking about it, the guiltier we are of encouraging rape culture. Having said that, I hope Tinder will go on also to make a more evolved film around consent because this one’s oversimplification is likely to create its own problems, for instance, in the stereotypes it echoes. Look at how Rhea explains her actions to Ved: “I didn’t have the strength to say no”; “I didn’t want to look bad and seem difficult.” While it’s true that women find it hard to say no and men typically use this to force intimacies, I would hate popular culture to reinforce the idea that women should continue not wanting to look ‘bad’, wanting to ‘please’ the guy, afraid he will be upset if they deny sex. Generations of socialisation have tutored women to always be ‘nice’, to want to be ‘liked’, and they must undo this. They must refuse, push back, storm out without fearing labels like ‘difficult’, ‘repressed’, ‘tease’. Interestingly, in the film, the beauty salon employee does this. She simply shoves off the boyfriend when he gets fresh, doing what the upper-class Rhea could not do, showing indeed why a woman’s ‘no’ doesn’t have to be wrapped in gauze. When women stop feeling guilty or awkward to decline intimacy, when they stop worrying about male approval, that’s when they’ll be truly free. Anything less is still a compromise. Also, teaching men to respect consent, verbal and non-verbal, can continue as an ongoing project, but healthy sexual bonds can’t be built by second-guessing or asking artificial pre-set questions. It comes from equality and respect. Two people in love or lust will be driven by passion, impulse, desire, all of which is instinctively non-verbal. If they truly respect each other, consent will neither have to be asked for nor granted but will flow from one to the other naturally. Whether online or offline. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-i-dont-want-to/article36546237.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Let’s talk masculinity||What do we mean when we say ‘masculinities’? If you grew up in India or certain parts of South Asia, the answers would be predictable: moustaches, automobiles, money, influence. But while external, society-approved markers are powerful in terms of what they convey (and codify in both law and convention), sometimes even small gestures of solidarity within groups of men can tell us important things about how patriarchy works. Although I am not an academic by profession, the reason I like reading academic books on this topic is that one gains insights about relatively lesser-known and barely-commented-upon dynamics of masculinity. During the M3 (Man, Male, Masculinities) International Conference organised by Goethe-Institut Chennai last week, Romit Chowdhury, a lecturer of sociology at Erasmus University, Rotterdam, narrated a series of fascinating ‘good Samaritan’ anecdotes from Kolkata. In one, an autorickshaw driver stops in the middle of the road and collects a standalone shoe because, earlier in the day, a colleague had informed him that he had dropped his while driving. The drivers rally around because they feel the pinch of having to buy new shoes in this economy; the ‘provider’ aspect of their patriarchal conditioning kicks in, manifesting in a gesture of solidarity. As Chowdhury said, “One of the major burdens preventing women’s full participation in urban life is precisely these seemingly innocent rituals of cooperation between men.” Or as comedian Aditi Mittal said during her performance at M3, “Women are not women’s worst enemies, as is often said. It’s just that a man is a man’s best friend!”  Unravelling the commonplace   Theconference was full of illustrative conversations like this, which focussed on the changing nature of masculinities. Writer Meena Kandasamy, for example, spoke about the way caste intersects with expressions of masculinity. Instances of young Dalit men facing physical violence for growing a flamboyant moustache or wearing a wristwatch are commonplace in India. Actor Tillotama Shome spoke passionately about onscreen depictions of masculinity. Other panel discussions covered realms as disparate as law, journalism, and the video gaming industry. What are the other areas where expressions of masculinity intersect with structures of power? In a country like India, there’s no shortage of evidence: Cabinet ministers have, in the past, referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s supposed manliness by using the phrase chhappan inch ki chhaati (56-inch chest in Hindi). Bollywood actors like Shahid Kapoor and Salman Khan have wildly popular dialogues and scenes about ‘ mardaangi ’ (masculinity). Advertising quite openly targets either men or women, depending upon the product, in blatantly regressive language.  Patriarchy impacts everyone   “Theidea for this conference came from my predecessor Helmut Schippert [who retired last year]. We wanted men to be a part of the conversation around gender equality, to ask them what they felt about masculinity,” says Katharina Görgen, director of Goethe-Institut/Max Mueller Bhavan, Chennai. While she says that the conversation around men being allies is at “different stages in different countries”, what is common is “the reality that patriarchy hurts not just women but men, too. If you’re a young man growing up in a deeply patriarchal society, a lot of people will look at you and assume the worst and that can’t be nice.” She also points out that while the law tends to be many years behind the level of public discourse (“change is tough!”), it is up to writers, academics and journalists to keep these conversations going, to keep pushing for reform at every level of society.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lets-talk-masculinity/article36546193.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A bloody survival battle||From slow burn romances and horror to period dramas and comedies, K-dramas top viewership charts across the globe. Now, it is time to get acquainted with K-games — Ojingeo Geim (squid game), a popular Korean children’s game, to be exact. In its 2021 avatar, it’s a survival game and the plot of Netflix’s much-awaited drama series, Squid Game , which released on September 17.  What’s in a game?   Theeight-episode series is directed by Hwang Dong-hyuk ( The Fortress , Miss Granny ) and unfolds like a dystopian drama. Masked figures lure 456 contestants from diverse backgrounds to participate in the game with a cash prize of 45.6 million won (approx $40 million). But they don’t realise how extreme things will become. Played out on a board-like set, deceptively painted in pastel colours, contestants in green track suits are watched over by anonymous masked entities. It soon becomes a telling statement of class divide and the competitive battle for survival, as the angst and desperation of the characters surface, even as each tries to outwit the other. The drama (which calls to mind The Hunger Games and The Maze Runner ) stars Lee Jung-jae — known for his suave on-screen characters, be it the stoic bodyguard in Sandglass or the ruthless killer in Deliver Us From Evil . He plays Ki Hoon, a debt-ridden, unemployed man who becomes a willing participant in the game. “My character continues to change in terms of his personality and the emotions portrayed in the story as he perceives each game,” he says over a video call, accompanied by co-star Park Hae-soo and an interpreter. “As an actor, that intrigued me the most and making it look real was the challenge,” he says. Squid Game is now   streaming on Netflix   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-bloody-survival-battle/article36546236.ece
19 September 2021||Paris,||France recalls envoys to Australia, U.S.||France on Friday recalled its Ambassadors to the United States and Australia in a ferocious row over the scrapping of a submarine contract, an unprecedented step that revealed the extent of French anger against its allies. President Emmanuel Macron recalled the envoys after Canberra ditched a deal to buy French submarines in favour of U.S. vessels, Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said. Mr. Le Drian said that the decision was made to “immediately” recall the two French Ambassadors due to “the exceptional seriousness of the announcements made on September 15 by Australia and the United States”. The abandonment of the ocean-class submarine project that Australia and France had been working on since 2016 constituted “unacceptable behaviour among allies and partners,” the Minister said. “Their consequences affect the very concept we have of our alliances, our partnerships, and the importance of the Indo-Pacific for Europe,” he added. U.S. President Joe Biden announced the new Australia-U.S.-Britain defence alliance on Wednesday, extending U.S. nuclear submarine technology to Australia as well as cyberdefence, applied artificial intelligence and undersea capabilities. The pact is widely seen as aimed at countering the rise of China. The move infuriated France, which lost a contract to supply conventional submarines to Australia that was worth Aus$50 billion ($36.5 billion, 31 billion euros) when signed in 2016. In close contact: U.S. A White House official expressed “regret” over the French envoy’s recall but added “we will continue to be engaged in the coming days to resolve our differences, as we have done at other points over the course of our long alliance”. State Department spokesperson Ned Price said in a tweet that Washington understood France’s position and was in “close contact” with Paris. He added that the issue would be discussed “at the senior level”, including at the United Nations General Assembly next week, which both Mr. Le Drian and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken will attend. Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby meanwhile acknowledged that telephone talks earlier between U.S. Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin and French counterpart Florence Parly showed “that there is still much work to do in terms of our defence relationship with France.” The French Ambassador recalls from the United States and Australia — key allies of France — are unprecedented. Withdrawing envoys is a last resort diplomatic step taken when relations between feuding countries are plunged into crisis but highly unusual between allies. ‘Affects vision’ “I am being recalled to Paris for consultations,” France Ambassador to the U.S. Philippe Etienne wrote on Twitter. “This follows announcements directly affecting the vision we have of our alliances, of our partnerships and of the importance of the Indo-Pacific for Europe.” Paris sees itself as a major power in the Indo-Pacific due to overseas territories such as New Caledonia and French Polynesia which give it a strategic and military foothold unmatched by any other European country. France had made no effort to disguise its fury even before the recalls and on Thursday Mr. Le Drian accused Australia of back-stabbing and Washington of Donald Trump-era behaviour over the submarines deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/france-recalls-envoys-to-australia-us/article36545383.ece
19 September 2021||Washington,||U.S. admits Kabul drone strike killed civilians||The U.S. military has admitted that it killed up to 10 civilians, including seven children, in an August 29 drone strike in Kabul, whose target, Zemari Ahmadi, was initially mistaken for a member of the ISIS-K (Islamic State, Khorasan) terror group. The U.S. had targeted the group believing it was going to carry out strikes on Kabul airport, days after the group had claimed responsibility for an attack, killing182evacuees and U.S troops at the airport. “I am now convinced that as many as 10 civilians including up to seven children were tragically killed in that strike,” Commander of U.S. Central Command, Kenneth F. McKenzie Jr., told reporters via video-link at a Pentagon press conference on Friday. “Moreover, we now assess that it is unlikely that the vehicle and those who died were associated with ISIS-K or were a direct threat to U.S. forces,” he said, offering his “profound condolences” to the family and friends of those killed. Tragic outcome “But it was a mistake and I offer my sincere apology. As the combatant commander, I am fully responsible for this strike and its tragic outcome,” Gen. McKenzie said. The U.S. is considering making reparations to the victims’ family, he said. Following the drone operation, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley had described the attack as a “righteous strike”, comments he walked back on Friday, calling the incident “heart wrenching” and committing to being fully transparent about the event. Several American media organisations had questioned the Pentagon’s position soon after the attack. Secretary of State Antony Blinken was asked about it on Tuesday at a Senate committee hearing on Afghanistan and had said he did not know if Ahmadi was an ISIS-K operative or an aid worker and that the administration was reviewing it. “Well, see, you’d think you’d kinda know before you off somebody with a Predator drone…” Senator Rand Paul told Mr. Blinken during that hearing . Ahmadi, who was about 37-40 years old and worked for an American NGO, Nutrition and Education International, was killed by a hellfire missile shortly after he pulled into his driveway. Ahmadi had moved to the passenger seat of the his white Toyota Corolla, allowing his 11-year-old son to drive the car fully in, an event other children in the house had come racing out to see, as per reports. The missile killed him, seven children and his adult son and nephew, according to the Associated Press. The nephew, Ahmad Naser Haideri, had received a medal for his service with special American forces and had, along with his uncle and others, applied for special visas to the U.S. A secondary explosion caused after the attack was, as per Gen. McKenzie, a propane tank behind the car and not, as per the initial conclusion, from explosives stored in the boot of Ahmadi’s car. “That is not enough for us to say sorry,” Zemari’s brother Emal Ahmadi reportedly said. “The U.S.A. should find the person who did this.” Mr. Emal’s three-year-old daughter, Malika, was among those killed in the strike. Mr. Emal is seeking financial compensation for the family and relocation to a third country, as per reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-admits-kabul-drone-strike-killed-civilians/article36545391.ece
19 September 2021||Kabul,||Girls excluded as secondary school reopen in Afghanistan||Girls were excluded from returning to secondary school in Afghanistan on Saturday, after the country’s new Taliban rulers ordered only boys and male teachers back to the classroom. The hard-line Islamist group ousted the U.S.-backed government last month, promising a softer brand of rule than their repressive reign in the 1990s, when women were mostly banned from education and work. But the diktat from the Education Ministry was the latest move from the new government to threaten women’s rights. “All male teachers and students should attend their educational institutions,” a statement said ahead of classes resuming on Saturday. The statement, issued late on Friday, made no mention of women teachers or girl students. Secondary schools, with students typically between the ages of 13 and 18, are often segregated by sex in Afghanistan. During the COVID-19 pandemic, they have faced closures and have been shut since the Taliban seized power.  Primary schools have already reopened, with boys and girls mostly attending separate classes and some women teachers returning to work. The new regime has also permitted women to go to private universities, though with tough restrictions on their clothes and movement. In a further sign that the Taliban’s approach to women and girls had not softened, they appeared to have shut down the Ministry of Women’s Affairs and replaced it with a department notorious for enforcing str- ict religious doctrine during their first rule. In Kabul on Friday, workers were seen raising a sign for the Ministry for the Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice at the old Women’s Affairs building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/girls-excluded-as-secondary-school-reopen-in-afghanistan/article36545385.ece
19 September 2021||Del Rio,||10,000 migrants cross into U.S.||The Mayor of Del Rio, Texas, declared a state of emergency on Friday after more than 10,000 undocumented migrants, many of them Haitians, poured into the border city in a fresh test of President Joe Biden’s immigration policy. Del Rio Mayor Bruno Lozano said that the migrants were crowded in an area controlled by the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) beneath the Del Rio International Bridge, which carries traffic across the Rio Grande river into Mexico. Video footage showed thousands under and around the flyover, adults and families. Many were Haitians hoping to stay in the United States as their country suffers after a large earthquake and continuing political turmoil, Mr. Lozano said. Hundreds continued to flow into Del Rio on Friday, boosting up the number that Mr. Lozano put at 10,503 under the bridge late on Thursday. The White House remained silent on the issue as political pressure mounted on Mr. Biden to address the influx.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/10000-migrants-cross-into-us/article36545381.ece
19 September 2021||Athens,||After Afghanistan pull-out, U.S. seeks NATO basing, intel pacts||Against the backdrop of the troop withdrawal from Afghanistan, the top U.S. military officer is meeting in Greece with NATO counterparts this weekend, hoping to forge more basing, intelligence sharing and other agreements to prevent terrorist groups from regrouping and threatening America and the region. Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the meeting of NATO defence chiefs will focus in part on the way ahead. Gen. Milley, U.S. Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin and American intelligence officials have warned that al-Qaeda or the Islamic State group could regenerate in Afghanistan and pose a threat to the United States in one year to two years. The U.S. military has said it can conduct counterterrorism surveillance and, if necessary, strikes in Afghanistan from “over the horizon” — meaning from assets based in other countries. But they have made it clear that surveillance flights from bases in the Gulf are long and provide limited time in the air over Afghanistan. So they have talked about seeking basing agreements, overflight rights and increased intelligence-sharing with nations closer to Afghanistan, including some neighbours.  Gen. Milley said he will be talking to his military counterparts “to see what the possibilities are and then bring them back” to U.S. defence and diplomatic leaders for additional discussions. Then, he said, officials will see what they can turn into a reality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-afghanistan-pull-out-us-seeks-nato-basing-intel-pacts/article36545388.ece
19 September 2021||Moscow,||Russia claims foreign interference in election||Russia’s elections commission said on Saturday that it had recorded foreign interference in its ongoing three-day parliamentary elections. The polls, which culminate on Sunday and come after an unprecedented crackdown on Kremlin critics and dissenting voices, allow Russians to cast their ballots online. The elections commission said that it had recorded “three cyberattacks” on its resources “from foreign countries”. “Yesterday, we recorded three targeted attacks from abroad,” said the head of the commission’s centre for informatisation, Alexander Sokolchuk. ‘Powerful attack’ He said two of the attacks were aimed at the commission’s website, while a third was a DDoS attack. “The attack was quite powerful,” the Interfax news agency cited Mr. Sokolchuk as saying. He added that “preparations” for further attacks “are under way for tomorrow”. Mr. Sokolchuk did not name the countries involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-claims-foreign-interference-in-election/article36545387.ece
19 September 2021||Tehran,||Iran won’t allow IS presence on Afghan border: Raisi||Iran will not allow the Islamic State group to establish a presence on the country’s border with Afghanistan, President Ebrahim Raisi warned on Saturday “We will not allow terrorist organisations and IS to set up next to our border and strike other countries and the region,” Mr. Raisi said as he wound up a visit to Tajikistan. “The presence of IS in Afghanistan is dan- gerous not only for Afghanistan but also for the region,” he said. The Taliban took Afghanistan’s capital on August 15. Iran, which shares a 900-kilometre border with Afghanistan, did not recognise the Taliban during their first stint in power. But Tehran has appeared to soften its stance towards the Sunni militia in recent times. The Islamic republic has stressed that the Taliban must be “part of a future solution” in Afghanistan. Afghanistan’s new rulers have formed a government composed entirely of Taliban and belonging almost entirely to the Pashtun ethnic group. “A government belonging to only one ethnic or political group cannot solve Afghanistan’s problems,” Mr. Raisi said on Saturday, calling for a government with representation for all Afghans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-wont-allow-is-presence-on-afghan-border-raisi/article36545386.ece
19 September 2021||Sanaa,||Houthi rebels execute 9 over official’s killing||Yemen’s Houthi rebels on Saturday said they executed nine people for their alleged involvement in the killing of a senior Houthi official in an airstrike by the Saudi-led coalition more than three years ago. The public executions by firing squad were carried out in the rebel-held capital of Sanaa, according to the Iranian-backed Houthis. The nine were among more than 60 people the Houthis accused of involvement in the targeted killing of Saleh al-Samad in April 2018. Former President Donald Trump was also accused. Also accused were top Western, Israeli and Gulf officials. The Houthis accused the nine of spying for the Saudi-led coalition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/houthis-execute-9-over-officials-killing/article36545389.ece
19 September 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Demand for luxury second homes surges after hiatus’||The demand for luxury second or holiday homes has recovered after a lull since demonetisation of 2016 following pandemic-related dynamics such as work-from-home (WFH) and living away from crowded residential areas, according to some real estate developers. Luxury villa developers said demand had risen threefold compared with the pre-COVID period. The niche segment had been witnessing price appreciation of 5-12% as high net worth individuals were acquiring prime property in scenic locations in search of health and wellness away from COVID-19 hotspots, they added. “We did extremely well last year with our luxury villa project Tata Prive in Lonavla/Khandala,” said Sanjay Dutt, MD & CEO, Tata Realty & Infrastructure Ltd. “It was completely sold out. The price bracket is Rs. 4-Rs. 6 crore per home.” “We have seen a price increase of 5% this year and the next year, prices will again rise by 7% as people are now looking for new, wellness homes,” he said. Amoda Reserve-South Park, a luxury villa project developed by Kalpataru Ltd. in Lonavala has also attracted the rich. Some buyers have made their second homes as primary homes, working remotely to avoid the pandemic. Here, luxury homes are priced between Rs. 4 crore and Rs. 20 crore. “Holiday homes are witnessing a strong demand as more and more people seek the relative safety of less crowded spaces,” said Parag Munot, MD, Kalpataru Ltd. “The emerging culture of WFH and improved tele-connectivity are incentivising people to make these homes their permanent abode,” he said. “Enhanced affordability due to interest rate softening and various schemes is also a key decision enabler.” “The second-home market appears to be on a gradual upswing,” said Shveta Jain, MD Rental Services, Savills India. “A safe home away from pandemic hotspots appears to have become a key consideration.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/demand-for-luxury-second-homes-surges-after-hiatus/article36545370.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Bias in AI is a key topic of concern: Capgemini VP||UNESCO’s framework for ethical AI would have a far-reaching impact on the entire gamut of AI activities, including development, application, ethicality, data privacy, and regulation, said Padmashree Shagrithaya , VP, Analytics & Artificial Intelligence – India, Capgemini in an interview. Excerpts:  What are the challenges involved in building impartial AI platforms? Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems attempt to mimic human intelligence. The systems are taught through sharing enormous data of past human actions to learn from. While this is useful to reduce the human interference in repetitive decision-making, this approach is wrought with inherent challenges of bias and discrimination. How to identify, segregate, correct and feed them back to the algorithm to ignore or systematically adjust for the same, is one of the biggest challenges. Is acquiring user consent adequate, while accessing personal data? The general view is that the more information we have about individuals, one could build sharper algorithms to target them for offers, recommendations, treatments etc. Recommendation (through data filtering) algorithms have, of late, come hugely under the radar for ethical reasons. There is a lot of talk around it, for infringing on personal, sensitive information and its negative impact. The question is, where to draw the line on how much information about an individual would be tantamount to infringing on sensitive personal data. What key aspects can help avoid gender bias? Bias in AI is a key topic of concern. In fact, gender bias has been a focal point. It is important to address this systematically through the AI development lifecycle, starting from scoping, all the way to proving that it has indeed been taken care of. Developers should ensure that the scope is neither myopic nor intended to bring in any intersection disparity... additionally, keeping in view the overall societal impact the outcomes may have. Data collection, curation and the methodology involved will play a key role to ensure fairness and ethical outcome. Accountability and ownership have to be well-defined. Importantly, all these elements have to be part of a regulatory and compliance framework. Are technology developers sensitive to these issues? There is still a great degree of ignorance about how AI can impact our lives. We have been seeing rigorous campaigns in recent years to create awareness about sensitivity issues and also to bring about changes in leadership mindset. But still, a large ground needs to be covered. We should have legal frameworks that support a holistic inclusion of coders, developers, and decision-makers.  UNESCO is working on a framework for ethical AI... UNESCO’s framework for ethical AI will have far-reaching impact in the AI space. The idea is to have a holistic and evolving framework of values, principles and actions that can guide societies in dealing responsibly with the known and unknown impact of AI on humans and society at large. Through this, UNESCO aims to have a global commitment by individual countries to view AI via ethical lenses. The framework will impact areas such as sensitivity to privacy and inclusion; transparency, fairness and non-discrimination; accountability through participation; mindset change that supports a sustainable AI environment and a balance between business growth and promotion of values. What can make search engines more secular, neutral and unbiased? Search engines have the power to shape user behaviour. Though the entire cycle of collecting, indexing and ranking content is automated, still it is prone to misuse and unintentional bias. For search engines to be secular, neutral, unbiased and conflict-free, their searches have to be objective, based on continuous learning of algorithms and they should be intelligent enough to offer the right search outputs. Ambiguities can be resolved to ensure human values and societal benefits through a stakeholder partnership [of] AI providers, developers, end-users, regulators, compliance agencies, industry experts, and search engine providers.  How to identify bias and feed them back to the algorithm to ignore is one of the biggest challenges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bias-in-ai-is-a-key-topic-of-concern-capgemini-vp/article36545367.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Consumer confidence, pace of jabs key to travel recovery’||The travel industry’s full recovery depends on speedy vaccination and building consumer confidence, Ritu Mehrotra, regional manager, South Asia at Booking.com told The Hindu . Her comments come even as the sector is getting back on track after being hit by the second wave of the pandemic, “We are cautiously looking up. Travel... will continue to play an important role in people’s lives. With vaccine roll-outs in India, we’ve witnessed pent-up demand in travel in the past few months. We are seeing a little bit of travel optimism, especially after the second wave of COVID,” she added. Demand is now returning and even though some restrictions continue, people have started to travel and this trend would continue to grow if there were no fresh waves, Ms. Mehrota said, adding that even though the company was seeing some initial cheer in the market, there was a long way to go for recovery. Vaccination, she added, would play a key role. “In India, around 20% of people have been vaccinated and there is a long way to go.” Domestic travel has been the driving force for Booking.com in India and globally, too. For domestic and leisure travel, the firm is seeing ‘strong’ growth even compared with 2019 levels in India, along with an uptick in international travel. “We are seeing searches for destinations like Maldives, U.K., France.” She, however, added that corporate travel might not return as quickly as leisure travel has. “People are still looking at leisurely getaways. Domestic destinations such as Leh, Manali, Udaipur, Lonavala, continued to be in demand over the past few months. There is still a lot of enthusiasm for road trips, but now we’ve seen a healthy mix. For example, people are now also travelling from Delhi to Goa,” she said.  There is still enthusiasm for road trips, but now there is a mix. People are now travelling from Delhi to Goa||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/consumer-confidence-pace-of-jabs-key-to-travel-recovery/article36545365.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘GSTR-1 barred for returns defaulters’||Businesses that default on filing summary return and paying monthly GST will not be able to file GSTR-1 sales return of the succeeding month, from January 1. The GST Council, at its meeting in Lucknow on September 17, had decided to take measures to streamline compliance, including mandatory Aadhaar authentication, for businesses to file refund claims. These would help prevent revenue leakage due to evasion of Goods and Services Tax (GST). The Council decided to amend Rule 59(6) of the Central GST Rules with effect from January 1, to provide that a registered person shall not be allowed to furnish Form GSTR-1, if he has not furnished the return in Form GSTR-3B for the preceding month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gstr-1-barred-for-returns-defaulters/article36545368.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Fresh venue, plenty of new faces provide a different feel to Part-2||Hope the IPL is spared from desert storms in the Middle East. There is no Sachin Tendulkar to triumphantly bat through the blustery, dusty maze. Legends will be legends and Sachin will be Sachin. The fact of the matter is that a significant chunk of matches, including the playoff games and the final, of IPL 2021 will be played in these parts. The IPL, suspended owing to COVID-19 striking the tournament in May this year, is all set to resume. And the two most successful teams in IPL history, Mumbai Indians (8 points from 7 matches) and Chennai Super Kings (10 from 7) will meet on Sunday night in Dubai to kick-start the tournament resumption. Could help pacemen The surface for the game between the two top-four teams could lend encouragement for pacemen in terms of bounce and seam movement. Mumbai Indians has signed up the pacy Kiwi Adam Milne who has been in blazing form recently. And CSK has been bolstered by the return of Aussie seamer Josh Hazlewood. The game will witness two wily captains, M.S. Dhoni and Rohit Sharma, matching wits and skills. The duel could go down to the wire. A fresh venue, plenty of new faces, and the second half of IPL 2021 already has a different feel to it. Several English players have pulled out with the Ashes looming, and a few others have fitness concerns. Then there is this controversy surrounding Virat Kohli’s shock relinquishment of the T20I captaincy after the T20 World Cup. Several theories There are several theories doing the rounds, but perhaps the Indian captain wants to create a little space for himself to spend with his family. And T20I is the format that can be done away with easily, given Kohli’s passion for Tests and the significance of the ICC ODI World Cup. The whispers of Anil Kumble getting back the India coach’s job is growing by the day, but then the Indian leg-spinning legend is genial by nature and not someone who carries old wounds. Immediate job Kumble’s immediate job though, as the coach of Punjab Kings, will be to lift the side from its current position of 6 points from 8 matches. With the influential Dawid Malan opting out, it has roped in Aiden Markram. Delhi Capitals is at the top of the table with 12 points from 8 games. The side has powerful stroke-makers, a fiery pace duo in Kagiso Rabada and Anrich Nortje, and a potent mix of domestic and foreign talent. Kohli, A.B. de Villiers and the much-matured Glenn Maxwell have formed a formidable batting force for Royal Challengers Bangalore this season. RCB, in the top four, has also brought in Wanindu Hasaranga, the Sri Lankan leg-spinner with a potent googly. Given its position on the table, Rajasthan Royals has plenty of heavy lifting to do. But then, its big-hitting English import Liam Livingstone is in terrific form. The team has also signed up West Indian swashbuckler Evin Lewis and South African wrist-spinner Tabraiz Shamsi, adding another dimension to its attack. Change in fortunes Kolkata Knight Riders too needs a change in fortunes. Will canny Kiwi swing bowler Tim Southee, in for Pat Cummins, provide it? And Sunrisers Hyderabad has bought West Indian hard-hitter Sherfane Rutherford for Jonny Bairstow. Given that the UAE is 90 minutes behind India, the matches beginning at 7.30 p.m. IST will be commencing at 6 p.m. local time. And the team batting first may have to bat in twilight, not the easiest time to sight the ball, for a considerable length of time. UAE brings its own sets of challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fresh-venue-plenty-of-new-faces-provide-a-different-feel-to-part-2/article36545747.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Bowlers can pick Dhoni’s brains’||Mahendra Singh Dhoni was a bowlers’ captain in white ball cricket and his presence as a mentor for the T20 World Cup will immensely benefit Jasprit Bumrah and Co., feels former India opener Virender Sehwag. “I am very happy that MS accepted the offer to be the team mentor for the T20 World Cup. I know many people want that MS should again comeback into the mainstream of Indian cricket and being roped in as the mentor is the best thing that could have happened,” said Sehwag. Sehwag, who played alonsgide Dhoni for a decade, said the latter’s core strength as a captain was his understanding his bowlers’ psyche in limited overs format. “As a ’keeper, MS was exceptional with his understanding of field placements and this is something that will help the bowling unit in this World Cup. The bowlers can pick his brains and get useful tips on planning against a batsman.” For Sehwag, there can’t be a better ‘mentor’ than Dhoni when it comes to young players, who are a bit introvert and need someone to guide them as they try to express themselves on the field. Easily approachable “There are always players in any international side, who are shy and do hesitate to go up to their skipper and strike up a cricketing conversation. “MS has been a kind of a person who is easily approachable and also a perfect trouble-shooter for youngsters.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bowlers-can-pick-dhonis-brains/article36545957.ece
19 September 2021||WARANGAL,||Santhosh Kumar back on winning track||Five months ago, as he lay at Patiala’s Columbia Asia Hospital, T. Santhosh Kumar did not realise that the next few months would undo all the hard work he had done in the previous four years. He was down with COVID, along with some 15 athletes, and had to be in hospital for two weeks. Sleepless nights “I’ve had many sleepless nights thinking how I had missed a golden chance of going to the Olympics. COVID took it all away,” Santhosh, who was fifth in the 2018 Jakarta Asian Games, told The Hindu after winning the 400m hurdles gold at the 60th National Open athletics championships at the Nehru Stadium here on Saturday. “Still, I’m happy I’m alive because I’ve seen COVID take away many lives.” Santhosh would not have even made it to Warangal for the Armyman had finished sixth in the recent Services meet. “Thankfully, I got an entry through Tamil Nadu with our secretary Latha helping me gain an entry as I had the qualification time to compete here,” said the 23-year-old from Madurai. Santhosh beat Services champion Dhaval Utekar on the way to gold for a double as he had helped Tamil Nadu to the mixed relay gold on Friday. “I’m confident of coming back strongly in time for next year’s Asian Games in the hurdles and relays,” he said. R. Vithya Ramaraj, who had missed the Olympics after being hit by the coronavirus at the camp, won the women’s 400m hurdles in a personal best 58.47s for her third gold here. Services’ S. Siva, the national record holder (5.30m), broke the meet record as he won the pole vault with 5.12m.   The results (finals):   Men: 800m: 1. Mohammed Afsal (Services) 1:48.39; 2. Ankesh Chaudhary (Services) 1:48.58; 3. Krishan Kumar (Services) 1:48.77. 400m hurdles: 1. T. Santhosh Kumar (TN) 50.79s; 2. Jashanjot Singh (Rly) 51.32; 3. Dhaval Utekar (Ser) 51.49. Pole vault: 1. S. Siva (Ser) 5.12m MR, OR own 5.10m; 2. Parshant Singh (Har) 4.95; 3. Sakthi Mahendran (TN) 4.70. Discus: 1. Kirpal Singh (ONGC) 59.58m; 2. Gagandeep Singh (Ser) 58.32; 3. Abhinav (Har) 56.18. 50km walk: 1. Resham Midhun (Ser) 4:29:47.00s; 2. Sanabam Singh (Ser) 4:33:32.00; 3. Anjani Kumar (Ser) 4:35:29.00.   Women: 800m: 1. Harmilan Bains (Pun) 2:03.82s; 2. Chanda (Del) 2:05.35; 3. Rachna (Har) 2:07.00. 400m hurdles: 1. Vithya Ramaraj (TN) 58.47s; 2. Nanhi (Har) 1:00.06; Ayana Thomas (Pol) 1:00.08.   Triple jump: 1. B. Aishwarya (Rly) 13.55m; 2. Rebu Grewal (Har) 13.51; 3, Bhairabi Roy (Rly) 13.12. Javelin: 1. Sharmila Kumari (Rly) 51.80m; 2, K. Rashmi (Rly) 50.36; 3, Shilpa Rani (Har) 47.83.   Heptathlon: 1. Akshatha (Kar) 4939 pts; 2. Sowmiya Murugan (Rly) 4893; 3. Sonu Kumari (Har) 4889 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santhosh-kumar-back-on-winning-track/article36545372.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Finland clinches doubles, seals the tie against India||Indian hopes of a revival were dashed as Harri Heliovaara and Henri Kontinen sealed the decisive doubles for host Finland with a 7-6(2), 7-6(2) victory over Rohan Bopanna and Ramkumar Ramanathan on the second day of their Davis Cup World Group tie at the Espoo Metro Arena on Saturday. With Finland having won both the singles on the opening day through Otto Virtanen and Emil Ruusuvuori, against Prajnesh Gunneswaran and Ramkumar respectively, the onus was on India to keep the tie alive. Hoping to capitalise on 26-year-old Ramkumar’s big game on the indoor court, the Indian team brought him for the doubles in place of Divij Sharan, who has surprisingly played only two doubles matches in Davis Cup so far. Ramkumar did combine well with Bopanna, but the Finnish pair handled the tie-break with assurance and authority to tilt the tie in their favour. “They played a much higher level together. In the tie-breaks, they were a better team,” conceded Bopanna after the match. Both teams did not face a breakpoint in the first set, and the host took an early lead in the tie-break by hammering a return winner on Bopanna’s serve. The Finnish team took a 6-1 lead before Bopanna retrieved a face-saving point with a backhand return winner. Into the second set, there was more resolve in the Indian team as it broke for a 2-0 lead, but Bopanna dropped his serve in the next game that saw the team’s hopes of a revival evaporate. Kontinen and Heliovaara faced four breakpoints in the eighth game, but survived to stay on course for the tie-break in which they were once again efficient. Tough rally The Finns won a tough rally to go up 6-2 that brought the fans to their feet. The doubles rubber was sealed on the next point after an hour and 38 minutes. In the inconsequential reverse singles match, Prajnesh beat the 489th ranked Patrik Niklas-Salminen 6-3, 7-5 in a battle of left-handers. India will go back to the World Group play-off next year.  The results: Finland bt India 3-1 [Harri Heliovaara & Henri Kontinen bt Rohan Bopanna & Ramkumar Ramanathan 7-6(2), 7-6(2); Patrik Niklas-Salminen lost to Prajnesh Gunneswaran 3-6, 5-7] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/finland-clinches-doubles-seals-the-tie-against-india/article36545374.ece
19 September 2021||London,||‘I have achieved all I wanted’||His tenure set to end after next month’s T20 World Cup, India head coach Ravi Shastri conceded that there would be a bit of “sadness”, but added that he has no doubts he is going out at the right time, having “over-achieved” during his stint. Shastri’s first stint as head coach began in 2017 before he was reappointed in 2019. Speaking to The Guardian , the 59-year-old said winning the T20 World Cup would be “special” but felt that the team had already done “special things” in his time. “I believe so because I’ve achieved all I wanted. Five years as No. 1 (in Test cricket), to win in Australia twice and to win in England.” India was ahead 2-1 against England when the fifth Test was called off after a COVID-19 outbreak in the Indian camp. “We’ve also beaten every country in the world in their own backyard in white-ball cricket. If we win the (T20) World Cup, that will be the icing on the cake. There is nothing more. I believe one thing — never overstay your welcome.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/achieved-all-i-wanted-shastri/article36545751.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Hasaranga, Chameera add value: Kohli||RCB captain Virat Kohli believes that Sri Lankan replacements, leggie Wanindu Hasaranga and pacer Dushmantha Chameera, add great value to the side. “Hasaranga and Chameera have played so much cricket in Sri Lanka — they know how to play in pitches like these (in the UAE). Their skill-set will definitely be of huge help to us in Dubai, as they understand how hot and humid these conditions can be, and how the pitches will play,” Kohli said, at the RCB ‘Blue Jersey’ virtual unveiling event on Saturday. Hasaranga, Chameera, Australian batsmen Tim David and England left-arm seamer George Garton were signed by RCB ahead of the second leg of the IPL. They replace the unavailable Finn Allen, Scott Kuggeleijn, Kane Richardson, Daniel Sams and Adam Zampa. Washington Sundar, ruled out due to an injury, has been replaced by left-arm spinner Arshdeep Singh.  “Kane Richardson and Adam Zampa, who were with us in the first leg, made a decision not to play in the second leg, for reasons which are totally understandable. The guys coming in blend into our team culture very well. Our core group of players are motivated. When I stepped out to practice yesterday after quarantine, I felt like we never went away at all,” Kohli said. In its opening match of the second leg, against KKR on Monday, RCB will don a ‘Blue Jersey’ to pay tribute to COVID-19 frontline warriors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hasaranga-chameera-add-value-to-rcb/article36545754.ece
19 September 2021||BRISBANE,||India women lose tour opener||The Indian women’s team made a disappointing start to its tour of Australia, suffering a 36-run loss in a 50-over warm-up match here on Saturday. Opener Rachael Haynes (65), Meg Lanning (59) and Beth Mooney (59) came good as Australia posted a challenging 278 for nine after batting first at the Ian Healy Oval. Poonam Yadav was the most successful Indian bowler with three for 28 in six overs. In reply, India could only manage 242 for seven in its 50 overs with Pooja Vastrakar (57) emerging as the top-scorer. The 21-year-old India rookie Yastika Bhatia (41) displayed her resilience, negotiating a barrage of short balls from the 18-year-old Darcie Brown before being dismissed by left-arm spinner Sophie Molineux. Yastika’s 42-ball innings contained seven boundaries. With India slipping to 106 for five, Pooja and Deepti Sharma (49 not out) tried to stage a recovery but couldn't take the team home. The two teams meet in the ODI series opener on Tuesday (Sept. 21).  The scores:   Australia Women 278/9 in 50 overs (Rachael Haynes 65, Meg Lanning 59, Beth Mooney 59, Poonam Yadav 3/28) bt India Women 242/7 in 50 overs (Pooja Vastrakar 57, Deepti Sharma 49 n.o., Yastika Bhatia 41, Stella Campbell 3/38).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-women-lose-tour-opener/article36545749.ece
19 September 2021||Liverpool,||Mane leads Liverpool||Sadio Mane scored for the ninth straight time against Crystal Palace and reached 100 goals for Liverpool to set his team on its way to a 3-0 win in the English Premier League on Saturday. The Senegal forward got to the milestone at Anfield by converting from close range in the 43rd minute after Mohamed Salah’s header from a corner was parried out by Palace goalkeeper Vicente Guaita. Of Mane’s century of goals for the Reds, which have come in 224 games, 10 have been scored against Palace. Robert Lewandowski scored yet again in Bayern Munich’s 7-0 rout of promoted Bochum in the Bundesliga on Saturday. Lewandowski stretched his scoring run to 19 consecutive games across all competitions for Bayern.  The results: Saturday: Premier League: Wolverhampton 0 lost to Brentford 2 (Toney 28-pen, Mbeumo 34); Burnley 0 lost to Arsenal 1 (Odegaard 30); Liverpool 3 (Mane 43, Salah 78, Keita 89) bt Crystal Palace 0; Manchester City 0 drew with Southampton 0; Norwich 1 (Pukki 35) lost to Watford 3 (Dennis 17, Sarr 63, 80); Aston Villa 3 (Cash 66, Digne 69-og, Bailey 75) bt Everton 0.   LaLiga: Rayo Vallecano 3 (Trejo 9-pen, Ciss 78, Falcao 81) bt Getafe 0; Atletico Madrid 0 drew with Athletic Bilbao 0.   Serie A: Genoa 1 (Criscito 90+7-pen) lost to Fiorentina 2 (Saponara 60, Bonaventura 88); Inter Milan 6 (Martinez 6, Skriniar 30, Barella 34, Vecino 54, Dzeko 63, 68) bt Bologna 1 (Theate 86).   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 7 (Sane 17, Kimmich 27, 65, Gnabry 32, Lampropoulos 43-og, Lewandowski 61, Choupo-Moting 79) bt Bochum 0; Mainz 0 drew with Freiburg 0; Augsburg 1 (Niederlechner 80) bt Borussia M’Gladbach 0; Arminia Bielefeld 0 drew with Hoffenheim 0; Cologne 1 (Modeste 54) lost to RB Leipzig 1 (Haidara 71).   Friday: Premier League: Newcastle 1 (Saint-Maximin 44) drew with Leeds 1 (Raphinha 13).   LaLiga: Celta Vigo 1 (Santi Mina 64) lost to Cadiz 2 (Lozano 38, Espino 43).   Serie A: Sassuolo 0 lost to Torino 1 (Pjaca 83).   Bundesliga: Hertha Berlin 2 (Ekkelenkamp 61, Bauer 79-og) bt Greuther Fuerth 1 (Hrgota 57-og).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mane-leads-liverpool/article36545377.ece
19 September 2021||Dubai,||Trying to get used to the conditions: Pant||Coming off a long tour of the United Kingdom, Delhi Capitals captain Rishabh Pant sought to get acclimatised to the UAE’s extreme heat by spending time on the balcony of his hotel room during the mandatory quarantine. However, it was still not comfortable when he did his first training session on Friday ahead of IPL’s resumption. Pant said that he is currently focusing on getting used to the conditions in the UAE. “It’s pretty hot here in the UAE. I was trying to sit on the balcony during my quarantine period as much as possible to get used to the conditions. But, it still felt quite hot when I took part in my first practice session here. “I’m just trying to get used to the conditions now and hopefully, I will be fully acclimatised to the conditions in 2-3 days,” Pant said in a release issued by DC. The wicketkeeper-batsman said that the team will look to continue its brilliant performance from the first half of the IPL 2021 season. Delhi Capitals is currently at the top of the table with 12 points from eight matches. “Our ultimate goal is to win the trophy, but we are going to focus on our process. Hopefully, we can continue to play the way we did in the first half of the season and go on to win the IPL this year,” said Pant. “It’s really nice to meet everyone after coming out of quarantine. It’s been great meeting the teammates here in training.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/trying-to-get-used-to-the-conditions-pant/article36545744.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Hussamuddin makes the quarterfinals||Commonwealth Games bronze medallist Mohammad Hussamuddin posted another convincing victory to reach the 57kg quarterfinals in the National boxing championships at the Inspire Institute of Sports (IIS), Vijaynagar, on Saturday. Services’ Hussamuddin, the 56kg champion in the previous edition at Baddi in 2019, defeated Sahil of Chhattisgarh 5-0 in a pre-quarterfinal bout. He will face Rushikesh Goud of Maharashtra on Sunday. World youth champion Sachin, who caused a huge upset on Friday by defeating World championship medallist Gaurav Bidhuri, thumped Jobison Yengkopam of Manipur 5-0 to advance to the last eight.  Important results: 48kg: Barun Singh (SSCB) bt Heli Tana Tara (Aru) 5-0; Shiv Kant (Pun) bt Irfan Khan (Asm) 4-0; 51kg: Bhim Pratap Singh (Raj) bt Subhashbhai Rathod (Guj) 5-0; Ashish Insha (RSPB) bt Rama Krishnan Balasundara (TN) 5-0.   54kg: Roshan Zamir (Goa) bt Suraj Bhan (Raj) 3-2; 57kg: Rohit Mor (Del) bt Lalllawmawma (Miz) 5-0; Rushikesh Goud (Mah) bt A. Sameer (SPSB) 5-0.   60kg: Parvinder Poonia (Tri) bt Prabhu Murali (TN) 5-0; Harivansh Tawari (Mah) bt Pawan Gurung (Utk) 4-1.   63.5kg: Shiva Thapa (Asm) bt Ankit (Del) 5-0; Anikit Narwal (RSPB) bt Raj Kumar Pramanik (Jha) RSC-R2; 71kg: Nishant Dev (Kar) bt Ashish Kulheria (RSPB) 4-1; 75kg: Buntee Singh (Del) Pritesh Bishnoi (Raj) 3-2.   80kg: Harpreet (Chd) bt Manish Panwar (RSPB) RSC-R1; 86kg: Sumit Sangwan (Har) bt Manvendra Singh (Del) 5-0; 92kg: Sanjeet (SSCB) Sourav Yadav (MP) 5-0; 92+kg: Narender (SSCB) bt Mohit (Har) 5-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hussamuddin-advances/article36545816.ece
19 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Delhi FC holds Bengaluru FC||Second division side Delhi FC held former Indian Super League champion Bengaluru FC (BFC) to a 2-2 draw in a Group C match of the Durand Cup football tournament at the Mohun Bagan ground on Saturday. Despite playing under slushy conditions, BFC opened the scoring in the 27th minute through N. Shiva Sakthi. Strong comeback But Delhi made a strong comeback after the break and established the lead as Willis Plaza struck twice within four minutes. Substitute Bidyashagar Singh denied Delhi the chance of a victory, scoring the equaliser in the final quarter. At the top The result kept BFC, the only unbeaten side in the group, at the top with four points while Delhi continued at the bottom with just one point. The contest for the two quarterfinal berths thus remained wide open and the two qualifiers will now be decided in the final round matches of the group scheduled on Tuesday.  The result: Delhi FC 2 (Willis Plaza 58, 62) drew with Bengaluru FC 2 (N. Siva Sakthi 27, Bidyashagar Singh 75) .   The result keeps BFC at the top with four points Delhi continues to be at the bottom with one point||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-fc-holds-bengaluru-fc/article36545818.ece
19 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Raja Rithvik becomes a GM||Raja Rithvik of Telangana has become a Grandmaster after crossing the ELO 2,500 mark in the Vezerkepzo GM chess tournament in Budapest. The 17-year-old, a 12th standard student of Bhavan’s Sri Ramakrishna Vidyalaya here, crossed the mandatory ELO 2,500-mark to earn a GM title. He achieved four rating points after the fourth round in the tournament when he defeated FIDE Master Finek Vaclav of Czechoslovakia. Rithvik had earned the third and final norm in early September at the First Saturday round-robin GM tournament. He obtained his first norm in 2019 and the second in August. A native of Warangal, Rithvik has been nurtured by N.V.S. Rama Raju, who also coached the likes of GM Dronavalli Harika. Rithvik has the rare distinction of earning two GM norms within 20 days. “I am delighted to get this coveted title for which I have been working hard. I am grateful to coach Raju sir,” Rithwik said. “The GM title is a huge motivation and should make me think big, including chasing my ultimate goal of becoming a World champion.” Telangana Chess Association president K.S. Prasad was among those who congratulated Rithvik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/raja-rithvik-becomes-a-gm/article36545879.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Mizoram U-19 coach Murtaza passes away||Former Bengal left-arm spinner and Mizoram U-19 head coach Murtaza Lodhgar died of cardiac arrest on Friday in Visakhapatnam, Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) president Avishek Dalmiya has confirmed. Lodhgar, 45, was in the port city with the Mizoram colts, who were set to play the league phase of Vinoo Mankad Trophy (U-19 National one-dayers) as BCCI’s domestic season is set to commence. “The tragedy happened just after dinner,” Dalmiya said. “Murtu bhai (as he was known in Bengal circles) along with team’s physio went out for a walk after dinner and suddenly felt enormous chest pain and fell on the road. “The physio and other team members immediately took him to the hospital where he was declared brought dead late on Friday. “I still can’t believe Murtu bhai is no more. It is a personal loss for me as he was one of the pillars of our family-run first division club Rajasthan SC. He was one of the most loved cricketers in our fraternity and also worked with our women’s team with distinction. It’s an irreparable loss,” Dalmiya said. The CAB is trying to make arrangements so that his family can bring his mortal remains to the city for the burial. Lodhgar was a power-house performer in club cricket, but due to presence of domestic giant Utpal Chatterjee, he played only nine Ranji Trophy games in which he had 34 wickets. One of the highlights of his short First Class career was a five-wicket haul against Karnataka in the 2004-05 season. He was regular at the bustling club cricket scene in the United Kingdom. Friends and well-wishers will remember him as an ever-smiling, humble person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/murtaza-passes-away/article36545882.ece
19 September 2021||Islamabad,||Pakistan faces another era of isolation||Pakistan cricket began confronting its worst fear on Saturday, with the national side staring at another era of isolation from hosting international matches after New Zealand abandoned its tour, citing a security threat. The All Blacks called off their first Pakistan series in 18 years with Wellington’s backing on Friday just before the first ODI was due to start in Rawalpindi. The decision has left cricket-crazy Pakistan reeling, with the nation still recovering from the 2009 militant attack on the Sri Lankan team in Lahore that wounded six players. Already struggling to convince foreign teams to tour, Pakistan was forced to play home matches at neutral venues — primarily in the UAE — following the assault. The decision left a generation of cricket fans growing up having never attended a live game. Need to work overtime Prime Minister Imran Khan, a former international cricketing hero, and the Pakistan Cricket Board will now have to work overtime to avoid another period of exile. “With the administration they now have in place at the PCB and how closely linked to the PM it is, there’ll be a real push to ensure they have to play as little as possible in a neutral venue,” cricket writer Osman Samiuddin said. The first task will be to convince England, which will decide on Sunday whether to send its men’s and women’s teams for a scheduled tour to Pakistan next month. Those tours are to be followed by a series against the West Indies in December and Australia’s first visit since 1998 in February next year. “England are now likely not to tour. Australia... will also probably not come. So that will be a hit,” Samiuddin said. “And for fans too, they’ve only just started getting used to going to big games again so for the prospect of that being taken away, it’s going to hurt.” Lot of pressure The newly elected chairman of the PCB Ramiz Raja admitted Saturday that Pakistani cricket was facing “a lot of pressure”, though not for the first time — and that the nation was resilient. “Your pain and my pain is the same, it’s a shared pain. Whatever happened was not good for Pakistan cricket,” he said. The PCB bled $200 million in losses during the country’s cricket exile. Now, alongside the upcoming tours, its bids to host six international events — including the World Cup and Champion’s Trophy between 2024-31 — could also be in jeopardy. Former players say keeping international cricket in Pakistan is the key priority. “All cricketers are with the PCB and we have to find ways to avoid further isolation, for the sake of our next generations,” former captain Rashid Latif said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-faces-another-era-of-isolation/article36545972.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI:,||Gods Plan takes honours in feature||R. Ramanathan’s ward Gods Plan, ridden by P. Sai Kumar, won the (Div. I), Royal Calcutta Turf Club Trophy, the main event of the races held here on Saturday (Sept. 18). The winner is owned by Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah & M/s. United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders.  1. TRANSITION HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 20 to 45: TURF BEAUTY (Nakhat Singh) 1, Swiss Agatta (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Majestic Wind (Yash Narredu) 3 and Victory Walk (C. Brisson) 4. 2-1/4, lnk and 6. 1m, 41.93s. Owner: The Estate of Late Mr. R.M. Lakshmanan. Trainer: N. Rupa.  2. TRUMP CARD HANDICAP (1,400m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: CARNOUSTIE (D.S. Deora) 1, Glorious Sunlight (Nikhil Naidu) 2, Supreme Exelsior (K. Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Sanctuary Cove (Janardhan Paswan) 4. 5-3/4, 1-1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 28.86s. Owner: M/s. Rapar’s Galloping Stars. Trainer: D.K.Futnani.  3. HONOUR HANDICAP (1,000m), 6-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: PINEWOOD (D.S. Deora) 1, Full Bloom (Farid Ansari) 2, Arithmetica (A. Ayaz Khan) 3 and Pappa Rich (Koshi Kumar) 4. 3-1/2, 1 and 1/2. 1m, 1.39s. Owner: Mr. N. Sridhar. Trainer: G.S. Parmar.  4. MYSORE RACE CLUB LTD. CUP , (1,000m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): AIR MARSHALL (C. Umesh) 1, Glorious Symphony (Yash Narredu) 2, Velaska (Nikhil Naidu) 3 and Bay Of Naples (P. Sai Kumar) 4. 1-1/4, 3/4 and 2-1/2. 1m, 1.52s. Owner: Mr. K. Muthuvellayan. Trainer: B. Suresh.  5. ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB TROPHY (Div. II) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 60 to 85: BUTTERFLY (Farid Ansari) 1, Pretty Gal (Gaurav Singh) 2, Catelyn (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Breaking Bounds (K.V. Baskar) 4. 1, 1-1/2 and 1. 1m, 14.03s. Owner: Mr. Deepak Kumar. Trainer: Fahad Khan.  Note: Originally Octavian (Nikhil Naidu) won the race but an objection by fourth-placed Catelyn (Kuldeep Singh) contending that Octavian came in sharply and cut across Star Waves (Akshay Kumar), dislodging the rider and costing Kuldeep the race, was upheld by a stewards’ enquiry and the placing was revised as above.  6. ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB TROPHY (Div. I) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 60 to 85: GODS PLAN (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Oscars Thunder (P. Trevor) 2, Chief Of Command (Farid Ansari) 3 and Cuban Pete (Ashhad Asbar) 4.2-1/4, 2-3/4 and 1-3/4. 1m, 13.28s. Owners: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah & M/s. United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  7. STARLIGHT PRINCESS HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated40 to 65: THOMAS HARDY (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Magical Wish (Yash Narredu) 2, Excellent Phoenix (D.S. Deora) 3 and Decisive (Shahar Babu) 4. 2-1/2, 4-1/4 and 2. 1m, 14.38s. \ Owners: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah & M/s. United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  8. STARLIGHT PRINCESS HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: STAR RANKING (Ajeet Kumar) 1, Despacito (P. Trevor) 2, Texas Rose (R. Manish) 3 and Branka (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 3/4, 1/2 and lnk. 1m, 14.72s. Owner and trainer: Mr. Dhruv Kumar Futnani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gods-plan-takes-honours-in-feature/article36545877.ece
19 September 2021||London,||Did not get COVID-19 at book launch: Shastri||India head coach Ravi Shastri says he has no regrets about organising the book launch, widely perceived to be the reason for a COVID-19 outbreak that forced the cancellation of the fifth Test against England in Manchester. “I have absolutely no regrets because the people I met at that function were fabulous. It was good for the boys to get out and meet different people rather than constantly being in their rooms,” said Shastri in an interview to The Guardian . “At the Oval Test, you were climbing stairs used by 5,000 people. So to point a finger at a book launch?” he asked. “There were about 250 people there and no one got COVID-19 from that party.” Reduce bilateral T20s Shastri also strongly feels that bilateral T20 series should be reduced to ease the relentless international calendar. “I would like to see less and less bilateral T20s. Look at football. You have the Premier, Spanish, Italian and German leagues. They all come together (for Champions League). There are few bilateral football (friendlies) now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/did-not-get-covid-19-at-book-launch-shastri/article36545752.ece
19 September 2021||CHENNAI:,||Cool Rider for Nilgiris Derby Stakes||Cool Rider, who ran a close third to Akido in the Chettinad Cement Nilgiris 2000 Guineas, may avenge his defeat in the Coromandel Gromor Nilgiris Derby Stakes (1,600m), the star attraction of the season to be held here on Sunday (Sept. 19). Two-times carried over amount of about Rs. 2,80,000 has been added to the jackpot pool.  DELHI RACE CLUB CUP (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 2-00 p.m.: 1. Shield Maiden (1) P. Sai Kumar 60, 2. Glorious Sunshine (4) Nikhil Naidu 58, 3. Beauteous Maximus (3) Farid Ansari 57, 4. Soul Mate (5) Akshay Kumar 57, 5. Sifan (7) Ishwar Singh 55, 6. Uncle Sam (9) Ashhad Asbar 54, 7. Brilliant Script (6) D.S. Deora 52.5, 8. Golden Streak (8) Yash Narredu 52 and 9. Hadar (2) Rejesh Kumar 51.  1. GLORIOUS SUNSHINE,   2. SOUL MATE,   3. SHIELD MAIDEN   BANGALORE TURF CLUB CUP (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Charliez Angel (9) A. Ayaz Khan 61, 2. Subjucate (7) Kuldeep Singh 57.5, 3. Choir (2) Ramandeep 56.5, 4. Bossinova (3) Ajeet Kumar 56, 5. Priceless Treasure (4) Shyam Kumar 54.5, 6. Full Of Surprise (6) K. Mukesh Kumar 54, 7. Wild Passion (10) Shahar Babu 53.5, 8. Mayflower (1) Yash Narredu 52.5, 9. Antigua (8) Ashhad Asbar 52 and 10. Azeria (5) Azfar Syeed 51.  1. MAYFLOWER,   2. CHARLIEZ ANGEL,   3. FULL OF SURPRISE   BANGALORE TURF CLUB CUP (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 3-00: 1. Oberon (5) H.M. Akshay 61, 2. Protea (7) C. Brisson 61, 3. Pacific (9) Ashhad Asbar 60.5, 4. El Politico (6) S. Sunil 59.5, 4. Fiat Justitia (1) C. Umesh 59, 6. Wild Frank (3) Kuldeep Singh 58.5, 7. Empress Eternal (4) Nakhat Singh 57, 8. Epistoiary (2) Koshi Kumar 57 and 9. Majestic Charmer (8) Rajendra Singh 55.5.  1. EMPRESS ETERNAL,   2. OBERON, 3. PACIFIC   ROYAL WESTERN INDIA TURF CLUB LTD. CUP (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-30: 1. Cartel (4) C. Umesh 56, 2. My Triumph (2) C. Brisson 56, 3. Roger O’More (6) Yash Narredu 56, 4. Amber Lightning (7) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 5. Dashing Beauty (3) P. Trevor 54.5, 6, Lakshanam (5) Nikhil Naidu 54.5, 7. Queen Of Fame (8) Ramandeep 54.5 and 8. Stillwater (1) P. Sai Kumar 54.5.  1. DASHING BEAUTY,   2. STILLWATER, 3. LAKSHANAM   TURF AUTHORITIES CUP (1,400m), rated 60 to 85, 4-00: 1. Angelino (10) S. John 60, 2. Night Hunt (7) Gaurav Siingh 60, 3. Royal Currency (1) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 4. Artistryy (3) Ishwar Singh 53, 5. Penang (4) Neeraj 51.5, 6. Beethovan (9) Yash Narredu 51, 7. Knight In Armour (8) R. Manish 50.5, 8. Glorious Trust (2) Azfar Syeed 50.5, 9. Noble Heir (5) Manikandan 50 and 10. Star Elegant (6) Ajeet Kumar 50.  1. ANGELINO, 2. NIGHT HUNT,   3. ROYAL CURRENCY   NILGIRIS GOLD CUP (1,600m), 4-y-o & over (Terms), 4-30: 1. Trafalgar (4) S. John 61.5, 2. Born Queen (6) P. Trevor 57.5, 3. My Opinion (3) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 4. Vachan (5) Nikhil Naidu 54.5, 5. Durango (8) D.S. Deora 53.5, 6. Glorious Destiny (1) C. Umesh 53.5, 7. Historian (2) Ashhad Asbar 53.5 and 8. Rambunctious (7) Neeraj 51.5.  1. BORN QUEEN, 2. TRAFALGAR,   3. MY OPINION   COROMANDEL GROMOR NILGIRIS DERBY STAKES (1,600m), 3-y-o (Terms), 5-00: 1. Akido (5) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. All Attractive (7) P. Trevor 56, 3. Cool Rider (2) A. Sandesh 56, 4. Imperial Blue (8) Akshay Kumar 56, 5. Knotty Dancer (9) K. Mukesh Kumar 56, 6. Mitsuro (6) Arshad Alam 56, 7. Siege Perilous (3) D.S. Deora 56, 8. Alicia (4) P.S. Chouhan 54.5 and 9. Chashni (1) Nikhil Naidu 54.5.  1. COOL RIDER,   2. IMPERIAL BLUE, 3. AKIDO   HYDERABAD RACE CLUB CUP (1,600m), rated 40 to 65, 5-40: 1. Emelda (4) Akshay Kumar 61.5, 2. Roman Senator (3) P. Sai Kumar 60, 3. Cotton Hall (1) C. Umesh 59.5, 4. Dont Dilly Dally (5) Farid Ansari 58.5, 5. Royal Commander (6) Kuldeep Singh 57, 6. Mr Kool (2) Nikhil Naidu 55.5, 7. Inkonito (7) H.M. Akshay 55, 8. Ganton (8) Janardhan Paswan 54.5 and 9. Comanche Brave (9) Nakhat Singh 54.  1. MR KOOL, 2. EMELDA,   3. ROMAN SENATOR  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jkt: 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cool-rider-for-nilgiris-derby-stakes/article36545817.ece
19 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ranjeet triumphs||Former National champion V.M. Ranjeet beat Dhruv Hirpara 6-2, 6-1 in the final of the Rs. 100,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament at the Pradhan Academy in Gurugram on Saturday. Ranjeet had beaten Deepender Grewal and Ajay Malik in the earlier two rounds without dropping a set. The young Dhruv did well to make the final, as he got past Sushant Dabas 6-4, 7-6(4) in the semifinals.  The results (final):   V.M. Ranjeet bt Dhruv Hirpara 6-2, 6-1.   Semifinals: Ranjeet bt Deepender Grewal 6-2, 7-5; Dhruv bt Sushant Dabas 6-4, 7-6(4) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ranjeet-triumphs/article36545961.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Lording over the Masters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lording-over-the-masters/article36546156.ece
19 September 2021||Sao Paulo,||Pele briefly back in ICU||Brazilian football legend Pele, 80, was briefly transferred back to an intensive care unit on Friday after suffering breathing difficulties but is now stable, said the Albert Einstein Hospital in Sao Paulo, where he underwent surgery earlier this month. The transfer was a temporary “preventative measure,” the hospital said in a statement, adding that the sporting great was later transferred to “semi-intensive care” as he continues to recover from surgery for a suspected colon tumour. “He is currently stable,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pele-briefly-back-in-icu/article36545375.ece
19 September 2021||Srinagar,||Baisoya wins J&K Open||Delhi’s Honey Baisoya on Saturday ended a three-year title drought by claiming a four-stroke win over Gurugram-based Veer Ahlawat at the J&K Open here. Six-time PGTI winner Baisoya (67-69-66-68), who was struggling for form through the season, totalled 18-under 270 for the week following his classy final round of four-under 68 at the Royal Springs Golf Course. He thus skyrocketed from 85th to 22nd place in the PGTI Order of Merit. Ahlawat (67-71-70-66) also made his presence felt in the last round with a score of 66 to finish second at 14-under 274 in the Rs. 40 lakh event. Patna’s Aman Raj (68-71-70-66) too shot a 66 on day four to take the third place at 13-under 275. Baisoya, the overnight leader by four shots, had a nervy start to the day as he made some tough par putts from five to six feet on the first six holes even as the likes of Angad Cheema and Kartik Sharma piled on the pressure on the leader with early birdies. Baisoya almost found the hole with his chip on the seventh but eventually tapped in for his first birdie of the day. A 20-feet birdie conversion followed on the ninth as he made the turn with a two-shot cushion. He dropped his first bogey of the tournament when he three-putted on the 13th. That narrowed down his lead over Veer Ahlawat to just two shots. Final push Baisoya made a final push for victory with birdies on the 14th and 15th as a result of some long conversions thanks to his new putter. The 25-year-old landed his approach from 134 yards to within a foot to set up another birdie on the 17th that all but sealed the deal for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/baisoya-wins-jk-open/article36545821.ece
19 September 2021||Cairo,||Rishab and Sanchez taste success||Rishab Agarwal and Diego Augusto Barreto Sanchez of Spain won the doubles title by beating Leonardo Aboian and Valerio Aboian of Argentina 6-2, 7-5 in the final of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament.  Other results:   $15,000 ITF women, Melilla, Spain: Semifinals: Luisa Meyer auf der Heide & Chantal Sauvant (Ger) bt Enola Chiesa (Ita) & Sathwika Sama 6-2, 6-1.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Semifinals: Sharmada Balu & Sravya Shivani bt Yuka Hosoki (Jpn) & Ma YeXin (Chn) 2-6, 6-2, [10-5] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rishab-and-sanchez-taste-success/article36545815.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Sanjay excels||M. Sanjay (53, 3x4, 1x6), Danish Vishnu (46 n.o.) and K. Kethan (43 n.o.) helped Bellur CC score a six-wicket win over FUCC in the KSCA Mysore zone second division league at the PET grounds, Mandya on Saturday.  The scores:   II Div.: FUCC 223 in 44.4 overs (T. Manjunath 36, Hemanth Rajkumar 32, S.S. Sumanth 4/38, B.C. Rohan 3/37) lost to Bellur 224/4 in 47.5 overs (N. Sanjay 53, Danish Vishnu 46 n.o., K. Kethan 43 n.o.).   Sunny Side 162 in 33.2 overs (H.N. Chandrashekara 82, Hrishabh Singhavi 4/28) lost to RBN ‘B’ 163/5 in 21 overs (Pavan Bharadwaj 40, M.K. Yashwanth 37, M.B. Darshan 36, T. Dhanraj 3/39).   III Div.: Mohan’s XI 318/6 in 50 overs (D. Bharath 61, Madan Mohan 52, Praful 56 n.o., S.V. Prashanth 27, L. Rohith 25) bt Friends 153/9 in 50 overs (S. Dhananjaya 40, Shivakumar 5/32).   IV Div.: CPCP 332/6 in 50 overs (Nitish Kumar 130 n.o., M.L. Yogesh 52, B. Mahesh 48, Raghu 28) bt Jaihind ‘B’ 100 in 32.3 overs (B. Anjan 37, Rajesh 3/17) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanjay-excels/article36546233.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Silambarasam’s last-ball six helps Swaraj win a thriller||Left-handed batsman M. Silambarasam turned hero with a last-ball six off R. Ganesh to help Swaraj CC beat MCC by one wicket in the V.A. Parthasarathy Memorial Trophy one-day match here on Saturday. At MAC stadium, Abhishek M. Hegde slammed a brilliant unbeaten 161 (153b, 20x4, 4x6) to help IOB chase down Globe Trotter’s total of 235 with eight balls to spare. Meanwhile, two matches — Nelson vs UFCC (T. Nagar) in Group A and MRC vs Grand Slam in Group B — were abandoned due to wet ground conditions following overnight rains. All four teams received two points each.  The scores:   Group A: Young Stars 158 in 43 overs (Shubhang Mishra 73, A. Aswin Crist 4/28, Rahil Shah 3/ 37) lost to Vijay 159/4 in 28 overs (V. Ganga Sridhar Raju 52, Daryl S. Ferrario 42, S. Mohan Prasath 3/32). Toss: Vijay. Points: Vijay 4; Stars 0.   MCC 238/9 in 50 overs (Tushar Raheja 104, S. Sujay 38, M. Silambarasan 3/24) lost to Swaraj 240/9 in 50 overs (S. Aravind 45, R. Ram Arvindh 37, R. Vivek 63). Toss: MCC. Swaraj 4; MCC 0.   Group B: Jolly Rovers 333/1 in 50 overs (B. Sai Sudharsan 116, M. Kaushik Gandhi 139 n.o., B. Aparajith 71 n.o.) bt India Pistons 203 in 47.3 overs (D. Anchit 68, G. Babu 35, D.T. Chandrasekar 3/27). Toss: Rovers. Rovers 4; Pistons 0.   Globe Trotters 235/9 in 50 overs (Akshay V. Srinivasan 87, Maan K. Bafna 48, X. Thalaivan Sargunam 49, S. Nikhilesh 4/70) lost to IOB 236/7 in 48.4 overs (Abhishek M. Hegde 161 n.o., T.D. Lokesh Raj 3/44). Toss: IOB. IOB 4; Trotters 0 .    Ambrish Rangan set up Asiatic CA’s nine-wicket win over Asian SC with his seven-wicket haul in the KDCA second division league recently.  The scores: II div.: Asian SC 69 in 20.4 (Ambrish Rangan 7/26) lost to Asiatic CA 71/1 in 13.1 overs (A. Jayesh 32 n.o).   Mani Memorial 174/7 in 30 overs (Siddarth 78) bt Fine Star 141 in 27.2 overs (M. Chandru 31, S. Mukund 6/34).   Central Bank of India 142/9 in 30 overs (J.S. Abish 33, R. Keshav 3/12) bt Bharath 93 in 24.3 overs (G. Ramaswamy 4/22, K. Tharun Kishore 3/6).      D. Mohanraj's 67 helped Oz Sports CC beat Willow CC by five wickets in the CDCA second division league recently.  The scores: II div.: Willow 153 in 28.4 overs (S. Amarnath 44, Mohan Raj 43, Tamil 31, P. Pradeep 4/54, Vishnu 3/23) lost to Oz Sports 155/5 in 25.3 overs (D. Mohanraj 67, Tamil 3/31) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/silambarasams-last-ball-six-helps-swaraj-win-a-thriller/article36545875.ece
19 September 2021||Bordeaux,||Tvesa lies tied-11th||Tvesa Malik carded a modest 1-under 70 in the second round of the Lacoste Ladies Open de France at the Golf Club de Medoc here on Friday. Tvesa, who shot a 69 on the first day, is now tied-11th and five behind the leader, Celine Boutier.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tvesa-lies-tied-11th/article36545826.ece
19 September 2021||Cromvort,||Shubhankar in tied-ninth spot||India’s Shubhankar Sharma landed two eagles for a card of 6-under 66 to lie tied-ninth after the second round of the Dutch Open golf tournament here. At 8-under, Shubhankar, who shot a 2-under 70 in the opening round, is four shots behind leader Kristoffer Broberg (68, 64), who leads the field at 12-under.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shubhankar-in-tied-ninth-spot/article36545971.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 13:51 IST,||Sudoku — September 19, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-19-2021/article36547655.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Experiencing Pulicat in Kelambakkam||For local birders, the ruddy turnstone is a “Pulicat bird” — period. The winter migrant keeps its date with the lagoon with almost monsoonal punctuality. Birders flocking to Pulicat for its stone-turning performance do not have too many cancelled matches to rail about. The winter migrant does put in an appearance on a few other sections of the coast around Chennai, but it is just what it is said to be — an appearance, fleeting and unpredictable, on this winter and off for the next three. So, ruddy turnstone occurrences around Kelambakkam are received with the excitement that surrounds breaking news. In the early hours of September 12, when Sundaravel Palanivel and Sivakumar Shamugasundaram began exploring the Kelambakkam backwaters and adjacent sections that are ecological extensions of it, for signs of early migrants, they did not have the ruddy turnstone on the list of probables. Not that the species has never before been recorded on sections of these backwaters. However, on the question of being attractive to the ruddy turnstone, Kelambakkam backwaters’ record looks deplorably poor when juxtaposed with Pulicat’s. The chasm is as wide as the difference between Dilip Doshi’s batting averages and Virat Kozhi’s — so you get the picture. When the day had sunk on the landward side, these two birders were mighty chuffed to have experienced Pulicat south of Chennai. Sundaravel Palanivel uploaded a checklist on which were parked three ruddy turnstones. The surprise did not begin with this species; nor did it end there. The biggest of those wow encounters was a flock of around 60 lesser sand plovers. It was the size of the flock that made the birding duo feel being whisked away to Pulicat. “We had the sense of encountering all the Pulicat birds. Besides the ruddy turnstones, terek sandpipers are readily associated with Pulicat. We found three of them on that Sunday trip,” says Sundaravel. “It is a great pleasure to observe early migrants, especially when you encounter them in an unexpected place. There was much human activity not far from where the birds were. But these waders, not in the thousands that one would expect them to see later, did not seem affected by it. We could observe them go about their business from a good distance. The sand plovers, pacific golden plovers, terek sandpipers, the lone curlew sandpiper, the busy turnstones and the godwits were all a pleasure to watch and record,” is how Sivakumar describes the experience of watching an impressive number of migrants as early as September. While the list put up on eBird clearly has a whiff of Pulicat, one has to go through the entire season to arrive at a reliable picture of whether the Muttukaddu-Kelambakkam-Kovalam backwater ecosystem can “sustain” the Pulicat experience through an entire season. In fact, one has to be at least a couple of more winters older to be wiser in this matter. Meanwhile, it would help chew on an observation made by birder E Arun Kumar, who has done synchronised bird surveys at Pulicat for the last three years for the forest department. Arun Kumar notes: “Sometimes, around the Kelambakkam side, you will get to see the ruddy turnstone because of the presence of the estuary at Muttukadu. Sometimes, the birds regularly sighted at Pulicat during the winter season are sighted around the Kelambakkam backwaters. They use it as the stopover point: At Kelambakkam, you will not see them for a long time. They will stay for just two or three days and then move on to Yedayanthittu estuary and Mudaliarkuppam backwaters or to Pulicat. When they come to Pulicat, they would stay on for months. In contrast, Kelambakkam would be just a pitstop. As Pulicat and Yedayanthittu are relatively untouched by development and are more expansive habitats, the species that are sighted at Kelambakkam will be found there in larger numbers . To give an example, you will see a few Pacific golden plovers in Kelambakkam, and thousands of them in Pulicat. In fact, the Pacific golden plover is also known to head to freshwater lakes which was corroborated by the sighting of 40 Pacific golden plovers at the Mamandur freshwater lake last wintering season.”  When they come to Pulicat, they would stay on for months. In contrast, Kelambakkam would be just a pitstop||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/experiencing-pulicat-in-kelambakkam/article36545647.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Ambassadors of the Rubik’s Cube||When R Chandrika was gifted a 3x3x3 Rubik’s Cube by an aunt from United States, she could have had no inkling of how the gadget would come to rule her life. Chandrika was just a nine-year-old child at that time. She did not give as much mind to solving the three-dimensional puzzle as she did to understanding the mechanism behind it. “My dad is a mechanic and I always loved to dirty my hands, and so I took a screwdriver and disassembled the pieces to figure out its functioning but I was not successful,” says Chandrika. Little did Chandrika realise that she would make a profession out of the teaching puzzles to others. Chandrika along with her two siblings — R Bindu Priyanka and R Anand — run the Tamil Nadu Cube Association, a registered body that trains the young and the old to take up competitive cubing and also conducts cubing events. “I was finding it difficult to concentrate on studies and my mother pushed me to take up sports, and that is when I slowly started discovering the puzzle,” says Chandrika, in her early 30s now. Her maternal grandfather tried teaching her all about three-dimensional puzzles but she could not crack it. Later, she learnt to solve it on her own. “We did not have a phone or a computer at home to learn about the formula or techniques, and so I started by solving one colour at a time and jotting the steps in a book so that I would not forget it,” says Chandrika. It took her almost one-and-a-half years to solve a basic Rubik’s Cube completely. Chandrika has since been collecting and solving different kinds of cubes, but being a costly hobby, her parents began to feel the pinch. “My mom, Bhuvana, started selling saris and working in a canteen to buy us cubes,” says Chandrika, adding “My siblings got hooked on cubing and the persistent clicks of cubes being arranged and rearranged became an undying soundtrack in our home.” Bhuvana would send money to her sister in the United States to make sure the children got a hang of the Rubik’s Cube in a variety of shapes and sizes. By 2013, Chandrika learnt to solve a variety of cubes in a matter of seconds and started teaching her neighbours under the name of Dharshan Academy. However, her first competitive event was a damp squib. “I did well for a beginner but did not match the speed of other participants as I had no one to guide me. That is the reason I have taken up coaching,” says Chandrika, who is engaged with three city schools as a Rubik’s Cube teacher. The journey has not been easy for the trio. In 2018, the siblings fought hard to rechristen their centre as Tamil Nadu Cube Association. “We wanted to break myths surrounding cubing and take players to international level but it was a challenge as awareness about cubing was low,” says Chandrika. Bindu, who takes charge of the marketing, says that persuading school managements to promote cubing was a challenge. “How will you train our students using a toy?” was the remark we received. “Today, we have thousands of students and adults enrolled with us, many are competing at the international level,” says Bindu. For the recent Rubik Cube World Championship held in 2019, their students came fourth and seventh. “We still have a long way to go,” says Bindu. Since last year they started to train the enthusiasts online. Chandrika points out that their big moment arrived when one of her students Shaktivel, a four-year-old, created a world record completing the cube blindfolded in 28 seconds. What is the difference the trio brings to the hobby? Thousands of formulae are available on the internet but not all of them work for everyone. “A left-hander might have difficulty in making turns. A cube that requires 20 moves can be solved in 18 moves with a different formula, so we customise as per a student’s age and ability,” says Chandrika. Blindfolded Rubik’s Cube is something she takes pride in. “Instead of learning it through an algorithm, I introduced it through stories,” she says. Chandrika is next working on introducing Rubik’s Cube to teach mathematics. Social initiatives The trio has been teaching the art for free to students who cannot afford a nominal fee. For example, students of Mahanadhi Savithri School, a government school at Machlipatnam, have benefited from their classes. For those who cannot afford to buy Rubik’s Cube, they give it on rent. “We have a few visually challenged students learning from us and we do not charge them any fee,” says Chandrika, who shuttles between Chennai and Madurai. For senior citizens living in old age homes, they use cubes as a memory booster.For details, visit http://www.tamilnaducubeassociation.org  We did not have a phone or a computer at home to learn about the formula or techniques, and so I started solving one colour at a time and jotting down the steps in a book so that I would not forget the process||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ambassadors-of-the-rubiks-cube/article36545658.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Have you met Arya the randonneur?||Madras Randonneurs urged its members to keep September 11 free for a special ride. It would celebrate the first ever brevet des randonneurs mondiaux (BRM) organised 100 years ago to that day, by Audax Club Parisien on a 200-km loop route on French soil. Two hundred and eighty members of Madras Randonneurs kept the date free and did the commemorative 200-km ride down Chennai’s East Coast Road. Actor Arya was one of them. As a Super Randonneur — an enviable feat by itself — Arya has made it to the prestigious 1200-km Paris-Brest-Paris (PBP) ride. Talk to him about randonneuriing and his words would radiate an immense commitment to the endurance cycling sport. The star-actor explains why he randonneurs and what randonneuring has done for him. How does one prepare to be a randonneur? Randonneuring is quite different from normal fitness cycling, calling for a different mindset altogether. You definitely need a lot of training for randonneuring, but not any special training. More than the training it is the mind that drives you to the finish line. Basically, it is about pushing your limits and time management. Every brevet — 200 km, 300 km, 400 km, 600 km, 1000 km — is time-bound, requiring you to finish the specific target in the specific time as you follow the route. Suppose you do a 400 km ride, you will have to ride the bike for a minimum of 22 to 24 hours, so there is no sleep, no reserved pitstop or stop time, and there is no telling when and where you would be left with a flat tyre or run into bike problems or where you will get your food from. Basically, you get on the bike and prepare for the worst. When you do a 600 km, it is like a two-day ride and you rest whenever you get the time and wherever you get some shade. Sometimes you sleep under a tree; sometimes, at a bus stand. Sometimes, you will have a flat tyre in the middle of nowhere. So, it is like a mind game and pushing your human limits. When I did 1200 PBP, I was riding for three to four days with a maximum of five hours of sleep. On the third or fourth day, you would basically be hallucinating.  When the going gets tough, do you wish you were anywhere but on the road?  If you ask the question: Why should I do this? Then, there is no answer to it. As you sit on the bike, there are questions that you ask yourself. Nobody is forcing you to do this, and then why are you doing this? Let us stop this now, get back home and go to sleep. You break your mind each time till you reach the finish line. The happiness you get when you sail over the finish line is indefinable. The start line is new every time. You might have done 1000 kilometres before, and the next ride, you do a 300 and you will find some level of difficulty. Every BRM is an experience by itself. It will have its own challenges.  When did it all begin?  In started in 2017. The first ride was a 300 km in Sweden at Vätternrundan, an annual event that is more than 100 years old. The ride is organised around a lake. That is how I got hooked on to it — In Chennai, I started doing BRMs. Initially skeptical about the arrangements, I came to be impressed with the experience. The weather conditions are challenging. And Partha and team at Madras Randonneurs organise the route and everything well. The rides are well-supported at all the control points with safety being a priority. Now, endurance cycling has become an addiction.  Has being a star ever helped you while you were stuck on account of a problem encountered on the way?  When you are recognised, it becomes a problem because you waste a lot of time, talking to them, trying to take pictures and you will not be able to rest; nor would you be able to save some time. I just pray that I do not get recognised, but I do not stop myself from going to the tea shops for a cup of tea or coffee. You cannot find all the big restaurants on the way, when you are riding 600 km cutting through villages. In fact, we specifically eat in very small joints so that the food will be served very fast and we can get back on the road quickly. We pick small restaurants that are not crowded.  Any big ride on the cards?  We are looking forward to a 1500-km ride in the United Kingdom that is happening in August next year. We are actually training for it now, and hopefully by next August, we are ready to face it.  Seeing your example, has any of your friends in the film industry taken to randonneuring?  They all come for general rides. Randonneuring is madness, not fitness. It is like pushing human limits, more like extreme sports. However, when you go for Paris-Brest-Paris and other events abroad, you realise you are the youngest. There are participants who are 75 and 80 years old. So, it is not the age. We have randonneurs here in Chennai who are seventy plus. It is like an addictive madness that gets into you.  How has randonneuring enriched your life?  It has really helped in many ways in my career and life. Life is all about facing challenges and overcoming them. I would say that you should do BRMs, because it would give you enough confidence to take on challenges off the track. It trains you to work hard, set your goals — BRM motivates you. Not just BRMs, even a half-marathon or full marathon can do that for you. After 20 kilometres, it is not your legs, but your mind that takes you to the finish line. It is like meditation — after a point of time, it is just your mind.  In Chennai, where do you train?  I stay in Anna Nagar — either I do Tambaram bypass or Outer Ring Road. Or, the ECR. If I am doing short rides, there is the Marina Loop Road. It has all kinds of wind directions. We do all kinds of loops out there. It is very good for training, fast training. We go at 4.30 or 5 a.m.  Sometimes you sleep under a tree; sometimes, at a bus stand. Sometimes, you will have a flat tyre in the middle of nowhere||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/have-you-met-arya-the-randonneur/article36545640.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The track to success||A year-and-a-half ago, Ramya Vasudevan made an audio recording of her narration of Kodi Mundhiri , a Tamil short story authored by Thangar Bachan, and shared it with her friends in a WhatsApp group. Then, she did not expect to be asked to make more such audio tracks of stories of various other Tamil authors. Nor did she expect the recordings to have a following. Ramya’s 750 audio tracks are now set to find a place in the website of Anna Centenary Library, Kotturpuram. On how she got here, Ramya says, “When there was a good response to audio tracks in my friends group, I decided to have another WhatsApp group exclusively for sharing my story narrations. As WhatsApp allows only 256 members, I had to create one group after another, and now it stands at 12 WhatsApp groups. All the groups are known by the name “Under The Tree” symbolically referring to how storytelling usually happens under a tree. One group is exclusively for librarians. Finding my narrations interesting, two government librarians brought them to District Library Officer - Chennai Mr S Elango Chandra Kumar’s notice . I also spoke to the Chennai DLO and forwarded him some of my audio tracks. As he was also impressed with my narrations, I proposed to use my works in a way that would benefit government libraries and I would do it for free.” Ramya has so far narrated some of the works of Mahakavi Subramania Bharathiyar, Pudhumaipithan, Si Su Chellapa, Na Pichamurthy, La Sa Ramamritham, Thi Janakiraman, Ku Pa Rajagopalan, Jeyakanthan, Asokamithran, MV Venkatram, R Choodamani, Ambai Indra Parathasarathy, Ki Rajanarayanan, Nanjinadan, Charu Niveditha, A Madhavan, Sujatha, Balakumaran, Subramaniya Raju, La Sa Ra Saptharishi,and many others. Ramya mainly presents the works of Tamil authors because she feels awareness about Tamil literature is low compared to English. “Every evening, after completing household work, I sit down at 7 p.m. to make an audio track. I do not read the entire book, but narrate the story in 20 to 30 minutes. First, I narrate it to myself, making some notes and once, I am well-prepared, I start recording my narration. Next, I make a poster bearing the author’s image and another image that goes with the story’s theme. That will be attached to the audio track. By the time I complete this work, it will be 11 p.m. Next day, by 7.30 a.m. I will share the audio track in all the 12 WhatsApp groups,” says the 41-year-old who runs an enterprise that makes cosmetic products. She always choose short stories and ensures her narration does not exceed 30 minutes. “I have not tried novels so far, because they are time-consuming. But I have presented the life history of saints Sundaramurthy Nayanar, Ramanujar, Vedanta Desikan, Maha Periyava, and Aandal. I have presented them in a six-part series. Each track will run for 20 minutes. Besides, I have narrated notable works of authors of other languages that have fetched them the recognition of Sahitya Akademi; and thereby published by Sahitya Akademi by translating them to other Indian languages. They include works of Malayalam authors Vaikom Muhammad Basheer and MT Vasudevan Nair; Bengali author Rabindranath Tagore and Manipuri author MK Binodini,”says Ramya. While she prefers short stories in Tamil, in English Sowmya summarises the gist of books pertaining to personality development, work-life balance, communication and leadership skills. Some of them are Outliers – The Story of Success by Malcolm Gladwell, Triggers by Marshall Goldsmith, and Brain Rules by John Medina. “This exercise of narrating a story is like a hobby to me and I find it quite relaxing. In the coming days, I am planning to do a series on Indian kings who fought against the British,” says Ramya, a resident of Indira Nagar in Adyar. In this respect the District Library Officer, Elango Chandrakumar, says “I find her style of narration simple and clean. She has covered a wide range of authors. So, I thought of uploading her audio tracks in the website of Anna Centenary Library. It will certainly be useful to someone who has no idea about Tamil authors and their works and who wishes to know about them. Next, if one wants to know about a particular author’s genre and the kind of themes he dwells on, a quick hearing of Ramya’s tracks will help. Her stories can be accessed at http://117.239.65.2:9090/dcl/” Ramya Vasudevan can be reached at 97890 62915.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-track-to-success/article36545650.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Growing friendship||Beady-eyed and opportunistic, animals rarely miss a trick. Their eyes fall on spaces that our own ignore. In a derelict state, the open spaces on the premises of the Kasturba Nagar Community Hall caught those of bandicoots. Bandicoots go it alone. Each had made itself a snug burrow. Eviction notices were placed next to these burrows a month-and-a-half ago when a bunch of resident-volunteers from Kasturba Nagar started reclaiming the space, replacing unplanned unruly vegetation with a planned edible garden. “Any kind of animal life is fine, but what was unacceptable was the construction debris and the overgrown vegetation that had taken over much of the open space. As we worked the soil, we found small plastic material mixed with it,” says Samyuktha Kannan, a resident of Kastuba Nagar and a member of the core team of volunteers driving Kasturba Nagar Community Garden (KNCG). (On September 19, from 3.30 to 5.30 p.m, KNCG would hold its biggest event since inception, organising Seed & Sapling Exchange on the premises of the Kasturba Nagar Community Hall). Samyuktha says that after obtaining the necessary permission, the green volunteers started ‘owning’ the open space around the community hall and transforming it. The vegetable garden which has only barely put out shoots, serves a trifecta of needs for a majority of the participants — experimental gardening, fitness and social engagement. “For people with green thumbs who are limited for space, time and even sunlight, a community garden is the best bet. It gives them access to experimental gardening together with like-minded people. We are trying to make this a learning group,” says Samyuktha. While resident-volunteers tend to the garden daily, they come together as a learning group every weekend. Concepts of gardening are firmed up for them through practice sessions on the land outside the community hall, and theory sessions inside. “A group of gardeners share their expertise in these sessions,” explains Samyuktha. A striking aspect of the initiative is that paid help is not considered, and the participants alone have to labour over the garden. “Volunteers pitch in whether it is sowing, watering, creating a bed, separating dry leaves from trash to have them mulch. We create a set of activities on a weekly basis for people to participate in. The idea is to get out there, have some physical activity, enjoy nature and the process of gardening. The volunteers come with that objective in mind. It is an out-and-out voluntary effort and the funds are pooled in by the volunteers.” Residents decide what shape the garden takes, says Samyuktha, adding that a diversity of thoughts is promoted, as evidenced by the various areas of interest among participants. Says Samyuktha, “There are those keen on growing organic food and there are those committed to preserving native seeds. There are residents who have sought a mushroom growing area. Someone suggested a mini apiary. We are working towards honouring both these suggestions among others.” She points out that being named after Kastuba Nagar can cause the initiative to be mistaken for an insular, neighbourhood-centric exercise, but it is far from being that. “It might have been initiated by a group within the neighbourhood, but it has grown inclusive with residents from elsewhere also participating in it.”  On September 19, from 3.30 to 5.30 p.m, KNCG is organising a Seed & Sapling Exchange event on the premises of the Kasturba Nagar Community Hall||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/growing-friendship/article36545629.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||IT professional with a passion for Bonsai||It is a perfectly shaped ‘Ficus benghalensis’, one that has grown in a flat-bottomed pot, “The tree is 30 years old. Years ago, the tree was in my friend’s house. When he was vacating the house he wanted to uproot it. I took a sapling and replanted it in a pot, cutting the branches each time to make it a Bonsai of the original,” says S Purushothaman, a software professional from the IT corridor with a passion for bonsai cultivation, and who has bonsai nursery. He conducts free workshops on bonsai cultivation in educational institutions, and gated communities along Rajiv Gandhi Salai. Among the remarkable Bonsai trees in his collection are a tamarind tree and a banyan. Purushothaman was initiated into this art in 2004. “There is a notion among people that bonsai cultivation is a costly affair,” says Purushothaman. “I believe that apart from enhancing the aesthetic appeal, Bonsai trees can calm one’s mind.”  S. Purushothaman can be contacted at 98419 84227.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/it-professional-with-a-passion-for-bonsai/article36545655.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Look into our request for a playground on the IT Corridor ’||Semmanchery Residents’ Welfare Association has reiterated its demand for a playground in its locality, one that would benefit the whole of IT Corridor. Satish Galley, founder, Semmanchery Residents’ Welfare Association points out that the Greater Chennai Corporation has been favourable to the request and that unfortunately, a project for the same that it had initiated fell through at the eleventh hour. Satish recalled how the residents association of the gated community whose OSR land was going to be developed into a playground filed a petition in Madras High Court and got a stay on the project, as it wanted a park to be developed out of the OSR land and not a playground. Satish says that Semmancheri Residents’ Welfare Association has identified an alternative OSR land where the playground can be established and the Association has even written to GCC about it. “We request the Corporation to look into the matter. There are nearly 70 parks in Zone 15, but not a playground,” says Galley. Neelankarai, Vettuvankeni, Thoraipakkam, Injambakkam, Karapakkam, Sholinganallur, Akkarai, Uthandi and Semmancheri come under the jurisdiction of Zone 15 (Sholinganallur Zone). He says those coming from underprivileged sections of society cannot afford to practise at private centres.  There are nearly 70 parks in Zone 15, but not a playground, says Semmanchery Residents’ Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/look-into-our-request-for-a-playground-on-the-it-corridor/article36545626.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Randonneurs hit ECR for special ride||On September 11, Madras Randonneurs organised a 200-km brevet from Chennai to Marakannam and back to commemorate the centenary of the first brevet (a 200-km loop ride around Paris) by Audax Club Parisien, the international governing body for randonneuring. Given that this event was associated with a memory, participants from Madras Randonneurs were encouraged to think out of the box to make the outing memorable. The most striking feature of this effort had to do with some of the cycles. Partha Datta, founder, Madras Randonneurs, covered the 200 km with a Brompton, a compact, foldable cycle with small wheels that is in glowing contrast to the regular randonneuring cycles designed for speed and greater aerodynamics. Partha points out how a clutch of five participants rode brand-new regular cycles used in the community for commuting. Prasanna Karthik, who assumes the role of ride responsibility, notes that these participants gave away these new commuting cycles to underprivileged children. Partha says that 280 participated in the brevet, which included actor Arya, entrepreneur Neville Bilimoria known for his participation in many international cycling and running events; and retired naval officer Gauri Mishra. Partha shares that Madras Randonneurs is looking forward to conducting a Chennai ride next year on June 11, to commemorate the centenary of BRM-300. Audax Club Parisien and its various chapters, which include Madras Randonneurs, are expected to mark the hundred years of the first 300-km brevet with synchronised 300-km rides just the way the centenary of the 200-km brevet was celebrated this year across the world.  A few participants rode brand-new regular cycles used in the community for commuting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/randonneurs-hit-ecr-for-special-ride/article36545643.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Making art through cubes||Last year, two sisters were introduced to the Rubik’s Cube by their mother to kill time during lockdown. Today, solving the three-dimensional puzzle is child's play for them. They solve cubes in minutes and make life-size portraits with them. Krithika Senthil (10) and Dhrishya Senthil (7) recently created a mosaic art of Ganesha, which stood at 7.5 feet in height and 6.5 feet in width, using 955 cubes. The achieved the feat in six hourss and it got them recognition from the Ingenious Charm World Record. “The cubes were provided by their coach Bindu Priyanka and as they work together it took them around six hours to make the portrait,” says Ramya Senthil, the girls’ mom. The sisters, who are students of Velammal Vidyalaya, Mel Ayanambakkam, have done similar artworks in recent months. Portrait works of Niraj Chopra and Lord Krishna have won them appreciation. For Social Justice Day, they brought in four other young cubists to design mosaic artworks of DMK leaders. Similarly, Christa Stephany Jesica used 955 Rubik’s Cubes to create the map of India and M Dharshan made a portrait of APJ Abdul Kalam. Bindu Priyanka, co-founder Tamil Nadu Cube Association, says more youngsters are exploring the creative possibilities of Rubik’s Cube. “A student needs to know drawing and have patience to explore the endless creative possibilities of this puzzle,” says Bindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/making-art-through-cubes/article36545660.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Pedestrians’ space usurped||Pedestrian safety is being compromised at Third Cross Street in Kasturba Nagar, Adyar, with footpath having been partially taken over by the boards of commercial establishments along the road. This is in addition to hawkers displaying their wares and vehicles being parked on the pavement. Residents of Venkata Rathinam Nagar in Adyar have requested the office of the Zone 13 of the Greater Chennai Corporation to look into the matter and ensure pedestrian safety. “These boards are lit in the evening and therefore wires carrying electricity criss-cross the pavement posing a threat to pedestrians’ safety,” says Shanthi TS Kamalasekaran, a resident of Venkata Rathinam Nagar. As per the rules, electricity supply for commercial establishments cannot be extended outside the premises of the establishment. “But a section of people on this road are flouting these rules,” say Shanthi. Moreover, poles holding billboards have rusted and can fall anytime. “With monsoon expected to set in, in a few weeks, the threat from these wires and poles assumes greater significance,” adds Shanthi. Shanthi has been taking up this issue with the GCC and Tangedco for the past many years, but in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pedestrians-space-usurped/article36545625.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Martial arts school offers special courses for students||In addition to Karate and Taekwondo, The BTF School of Martial Arts now offers special courses for women and senior-citizens. And for children, it offers training in improving concentration. According to a press release, activities like cycling, walkathons and field trips are part of the courses. “BTF school does not believe in just self-defence training. It aims to help its students overcome fear, hone their leadership qualities and manage time better,” says Renshi Ayyappan Mani, the centre’s founder. Classes will be held from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. For details, call 82487 52737||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/martial-arts-school-offers-special-courses-for-students/article36545652.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Who gets there first?||Any discussion that pivots around early winter migrants in Chennai would inevitably extend to the question of who gets there first. It is a question that cannot be answered conclusively, nor even convincingly, but it can lead to something that approximates to the truth. There are three species that seem to breast the tape consistently ahead of the others: common sandpiper, wood sandpiper and barn swallow. Ornithologist V Santharam bestows the title on the common sandpiper, adjudicating the winner on the basis of observations spanning six winters on the trot at the Adyar Estuary. “Their numbers would usually be small, but you see them consistently. Later on, their numbers build up. Based on my observation, you get to see the common sandpiper as early as the third week of July. Barn swallows start coming in by August in tricles and the large numbers come in by mid-September or the second week of September,” says Santharam. “I used to live at the Santhome the beach, which helped me see these birds. I think most of the shore birds and other migrants fly along the coast.” However, by August, many migrants start coming in, in small numbers, notes Santharam. There could also be migrants that have stayed back from the last season and are mistaken for early arrivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/who-gets-there-first/article36545648.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Free short-term skilling programme||Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation is organising a free short term skill training programme for unemployed graduates at Ambattur. Courses in Accounts Executive (Accounts Payable & Receivable) and GST Accounts Assistant are being offered. On successful completion of the programme, the trainees will get a Tamil Nadu Government certificate, free transport subsidy and also placement assistance, says a release. Pre-registration is a must. The training will be held at Mangalyan Technical Workers Co-op Society Ltd., Training Centre at Saraswathi Vidyalaya, 19 KK Street, MKB Nagar, Ambattur. For details, call 9869041169 / 7299955904||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-short-term-skilling-programme/article36545656.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||GCC should facilitate booking of community halls at Zonal offices, say Semmanchery residents||To book a community hall at Pazhathotta Salai in Semmanchery for a family function being held next month, V Praveen took three days’ leave from work. He had to go to the Ripon Building, the headquarters of the Greater Chennai Corporation in Periamet, to book the community hall. Praveen says that if the option of booking the community hall at the office of Zone 15 (Sholinganallur) located on Old Mahabalipuram Road in Sholinganallur had existed, he would have been spared that long trip to Periamet. “On the first day, I went to Ripon Building to submit the letter for booking the hall. The next day, I went to the bank to take the DD and then went to Ripon Building to submit the DD. On the first day itself, I could have made the payment. But payments are accepted only by DD. I was aware of that, but not sure of the rental charges. It varies for half day and full day. There are five banks near Ripon Building. But there is none where I hold an account. So the next day, I went to submit the DD at the office in the Ripon Building. And the third day, to get the permission letter. I work as an electrician and earn Rs. 600 a day on an average. I had to forgo earnings for three days due to this work. Further, I had to spend for the fuel,” says Praveen. Like Praveen, many people who live far from the Ripon Building and who want to book the community hall run by the Greater Chennai Corporation find the process cumbersome and time-consuming. Residents of Semmancherry and Sholinganallur have requested the Greater Chennai Corporation to facilitate bookings for community halls in the Zonal offices itself. To add to the woes of those living on Old Mahabalipuram Road, there is no direct bus service to Chennai Central railway station, near which Ripon Building is located. “I would have taken a bus to avoid spending on fuel. There are not any direct bus services to the railway station. People have to go to Thiruvanmiyur terminus and take a bus to the station. Or else, they have to take an MRTS train from Thiruvanmiyur,” says Praveen. Satish Galley, a resident of the IT Corridor, has taken up this issue with Greater Chennai Corporation. “The halls are spacious and receive a good patronage. Over the years, I have given many representations to GCC to facilitate booking of community halls at the Zonal offices, but of no avail. Further, online booking of community halls should be made possible. At present, online, we can only check the dates that are available for booking a community hall, ” says Satish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gcc-should-facilitate-booking-of-community-halls-at-zonal-offices-say-semmanchery-residents/article36545636.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on kitchen gardening in Velachery||AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association is organising a workshop on how to set up a kitchen garden, on September 19 at Plot No: 115, AGS Colony Eighth Cross Street, Velachery West. Time: From 11 a.m. to 12 noon. The programme will be conducted by Dr N Parasuraman, Principal Scientist, MS Swaminathan Research Foundation. Geetha Ganesh, secretary, AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association, says, “The workshop is being conducted to commemorate National Nutritional Literacy Awareness Month — September.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-kitchen-gardening-in-velachery/article36545621.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Week-long e-waste collection drive||Federation of Radial Road Residents’ Associations (FORRRA) is organising a week-long e-waste collection drive from September 19. Residents of five gated communities — S&S Sarvam, Jones Sigiriya, Tranquil Acres-Phase 1, Tranquil Acres - Phase 2 and Ramaniyam Ocean Dew, who are members of FORRRA will take part in the drive. Associations of each of these apartments will keep bins for their residents to discard their e-waste. The collected waste will be brought to S&S Sarvam apartments in Pallikaranai on September 25 and 26 and there it will be handed over to an empanelled recycler. “Improper disposal of e-waste is an environmental hazard. Studies suggest heavy metals can pollute groundwater. This special camp will help residents dispose of such hazardous electronic waste in a responsible manner,” says B. Vijayalakshmi, founder-president, FORRRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/week-long-e-waste-collection-drive/article36545622.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Have you met Arya the randonneur?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/have-you-met-arya-the-randonneur/article36545631.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Ambassadors of the Rubik’s Cube||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ambassadors-of-the-rubiks-cube/article36545633.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The track to success||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-track-to-success/article36545635.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Ambassadors of the Rubik’s Cube||When R Chandrika was gifted a 3x3x3 Rubik’s Cube by an aunt from United States, she could have had no inkling of how the gadget would come to rule her life. Chandrika was just a nine-year-old child at that time. She did not give as much mind to solving the three-dimensional puzzle as she did to understanding the mechanism behind it. “My dad is a mechanic and I always loved to dirty my hands, and so I took a screwdriver and disassembled the pieces to figure out its functioning but I was not successful,” says Chandrika. Little did Chandrika realise that she would make a profession out of the teaching puzzles to others. Chandrika along with her two siblings — R Bindu Priyanka and R Anand — run the Tamil Nadu Cube Association, a registered body that trains the young and the old to take up competitive cubing and also conducts cubing events. “I was finding it difficult to concentrate on studies and my mother pushed me to take up sports, and that is when I slowly started discovering the puzzle,” says Chandrika, in her early 30s now. Her maternal grandfather tried teaching her all about three-dimensional puzzles but she could not crack it. Later, she learnt to solve it on her own. “We did not have a phone or a computer at home to learn about the formula or techniques, and so I started by solving one colour at a time and jotting the steps in a book so that I would not forget it,” says Chandrika. It took her almost one-and-a-half years to solve a basic Rubik’s Cube completely. Chandrika has since been collecting and solving different kinds of cubes, but being a costly hobby, her parents began to feel the pinch. “My mom, Bhuvana, started selling saris and working in a canteen to buy us cubes,” says Chandrika, adding “My siblings got hooked on cubing and the persistent clicks of cubes being arranged and rearranged became an undying soundtrack in our home.” Bhuvana would send money to her sister in the United States to make sure the children got a hang of the Rubik’s Cube in a variety of shapes and sizes. By 2013, Chandrika learnt to solve a variety of cubes in a matter of seconds and started teaching her neighbours under the name of Dharshan Academy. However, her first competitive event was a damp squib. “I did well for a beginner but did not match the speed of other participants as I had no one to guide me. That is the reason I have taken up coaching,” says Chandrika, who is engaged with three city schools as a Rubik’s Cube teacher. The journey has not been easy for the trio. In 2018, the siblings fought hard to rechristen their centre as Tamil Nadu Cube Association. “We wanted to break myths surrounding cubing and take players to international level but it was a challenge as awareness about cubing was low,” says Chandrika. Bindu, who takes charge of the marketing, says that persuading school managements to promote cubing was a challenge. “How will you train our students using a toy?” was the remark we received. “Today, we have thousands of students and adults enrolled with us, many are competing at the international level,” says Bindu. For the recent Rubik Cube World Championship held in 2019, their students came fourth and seventh. “We still have a long way to go,” says Bindu. Since last year they started to train the enthusiasts online. Chandrika points out that their big moment arrived when one of her students Shaktivel, a four-year-old, created a world record completing the cube blindfolded in 28 seconds. What is the difference the trio brings to the hobby? Thousands of formulae are available on the internet but not all of them work for everyone. “A left-hander might have difficulty in making turns. A cube that requires 20 moves can be solved in 18 moves with a different formula, so we customise as per a student’s age and ability,” says Chandrika. Blindfolded Rubik’s Cube is something she takes pride in. “Instead of learning it through an algorithm, I introduced it through stories,” she says. Chandrika is next working on introducing Rubik’s Cube to teach mathematics. Social initiatives The trio has been teaching the art for free to students who cannot afford a nominal fee. For example, students of Mahanadhi Savithri School, a government school at Machlipatnam, have benefited from their classes. For those who cannot afford to buy Rubik’s Cube, they give it on rent. “We have a few visually challenged students learning from us and we do not charge them any fee,” says Chandrika, who shuttles between Chennai and Madurai. For senior citizens living in old age homes, they use cubes as a memory booster.For details, visit http://www.tamilnaducubeassociation.org  We did not have a phone or a computer at home to learn about the formula or techniques, and so I started solving one colour at a time and jotting down the steps in a book so that I would not forget the process||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ambassadors-of-the-rubiks-cube/article36545675.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Experiencing Pulicat in Kelambakkam||For local birders, the ruddy turnstone is a “Pulicat bird” — period. The winter migrant keeps its date with the lagoon with almost monsoonal punctuality. Birders flocking to Pulicat for its stone-turning performance do not have too many cancelled matches to rail about. The winter migrant does put in an appearance on a few other sections of the coast around Chennai, but it is just what it is said to be — an appearance, fleeting and unpredictable, on this winter and off for the next three. So, ruddy turnstone occurrences around Kelambakkam are received with the excitement that surrounds breaking news. In the early hours of September 12, when Sundaravel Palanivel and Sivakumar Shamugasundaram began exploring the Kelambakkam backwaters and adjacent sections that are ecological extensions of it, for signs of early migrants, they did not have the ruddy turnstone on the list of probables. Not that the species has never before been recorded on sections of these backwaters. However, on the question of being attractive to the ruddy turnstone, Kelambakkam backwaters’ record looks deplorably poor when juxtaposed with Pulicat’s. The chasm is as wide as the difference between Dilip Doshi’s batting averages and Virat Kozhi’s — so you get the picture. When the day had sunk on the landward side, these two birders were mighty chuffed to have experienced Pulicat south of Chennai. Sundaravel Palanivel uploaded a checklist on which were parked three ruddy turnstones. The surprise did not begin with this species; nor did it end there. The biggest of those wow encounters was a flock of around 60 lesser sand plovers. It was the size of the flock that made the birding duo feel being whisked away to Pulicat. “We had the sense of encountering all the Pulicat birds. Besides the ruddy turnstones, terek sandpipers are readily associated with Pulicat. We found three of them on that Sunday trip,” says Sundaravel. “It is a great pleasure to observe early migrants, especially when you encounter them in an unexpected place. There was much human activity not far from where the birds were. But these waders, not in the thousands that one would expect them to see later, did not seem affected by it. We could observe them go about their business from a good distance. The sand plovers, pacific golden plovers, terek sandpipers, the lone curlew sandpiper, the busy turnstones and the godwits were all a pleasure to watch and record,” is how Sivakumar describes the experience of watching an impressive number of migrants as early as September. While the list put up on eBird clearly has a whiff of Pulicat, one has to go through the entire season to arrive at a reliable picture of whether the Muttukaddu-Kelambakkam-Kovalam backwater ecosystem can “sustain” the Pulicat experience through an entire season. In fact, one has to be at least a couple of more winters older to be wiser in this matter. Meanwhile, it would help chew on an observation made by birder E Arun Kumar, who has done synchronised bird surveys at Pulicat for the last three years for the forest department. Arun Kumar notes: “Sometimes, around the Kelambakkam side, you will get to see the ruddy turnstone because of the presence of the estuary at Muttukadu. Sometimes, the birds regularly sighted at Pulicat during the winter season are sighted around the Kelambakkam backwaters. They use it as the stopover point: At Kelambakkam, you will not see them for a long time. They will stay for just two or three days and then move on to Yedayanthittu estuary and Mudaliarkuppam backwaters or to Pulicat. When they come to Pulicat, they would stay on for months. In contrast, Kelambakkam would be just a pitstop. As Pulicat and Yedayanthittu are relatively untouched by development and are more expansive habitats, the species that are sighted at Kelambakkam will be found there in larger numbers . To give an example, you will see a few Pacific golden plovers in Kelambakkam, and thousands of them in Pulicat. In fact, the Pacific golden plover is also known to head to freshwater lakes which was corroborated by the sighting of 40 Pacific golden plovers at the Mamandur freshwater lake last wintering season.”  When they come to Pulicat, they would stay on for months. In contrast, Kelambakkam would be just a pitstop||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/experiencing-pulicat-in-kelambakkam/article36545685.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Have you met Arya the randonneur?||Madras Randonneurs urged its members to keep September 11 free for a special ride. It would celebrate the first ever brevet des randonneurs mondiaux (BRM) organised 100 years ago to that day, by Audax Club Parisien on a 200-km loop route on French soil. Two hundred and eighty members of Madras Randonneurs kept the date free and did the commemorative 200-km ride down Chennai’s East Coast Road. Actor Arya was one of them. As a Super Randonneur — an enviable feat by itself — Arya has made it to the prestigious 1200-km Paris-Brest-Paris (PBP) ride. Talk to him about randonneuriing and his words would radiate an immense commitment to the endurance cycling sport. The star-actor explains why he randonneurs and what randonneuring has done for him. How does one prepare to be a randonneur? Randonneuring is quite different from normal fitness cycling, calling for a different mindset altogether. You definitely need a lot of training for randonneuring, but not any special training. More than the training it is the mind that drives you to the finish line. Basically, it is about pushing your limits and time management. Every brevet — 200 km, 300 km, 400 km, 600 km, 1000 km — is time-bound, requiring you to finish the specific target in the specific time as you follow the route. Suppose you do a 400 km ride, you will have to ride the bike for a minimum of 22 to 24 hours, so there is no sleep, no reserved pitstop or stop time, and there is no telling when and where you would be left with a flat tyre or run into bike problems or where you will get your food from. Basically, you get on the bike and prepare for the worst. When you do a 600 km, it is like a two-day ride and you rest whenever you get the time and wherever you get some shade. Sometimes you sleep under a tree; sometimes, at a bus stand. Sometimes, you will have a flat tyre in the middle of nowhere. So, it is like a mind game and pushing your human limits. When I did 1200 PBP, I was riding for three to four days with a maximum of five hours of sleep. On the third or fourth day, you would basically be hallucinating.  When the going gets tough, do you wish you were anywhere but on the road?  If you ask the question: Why should I do this? Then, there is no answer to it. As you sit on the bike, there are questions that you ask yourself. Nobody is forcing you to do this, and then why are you doing this? Let us stop this now, get back home and go to sleep. You break your mind each time till you reach the finish line. The happiness you get when you sail over the finish line is indefinable. The start line is new every time. You might have done 1000 kilometres before, and the next ride, you do a 300 and you will find some level of difficulty. Every BRM is an experience by itself. It will have its own challenges.  When did it all begin?  In started in 2017. The first ride was a 300 km in Sweden at Vätternrundan, an annual event that is more than 100 years old. The ride is organised around a lake. That is how I got hooked on to it — In Chennai, I started doing BRMs. Initially skeptical about the arrangements, I came to be impressed with the experience. The weather conditions are challenging. And Partha and team at Madras Randonneurs organise the route and everything well. The rides are well-supported at all the control points with safety being a priority. Now, endurance cycling has become an addiction.  Has being a star ever helped you while you were stuck on account of a problem encountered on the way?  When you are recognised, it becomes a problem because you waste a lot of time, talking to them, trying to take pictures and you will not be able to rest; nor would you be able to save some time. I just pray that I do not get recognised, but I do not stop myself from going to the tea shops for a cup of tea or coffee. You cannot find all the big restaurants on the way, when you are riding 600 km cutting through villages. In fact, we specifically eat in very small joints so that the food will be served very fast and we can get back on the road quickly. We pick small restaurants that are not crowded.  Any big ride on the cards?  We are looking forward to a 1500-km ride in the United Kingdom that is happening in August next year. We are actually training for it now, and hopefully by next August, we are ready to face it.  Seeing your example, has any of your friends in the film industry taken to randonneuring?  They all come for general rides. Randonneuring is madness, not fitness. It is like pushing human limits, more like extreme sports. However, when you go for Paris-Brest-Paris and other events abroad, you realise you are the youngest. There are participants who are 75 and 80 years old. So, it is not the age. We have randonneurs here in Chennai who are seventy plus. It is like an addictive madness that gets into you.  How has randonneuring enriched your life?  It has really helped in many ways in my career and life. Life is all about facing challenges and overcoming them. I would say that you should do BRMs, because it would give you enough confidence to take on challenges off the track. It trains you to work hard, set your goals — BRM motivates you. Not just BRMs, even a half-marathon or full marathon can do that for you. After 20 kilometres, it is not your legs, but your mind that takes you to the finish line. It is like meditation — after a point of time, it is just your mind.  In Chennai, where do you train?  I stay in Anna Nagar — either I do Tambaram bypass or Outer Ring Road. Or, the ECR. If I am doing short rides, there is the Marina Loop Road. It has all kinds of wind directions. We do all kinds of loops out there. It is very good for training, fast training. We go at 4.30 or 5 a.m.  Sometimes you sleep under a tree; sometimes, at a bus stand. Sometimes, you will have a flat tyre in the middle of nowhere||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/have-you-met-arya-the-randonneur/article36545677.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping the good things going||Whenever the electricity bill for the common areas overshoots the budget, members of the management committee at Arihant Panache in Arumbakkam pay attention to possible areas of laxity. Captain A Laurence, secretary, Arihant Panache Flat Owners Association points out that there have not been too many occasions to deal with such bills and laxity. That is something this 15-storey apartment complex with 72 flats takes pride in. Since this community came up eight year ago, residents have kept operational costs to the bare minimum by adopting water-saving strategies. Whenever necessary, the Association has nudged behavioral changes among residents. “We manage our Association on a shoe string budget, collecting Rs. 3 per sq ft towards maintenance charges for the last four years, which is very reasonable,” says Laurence. A big credit for this goes to the rain water harvesting systems constructed by the developer, whereby water from the rooftop is diverted to the open wells through pipes. The community has five underground sumps and two traditional wells, besides Metrowater supply. “Things were made easy for us and all that we had to do was maintain these RWH structures and we continue to do it very systematically,” says the Captain. Besides cleaning the decanter once in two months, a deep cleaning of all the RWH channels is carried out every year before the monsoon sets in. How was the situation during the 2019 water crisis that affected many parts of Chennai? “In 2019, we had a few lorries making trips to the apartment but that was as a precautionary measure otherwise our sumps had water to take care of our needs,” says Laurence. According to Metrowater, Chennai draws 1,62,720 litres/year from an area of 2400 sq.ft. By means of harnessing rainwater effectively, residents can check groundwater depletion. At Arihant Panache, MC members use constant communication and drive home such messages. “We keep on hammering the conservation message from time to time to make residents realise that they need to be judicious about using water,” he says. A group of ladies coordinate with the housekeeping staff. The security staff ensure the overhead tanks do not leak. “We have instructed the housekeeping staff on how many buckets of water they can use to clean the floors in the common areas. Sprinklers are used to water plants in the garden,” says Meera Vivek, treasurer of the Association. Anything done against the apartment rules are posted on the apartment’s WhatsApp group, she says. “Anything knowingly or unknowingly dropped by residents that prevent flow of water to the sumps is called out politely in the WhatsApp group. You need to correct residents till certain practices become a culture,” says Meera. Recently, a team from Chennai Metrowater visited the apartment complex to study the arrangement. Laurence recalls a visit a few years ago by members of an apartment community in Mogappair to understand how the RWH systems were being maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/keeping-the-good-things-going/article36545674.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The track to success||A year-and-a-half ago, Ramya Vasudevan made an audio recording of her narration of Kodi Mundhiri , a Tamil short story authored by Thangar Bachan, and shared it with her friends in a WhatsApp group. Then, she did not expect to be asked to make more such audio tracks of stories of various other Tamil authors. Nor did she expect the recordings to have a following. Ramya’s 750 audio tracks are now set to find a place in the website of Anna Centenary Library, Kotturpuram. On how she got here, Ramya says, “When there was a good response to audio tracks in my friends group, I decided to have another WhatsApp group exclusively for sharing my story narrations. As WhatsApp allows only 256 members, I had to create one group after another, and now it stands at 12 WhatsApp groups. All the groups are known by the name “Under The Tree” symbolically referring to how storytelling usually happens under a tree. One group is exclusively for librarians. Finding my narrations interesting, two government librarians brought them to District Library Officer - Chennai Mr S Elango Chandra Kumar’s notice . I also spoke to the Chennai DLO and forwarded him some of my audio tracks. As he was also impressed with my narrations, I proposed to use my works in a way that would benefit government libraries and I would do it for free.” Ramya has so far narrated some of the works of Mahakavi Subramania Bharathiyar, Pudhumaipithan, Si Su Chellapa, Na Pichamurthy, La Sa Ramamritham, Thi Janakiraman, Ku Pa Rajagopalan, Jeyakanthan, Asokamithran, MV Venkatram, R Choodamani, Ambai Indra Parathasarathy, Ki Rajanarayanan, Nanjinadan, Charu Niveditha, A Madhavan, Sujatha, Balakumaran, Subramaniya Raju, La Sa Ra Saptharishi,and many others. Ramya mainly presents the works of Tamil authors because she feels awareness about Tamil literature is low compared to English. “Every evening, after completing household work, I sit down at 7 p.m. to make an audio track. I do not read the entire book, but narrate the story in 20 to 30 minutes. First, I narrate it to myself, making some notes and once, I am well-prepared, I start recording my narration. Next, I make a poster bearing the author’s image and another image that goes with the story’s theme. That will be attached to the audio track. By the time I complete this work, it will be 11 p.m. Next day, by 7.30 a.m. I will share the audio track in all the 12 WhatsApp groups,” says the 41-year-old who runs an enterprise that makes cosmetic products. She always choose short stories and ensures her narration does not exceed 30 minutes. “I have not tried novels so far, because they are time-consuming. But I have presented the life history of saints Sundaramurthy Nayanar, Ramanujar, Vedanta Desikan, Maha Periyava, and Aandal. I have presented them in a six-part series. Each track will run for 20 minutes. Besides, I have narrated notable works of authors of other languages that have fetched them the recognition of Sahitya Akademi; and thereby published by Sahitya Akademi by translating them to other Indian languages. They include works of Malayalam authors Vaikom Muhammad Basheer and MT Vasudevan Nair; Bengali author Rabindranath Tagore and Manipuri author MK Binodini,”says Ramya. While she prefers short stories in Tamil, in English Sowmya summarises the gist of books pertaining to personality development, work-life balance, communication and leadership skills. Some of them are Outliers – The Story of Success by Malcolm Gladwell, Triggers by Marshall Goldsmith, and Brain Rules by John Medina. “This exercise of narrating a story is like a hobby to me and I find it quite relaxing. In the coming days, I am planning to do a series on Indian kings who fought against the British,” says Ramya, a resident of Indira Nagar in Adyar. In this respect the District Library Officer, Elango Chandrakumar, says “I find her style of narration simple and clean. She has covered a wide range of authors. So, I thought of uploading her audio tracks in the website of Anna Centenary Library. It will certainly be useful to someone who has no idea about Tamil authors and their works and who wishes to know about them. Next, if one wants to know about a particular author’s genre and the kind of themes he dwells on, a quick hearing of Ramya’s tracks will help. Her stories can be accessed at http://117.239.65.2:9090/dcl/” Ramya Vasudevan can be reached at 97890 62915.  In the coming days, I am planning to do a series on Indian kings who fought against the British||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-track-to-success/article36545680.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Shenoy Nagar residents walk for change||Ten years ago, the ties with their green neighbour — Thiru-Vi-Ka Park — snapped when it was closed for Metro Rail work on the Koyambedu-Shenoy Nagar-Nehru Park underground line. Subsequently, Shenoy Nagar residents would issue calls for the speedy reopening of the park, even forming a group to campaign for it. The promise to return the park to them in a reinvented form remains, but residents are glad about having initiated the campaign because that has brought them closer together as a community, a fact proven by the move to revive a defunct residents’ association, which they have now named Shenoy Nagar Residents Welfare Association. “Although East Shenoy Nagar Association has been inactive for some years, we have been meeting and exchanging notes informally for the last five-six years. Thiru-Vi-Ka Park revival actually brought us together. For the last few years, we have been working on forming an RWA that was registered in March 2020,” says S Sivakumar, president of Shenoy Nagar Residents Welfare Association. On August 15, the RWA launched its activities with a greening drive across the colony. ‘Know your Neighbour’ is a weekend initiative which has a group of residents strolling down the streets and stopping every now and then to meet new neighbours. Through these walks, they also seek to tackle a stubborn problem. “Garbage clearance is a common complaint and taking it up with the civic officials, as a group is likely to bring results,” says Sivakumar.  Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shenoy-nagar-residents-walk-for-change/article36545667.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Shenoy Nagar residents walk for change||Continued from page 1  They plan to invite well-known personalities including IAS officers and politicians residing in and around the colony to be part of these walks. This way, they hope to see cleaner streets. Team building At present, residents are focussed on building the team, bringing in a cross-section of people across age groups and professions. “We currently have 70 members in our WhatsApp group and our plan is to target 250 homes by the end of the year,” says Sivakumar. They hope to achieve this target through the weekend walks. “So far, we have only covered three streets and I am sure there is some curiosity that we have managed to create through these initiatives,” he says. The new team comprises members who have campaigned for civic issues or who are keen on working on certain areas that they have some expertise in. TK Srinivas Chari, a resident since 1975 and the one who initiated the afore-mentioned tree planting exercise, says he read a post by Regional Deputy Commissioner (Central) Sharanya Ari inviting RWAs to join hands in greening the city. “We jumped at the idea and received good support from the Corporation officials who dug the pits for us and brought some saplings,” says Chari. A majority of the saplings were sourced from Nizhal and some residents sponsored tree guards. “We went around the neighbourhood to identify places that lacked greenery and decided on the spots,” says Chari, adding the greening initiative’s success depends on residents’ involvement in nurturing the saplings near them. Pulla Avenue, East Park Road, East Club Road, Nathamuni Street and inside the Skating Park are among areas that have been identified for the greening exercise. Sampath Kumar, another long-time resident of 4th Cross Street, points out that the park brought the residents together. “Now that we do not have our park, we need to increase the colony’s green cover and bond through walks and address issues relating to the neighbourhood. We plan to have a directory of residents but before that we need to know each other better,” says Sampath Kumar. Chidambaranathan Ravindran, a civil engineer with expertise in rain water harvesting, plans to inspire the Chennai Metrowater to adopt some of the best practices that he has implemented at his home. They also plan to construct recharge wells on the street and encourage residents to adopt best practices followed by members. Solar energy, stormwater drains and garbage are among the areas the Association plans to take up one at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shenoy-nagar-residents-walk-for-change/article36545684.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Anna Nagar residents help a cow in distress||A stray cow delivered a calf on 8th Street B Sector Anna Nagar Western Extension around 2 p.m. on September 14. Seeing the cow in the throes of labour-induced pain, a few residents decided to help the bovine. When they called the helpline number of a mobile veterinary unit, the response was not particularly encouraging. Later, residents made a call to the beat police personnel of the Korattur police station and one of them, T Sithuraj came to the spot to help out. The calf managed to stand up and suck milk a short time after it had been delivered. The residents fed the cow with kanji and fruits, and a nearby vegetable vendor fed the cow with vegetables. Later, they tethered the calf with a rope to a post to protect it from being hit by any of the moving vehicles. The police started a search for the owner of the cow, and he only come after 8 p.m. when he took the cow and the calf away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/anna-nagar-residents-help-a-cow-in-distress/article36545673.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Making art through cubes||Last year, two sisters were introduced to the Rubik’s Cube by their mother to kill time during lockdown. Today, solving the three-dimensional puzzle is child's play for them. They solve cubes in minutes and make life-size portraits with them. Krithika Senthil (10) and Dhrishya Senthil (7) recently created a mosaic art of Ganesha, which stood at 7.5 feet in height and 6.5 feet in width, using 955 cubes. The achieved the feat in six hourss and it got them recognition from the Ingenious Charm World Record. “The cubes were provided by their coach Bindu Priyanka and as they work together it took them around six hours to make the portrait,” says Ramya Senthil, the girls’ mom. The sisters, who are students of Velammal Vidyalaya, Mel Ayanambakkam, have done similar artworks in recent months. Portrait works of Niraj Chopra and Lord Krishna have won them appreciation. For Social Justice Day, they brought in four other young cubists to design mosaic artworks of DMK leaders. Similarly, Christa Stephany Jesica used 955 Rubik’s Cubes to create the map of India and M Dharshan made a portrait of APJ Abdul Kalam. Bindu Priyanka, co-founder Tamil Nadu Cube Association, says more youngsters are exploring the creative possibilities of Rubik’s Cube. “A student needs to know drawing and have patience to explore the endless creative possibilities of this puzzle,” says Bindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/making-art-through-cubes/article36545676.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Randonneurs hit ECR for special ride||On September 11, Madras Randonneurs organised a 200-km brevet from Chennai to Marakannam and back to commemorate the centenary of the first brevet (a 200-km loop ride around Paris) by Audax Club Parisien, the international governing body for randonneuring. Given that this event was associated with a memory, participants from Madras Randonneurs were encouraged to think out of the box to make the outing memorable. The most striking feature of this effort had to do with some of the cycles. Partha Datta, founder, Madras Randonneurs, covered the 200 km with a Brompton, a compact, foldable cycle with small wheels that is in glowing contrast to the regular randonneuring cycles designed for speed and greater aerodynamics. Partha points out how a clutch of five participants rode brand-new regular cycles used in the community for commuting. Prasanna Karthik, who assumes the role of ride responsibility, notes that these participants gave away these new commuting cycles to underprivileged children. Partha says that 280 participated in the brevet, which included actor Arya, entrepreneur Neville Bilimoria known for his participation in many international cycling and running events; and retired naval officer Gauri Mishra. Partha shares that Madras Randonneurs is looking forward to conducting a Chennai ride next year on June 11, to commemorate the centenary of BRM-300. Audax Club Parisien and its various chapters, which include Madras Randonneurs, are expected to mark the hundred years of the first 300-km brevet with synchronised 300-km rides just the way the centenary of the 200-km brevet was celebrated this year across the world.  A few participants rode brand-new regular cycles used in the community for commuting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/randonneurs-hit-ecr-for-special-ride/article36545678.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Give us better roads’||Residents of Seventh, Eighth and Ninth Street at Brittania Nagar in Surapet have a long-pending demand — that they be provided with proper motorable roads. Residents point out that they have made many representations about this issue to the officials concerned in Zone 3 of Greater Chennai Corporation, but the problem persists. As these are mud roads, they tend to go from bad to worse during the rainy season, and therefore, residents seek that the roads be laid before the north-east monsoon sets in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/give-us-better-roads/article36545669.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Who gets there first?||Any discussion that pivots around early winter migrants in Chennai would inevitably extend to the question of who gets there first. It is a question that cannot be answered conclusively, nor even convincingly, but it can lead to something that approximates to the truth. There are three species that seem to breast the tape consistently ahead of the others: common sandpiper, wood sandpiper and barn swallow. Ornithologist V Santharam bestows the title on the common sandpiper, adjudicating the winner on the basis of observations spanning six winters on the trot at the Adyar Estuary. “Their numbers would usually be small, but you see them consistently. Later on, their numbers build up. Based on my observation, you get to see the common sandpiper as early as the third week of July. Barn swallows start coming in by August in tricles and the large numbers come in by mid-September or the second week of September,” says Santharam. “I used to live at the Santhome the beach, which helped me see these birds. I think most of the shore birds and other migrants fly along the coast.” However, by August, many migrants start coming in, in small numbers, notes Santharam. There could also be migrants that have stayed back from the last season and are mistaken for early arrivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/who-gets-there-first/article36545686.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Martial arts school offers special courses for students, women||In addition to Karate and Taekwondo, The BTF School of Martial Arts now offers special courses for women and senior-citizens. And for children, it offers training in improving concentration. According to a press release, activities like cycling, walkathons and field trips are part of the courses. “BTF school does not believe in just self-defence training. It aims to help its students overcome fear, hone their leadership qualities and manage time better,” says Renshi Ayyappan Mani, the centre’s founder. Classes will be held from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. For details, call 82487 52737||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/martial-arts-school-offers-special-courses-for-students-women/article36545662.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Free short-term skilling programme||Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation is organising a free short term skill training programme for unemployed graduates at Ambattur. Courses in Accounts Executive (Accounts Payable & Receivable) and GST Accounts Assistant are being offered. On successful completion of the programme, the trainees will get a Tamil Nadu Government certificate, free transport subsidy and also placement assistance, says a release. Pre-registration is a must. The training will be held at Mangalyan Technical Workers Co-op Society Ltd., Training Centre at Saraswathi Vidyalaya, 19 KK Street, MKB Nagar, Ambattur. For details, call 9869041169 / 7299955904||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-short-term-skilling-programme/article36545661.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Metrowater invites RWAs to talk about their best practices in water management||One of the highlights of Chennai Metrowater’s rainwater harvesting campaign is the opportunity it extends residents to have their complaints addressed. “We have received more than 70 complaints in the last 10 days and we would find them solutions at the earliest,” says GB Vaidehi, area engineer VIII, Chennai Metrowater, which has 15 divisions. Similarly, all the 200 depots in the city are attending to grievances by setting up help desks. Complaints range from leaking overhead tanks, water pollution, sewage mixing with water to faulty RWH structures. A mobile van has also been doing the rounds in Chennai to educate residents on how to maintain RWH structures. With the help of water volunteers, the Department is collecting details relating to the type of wells and RWH structures that are in use. “Our main goal is to make sure residents who have faulty RWH structures set them right. We also want them to harvest the rainwater within their compounds and not let it on to the road,” says Vaidehi. Until last week, residents were also encouraged to check the quality of water they get at the special booths that had been set up for the purpose. Metrowater has also been maintaining a database of communities that follow good water conservation practices. “Our plan is to honour them depot-wise at a later date. We even encourage those we have not gotten in touch with, to contact their respective depot office and inform it about any best practices that they may be following,” says Vaidehi. Contact the rainwater harvesting cell at 28454080; and for general complaints, call 45674567.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/metrowater-invites-rwas-to-talk-about-their-best-practices-in-water-management/article36545671.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article36545672.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Have you met Arya the randonneur?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/have-you-met-arya-the-randonneur/article36545663.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping the good things going||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/keeping-the-good-things-going/article36545665.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||ABC DRIVE||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/abc-drive/article36545682.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The children of Phertajido||On December 26, 2004, the Indian Ocean tsunami claimed over two lakh human lives in 14 countries in the blink of an eye. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands were ravaged. But the particularly vulnerable tribal groups of the islands escaped the towering waves by moving to higher grounds deep inside the jungles. Their traditional wisdom had prepared them for such an exigency. One of the four tribes of the Andaman islands, the Great Andamanese, with a population of about 59 now, who have been living on Strait Island, were evacuated to a relief camp in Port Blair. Months later, Anvita Abbi, a distinguished researcher on minority languages, visited them to document their moribund languages. The book, Voices from the Lost Horizon: Stories and Songs of the Great Andamanese , is the fruit of her research. Reviving memory Abbi was disappointed when she tried speaking to them — most of the islanders spoke in Andamanese Hindi. When she inquired why they did not converse in their own language, the indigenes revealed what could be the worst nightmare for a linguaphile — they had “forgotten it all.” Population geneticists believe that the Great Andamanese have descended from the people who migrated out of Africa some 70,000 years ago, becoming the first settlers of South Asia, Southeast Asia, Australia and New Guinea. Until the late 19th century, 10 groups of the tribe — 3,500 to 5,000 people — lived isolated in the north, middle and south of the Great Andaman islands. They spoke 10 different languages — “mutually intelligible like a link in a chain... two ends of the chain were distant from each other, but the links in between were close to each other in a mutual intelligibility scale,” writes Abbi. In 1858, the British established a penal colony in the Andamans. The islanders fiercely resisted the colonists. Wielding simple bows, arrows, axes and knives, the Great Andamanese warriors took on the world’s largest empire in the Battle of Aberdeen (1859) and laid down their lives defending their ancestral land. The penal colony thrived and with it came mass extinction of the original inhabitants. Alien diseases and epidemics critically depopulated the Great Andamanese, plummeting their number to 90 by 1931. Barely two years after Independence, the indigenes were relocated to tiny Bluff Island and their lands appropriated for the resettlement of refugees. The community dwindled further, reaching its lowest of 19 in 1961. The islanders were again relocated in 1969, this time to Strait Island, where they now survive on government dole. In 2005, Abbi noticed that the islanders’ present language is an admixture of four languages — Jeru, Bo, Sare, and Khora — all from the north groups. The languages spoken in the south and middle Great Andamans have long died with their speakers. She named the language of the surviving indigenes as Present-day Great Andamanese (PGA). That year, there were only eight surviving speakers of the PGA, and they too had lost fluency. Added to this, the fact that the islanders hadn’t heard any folktales in the past four or five decades made the elicitation of stories of the tribe even more challenging. Bits and pieces Abbi persuaded them to converse about important topics such as naming, boat-building or hunting. They complied with her requests and surprised themselves when the hazy memories began to revive. “ Kuch kuch yaad aataa hai (I can remember bits and pieces),” says Nao Jr, a middle-aged male, after an overnight attempt at recollection. In the ensuing months and years, he enthusiastically narrates nine folktales to Abbi. An intense feeling of loss would often overwhelm him, interrupting his narratives. “There were many people at that time. No one is left now,” he laments. While sharing the story of the “first man of the Andaman islands,” Phertajido, a creation myth, and “the greatest love story,” according to Nao Jr, he is moved to tears. The last speaker of Bo, an octogenarian who hadn’t spoken to anyone in her language for four decades, other than to birds, whom the islanders consider their ancestors, Boa Sr narrates one folktale and offers several rare songs.  Voices from the Lost Horizon , a fascinating collection of 10 folktales and 46 songs of the Great Andamanese, is a significant scholarly work. Besides beautiful illustrations, it contains interactive QR codes through which readers can access rare audio-visual recordings. But what makes the book unique is the process of compiling the stories and songs as narrated by Abbi. Abbi painstakingly built a strong bond of trust with the Great Andamanese that helped them recollect and share their stories. The act of recollection, reflection and sharing was cathartic: it revived old collective memories, countering the cultural amnesia. Nao Jr and Boa Sr, Abbi’s invisible co-authors, magically transport readers to the long-lost world of the Great Andamanese, so unfairly stereotyped by early explorers and colonists. For Marco Polo, they were “no better than wild beasts” while Robert Christopher Tytler, the superintendent of the penal settlement, described them as “a race of treacherous cold-blooded murderers”. Holding on These stories (and songs), writes Abbi, “encode the worldview of the Great Andamanese society as they encapsulate history, philosophy, culture, beliefs, values, and power of judgment.” The impression we get of the islanders is that they are nature-lovers, generous sharers of food, upholders of collective interest over self-interest, bashful and honest partners, people of valour, and very human until reincarnated as birds. The Great Andamanese lost world, as seen through their folktales and songs, seems more compassionate, humane and egalitarian than any ‘civilised’ modern society. An emotional Boa Sr once appealed to Abbi: “Don’t let the language slip away, keep a hold on it.” But with the passing away of the last surviving speakers, their tongue and worldview too would have died had it not been for Abbi’s documentation. Abbi records the richness of the language: Sare, for instance, whose last speaker, Licho, died in April 2020, has a unique word, raupuch , denoting a person who has lost their sibling(s). The tribe’s loss of languages resonates with the experiences of other indigenous peoples across the world. Yásnaya Elena Aguilar Gil, a linguist and indigenous rights activist, says, “Our languages are not dying, they are being killed.” Languages have been dying at an alarming rate since the ‘age of exploration,’ when Europeans started their colonising spree. As the bloodthirsty armies of the ‘civilised’ descended on the ‘savages’, millennia-old cultures vanished while colonial empires thrived. Sadly, indigenous languages seem even more vulnerable in this age of neocolonialism. The world speaks around 7,000 languages; according to UNESCO, over half of them could die by the end of the 21st century unless there’s an urgent course correction. Languages must outlive their speakers to preserve linguistic diversity. A song sung by Boa Sr lyrically expresses what the world feels like when one is robbed of one’s language: “a dure kaiyo laruka, dure kaiyo laruka, dure kaiyo laruka” — This place is not good for living. The author is Assistant Professor, IIT Delhi. He works with remote indigenous communities.  Voices from the Lost Horizon  Anvita Abbi  Niyogi Books Pvt Ltd  Rs. 995    Boa Sr, an octogenarian who hadn’t spoken to anyone in her language for four decades, other than to birds, whom the islanders consider their ancestors, narrates one folktale and offers several rare songs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-children-of-phertajido/article36545699.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Living on the margins of wealth||COVID-19 has made us acutely aware of the inequities on which 21st century cities function. Brick by brick, Indian cities have been built upon the physical labour of migrant men and women, in difficult conditions and with little social protection. The upkeep of cities depends on the work of waste-pickers. Security guards in gated communities may have little job security; housekeeping staff may not have proper housing of their own. As for the unskilled or semi-skilled, urban livelihoods for them are limited to traditional activities like head-loading, flower-selling, pushcart or pavement vending, and waste-picking. Precarious environment  City of Shadows by Supriya RoyChowdhury turns a lens on inequality in high-growth cities of the Global South. Based on empirical research in Bengaluru (formerly Bangalore), she asks: what changes in the lives of the poor in a city that is quickly getting rich? The “shadows” in the title provide a clue to the answer. They represent the ways in which urban poor settlements exist within high-growth cities alongside the margins of exclusive gated communities and high-technology work enclaves to which they provide services. RoyChowdhury notes, “Cities of the Global South have witnessed the emergence of a newly affluent, highly mobile upper class, dramatic changes in consumption patterns, rapidly changing information and communication channels, and the exclusion of some from these processes... Many cities of the developing world are caught within these sharply emerging contradictions of wealth and deprivation.” With ever-increasing numbers of startups, the stratospheric rise of one per-centers, a thriving upper middle class, and ripples of opportunity spreading beyond, it is easy to view phenomenal growth as an unqualified success. Yet sections of the urban poor remain at the margins of the growth narrative. RoyChowdhury describes research in different settlements: “old” or “notified” slums in inner-city neighbourhoods that have been around for 50 to 70 years; “new” slums, typically non-notified, labour camps, or migrant “blue tent” settlements on the periphery of the city; slum redevelopment projects and their complicated and often unresolved issues; and the women garment workers’ settlements.  “The reality on the ground in Third World cities is that a large supply of unskilled (often migrant) labour is available, and there is in fact an increasing significance of wage work in informalised, contractual or casual work.” Concerned with the condition of informality that prevails in the working lives of the urban poor, RoyChowdhury explores these spatial categories as concentric circles of deprivation. Even within slums that have been home to several generations of families over decades, the opportunities for social mobility have been limited, and not available in a systematic way. “There was no one to take the children to school and bring them back, as, for the parents working at construction sites, the day starts at 8 a.m., and ends at 6 p.m.” On the fringes of the city are migrant settlements, where workers commute mainly to construction sites and back. She notes the general feeling of resignation: “As one participant in a focus group discussion said, ‘ Sochnewala koi nahi hai ’ (There is nobody to think about us)’.” Acute loneliness While there are opportunities in garment factories producing readymade clothes for export, unskilled or semi-skilled work here can involve difficult working conditions, with limited potential to organise. Women migrant workers from other States feel a particularly acute kind of loneliness. “The women’s sense of alienation in a strange city was compounded in the workplace, where language was an important element in their feelings of fear and threat from the supervisor... What was remarkable was that the city had not in any way struck the imagination of these young women. Their migration and urbanisation were confined to a single road, where they lived and worked; the lights of the city did not feature in, or even reach, their aspirations.” What could be the policy responses to continuing inequality in high-growth cities? To start with, the concept of what constitutes the “urban” needs to be expanded beyond roads, potholes, and storm water drains, to encompass health, nutrition, education, and vulnerabilities across disability, age, gender and more: the many dimensions of lives and livelihoods. The road ahead Urban social infrastructure needs strengthening in partnership with civil society organisations: creches, urban anganwadis, public schools which can function as community centres in the evenings, for children whose parents may work long hours. Local governance deserves appropriate institutional design, with structured mechanisms for people’s participation. Migrant workers should be supported with documentation, transit housing, portability of entitlements, children’s education, and one-stop migrant welfare centres with staff who speak multiple languages. In rural India, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) is an essential safety net during drought and rural distress; more so during the pandemic. With the COVID-19 pandemic having caused hardship in urban livelihoods as well, some States have introduced an urban public works programme to offer support to the most vulnerable among the urban poor.  The reviewer is in the IAS. The views are personal.  City of Shadows: Slums and Informal Work in Bangalore  Supriya RoyChowdhury  Cambridge University Press  Rs. 895||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/living-on-the-margins-of-wealth/article36545716.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Home fires||A Hindi novel published in 1961, translated 60 years later. Two generations have grown up since its writing. Both Delhi and Lady Shri Ram College — the title refers to its distinctive architecture — have changed drastically. No wonder everyone, including the author, tried to dissuade Daisy Rockwell from translating Usha Priyamvada’s debut novel, Pachpan Khambe, Laal Deewarein , saying it’s “dated”. It is our gain that she didn’t heed them. Fifty-five Pillars, Red Walls could be the story of any young, urban, middle-class woman today, who, pushed into the role of the family breadwinner, is unable to fulfil her personal dreams. Enduring appeal The novel leaves you with a mix of emotions for the protagonist, through whose eyes the story is told. Sushma Sharma is a complex personality: vulnerable yet proud; resentful of her parents and also sensitive to their compulsions; possessed of a rare integrity that makes her intolerant of staff-room gossip about a colleague who has “infringed social boundaries” and also gives her the courage to live life the way she wants, until she too becomes the butt of such gossip. Without pontificating, the book shows the casual insensitivity with which women are treated by everyone: prospective in-laws, close relatives, even mothers. Their feelings are taken to be of no consequence. “You’ve got very lazy, you do nothing at all! Why aren’t you knitting my sweater?” asks Sushma’s younger brother when she’s home on vacation. It’s beyond her mother’s imagination that her attractive eldest daughter could be in a romantic relationship; even after she discovers she is, she asks Sushma to get the man married to her sister. Not once does she encourage her daughter, on whom she leans so much, to confide in her. Literature and films have tackled similar themes: one outstanding example is the late Awtar Krishna Kaul’s National Award-winning movie, 27 Down . There the heroine, who supports her family, is advised by her mother that if at all she falls in love, it should be with a married man, to cancel out the possibility of marriage. Vijay Tendulkar’s play Shantata! Court Chalu Aahe has a group of teachers turn upon one of their own over her secret relationship with a married colleague. Interestingly, Tendulkar wrote his play in 1963, just two years after Pachpan Khambe was published. And 27 Down , made in 1974, is based on a Ramesh Bakshi novel published in 1966. Both these works stand the test of time, as does Priyamvada’s novel, except in a couple of places. Dead conventions Marvelling at the change in herself after meeting Neel, Sushma recalls that earlier, when she talked to her friends, “she forgot that she was a woman, and a very attractive one at that; she spoke openly, discussed and debated. But with Neel?” Would an educated, urban, 21st century working woman resort to such a clichéd dichotomy? Does a knowledgeable, articulate woman get reduced to just an attractive face the moment a man enters her life? There’s another even more unappealing stereotype: that of the sour, frustrated spinster, a colleague who cannot stomach Sushma’s relationship with a good-looking young man. In a novel peopled with well-rounded characters, this stereotype seems out of place, more so today. The translation retains the flavour of the original Hindi, especially in phrases such as “his smiling face pierced her heart like a thousand arrows” or “the curtains fluttered like a heart at the touch of the beloved”. But did Sushma really “shrink” into the arms of her man? The word, occurring more than once, is confusing. In its glimpse into the way dreams of young girls are broken by dead conventions, of the prison a successful single woman’s home can turn into, this novel rings true even today. No wonder Doordarshan chose to telecast it as a serial 32 years after it was written. The writer is a Mumbai-based freelance journalist.  Fifty-five Pillars, Red Walls Usha Priyamvada, trs Daisy Rockwell Speaking Tiger  Rs. 350    Without pontificating, the book shows the casual insensitivity with which women are treated by everyone: prospective in-laws, close relatives, even mothers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/home-fires/article36545701.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||When the security establishment serves the executive||India and Pakistan are both democracies in form, if not in substance. If India enjoys a higher status as a democracy, it’s partly because Pakistan’s all-powerful army is able to undermine democratic institutions at will. But you don’t need the military to subvert a democracy. It can also be done through the non-military arm of the security establishment. These include the police, the intelligence agencies, the Central Bureau of Investigation, the National Investigation Agency, the Anti-Terrorist Squad, and a multitude of other agencies that, although not an integral part of the ‘security establishment’, do share its capacity to inflict pain, such as the Enforcement Directorate, the Income Tax department, and so on. Fake world In his previous book, A Feast of Vultures , Josy Joseph, an award-winning investigating journalist, documented how corruption has hollowed out India’s governance structures. His latest, The Silent Coup , dwells on the degeneration of the security establishment, which, in his telling, has been completely captured by the political executive. Joseph’s canvas is vast — from the Mumbai train blasts and the 26/11 terror attack to the Kashmir insurgency, turmoil in the Northeast, the Indian Peace-Keeping Force’s debacles in Sri Lanka, and the ‘Gujarat model’ of the war on terror whose central tenet seems to be the perpetual rediscovery of plots to assassinate Narendra Modi. Joseph narrates the story of a young officer from a Military Intelligence (MI) unit who, in August 2015, cooked up an assassination threat to Modi that was subsequently “shown up as a phoney operation.” Grim prognosis So, what prompted the concoction of a fake terror plot? Joseph writes, “...there was no indication that what the young major in the MI unit did was part of any larger conspiracy, nor that there was any political will behind it. However, he was latching on to a powerful new narrative: that the regime’s image and popularity is linked to its tough stand on terrorism.” The first section of the book revolves around the travails of Wahid, a school teacher in Mumbai. Every time there is a terrorist attack or threat, the police pick up Wahid, along with other Muslims. Why? Joseph offers several reasons: an inability to source, and parse, credible intelligence combined with immense pressure to show results; an ingrained anti-Muslim prejudice, which finds expression both in the disproportionate absence of Muslim officers in investigative and intelligence agencies, and a worldview where “right-wing Hindutva bombers never existed... [but] there were Muslims plotting against the nation everywhere.” At the end of Part One, as Joseph winds up Wahid’s story, he sets up Part Two of the book with the question, “How did our police and intelligence agencies come to display such utter disrespect for the law, citizens and the state?” Easy way out Joseph argues that the increasing sophistication of militancy and terrorism challenges so overwhelmed our security agencies that they took the easy way out by turning into law-breakers themselves. Emboldened by the certainty that their sins would be forgiven as long as they served the executive rather than the Constitution, their depredations ranged from encounter killings and custodial torture to manufacturing fake narratives and so forth. In A Feast of Vultures , Joseph saw some hope in the Right to Information (RTI) Act and the judiciary. But it was published in 2016, before the RTI was gutted, and before four Supreme Court judges held an extraordinary press conference. The Silent Coup has no such illusions. It ends on a sombre note — reprising the infamous public meeting of February 2020 where Delhi politician Kapil Mishra, standing next to a police officer, “issued an ultimatum to the police to clear the streets of anti-CAA protesters.” The book’s last lines are both a cryptic reminder and dire prognosis: “The police officer quietly walked out of the frame. Then began the riots.”  The Silent Coup: A History of India’s Deep State Josy Joseph Context/ Westland  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/when-the-security-establishment-serves-the-executive/article36545711.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On September 19, 1893, the governor of New Zealand signed a new Electoral Act into law which saw New Zealand become the first self-governing country in the world to have this landmark decision in effect. Even countries such as England and the United States brought in this landmark change only after World War I. The same year Elizabeth Yates became Mayor of Onehunga, the first time such a post had been held by a woman anywhere in the British Empire. What was New Zealand the first to do? 2 This lady at one time worked in a soup kitchen in New York, serving food to the poor and homeless and later was a DJ, performing sets in Auckland. She worked for two-and-a-half years in the cabinet office of former British Prime Minister Tony Blair. Eventually she became the world’s youngest female head of government at age 37 and then became the world’s second elected head of government to give birth while in office. Who is this lady who has been lauded for her efforts in ensuring her country’s safety during the pandemic? 3 Owing to their remoteness, the islands of New Zealand were the last large habitable lands to be settled in by humans. Between about 1280 and 1350, Polynesians began to settle in the islands and currently there are just 4.8 million New Zealanders living scattered across 268,021 sq. km. The New Zealanders though are outnumbered by a certain animal which was the basis of the country’s most important industry for 130 years. What animal is this of which 26 million ‘carpet’ the countryside? 4 The world’s first operation of a certain extreme sport was off the Kawarau Bridge in Queenstown in 1988. You had to pay 75$ to take part and the experience which could lengthen up to 43 metres usually ended in a few adrenaline-filled seconds. What sport is this which New Zealand has many locations, for which basically hangs around an elastic rope? 5 Rotomairewhenua is a sacred lake in Nelson Lakes National Park, in the northern reaches of New Zealand’s mountain ranges. It is renowned for a particular quality of its water that comes about, thanks to underground passages through which the water travels. The lake has a record of 260 feet, beating the previous record of a spring, which is also in New Zealand that is 207 ft. What do these distances indicate that also reveals water’s natural blue-violet colour? 6 In 1990, New Zealand became the first country in the modern world to officially appoint a person to a post. Currently held by Ian Brackenbury Channell, the person’s job profile is described as educator, comedian, magician and politician, for which the government pays him an annual salary of about Rs. 8 Lakh. What post does he hold which should remind you of Gandalf and Dumbledore? 7 Pelorus Jack was a particular animal legendary in New Zealand because of his habit of meeting and escorting ships through a stretch of water in Cook Strait. For 24 years, between 1888 and 1912, he would help guide ships through the dangerous channel. About 13 feet long and grey in colour, he has been identified from photographs as the species Grampus griseus , which is currently a highly endangered species. What animal was Jack, who was very helpful and intelligent? 8 The Royal New Zealand Air Force (RNZAF) came into existence in 1923 and has since taken part in many United Nations peacekeeping missions. The official flag of the RNZAF which appears on aircraft is a black circle around a certain bird from the genus Apteryx which is endemic to New Zealand. They are quite unique as they lay the largest eggs in proportion to body weight and have hair-like feathers which almost makes them mammalian in appearance. What animal is this whose other more well-known feature is negated by the RNZAF? 9 New Zealand has three official languages. English is the predominant language and a de facto official language, and the second is the Māori language of the indigenous Māori people. Since 2006, a third language was added which is used by 0.5% of the population. What language is this which makes the nation inclusive in nature? 10 The most consistently successful sports team of the past century is the New Zealand All Blacks. Since 1903, the All Blacks have had a 77% winning record and is the only international men’s side to have secured more wins than losses against every opponent. Since the introduction of the World Rankings in 2003, they have held the number-one ranking longer than all other teams combined. Their presence is even more intimidating during the characteristic ‘Haka’ they perform before a match. In what sport are the New Zealand All Blacks so dominant? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article36545726.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The leopard, my neighbour||If leopards prowled through yards and gardens and leapt over fences and hedges, many people would go into hysterics. Even some wildlife biologists would say it was a serious cause for concern. The wild animal may injure or kill people, who would likely to retaliate by slaughtering the beast. More people and leopards lose their lives in the Indian states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand than any other region. Trauma could lead to both sides losing their nerve and attacking the other. So Shweta Shivakumar was astonished to learn the villagers of 11 Himachali districts didn’t see the wild cats as a threat. Growing up in a city, she loved the beautiful and graceful animals, but she was also scared of them. Welcome home When Shivakumar debated where to position camera traps for her study, a householder in a settlement near Shimla city pointed to his doorstep. The researcher was sceptical. Surely, no wild animal would walk within brushing distance of a house full of people. But the man insisted a leopard sauntered by every evening. With doubts clouding her mind, the researcher strapped the camera by the front door. Days later, the device proved the resident right. She showed him the photograph of a leopard striding by his front door. He didn’t say, “I told you so,” as he gazed at the image, holding his toddler grandson in his arms. “Aren’t you scared?” Shivakumar asked. “Leopards have been around since I was a child,” he replied. “My grandson and pet dog come indoors at dusk. So there’s no problem.” What a relief! Not only did the wild cats nonchalantly cross front yards, they also pooped on the way. One did its big business right outside another home’s entrance. Researchers use these droppings to learn about animals’ diets. While the leopard had made Shivakumar’s job of collecting these scats easy, this proximity between a predator and people made her uneasy. But she was also shocked by how casually the residents accepted a wild animal’s presence as normal. When they lost their livestock, they absolved the predator of culpability by blaming themselves. “I must have switched off the light in the livestock shed at night,” said a farmer after he lost one of his animals. “I made a mistake.” Sometimes, things go horribly wrong. Besides interviewing people who accepted the leopards in their midst, Shivakumar also spoke to the bereft who related the sequence of events that led to the tragic deaths of family members. Immediately after such fatalities, often the community chased the offending leopard with the intention of killing it. When they succeeded, the news, and sometimes graphic video footage, became sensationalist fodder for the rest of the country. Despite these heartbreaking events, most villagers didn’t agitate to have their neighbourhood predators removed. “I don’t blame the leopard,” a grandmother told the researcher. “But it caused us a lot of grief.” Bearing the brunt Instead, they described the animals as shy, secretive, and clever. How are they able to tolerate these predators in their midst? “They see them crossing the road, prowling through their fields, or sleeping in gullies and nothing happens,” Shivakumar says. “They hear of one negative incident a year.” Since leopards were harmless most of the time, the people also were relaxed. Villagers, rightly or wrongly, distinguish between two kinds of leopards. The tendua, the ‘bad’ ones, were brought from elsewhere by the forest officials, they say. These are the dangerous animals, attacking and killing without provocation. But the other kind of leopard, called bagheera or mriga, are the ‘good’ ones, which don’t harm unless people bother them or interfere with their kills. According to local folklore, domestic cats taught leopards how to kill their prey by grabbing the neck. Residents refer to house cats as their larger cousin’s maasi [aunt]. Shivakumar came to realise these bagheera were a part of village life and lore for centuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-leopard-my-neighbour/article36545735.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||An appetite for murder||Twenty years ago, the murder case of Prince Santhakumar, a young tutor-turned-insurance agent, created a sensation in Tamil Nadu and elsewhere as it pointed to the involvement of P. Rajagopal, founder of what was once considered an empire in the field — Hotel Saravana Bhavan. Till the discovery of the murder, Rajagopal, who entered the fray with limited resources, was regarded as a model restaurateur as his chain of hotels became a byword for quality vegetarian food and employee welfare. At the same time, his story is an illustration of how a man, however successful he may be, can get caught out because of his own shortcomings. Relentless pursuit Nirupama Subramanian’s Murder on the Menu provides a lucid account of how the restaurateur relentlessly pursued a woman, Jeevajothi, daughter of Ramasamy, one of his former employees; got her husband Prince Santhakumar killed, and eventually met an ignominious end. The seasoned journalist has effectively brought out the trauma Jeevajothi went through at the hands of Rajagopal because the latter believed an astrologer’s words that he would “attain great heights” if he married her. Rajagopal appointed himself guardian of the Ramasamy family, “with intentions that were far from guardian-like.” Rajagopal’s obsession with Jeevajothi, which began in 1996, led to the cold-blooded murder of her husband in 2001. There is nothing in the book to suggest that the “predator” had repented at any point of time in his life for all that he did to the hapless woman. This is borne out by the author’s assertion that “Rajagopal had never admitted to doing anything wrong, leave alone committing a crime.” Notwithstanding this, Subramanian has objectively dealt with the restaurateur, tracing his roots and recalling fairly vividly how Rajagopal became a “dosa king.” At times, she gives an impression of being sympathetic towards Rajagopal, despite her elaborate portrayal of Jeevajothi’s plight and recording that the victim was not the only woman Rajagopal preyed on. She has used anecdotal accounts of various players connected with the murder case and judgments of the trial court to the Supreme Court to construct l’affaire Rajagopal. Two quibbles The author would have done well to avoid certain sweeping observations such as “Rajagopal’s death sent more shock waves through Tamil Nadu than his involvement in Prince’s murder ever did,” a statement that’s far from reality. Ideally, the focus of Subramanian’s work could have been on Jeevajothi rather than Rajagopal. Jeevajothi must have been a person of extraordinary courage and determination to stand resolutely in her campaign against the restaurateur, fully aware that she was no match for him in terms of resources and power. It is true that Rajagopal, despite being convicted in the murder case, did not spend even a year in jail but there was no public sympathy for him when he died. The role of Jeevajothi in this regard is not small. After all, the trial court too had spoken of her in glowing terms and described her as a “lion-hearted lady.” The book will also be interesting to those who are not familiar with the story of the ‘dosa king’ and Hotel Saravana Bhavan.  Murder on the Menu Nirupama Subramanian Juggernaut  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-appetite-for-murder/article36545713.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Oak vs bloke||Dear Agony Akka,  I am writing to you under extreme duress. My parents are pressuring me into getting married. To make them happy, I reluctantly agreed to see a few boys, who have visited us steadily with parents, sisters, sisters-in-law, brother, brother’s friend, dead aunt’s parakeet etc. Thanks to them, the corner halwai’s business is booming, as we order samosas and barfis every weekend. One prospective groom asked me about my BMI; one declared he is BA (fail); one said he imagines himself a bee and wants me to be his beebee. What little hope I had in man is eroded. I don’t want to spend my life with one. More so since I find trees more attractive any day. Please advise how to tell my parents to let me be. — Seeking only lovely oaks   Dear SOLO,  Welcome to my exclusive club. As you are no doubt aware I myself have eschewed the institution of marriage because of a similar disillusionment with the male species. Also, because I did not want to share my bathroom. I find it very baffling when people talk of adding a husband to one’s life. If it’s a dog or cat or parakeet, that’s fine. There’s ample literature and booklets explaining how to feed them, when to walk them, litter boxes, seed quantity etc. But there are absolutely no instruction manuals for husbands and yet they seem to be needing something or the other all the time. Food, tiffin, tea, water. One friend told me that if you keep a husband you have to be qualified at finding socks. Another said they are very attached to remote control and one must train in jujitsu to extract it from their clenched hands. After hearing all this, I realised that husbands are like high-maintenance machinery — someone has to be tweaking some knob, oiling some wheel, adjusting some lever all the time to keep it going. One drop less oil means it will creak noisily and collapse. Too much hard work. Better to keep cats. Keep window open, put Whiskas in bowl, watch TV (remote control safely in your own hand). It is very good that you have come to same conclusion so early in life. In your case, even better, because trees don’t even need Whiskas. Plant oaknut, water, let it grow, watch TV (remote control safely in your own hand). Naturally, you cannot expect any sympathy or understanding from parents and friends and relatives and neighbours and colleagues and the uncles and aunts of all the above people (young women get advice from large unwanted circle). So what remains to be done? You must ward off all these unsuitable suitors like halwai warding off flies. One major mistake you are making is in high quality of tiffin you are offering. Many men must be coming for that only. Next time offer some ragi barfi and oats upma with Diet Coke. Smile sweetly and say that you believe strongly in health foods. Soon, number of suitors will drop sharply. Second option is to offer to show prospective grooms the view from the terrace and then push them into the water tank but this is a little costly option because these days they are charging too much for tank cleaning. Maybe best thing to do is to take to religion. I am 100% sure women like Andal and Meera only went into that whole closed-eyes singing jag to avoid having human husbands thrust upon them. And being married to god is better than tree because even very worst relatives can’t argue with former choice.  — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/oak-vs-bloke/article36545724.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Looking beyond the corporate gender equity||The past few years have seen a surge in gender equity conversations, whether on changing the laws to support women at the workplace or designing interventions in organisations to create a more equitable culture. The most common programmes towards this include setting diversity targets, creating policies for a smooth transition back from maternity leave, and leadership programmes for women. Deepa Agarwal has two decades of experience in the field of diversity and inclusion. Her work has been recognised by the Women Economic Forum, which awarded her the title of Exceptional Woman of Excellence, and the Centre of Global Inclusion, where she is now an expert panel member. She has been a visiting faculty member at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences and has broken new ground in the corporate sector working and consulting with large Indian and multinational companies, especially in the FMCG sector. She is also a regular speaker at international forums such as the United Nations-Volunteers, the Forum of Emotional Intelligence, the Women Economic Forum, and Vividh. She now runs Re-Link, a research based advisory DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion) firm. “While all of these corporate policies and diversity programmes have helped moved the needle and more and more organisations are taking up the cause of gender equity, one of the aspects that is less talked about but needs attention is that of self-image and the dissociation with sexuality among women and the mental health issues associated with it,” she says. “This is one of the reasons I wrote my recently launched book, The Hangover of Choices ,” Deepa says. “The leadership programmes for women are effective in helping them become more intentional about their careers, but these do not always touch upon the deep-seated mindsets and the deeper issues that are often the bigger roadblocks to equity in its truest sense.” On the topic of the difference in traditional success parameters for men and women, she says, “Men are considered successful when their careers are flourishing and women are seen successful based on how well they are managing the domestic and home duties. Due to this, in spite of reaching the pinnacles of success at the corporate workplace, women tend to feel they are ‘not good enough’, and work harder and sometimes even change their behaviours in order to find acceptance. Here again, there is a dilemma: assertiveness in women is seen as aggressiveness, and not a desired quality for a woman to display. And yet, it is exactly this assertiveness, a celebrated attribute, that a leader should possess.”  The Hangover of Choices has received nationwide attention for its attempt to bring to the surface these unspoken aspects of mental health. “The book has been presented in the form of fiction, to make it an engaging and a palatable read, rather than making it prescriptive. Through the story of the protagonist, my aim was to nudge the readers to take an honest look at themselves,” she says. “There is pressure on women to look good and even perfect,” she says. “This is being amplified beyond proportions by the digitally altered world and filter-loaded images. A negative view of one’s own body has many repercussions leading to unhealthy lifestyles. At one extreme are over-exercising, over-dieting and/or restrictive eating. At the other, are overindulgence and an avoidance of being seen in public, especially of doing physical activities in public, from the fear of exposing oneself. All these create subtle stressors and mental health concerns,” she adds.  fngreji@gmail.com  Assertiveness in women is seen as aggressiveness ... it is exactly this assertiveness a leader should possess||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/looking-beyond-the-corporate-gender-equity/article36545692.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The extra chance||South’s light overcall resulted in a poor final contract, aided significantly by the likelihood that the ace of diamonds was onside and that there might be a diamond lead even if it wasn’t. East won the opening diamond lead with his ace and continued with the queen of diamonds to South’s king. South led a spade to dummy’s king and a spade back to his ace, drawing trumps. The contract seemed to depend on finding the jack of hearts, plus the small extra chance that West held both the king and queen of clubs. Catering to that possibility, South led a low club to dummy’s jack. That would be the winning play if West held both club honors and it might help South get a count on the hand. The jack lost to East’s queen and a club was continued to dummy’s ace. A club ruff revealed that East started with only two clubs, to go with his two spades and six diamonds. East had only three hearts to West’s four, making West the favorite to hold the jack. A heart to dummy’s nine resulted in an unlucky down one. There was a better line of play available. Can you spot it? South should cash dummy’s ace of clubs before leading to the jack. This would still work when West held both honors, plus when East held a doubleton honor, as here. East would win with the queen but then would have to lead a heart or give up a ruffsluff. 10 tricks either way!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-extra-chance/article36545729.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||An Island||Karen Jennings  Macmillan Rs. 450 A refugee washes up unconscious on the beach of a small island inhabited only by an old lighthouse keeper, Samuel. Unsettled, Samuel recalls his former life on the mainland when he saw his country suffer under colonisers, fight for independence, only to fall under the rule of a cruel dictator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-island/article36545694.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The Bollywood Affair||Gauri Sinh  Harper Black Rs. 299 Superstar RK is traumatised by wails echoing through his home. Do the screams have something to do with his latest movie about a haunting? Soon people around RK begin succumbing to what seems like supernatural malice. Private investigators Akruti Rai and Parvati Samant take up the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-bollywood-affair/article36545703.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Slingstones||Mmhonlumo Kikon  Rupa Publications Rs. 395 The poems from the Northeast here are shot with sadness at the turbulent legacy of the region. Kikon is a poet, former social worker, and a member of the Nagaland Legislative Assembly. He is keenly aware of the realities of the Northeast, especially Nagaland, and expresses them lyrically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/slingstones/article36545705.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Kakka||Vemula Yellaiah, trs K. Purushotham   & Gita Ramaswamy  Hawakal Publishers Rs. 400 This landmark Dalit novel is a record of slavery’s myriad manifestations, of the ways the Madigas are made to serve their landlords. Vemula Yellaiah’s 2000 debut is a stylistic masterpiece where the hero and body politic come of age together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kakka/article36545707.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Breaking Through New Earth||Jatish Chandra Mohanty  Wings Publications Rs. 799 A retired IAS officer recalls the inner workings of the Indian bureaucracy in this memoir, explaining innovative solutions and other ideas civil servants offer to run the country. With a foreword by Anna Hazare, the essays include anecdotes and unique perspectives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/breaking-through-new-earth/article36545709.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||In the Service of Free India||B.D. Pande  Speaking Tiger Rs. 699 In the decades following 1947, a band of civil servants worked hard, committed to the Constitution. Bhairab Datt Pande, from Kumaon, joined the Indian Civil Service in 1939. In his memoirs, he talks about his 40 years of service as a civil servant and later Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-the-service-of-free-india/article36545718.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Smaller Citizens||Krishna Kumar  Orient BlackSwan Rs. 395 The demands for a compliant workforce arising from corporate control on the job market have increased the pressure on education to promote a habituated acceptance of orders. In a collection of essays, Kumar probes the dilemmas faced by teachers, parents and children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/smaller-citizens/article36545720.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A Strategic Myth: ‘Underdevelopment’ in Jammu and Kashmir||Sehar Iqbal  Tulika Books Rs. 595 Contextualising development in Jammu and Kashmir since 1947 when it became free from princely rule, an independent researcher documents the human experience of policy changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-strategic-myth-underdevelopment-in-jammu-and-kashmir/article36545722.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3168||Across  1 Surprisingly, a poem’s seen to offer passcode (4,6) 6 Celebrity blows whistle, turns (4) 9 Bit of high culture in Latvia, a rat dancing (2,8) 10 That man will torture (4) 12 Complain as former job’s former uniform taken in (11) 15 ‘One more Cinzano’, the rector’s drunk (7) 16 At Eton, I bunged up drain (3,4) 17 Loudly mocking characteristic of half-goat people (7) 19 Two poor grades given to poet ‘to make you warm up’ (7) 20 Precisely how is half of a tenancy agreement addressed? (2,3,6) 23 Love god’s achy back (4) 24 Nowadays, a new number to perform: ‘Teeny-Weeny’ (4,6) 25 That woman would cast off (4) 26 Fruits’ regrettable transience (10)  Down  1 Describing Everyman: ‘regularly woolly, glib’ (4) 2 Tolkien’s creatures embraced by intelligentsia (4) 3 Rancher makes versatile animal act (5,7) 4 Mule’s small limb (foot missing) (7) 5 A little diplomat is selecting portraitist (7) 7 Multi-generational novel where gold’s discovered at end? (3,7) 8 Grahame: at the end, Toad, travelling in posh car, getting porridge once? (6,4) 11 Very heavy outfit to fit a crofter, we’re told (4,2,6) 13 Providers of Persian cuisine throughout holiday? (3-7) 14 Primarily: piece of stationery that is tacky, neon, often temporarily employed? (4-2,4) 18 Is inclined to enter church to get pure (7) 19 Big city detective given time to go round Éire (7) 21 Sawyer’s pal who lives in Helsinki? (4) 22 Untrue accounts from France: irritating affliction (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3168/article36545732.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||SUNDAY RECIPE||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article36545688.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Humanities, social sciences essential in tech institutions||The introduction of the humanities and social sciences have added value to technological institutions such as the five (originally started) IITs at Kanpur, Kharagpur, Mumbai, Chennai, and Delhi. This is an outstanding example of what can be done if faculty members with expertise in the humanities are added and encouraged to offer courses there. They add values to the entire institution and through them to the nation itself. Study of the humanities and social sciences not only adds values but is a way of understanding the complexity of society, its culture and developing a historical perspective. It makes the students take on a more socially conscious attitude, which lasts through their career as technologists. An outstanding example is the recruitment of the late Professor Usha Kumar as a full-time faculty member at IIT Kanpur (IITK) and offering of courses in the humanities, and encouraging students and the faculty to take these courses and take semester-long projects. Many did so and found these useful later in their profession as well. Such semester projects left a deep impression on these young minds and paved the way to the path they took in their future careers. This has come to be known as the Usha Kumar Model. Exemplifying this model, IITK set up a high school in its campus to help its employees, but also admits students from the Kanpur city. In addition, IITK is currently offering relief services to the city’s poor people. The alumni, current faculty and students at IIT Delhi (IITD) work closely with the local eye hospitals and eye specialists. One of its earlier alumni initiated “Project Prakash”, which offers free eye care facilities (cataract surgery, spectacles and drugs for the needy ) in Delhi and its neighbourhood. Project Prakash is an ongoing project, and several current students of IITD take part in it. Also, on a different note, it was from an alumnus of IITD that the project called SPICMACAY or the Society for the Appreciation of Classical Music, Arts and Culture Among Youth got initiated, which has now spread across the country, offering annual events. SPICMACAY has made students and the general public aware of and appreciate the musical heritage that we in India can be proud of. Study of Sanskrit Likewise, at IIT Bombay (IITB) in Mumbai, the recruitment of professors in the humanities (ancient mathematics, languages and other themes) has triggered some students to discover ‘the wonder that was India’. Some students went on to learn and study Sanskrit. To their delight and pride, they realised why Sanskrit is called the perfect language that humans have created in the world, and how many ‘modern’ languages are derived from their parent, Sanskrit. Some other students who did not think highly of ‘pandits’ who publish yearly calendars in a variety of Indian languages, with data on eclipses, periodic extra months, and draw horoscopes for people who wish to have them. This practice that has been going on for centuries, using traditional methods of calculations. Some students at IITB decided to test this accuracy by using their laptop computers and appropriate programming software. Guess what? They found the results to coincide with what the pandits have been doing all these years! Also, thanks to the values they had learnt as students at IITB, several of its graduates now do not look down upon the illiterate and poor customers, but run their profit-making companies, each with a humane and human touch. Similarly, at IIT Madras (IITM), based in Chennai, one of its alumni decided to start his own public health initiative at a town near Pune, which offers its services to the local population. Faculty members and students at IITM have been working regularly with the M S Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) in seawater studies and on forestations. IITM biology group interacts closely with the local medical centres and doctors. They also work with the KRM university and interact with the Cancer Centre of the KRM University nearby, working with cancer specialists. Further, they collaborate in research with the Diabetes Foundation Madras, working with its diabetologists. The oldest of all the IITs, the one at Kharagpur (IITKGP) has been offering its technology to the local medical personnel and doctors, since its very beginning. It has recently also come out with technological devices and products. Black fungus At the newest of them all located in Hyderabad, IIT Hyderabad (IITH), interaction with the LV Prasad Eye Institute has led to the production of corneal tissue of the eye and a hydrogel that can be used to replace the human corneal tissue. It is now marketed to a company in Bengaluru. Most recently, its scientists have devised an oral liquid solution that can treat patients suffering from black fungus that has recently affected a large number of people during the pandemic. The scientists are now ready to transfer their technology to suitable pharma partners for large-scale production. Also, at IITH, the introduction of a ‘Design Centre’ has led to some remarkable results from performing artists and designers. The students at this centre are delighted in listening to, learning and practising music and performing arts. In addition, IITH also has been supporting Hyderabad’s SPICMACAY group, by offering funding support and its auditorium when needed. The government is keen on establishing a dozen more IITs in the coming years. Establishing the humanities and social sciences divisions in each of them is thus clearly needed in order that they too contribute to the welfare of the nation. dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/humanities-social-sciences-essential-in-tech-institutions/article36545449.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||As U.S. approves booster shots, just 3.5% vaccinated in Africa||On September 14, WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus highlighted vaccine inequity globally, particularly in Africa, when he revealed that of the nearly 6 billion doses administered globally, only 2% of those have been in Africa; about 80% have been administered in high- and upper-middle income countries. Less than 3.5% of people in Africa have been fully vaccinated so far compared with 54% of the total population in the U.S. “This doesn’t only hurt the people of Africa, it hurts all of us. The longer vaccine inequity persists, the more the virus will keep circulating and changing, the longer the social and economic disruption will continue, and the higher the chances that more variants will emerge that render vaccines less effective,” the WHO Chief said. Vaccine inequity between high- and low-income countries is striking. More than 75% of all vaccines have been administered in just 10 countries. According to United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), 60.1% of the people in the high-income countries have been vaccinated with at least one dose as on September 15, while in the low-income countries, it is just 3%. The WHO has set an ambitious target of vaccinating at least 10% of the population of every country by September, at least 40% by the end of the year and 70% globally by the middle of next year. But according to the WHO, eight in 10 African countries are likely to miss vaccinating at least 10% of the population by the end of this month. “Forty-two of Africa’s 54 nations — nearly 80% — are set to miss the target if the current pace of vaccine deliveries and vaccinations hold,” according to Africa’s WHO regional office. Just nine African countries, including South Africa, have already reached the global target set for September and three more countries are set to meet the target before the end of this month. In contrast, almost 90% of high-income countries have already reached the September target of at least 10% vaccination, and more than 70% have already reached the year-end target of 40%. Promises unkept In June, the G7 nations promised to share 870 million doses to COVAX but released just 100 million. Just about 4% of all vaccines produced worldwide have been channelled through COVAX. According to GAVI, as on September 15, COVAX has so far shipped over 272 million vaccines to 141 countries. Though high-income countries had promised to donate more than 1 billion doses, less than 15% of those doses have materialised, says the WHO. Instead of increasing supplies to make up for the shortfall, vaccine supply to COVAX is only going to witness a further reduction. On September 9, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, WHO’s Africa director said that for a variety of reasons including the demand for booster doses in the high-income countries, vaccine supply to Africa through COVAX will be 25% (about 150 million doses) less by the end of the year. As a result, Africa will face a shortage of almost 470 million doses in the global year-end target of fully vaccinating 40% of its population. COVAX will be supplying only about 470 million doses by the end of the year, sufficient to vaccinate just 17% of the population. In August, Africa received almost 21 million vaccine doses through COVAX. Another 95 million doses are expected during September. WHO expects more vaccine supplies through COVAX and additional supplies from the African Union, which is directly purchasing vaccines from manufacturers. African Union member States had come together to pool their purchasing power. Reneging on deal In end-March, the African Union placed an order to purchase 220 million doses of Johnson & Johnson’s single dose vaccine, with the potential to order an additional 180 million doses. In addition, South Africa entered into a bilateral deal with J&J to procure 31 million vaccine doses; the fill and finish activities of the vaccine are in South Africa. If initially J&J did not guarantee any supply to either South Africa or the African continent, just 9 million doses were set aside for South Africa after a protest. Yet, shockingly, while only a small quantity of the 9 million was supplied to South Africa, J&J exported doses to Europe instead. After a renewed protest and global outrage, J&J backed down, and began supplying vaccines to South Africa and the African Union. The same pattern is now playing out in India. About 40 million doses of the vaccine that will be produced each month by Biological E, a Hyderabad-based company, are likely to be exported to Europe and the U.S. “The decision on where they will be exported, and at what price, is under the purview of J&J completely,” Mahima Datla, the Managing Director of Biological E confirmed to Nature magazine. “We demand that any J&J vaccine doses made in India be supplied on priority to the Indian government, the African Union, and the COVAX Facility. Developing countries with large unvaccinated populations are witnessing a frightening rise in infections and deaths from COVID-19. J&J must prioritise them,” Indian Civil Society Organisations said in a letter to the Indian government and J&J. Exports banned Strive Masiyiwa, African Union’s special envoy recently said: “We are not asking for donations. We want to buy vaccines and that means we want access to purchase.” He wanted countries that have imposed restrictions on vaccine exports to lift them. “That would give us vaccines immediately,” he said. Serum Institute had stopped supplying to COVAX since end-February, and Adar Poonawalla in a statement on May 18 said: “We continue to scale up manufacturing and prioritise India. We also hope to start delivering to COVAX and other countries by the end of this year.” Though low vaccination coverage seen in many African countries is primarily due to lack of vaccine supply, vaccine hesitancy too has a role to play. “While many African countries have sped up COVID-19 vaccinations as vaccine shipments ramped up in August, [as on September 2] 26 countries have used less than half of their COVID-19 vaccines,” the WHO says. Wasted doses Besides additional doses required for booster, the high-income countries have also wasted millions of doses. Even while many countries in Africa and elsewhere are yet to vaccinate even the healthcare workers, over 15 million doses have been thrown away in the U.S. since March 2021. The US had already binned more than 1,82,000 vaccine doses by the end of March. Over 0.8 million doses were wasted in the U.K. In August alone, nearly 0.1 million doses were binned as younger people were advised not to take the AstraZeneca vaccine. This was following reports of rare blood clotting events related to the AstraZeneca vaccine. The reason why the U.S. wasted over 15 million doses was because the priority was to vaccinate people when they show up without prioritising efforts to reduce wastage. Even the new advisory from CDC urges doctors “not miss any opportunities to vaccinate every eligible person who presents at a vaccination site, even if it means puncturing a multidose vial to administer vaccine without having enough people available to receive each dose.” As per a 2019 paper from the WHO, there is 15-20% wastage in the case of 10-dose vials. But the amount wasted can be reduced through targeted action. A few States in India reported huge vaccine waste initially but quickly turned the table in April — they not only had zero wastage but also extracted additional doses from the given supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/as-us-approves-booster-shots-just-35-vaccinated-in-africa/article36545459.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||IISc researchers find a way to substitute for single-use plastics||According to a report by Central Pollution Control Board of India, for the year 2018-2019, 3.3 million metric tonnes of plastic waste are generated by Indians. The bad news is that this may well be an under-estimation of the problem. Another alarming statistic is that of all the plastic waste produced in the world, 79% enters the environment. Only 9% of all plastic waste is recycled. Accumulation of plastic waste is detrimental to the environment and when this waste finds its way into the sea, there can be major harm to aquatic ecosystems, too. Researchers from Department of Material Engineering, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru (IISc) have found a way to make a substitute for single-use plastic that can, in principle help mitigate the problem of accumulating plastic waste in the environment. Agricultural stubble While plastic waste causes one type of pollution, agricultural stubble burning is responsible for air pollution in several States. In Delhi, for example, the air quality index dips to indicate “severe” or “hazardous” level of pollution every winter, and this is due in part to the burning of agricultural stubble in the surrounding regions. Indranil Chakraborty, a Research Associate working in the labs led by Suryasarathi Bose and Kaushik Chatterjee, has, along with coworkers, developed polymers using non-edible oil and cellulose extracted from agricultural stubble. These polymers can be moulded into sheets having properties suitable for making bags, cutlery or containers. The material so made is bio-degradable, leak-proof and non-toxic. Simple process Non-edible Castor oil was used in this process of making the polymer which involves allowing them to react with the cellulose and di-isocyanate compound. “All precursors are mixed in toluene solvent and heated at 80 degree for 8 hours. Then [we] poured the solution mixture in a teflon sheet and allowed the toluene to evaporate. After 12 hours, nice polyurethane sheet is obtained because of the crosslink between the functional groups present in the precursors,” explains Dr Chakraborty, in an email to The Hindu. The sheets are then moulded in compression moulding to make the articles such as a bag or pieces of cutlery. “We already used castor oil for our experiment. Currently, we are doing the same experiment with other non-edible oils such as jatropha oil and neem oil,” he adds. The sheets of polymer made were subjected to a leaching test and were also tested for thermal stability and were found to hold against the tests. These preliminary tests suggest that the material can be used for food packaging. Further tests are on to establish the sheet as food-grade. Tuning flexibility In order to obtain sheets with properties like flexibility suitable for making different articles, the researchers played with the proportions of cellulose to non-edible oil. The more cellulose they added, and less non-edible oil, the stiffer was the material, so that it was more suitable to making tumblers and cutlery. The greater the proportion of oil, the more flexible was the material and it could be moulded into sheets for making bags. While Indranil Chakraborty designed the experiment, synthesised the sheet, and moulded it to make the articles, Pritiranjan Mondal characterised the material. The group has already filed a provisional patent. “As the material is bio-degradable and non-toxic, we are planning to use the material for healthcare applications also,” says Prof. Chatterjee. “We are in discussion with various companies for technology transfer.” “Given the surge in the usage of single use plastics and the challenge of managing the landfills choked with SUPs, such alternatives could bring paradigm shift especially in packaging sector, the largest consumer of SUPs,” says Prof Bose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/iisc-researchers-find-a-way-to-substitute-for-single-use-plastics/article36545446.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Meeting eyes||Why do we make repeated eye contact while talking? When two people converse, their eyes meet in moments of “shared attention”, with their pupils dilating in synchrony, according to a Dartmouth study ( PNAS ). According to lead author Sophie Wohltjen at Dartmouth, when two people converse, eye contact signals that shared attention is high — that they are in peak synchrony. As eye contact persists, that synchrony then decreases. “We think this is also good because too much synchrony can make a conversation stale. An engaging conversation requires at times being on the same page and at times saying something new. Eye contact seems to be one way we create a shared space while also allowing space for new ideas,” she said in a release. According to this study, eye contact is made when two people in conversation are already in sync, and, if anything, eye contact seems to then help break that synchrony. Eye contact may usefully disrupt synchrony momentarily in order to allow for a new thought or idea. The researchers studied pairs of Dartmouth students who were in conversation for 10 minutes by making them wear eye-tracking glasses. The conversation was audio and video recorded. The researchers looked at how pupillary synchrony increases and decreases around instances of eye contact. They found that people make eye contact as pupillary synchrony is at its peak. Pupillary synchrony then immediately decreases, only recovering again once eye contact is broken. The data also demonstrated a correlation between instances of eye contact and higher levels of engagement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/meeting-eyes/article36545444.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Why is it difficult for India to get to net zero?||The story so far: On his recent visit to India ahead of the UN Climate Change conference in Glasgow, U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry said he had not received any assurance that India was working to raise its ambition to cut carbon dioxide emissions. Mr. Kerry is trying to build momentum, under the Paris Agreement framework, for countries with high CO2 emissions to commit themselves to a target date when they will reach net zero, meaning when they will achieve nil man-made emissions or ensure removal of such emissions to achieve neutrality. India, as the country with the third largest emissions, is under pressure to come up with a higher ambition on cutting CO2 emissions. The net zero concept, according to the United Nations, has appealed to 130 countries that have either committed themselves to carbon neutrality by 2050, or are considering that target. What is India doing to lower emissions? India is working to reduce its emissions, aligned with the goal of less than 2°C global temperature rise, seen in its headline pledge to cut the emissions intensity of GDP by 33%-35% by 2030 over the 2005 level. But it has not favoured a binding commitment towards carbon neutrality. It is also not aligned with the more ambitious goal of 1.5°C temperature rise. Among the contentious issues it faces is heavy reliance on coal. According to the International Energy Agency’s India Energy Outlook 2021, coal accounts for close to 70% of electricity generation. Cutting greenhouse gases which heat the atmosphere and contribute to climate change involves shifting power production away from coal, greater adoption of renewables, and transforming mobility through electric vehicles. India is praised by some for its renewables target: scaling up power from renewables such as solar and wind to 450 GW by 2030. In recent comments, after the discussions with Mr. Kerry, Union Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav said net zero was not the only goal of national policy. Moreover, domestic political opinion favours room for some growth in CO2 emissions before peaking. The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) provides for common, but differentiated, responsibilities of nations, favouring countries like India. Some politicians support a net zero target as it can put India on a green development trajectory, attracting investment in innovative technologies. How are other big countries pursuing net zero? As the largest emitter of GHGs, China told the UN in 2020 that it would move to net zero by 2060. Its pledge to peak CO2 emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality three decades later is among the most high-profile commitments. To operationalise this goal, China’s State Council has issued a guideline on the transition to a green and low-carbon circular economic development system, focusing on industrial production, logistics, infrastructure, consumption, innovation, and enabling policies. But changing winds in global politics, resumed U.S. leadership of the climate campaign, and likely taxes on unsustainably produced export goods could influence Chinese policies. The U.S., as the second biggest emitter with large historical emissions, returned to the Paris Agreement under President Joe Biden with an ambitious 2050 net zero plan. Its Department of Energy announced two programmes that are also expected to boost employment: slashing the current cost of solar power by 60%, and putting up 30 GW of offshore wind power by 2030. The European Union (EU) member-states have committed themselves to reducing emissions by at least 55% by 2030 over 1990 levels. In July, the EU published a climate law that binds the bloc to its 2030 emissions target and carbon neutrality by 2050. Why do some analysts see net zero as controversial? Although a global coalition has coalesced around the concept, an increasingly vocal group views it as a distraction, useful only to score political points. Carbon neutrality looks to nascent technology to suck out CO2 from the atmosphere. Youth movements and some scientists call this procrastination, since it enables the fossil fuel industry to continue expanding. Many fossil fuel companies support net zero goals. What are India’s choices? Getting a stronger economic dividend for the same volume of CO2 emitted by reforming energy, industry and buildings, and achieving higher energy efficiency in all sectors can slow emissions. State governments must be part of such a climate plan, and climate governance institutions must be set up at the national and State levels.  India is working to reduce its emissions, aligned with the goal of less than 2oC global temperature rise, but it does not favour a binding commitment towards carbon neutrality||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-is-it-difficult-for-india-to-get-to-net-zero/article36545379.ece
19 September 2021||Aligarh/Hathras,||Hindutva’s pull is intact, but Jats want more||As the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) faces the Jat challenge in western Uttar Pradesh, the message from the ground in Aligarh and Hathras districts is mixed. While there are many who still swear by the ruling party for providing suraksha, bijli aur sadak (safety, electricity and roads), there are others who feel the party has let down a vote bank that is known to be loyal. Jats constitute around 18% of the population here and their votes become a decisive factor in 40 to 50 seats. At present, there are 14 Jat MLAs in the Assembly, most of whom are from the BJP. Demand for MSP In the millet-potato belt, organised khaps and sugarcane prices are not dominant factors but the demand for the MSP law is as resonant as in the Muzaffarnagar-Meerut belt. “Thehe farmers have to sell wheat and millet at a much lower rate than the MSP in the open market. Cold storages are overflowing with potatoes because the market rate is lower than the input cost,” said Surendra Singh, a farmer from Iglas. A cross-section of Jat farmers that The Hindu spoke to felt that the region mostly had small farmers who could not afford to spend days at protest sites, but the anguish was no less. The sense was if the government could provide them guaranteed MSP, they would not need the crutches of Kisan Credit Card and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. There are others like Ram Naresh Singh, a farmer from Lodha who attended the PM’s rally earlier this week , and is happy with the ‘double engine’ government. “Had you attended a rally during the previous regime, you would not have left with the gold chain in your neck. This government has given us security, electricity and roads. What more do you want?” he asked. Hindutva appeal Religious polarisation is evident in conversations. Bhoop Singh, another farmer, said they voted for the BJP on “the issue of Hindutva” and the party has “lived up to its promise on the Ram temple and [abrogation of] Article 370.” Rahul Singh, a young graduate from Aligarh Muslim University from Khair said the upcoming university in the name of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh would give the community a sense of parity with the Muslims. With senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan cited as the prime example, “controlling the Muslims,” is being touted as the main success of the BJP. “During the reign of BSP and SP, cow theft was a common problem. Now nobody can dare do it. With the gaushala scheme finding roots in the region, the ageing cows have found a home,” said Dharmendra Singh, an advocate. Gordhwaj Singh, the young scion of the Mursan estate, who is a contender for the BJP ticket from Sadabad, said as somebody who had large tracts of agricultural land, he didn’t see any problem with the farm laws. “Small farmers have suffered because of the self-seeking attitude of some big farmers in this region. If the government policies help small farmers to be independent, what is the harm?” asked Mr. Singh, the great-great-grandson of iconic jat ruler, Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh. However, there is a section of the community that felt that though Mr. Modi’s charisma was still strong, the Jat faces projected by the BJP didn’t command respect in the community whose image had been reduced to that of “Muslim baiters”. “The long-standing demand of Jat reservation in central jobs has not been met despite promises made before elections. We know the plea was rejected by the Supreme Court but we have also seen how the ruling party brought an amendment to the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act when a top court’s order diluted it,” said Vivek Prakash, former president of the Iglas Bar Association. Corruption a concern “Earlier, we had to pay Rs. 5,000 for removal of the name of a person who was accused under Section 151 of IPC, now, this rate has increased to Rs. 8,000. The SHO holds the inflation responsible for this hike,” said another advocate requesting anonymity. Rishabh Chaudhary, convenor of the Mursan unit of Bajrang Dal, complained that gaushalas were set up only when the CM was in the region. “Otherwise, bulls and cows could be seen on the roads at night or munching away in the fields. Keeping bulls and cows together has become a problem,” he said. Mr. Prakash felt only those Jats were still with the BJP whose vested interests were aligned with the ruling party and that the story would be different during the elections. “If the Samajwadi Party left a large chunk of seats in the region for the Rashtriya Lok Dal, the alliance could pose a real threat to the BJP in the region.” He praised the government’s implementation of the free ration scheme to the farm workers but said it would not necessarily affect the voting pattern. “In villages, there is morchabandi (competing politics) under two factions. The farmer or worker would vote with those who have been helping them in crisis, not the seasonal benefactors,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hindutva-pull-intact-but-jats-want-more/article36545999.ece
19 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan prepares action plans for Jal Jeevan Mission||The mandatory action plans for bringing safe drinking water through individual tap connections to all rural households under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) have been prepared for about 23,000 villages in Rajasthan. The action plans for other villages will be presented and approved in the Gram Sabhas to be held on October 2. Target set The action plans, to be implemented as the master plan for meeting the water needs of villages, depict the history of water availability, rainfall pattern, drought situation, groundwater level, water harvesting, water-borne diseases and the situation of water resources in each village. The document also incorporates essential aspects of rural drinking water projects sanctioned under the JJM. The JJM envisages the supply of safe and adequate drinking water through tap connections to all households in the rural areas by 2024. A target has been set for supplying 55 litres of water per person per day to every household in the villages, where the people have been facing scarcity of water. Public Health Engineering Minister B.D. Kalla said here recently that the work for the execution of the JJM was on at a war footing and the action plans for each of the 43,323 villages in the State would be formulated shortly. A strong institutional framework had been created in the villages with the appointment of water and sanitation committees, he said. Mr. Kalla said the action plans had been prepared for all the villages in Ajmer, Nagaur and Jaisalmer districts, while 96% of the villages in Sirohi, 94% in Karauli, 92% in Kota, 88% in Hanumangarh and 85% each in Sawai Madhopur and Sriganganagar had been covered. The implementation support agencies have formulated the plans after brainstorming with the villagers. The Congress government has sought changes in the norms for Central assistance for the JJM, which at present stipulates the shares of the Centre and the State in 50:50 ratio. The State government has sought enhancement of the Centre’s share in the mission to 90%. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had raised the issue at a meeting with the NITI Aayog members last month, while asking for the Centre’s cooperation in the financial and policy domains to ensure socio-economic development of States in the true spirit of “cooperative federalism”. Rajasthan has a huge task lying ahead to meet the target of water supply as only 12% of the households are currently getting piped water supply. The action plans are expected to rejuvenate the sources of water for the benefit of about 98 lakh rural households in the State and evolve the community approach, which is a key component of the JJM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-prepares-action-plans-for-jal-jeevan-mission/article36546180.ece
19 September 2021||September 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Auto boost||The story so far: The Centre on Wednesday approved a production-linked incentive scheme for the automobile and drone industries with a budgetary outlay of Rs. 26,058 crore. This tranche is part of the overall plan for 13 sectors highlighted during the Budget announcements for 2021-22, with a total outlay of Rs. 1.97 lakh crore. What is the scheme laying stress on? The incentive scheme for the auto sector aims to blunt the impact of costs involved when investing in technologies that could power vehicles in future. While existing players — in addition to new entrants — may avail themselves of the benefit for fresh investments, the incentives are available for what the government refers to as ‘Advanced Automotive Technology products’. These include technologies for battery electric vehicles and those that use hydrogen fuel cells. How relevant is the plan for the auto sector? The Indian auto sector was once slated to emerge as the third-largest auto market, after the U.S. and China, by 2020. After peaking at annual sales of 3.3 million passenger vehicles in FY19, as per figures from the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), the sector witnessed a decline to 2.77 million units the subsequent year. Likewise, two-wheelers peaked at 21.2 million in FY19 before dipping to 17.4 million. Then, the pandemic struck, resulting in factory lockdowns and negative consumer sentiment. In 2020, the country was ranked fifth. Global interest in the Indian market has waned. General Motors exited India in 2017. Pushed by cumulative losses of about $2 billion, Ford last week announced its decision to shut shop in the country. Given that the pandemic — with resultant semiconductor supply shortages and container availability issues — had only further dampened the prospects of the sector, automotive veterans such as Maruti Suzuki chairman R.C. Bhargava and TVS Motor chairman Venu Srinivasan had recently urged the government to act and protect industry interests. In this backdrop, the scheme aims to inject some verve into the sector, especially with a nudge to technologies that help lower fossil fuel emissions. The government expects the scheme would lead to fresh investments of more than Rs. 42,500 crore, incremental production worth over Rs. 2.3 lakh crore and creation of an additional 7.5 lakh jobs. Are only newer fuel technologies eligible for it? Yes. The move to clean technologies came even as electric-vehicle (EV) maker Tesla had urged the Centre to cut duties on imported vehicles. Incentivising local production could translate into more investments in this segment. Also, India has become increasingly keen to reduce dependence on oil imports and bring down pollution, even as it strives to meet commitments under climate change agreements. With most vehicle manufacturers betting on buyers’ preference for personal mobility following the pandemic-induced hygiene restrictions, the government would likely want to take advantage of the mood and boost emission-friendly EVs; but it is still a challenge for vehicle-owners to make a full recharge of batteries as quickly as they would refill a petrol/diesel tank. EVs are seen as not being suited to long-distance driving, given the power storage technologies currently in place as well as the poor spread of the charging network. According to a December 2020 report by the India Energy Storage Alliance, EVs were set to grow from 3.8 lakh units in the country in FY20 to about 63 lakh by 2027. The figures indicate that the total EV count was a small fraction of just the passenger vehicles sold in India. Further, charging stations numbered 1,800 as of March, according to the Society for Manufacturers of Electric Vehicles. A Grant Thornton-FICCI report estimates that the country would need about 4 lakh charging stations by 2026 that would meet the needs of two million EVs. Traditional fuel stations numbered about 77,215 as on May 1, 2021, according to government data. What can customers expect? The announcement aims to offer benefits to the supply side of the equation. The industry, including the SIAM, has been demanding a cut in the GST rate from 28% applicable to the average passenger vehicle to aid customers. The government recently said it was open to “tinkering” with the rate for automobiles. In November 2020, Tamil Nadu announced a 100% waiver of road tax on EVs for two years. Earlier that year, the Centre revised norms for FAME-II. These factors, coupled with the relentless climb in the cost of traditional fuels, likely spurred the EV count on Tamil Nadu roads to double to 14,300 in eight months till August this year.  The scheme aims to inject some verve into the sector, especially with a nudge to technologies that help lower fossil fuel emissions. The government expects it will lead to fresh investments of more than Rs. 42,500 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/auto-boost/article36545378.ece
19 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||At Jhansi, a ‘learning’ makeover for Anganwadi centres in the works||To make Anganwadi centres more appealing for children in rural areas, a district in Uttar Pradesh is modifying and beautifying buildings in innovative ways to use them as “instruments of learning”. The administration in Jhansi has rejuvenated 100 Anganwadi centres so far as part of a programme called BaLA (Building as Learning Aid). The programme involves using the 3-dimensional space of the Anganwadi structures to promote ‘innovative’ learning and altering or beautifying the exterior, interior or outdoor spaces, officials said. Under the initiative, the administration has converted different parts of Anganwadi centres, including classrooms, corridors, backyards, windows and ceilings, into “instruments of learning,” said Chief Development Office (Jhansi) Sailesh Kumar. Renovation cost Mr. Kumar said it cost Rs. 60,000-Rs. 70,000 to renovate each centre. The scheme would now be spread to the rest of the structures in the district, he added. He explained that it could mean as simple a thing as making the windows of the centres into instruments of playing or using the ceiling to trigger curiosity in kids. “Wherever he or she looks, there must be something to learn and trigger curiosity,” said Mr. Kumar. Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi said the programme involves wall paintings and renovation of Anganwadi centres to enable children to think innovatively. BaLA is a way to holistically plan and use the school infrastructure, he added. The DM also said that BaLA incorporates the ideas of activity-based learning, child friendliness and inclusive education for children with special needs. “Since buildings are the most expensive physical assets of a school, efforts should be made to derive maximum educational value from them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/at-jhansi-a-learning-makeover-for-anganwadi-centres-in-the-works/article36546189.ece
19 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Major flood ruled out in coastal Odisha||The residents of the coastal Odisha heaved a sigh of relief as the Water Resources Department ruled out any major flood in the region in the wake of a decrease in the water level in the Mahanadi river. “The water level in Mahanadi was receding. Initially it was predicted that a small or medium level flood would hit the coastal districts. Now, it has been ruled out. Localised submergence has been reported from different places. There will be no major flood that would originate from the river,” said Dhiren Samal, Engineer-in-Chief of the Water Resources Department, on Saturday. Due to heavy rain in Chhattisgarh this week, it was feared that an overflowing Mahanadi could cause a flood in Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur and Puri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/major-flood-ruled-out-in-coastal-odisha/article36546181.ece
19 September 2021||New Delhi,||Two drown in stream in Udhampur||Two people, including a minor boy, drowned while taking a bath in a stream in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district on Saturday, the police said.The victims — Daleep Kumar and Varun Kumar (17) — drowned when they were bathing in Birmah Nallah. They had ventured into deep waters, an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-drown-in-stream-in-udhampur/article36546182.ece
19 September 2021||Odisha,||Four arrested with drugs worth Rs. 35 lakh||Four people have been arrested and 350g brown sugar has been seized from their possession in Odisha's Balasore district, the police said on Saturday. The contraband is worth over Rs. 35 lakh, a police officer said. Acting on a tip-off, the police raided Jhadeswarpur and Rajpur hamlets in Jaleswar block on Friday night and arrested four people, including a woman, and seized the drugs, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/four-arrested-with-drugs-worth-rs-35-lakh/article36546184.ece
19 September 2021||Mumbai,||No relief to man accused of making hurtful remarks: HC||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court dismissed a man’s plea challenging an FIR against him for allegedly making hurtful remarks about Goddess Durga in a Whatsapp group. The court held: “Prima facie the messages sent on Whatsapp were objectionable.” A Division Bench of justices V.M. Deshpande and A.B. Borkar was hearing a criminal application filed by Jafar Ali Sher Ali Sayyad, 58. Last year, a WhatsApp group was created by members of a residential colony for organising a Durga puja. It is alleged that on October 9, 2019, Mr. Sayyad posted abusive and dis-respectful message about the deity following which an FIR was filed against him for creating disturbance in the locality and with the intention to hurt public sentiments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-relief-to-man-accused-of-making-hurtful-remarks-hc/article36546190.ece
19 September 2021||Mumbai,||IMD predicts heavy showers in Vidarbha, Mumbai region next week||Heavy rains are likely in Maharashtra’s Vidarbha and the Mumbai region from Monday onward, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. “A cyclonic circulation is developing over the Bay of Bengal. As it intensifies further, Maharashtra will get more rains starting September 20,” said Shubhangi Bhute, senior scientist at the Regional meteorological centre here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/imd-predicts-heavy-showers-in-vidarbha-mumbai-region-next-week/article36546183.ece
19 September 2021||Pithoragarh,||15th Indo-Nepal joint military exercise begins on Sep 20||The 15th edition of India-Nepal joint military exercise “Surya Kiran” will begin here on September 20. “Infantry battalions from both countries will participate in the exercise,” said Capt. Kuldeep, the liaison officer from the Indian side. According to the officer, besides familiarising with weapons being used by each army, the armies will be sharing with each other mountain warfare tactics, disaster assistance, rescue and relief operations in mountainous terrains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/15th-indo-nepal-joint-military-exercise-begins-on-sep-20/article36546185.ece
