20 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab gets its first Dalit Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Sunday announced 49-year-old Charanjit Singh Channi as the leader of the Punjab Congress Legislature Party (CLP). He will be the State’s new Chief Minister. AICC in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat announced the name of the new CLP leader on Twitter. “It gives me immense pleasure to announce that Sh. #CharanjitSinghChanni has been unanimously elected as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab,” he said. Soon after being elected CLP leader, Mr. Channi and other leaders met Punjab Governor Banwa rilal Purohit to stake claim to form the new government. “After the Congress Legislature Party’s unanimous decision, we met the Governor and presented our claim to form the government. Governor has assigned a time slot of 11 a.m. on Monday for the oath-taking ceremony,” said Mr. Channi, who is set to become the first Dalit Chief Minister of Punjab. Mr. Channi, a close aide of State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, was among the Cabinet Ministers in the outgoing government who rebelled against Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh, saying the latter had not fulfilled the party’s 2017 election promises. Poll calculus The Congress’ decision of choosing Mr. Channi is being seen as an attempt to win over the Dalit votes ahead of the Assembly poll due in early 2022. In Punjab, which has the highest percentage of Dalit population among the States — close to 32% — political parties have been making all out efforts to garner their support. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has already announced that if voted to power, the Deputy Chief Minister would be from the Dalit community. Mr. Channi’s announcement came after AICC-appointed observers Harish Chaudhary and Ajay Maken, and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat held hectic meetings in Chandigarh with party leaders and collected feedback from MLAs ahead of short-listing the name of the CLP leader. During the meeting, the name of senior Congress leader Sukhjinder Randhawa was at the forefront. However, it is learnt that Mr. Sidhu strongly batted for Mr. Channi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-gets-its-first-dalit-chief-minister-charanjit-channi/article36559614.ece
20 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||NRC is final, rules Assam Foreigners’ Tribunal||While the Registrar General of India has not yet issued a notification on Assam’s National Register of Citizens (NRC) to make it a legal document, a Foreigners’ Tribunal has gone ahead and recorded it as the “final NRC” while declaring a man to be Indian. Hearing a case against one Bikram Singha of Jamirala village whose name figured in the NRC list, member of FT-II in Karimganj town Sishir Dey said, “...there is no doubt that this NRC Assam published in 2019 is nothing but Final NRC..” State govt. caution The FT-II’s ‘order cum opinion’ comes just days after Assam's Political (B) Department had on September 4 asked the FTs not to pass “consequential orders/directions” and stick to giving an “opinion” as mandated by the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964. The letter to the FTs followed an assessment by the State’s Judicial Department of the “opinions” given by the members in the case of people suspected to be foreigners or doubtful voters. The Assam police’s Border wing had, in May 2008, filed a case against Mr. Singha, of Jamirala village under the Patherkandi Assembly constituency of southern Assam’s Karimganj district. The man, marked a D or ‘doubtful voter’, remained untraced until June 28 and appeared before the Foreigners’ Tribunal-II (FT-II) in Karimganj town two months later, seeking time to return from Bengaluru where he was working. Mr. Singha produced before the FT-II several documents to prove his Indian citizenship. These included a 1968 land deed in the name of his grandfather Madan Kumar Singha and proof of his father Bharat Chandra Singha having been an Indian Air Force employee for 29 years since 1972. FT-II member Sishir Dey heard his case on September 1. The prosecution lawyer argued that Mr. Singha had no document establishing that his family was living in India prior to 1966. She referred to the ‘White Paper on Foreigners’ Issue’ published by Assam’s Home and Political Department on October 20, 2012, which says that anyone born between January 26, 1950, and July 1, 1987, can be considered an Indian citizen by birth irrespective of the nationality of his or her parents. However, Mr. Dey observed that Mr. Singha’s documents pointed to his father and grandfather having been residents of Jamirala village before 1968.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nrc-is-final-rules-assam-foreigners-tribunal/article36559611.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hindi gains due to demographic shift||When the Centre launched its NIPUN Bharat scheme in July 2021 to improve foundational literacy and numeracy among primary school students, participants from non-Hindi speaking States complained that they were the ones left feeling illiterate as they could not understand either the speeches, nor the PowerPoint presentations on the scheme, all made in formal Hindi. Last August, Tamil Nadu delegates at a yoga and naturopathy training webinar claimed that the AYUSH Ministry Secretary told them if they wanted English to be used, they could leave. These incidents that made the headlines over the last year may be only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to language-related frictions in a country that has 121 languages spoken by at least 10,000 people — along with over a thousand more which have fewer speakers — but which also restricts education and governance to a handful of languages. According to the 2011 Census, Hindi and its variants are the only major languages to have gained mother tongue adherents over the last 40 years, growing from 36.99% of the population in 1971 to 43.63% by 2011. A large factor in this growth comes from demographic changes. “Fertility rates are higher among the poor and among women with less education, who comprise a higher share of Hindi speakers,” said Centre for Policy Research senior fellow Partha Mukhopadhyay, who noted that the 10 States with the highest share of Hindi speakers grew from 41.9% of India’s population in 1971 to 46.5% by 2011. He added that migration could be increasing the number of those whose mother tongue is Hindi even in non-Hindi speaking States. “If a Hindi-speaking poor illiterate family migrates from Bihar to Kerala, they may have fewer children than a similar family in Bihar but they’ll have more than the average Malayalam-speaking family in Kerala. This will raise the share of Hindi speakers in other such ‘destination’ States too,” he said. The Centre cites the Census’ mother tongue data to justify its stance on the languages used in governance. In March 2021, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) Namakkal MP A.K.P. Chinraj raised a query in the Lok Sabha asking for the estimated number of people from non-Hindi speaking States who would understand the Central government’s notifications and Acts. The Home Ministry responded with Census data claiming that the Hindi-speaking population of Nagaland was 62,942, while the English-speaking population was 419. For Kerala, the figures were 51,928 and 4,471, respectively. However, these are in fact, the number of people who claimed Hindi and English as their mother tongues, not the number who can actually speak these languages. An analysis by The Hindu of the bilingualism and trilingualism data gathered for the first time in 2011 shows that 16% of Nagaland’s population said Hindi was among their top three spoken language choices, only half of the 33% who chose English. Similarly, in Kerala, 9% had Hindi among their top three languages, while 20% included English on their list. The 2021 Census, which has been indefinitely delayed by the COVID-19 pandemic, will be the second to gather such data, and thus record for the first time the growth among actual speakers of a language, rather than those who claim it as their mother tongue. “So far, the Census data has not been about the knowledge of a language, but rather identity with a language,” said Ayesha Kidwai, a professor of linguistics and the politics of language at the Jawaharlal Nehru University. “Hindi is identified as a language of power. When Hindi is promoted, it is not a promotion of choice, but a promotion of power.” She noted that the choice of Hindi in the Census in fact subsumes 50 other choices, as variants like Bhojpuri, Rajasthani, Magadhi and Chhattisgarhi — each of which has more than a crore speakers — are all clubbed under the Hindi umbrella. In fact, only about 26% of the Indian population actually selected Hindi itself as their mother tongue. Almost 40% of those clubbed under the Hindi label actually chose one of the variants. “These are not the languages used for instruction in schools, or in government offices, and so we are saying that they don’t count. In fact, these languages suffer more than regional languages like Tamil or Telugu who have their own State proponents and are included in the Eighth Schedule,” said Dr. Kidwai. At the celebration of Hindi Divas last week, Home Minister Amit Shah emphasised that “Hindi is the friend of all Indian languages” and can only progress through coexistence. Even while increasingly shifting the daily routines of governance into Hindi, the Centre has in fact taken steps to incorporate powerful regional languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hindi-gains-ground-via-a-demographic-shift/article36559612.ece
20 September 2021||Vijayawada,||YSRCP registers landslide victory in parishad polls||The YSR Congress Party’s (YSRCP) winning streak continued in the ZPTC and MPTC elections in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday and it is poised to score a landslide victory as per the reports at 8.30 p.m., dashing the hopes of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) to regain some lost ground. Of the 515 ZPTCs (Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies) and 7,219 MPTCs (Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituencies) for which elections were held, the YSRCP bagged 413 ZPTCs. The TDP won six (two in Krishna and one each in Kadapa, Anantapur, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari), the CPI(M) one and an independent one. The BJP and the Jana Sena drew a blank. The counting is still on for over 90 ZPTCs and more than 400 MPTCs when the reports last came in. The YSRCP’s district-wise tally: Srikakulam 32, Vizianagaram 31, Visakhapatnam 34, East Godavari 12, West Godavari 19, Krishna 39, Guntur 34, Prakasam 41, Nellore 34, Chittoor 33, Kadapa 8, Kurnool 36 and Anantapur 60. The YSRCP has won 5,714 MPTCs, TDP 764, Jana Sena 123, BJP 25, CPI(M) 15, CPI eight, Congress four and others 150. The following is the break-up of YSRCP’s seats: Srikakulam 488, Vizianagaram 389, Visakhapatnam 450, East Godavari 516, West Godavari 577, Krishna 572, Guntur 494, Prakasam 320, Nellore 312, Chittoor 389, Kadapa 88, Kurnool 406 and Anantapur 713. The district-wise MPTCs bagged by the TDP: Srikakulam 75, Vizianagaram 86, Visakhapatnam 118, East Godavari 67, West Godavari 91, Krishna 60, Guntur 56, Prakasam 33, Nellore 31, Chittoor 25, Kadapa 11, Kurnool 62 and Anantapur 49. Blow to TDP According to the official information, the YSRCP trounced the TDP on the home turf of party chief N. Chandrababu Naidu i.e. Chittoor district, where it won all 33 ZPTC seats for which elections were held, and 389 out of 419 MPTCs, including Naravaripalle. The TDP won 25 MPTC seats in the district. The YSRCP’s resounding victory in Chittoor district is being considered as a strong blow to the TDP. The ruling party fared well in the MPTC elections in all the coastal districts by winning not less than 312 seats in each one of them. Meanwhile, 301 ballot papers stored in a ballot box belonging to Pulimeru MPTC and ZPTC elections under Peddapuram Revenue Division in East Godavari district have been eaten by termites.  (With inputs from East Godavari)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/big-win-for-ysrcp-in-civic-polls/article36559582.ece
20 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||Registrar of Sharnbasva University dies in accident||Registrar (Evaluation) of Sharnbasva University Lingraj Shastri was killed and his wife and son seriously injured after their car rammed a tree in Basavakalyan taluk in Bidar district on Sunday. He was 51. Return to Kalaburagi They were on their way back to Kalaburagi after visiting Basavakalyan when the incident took place. Dr. Shastri’s son was driving the car. He lost control of the vehicle and rammed the tree. Chancellor of Sharnbasva University Dr. Sharnbaswappa Appa, faculty and staff have expressed grief over the sudden demise of Dr. Lingraj Shastri. ‘A big loss’ “His services can never be forgotten and it is a big loss to the university. We are all with his family in this hour of grief,” the staff said.  Lingraj Shastri’s son was driving the car and he lost control of it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/registrar-of-sharnbasva-university-dies-in-accident/article36560045.ece
20 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Industries creating more jobs will get more encouragement’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that more encouragement will be given to industries that create more number of jobs. Speaking to presspersons after laying the foundation stone for works under Mahatma Gandhi Nagar Vikas Yojana (MGNVY) in Davangere on Sunday, he said that already proposals for setting up three textile parks in the State have been submitted to the Union government. Under the PLI scheme, the Union government aimed to provide more encouragement to textile and automobile sector as it will lead to creation of more jobs. The State government also planned to set up an automobile cluster, he said. Mr. Bommai said that under the Mahatma Gandhi Nagar Vikas Yojana, a total of 49 works worth Rs. 125 crore have been initiated in Davangere. Along with these works, Smart City projects are being implemented to facilitate Davangere's overall development, he said and added that across the State works worth Rs. 1,500 crore are being initiated under the scheme. Apart from the projects under AMRUT scheme, additional grants of Rs. 25 lakh will be given to each gram panchayat for development works in the villages, he said. Mr. Bommai said that the quality of silk produced in central and North Karnataka districts is equivalent to the silk imported from abroad. Both the State and Union governments have plans to develop sericulture in a big way in 10 districts in the State. Earlier, during the foundation laying and bhoomi puja programme, Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj, the former Union Minister and MP G.M. Siddeshwar, Member of Legislative Assembly S.A. Ravindranath, Member of Legislative Council A. Shivayogi Swami, Deputy Commissioner Mahanthesh Bilagi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/industries-creating-more-jobs-will-get-more-encouragement/article36560047.ece
20 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Govt. preparing action plan for school reopening||Shift system and hybrid learning (offline and online) are being considered by the government as it gears up for the reopening of schools on November 1, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. The government, on Saturday, had announced that students from Classes I to VII and those in Classes X and XII will return to school on November 1. For the remaining students, classes will begin on November 15. A comprehensive project would be prepared for physical classes and submitted to the Chief Minister, Mr. Sivankutty told mediapersons here on Sunday. The Minister said he had held talks with Health Minister Veena George. A detailed plan on how to implement the reopening would be drawn up in a few days after talks with other departments concerned. Steps would be taken to keep students safe and prevent disease transmission. Safety guidelines The Minister said decisions would have to be taken on various aspects such as how to schedule classes and timetables to ensure distancing, transportation of students, and protocols to be put in place for lower primary students who may not be able to follow safety guidelines easily. Talks would be held with teachers’ organisations in this regard. Meetings would be held with District Collectors, deputy directors of education and school authorities to complete the arrangements before October 15. Mr. Sivankutty said that students and parents need not have any apprehensions about the arrangements. Feedback from the public and people’s representatives would be considered. Minister confident He expressed confidence that the experience gained from holding SSLC and Class XII examinations amid the pandemic would help the government open schools as planned. Decision hailed Meanwhile, the CBSE School Managements’ Association has welcomed the government decision on reopening schools. President of the association T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan said educational institutions affiliated to the CBSE were bound by the State government guidelines. The next one-and-a-half months would provide sufficient time to make arrangements for school reopening, he said. Measures such as masking and distancing would not be difficult to implement, and if additional guidelines were issued, these would be implemented after discussions with parents.  Students and parents need not have any apprehensions about the arrangements. V. Sivankutty Minister for General Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-preparing-action-plan-for-school-reopening/article36560098.ece
20 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Eight killed in road accidents||Eight persons were killed in separate road accidents, one of them a freak mishap in Nalgonda district, on Sunday. Police said the accident occurred when the driver of a car was overtaking a truck and hit a container truck. The vehicle, coming from Rajasthan and headed towards Nuziveedu, turned turtle and its driver Prashant and the front-seat occupant K. Gopal died instantly. The police soon, at around 7 a.m., began rescue operation and pressed a crane into service to separate the accident debris and extricate Rachana, Gopal’s wife and their five-year-old daughter Riya Sri, from the rear seat. As a result, traffic on the highway came to a standstill to a distance of about 300 metres. Even as the operation was in progress, a speeding car going towards Suryapet rammed the rear of a stationary truck in the traffic, and both its occupants too died on the spot. The victims were identified as Shiva Prasad and Vinay Kumar, residents of Hayathnagar, going for a puja in Suryapet. Police said Rachana was shifted to a private hospital for emergency care, and she breathed her last while undergoing treatment. Baby Riya Sri who escaped without any injuries was handed to the family members. Bus rams auto Near Maddimadugu village of Podara mandal in Nagarkurnool district, an RTC bus of Devarakonda depot rammed an auto killing two women and a man and grievously injuring three others. All of them were from a single family of a tribal hamlet near Miryalaguda. The family had visited Maddimadugu village to tonsure the heads of a couple of children on Saturday and were returning home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8-killed-in-accidents/article36560079.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,||II PU, CET results to be out today||Results of II PU examination and Common Entrance Test (CET) will be declared on Monday. The CET for admission to professional courses was conducted on August 28, 29, and 30, while the II PU examination were held in August-September. The results were being declared in record time, said C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Minister for Higher Education. Number of students Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh is likely to announce the II PU results. As many as 18,413 students, including 592 fresh candidates, 351 repeaters, and 17,470 private candidates appeared for the exam.  While the CET results will be made public at 4 p.m., II PU results will be available after 10.30 a.m. For CET results, visitcetonline.karnataka. gov.in/kea/and for PU results, visitwww.karresults .nic.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ii-pu-cet-results-to-be-out-today/article36559806.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Jobs for all youth if AAP wins in Uttarakhand’||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday promised employment to all youth in Uttarakhand if the party is voted to power in next year’s Assembly polls in the State. Addressing a press conference at Haldwani in Nainital district, along with AAP’s chief ministerial candidate Ajay Kothiyal, Mr. Kejriwal said one youth in every family would be given an allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month till employment was provided. He said, “We will reserve 80% of jobs in government and the private sector for the youth of Uttarakhand and within six months one lakh jobs will be created. A Ministry of Employment and Migration Affairs will be created, which will explore new employment opportunities.” Sensing space for an alternative with the ruling BJP changing Chief Ministers in quick succession and the opposition Congress in disarray, the Delhi Chief Minister said political parties missed no opportunity to ransack Uttarakhand’s resources in the State’s 21-year history. He promised to undo the damage done in 21 years in just 21 months. Mr. Kejriwal said, “The youth want jobs, and it shouldn’t seem like they are begging for it. It is rather the right of the youth to ask for employment from the government.” The promise of jobs was the second poll promise made by the Chief Minister who had earlier announced free electricity up to 300 units to every family, free power to farmers, waiver of old bills and 24x7 power supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jobs-for-all-if-aap-wins-in-uttarakhand/article36559960.ece
20 September 2021||Hassan,||Back to school: Tough road ahead for teachers||Children have returned to schools after a gap of several months due to the pandemic, leaving teachers with the difficult task of handling them. Many have forgotten the basics of reading and writing, a majority of students are struggling to recall multiplication tables and for some sitting in the class for three hours without a break has become a task. Except for a few, a majority of students, particularly in rural areas, remained away from schools since the outbreak of the pandemic, which forced the government to shut the schools. However, a few who could afford cellphones and the internet remained in touch with teachers online. Classes 6 to 8 began on September 6 and classes IX and X were opened on August 23. Though attendance is not compulsory, teachers are insisting that parents send their children to school in the interest of their studies. “It takes a long time to bring students back on track,” said Raghavendra Bhat, who teaches at Government High School at Megaravalli in Tirthahalli taluk. The teachers tried to keep in touch with students through mobile phones and WhatsApp all these months. “A majority of students need extra attention. We are taking them into confidence by giving them simple assignments to do at home. The purpose is to engage them gradually in the process of learning. Otherwise, they might give up studies,” he said. Normally students in rural areas assist their parents in agriculture works during vacation. However, this time as there was no school for several months, many had taken up non-agricultural work. “Some parents due to financial problems sent their children to different places to work and earn. When we enquiry, the parents maintain that their children had been to a relative’s place. They are yet to return to school. Moreover, the department has not made attendance compulsory. Hence, we cannot force them to attend,” said a teacher, who wished not to be named. The teacher said many students were still working at construction sites, grocery shops and vegetable markets as helpers. Good response “Children from families with education background are doing well. But, the parents with no good income could hardly afford to cellphones and internet connection. We insisted such children visit schools at least once a week in the last few months. Because of our efforts, our students have not given up studies,” said Rekha Prabhakar, teacher at Government Higher Primary School at Nulligere in Hosanagar taluk. In some schools, the situation is not bad. As the schools reopened, the students happily returned. “In our school attendance in classes 6 and 7 is full. Students and their parents are happy that the schools reopened,” said Chaitra K.N., teacher at GHPS at Byadarahalli in Hassan taluk. The teachers of the school had formed a Whatsapp group of parents and were in touch with them regularly. “When schools were shut, we distributed work-sheets to parents and ensured students fill them up. This has helped us keep the children learning during these months,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/back-to-school-tough-road-ahead-for-teachers/article36559836.ece
20 September 2021||MYSURU,||MCC warns of cut in water supply if dues aren’t cleared forthwith||With drinking water dues climbing and appeals by the cash-strapped Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) not having the desired effect, a plan is being considered to disconnect drinking water supply and underground drainage connection if the outstanding sum is not paid immediately. MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy has warned of such an action if the defaulters don’t clear their dues immediately. “The MCC needs to effectively supply water to households and to other places every day. For this, the consumers have to support it by clearing the dues. This will help in strengthening the supply system and improving supply,” the Commissioner said and added that the unpaid water bills had accumulated to Rs. 195 crore.  Sometime ago, the MCC had said the dues also included several crores of rupees that was carried forward to MCC’s account after the Vani Vilas Water Works, an arm of KUWSDB, was identified to manage water distribution on behalf of MCC. Among the defaulters include many government institutions. There are gram panchayats too that are now part of the city and get bulk water supply from MCC. According to an estimate prepared by MCC a few months ago, government institutions alone owe several crores to the MCC. The total outstanding from domestic, commercial, and industrial connections is estimated at Rs. 150 crore. Despite repeated warnings of disconnection, the MCC is unable to realise the dues. The water dues and also the non-payment of property tax has become a big worry to MCC. Bulk water supply The gram panchayats that get bulk water supply from MCC for subsequent distribution in their limits had sought revision of rates, arguing that raw water was being supplied to them unlike filtered water to connections within the city. The MCC had also written to the State government seeking its nod to waive interest accrued on the principal amount of water tax for a one-time settlement of dues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mcc-warns-of-cut-in-water-supply-if-dues-arent-cleared-forthwith/article36560225.ece
20 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Eight killed in three accidents||Eight persons were killed in separate road accidents, one of them a freak mishap in Nalgonda, on Sunday. While five died in two related accidents happening in a span of one hour, two others were killed when an RTC bus hit an auto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eight-killed-in-three-accidents/article36560066.ece
20 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Ports Dept. to get expert advice to prevent erosion||With the Asian Development Bank (ADB)-funded Someshwara Beach Rejuvenation Project coming to an end and the southern parts of the stretch in Batpady getting completely eroded, the Ports Department has decided to get technical guidance from the Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS), Pune, to prevent erosion. The ADB-funded project was on for about four years during which time, a special unit of the department constructed 10 groyens horizontally into the sea between Uchchila and Batpady. It also constructed two offshore reefs on the Uchchila-Batpady stretch. Both these structures were intended to break the velocity of waves and help beach rejuvenation. Nearly Rs. 240 crore is said to have been spent on this project. While beach erosion has considerably reduced on the Uchchila stretch where the groyens and one offshore reef have been constructed, it has aggravated in the Batpady stretch where one reef has been constructed. Local residents have been demanding construction two or three more groyens towards the Kerala border, which is yet to happen. Executive Engineer of Udupi Division with Ports Department Tharakesh Phayde told The Hindu that a team from CWPRS is expected to visit Batpady stretch this month-end or during the first week in October to study encroachment and find out the reasons for erosion. CWPRS will also be asked to evaluate the impact of the beach rejuvenation project. Once the institute submits its recommendations, the department will take necessary action, he said. Regarding restoration of the Fisheries Road that has been eroded for about 500 metres towards Batpady end-point, Mr. Phayde said that the road does not come under the Ports Department. After ascertaining which department owns the road, necessary action will be taken, he said. Admitting that erosion has severely affected local residents, Mr. Phayde said that the beach protection work pursuant to CWPRS report should be able to protect the road once it is newly formed. A senior engineer, who worked in the ADB project, said that the groyens and reefs should help reclamation of the beach. But a season or two is needed to get the desired results, he said and added that groyens can help prevent erosion on the Uchchila stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ports-dept-to-get-expert-advice-to-prevent-erosion/article36560206.ece
20 September 2021||Hyderabad,||Sunday slump in testing, 173 COVID cases in TS||Telangana recorded 173 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday as only 35,160 tests were conducted. The last time around 170 cases were recorded was in March this year when the second wave of the pandemic was taking root. Back then too, around 32,000-40,000 samples were being tested in a day. The testing on Sunday was unusually low for this month which has seen around 70,000 samples being examined in a day. From Thursday, the number of tests had fallen to around 52,000-60,000. The low number of tests coincided with the commencement of the Health department’s special COVID-19 vaccination drive. The new 173 infections included 64 from Greater Hyderabad region, 18 from Warangal Urban, and 17 from Karimnagar. Eight districts, including Wanaparthy, Nirmal and Narayanpet, recorded zero cases. The death toll rose by one on Sunday, taking the total to 3,904. The State’s infection tally stands at 6,63,454. Of those, 5,005 were active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tests-dip-ts-logs-173-new-covid-cases/article36560078.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Jobs for youth if AAP wins in Uttarakhand’||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday promised employment to all youth in Uttarakhand if the party is voted to power in next year’s Assembly polls in the State. Addressing a press conference at Haldwani in Nainital district, along with AAP’s chief ministerial candidate Ajay Kothiyal, Mr. Kejriwal said one youth in every family would be given an allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month till employment was provided. He said, “We will reserve 80% of jobs in government and the private sector for the youth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jobs-for-youth-if-aap-wins-in-uttarakhand/article36559942.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Crowds are back||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crowds-are-back/article36559981.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Crowds are back||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crowds-are-back/article36559810.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||Centre yet to take call on 68 names sent by SC Collegium||The Centre is yet to take a call on the recommendations made by the Supreme Court Collegium on appointing 68 judicial officers and advocates as judges of various High Courts, sources aware of the procedure for appointment to the higher judiciary have said. Between August 8 and September 1, the Collegium processed over 100 names and finally sent 68 names to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-yet-to-take-call-on-68-names-sent-by-sc-collegium/article36560236.ece
20 September 2021||Vijayawada,||CM thanks people for giving YSRCP huge mandate||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has thanked the people of the State for giving his party a decisive mandate in the ZPTC and MPTC elections. In a message on Twitter on Sunday, he said the victory put a huge responsibility on him. “By the grace of God and people’s blessings this massive victory became possible. It increased my responsibility towards every single person and family in this State for the support and love showered by them,” he said. “I will express my gratitude to everyone through a video message on Monday morning after the final results of MPTC and ZPTC come out,” the Chief Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-thanks-people-for-giving-ysrcp-huge-mandate/article36560321.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||1.2 lakh deaths in road accidents in 2020: NCRB||India recorded 1.2 lakh cases of “deaths due to negligence relating to road accidents” in 2020, with 328 persons losing their lives every day on average, despite the COVID-19 lockdown, according to government data. As many as 3.92 lakh lives were lost in three years in deaths due to negligence related to road accidents, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) revealed in its annual ‘Crime India’ report for 2020. While 1.2 lakh deaths were recorded in 2020, the figures stood at 1.36 lakh in 2019 and 1.35 lakh in 2018, the data show. The country logged 1.35 lakh cases of “hit and run” since 2018, the report of the NCRB, which functions under the Union Home Ministry, showed. In 2020 alone, there were 41,196 cases of “hit and run” while there were 47,504 such cases in 2019 and 47,028 in 2018, the report said. On average, there were 112 cases of “hit and run” reported across the country every day in the past year, according to the data. The cases of causing “hurt” by rash or negligent driving on public way stood at 1.3 lakh in 2020, 1.60 lakh in 2019 and 1.66 lakh in 2018, the data showed. Fifty-two cases of deaths due to negligence related to rail accidents were recorded across the country in 2020, 55 cases in 2019 and 35 in 2018, the report showed. During 2020, India logged 133 cases of “deaths due to medical negligence”; 201 such cases were reported in 2019 and 218 in 2018, the NCRB said. There were 51 cases of “deaths due to negligence of civic bodies” in 2020, while there were 147 cases in 2019 and 40 in 2018, according to the report. Another 6,367 cases of “deaths due to other negligence” were reported across the country in 2020; 7,912 cases in 2019 and 8,687 in 2018, it showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12-lakh-people-died-in-road-accidents-in-2020-ncrb/article36559618.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Fault lines may deepen||The manner in whichCapt. Amarinder Singh was removedis likely to sharpen the fault lines between the Gandhi family loyalists and the group of 23 leaders who sought internal reforms.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fault-lines-may-deepen/article36559805.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Termites eat away ballots!||As many as 301 ballot papers belonging to Pulimeru MPTC and ZPTC elections in East Godavari district have been eaten by termites. Similarly, 593 ballot papers were eaten by termites at Gowdanahalli village of Madakasira mandal in Anantpaur district.Page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/termites-eat-away-ballots/article36559762.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Gehlot hopes Amarinder will not harm party||Stating that the Congress’ high command was forced to take a decision in the party’s interest, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday expressed the hope that former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh would not take any step that would harm the party.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gehlot-hopes-amarinder-will-not-harm-party/article36559765.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||BJP wants explanation||The BJP has sought answers from the Congress leadership on Capt. Amarinder Singh’s charge that Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was “anti-national”.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-wants-explanation/article36559811.ece
20 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Naidu lauds Paralympians for record medal harvest||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday praised the grit and determination of Indian Paralympians and said they brought cheer and hope to the entire nation in these troubled times through their stellar performances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naidu-lauds-paralympians-for-record-medal-harvest/article36559944.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||Centre yet to approve SC Collegium’s list of names||The Centre is yet to take a call on the recommendations made by the Supreme Court Collegium on appointing a total of 68 judicial officers and advocates as judges of various High Courts, sources aware of the procedure for appointment to the higher judiciary have said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-yet-to-approve-sc-collegiums-list-of-names/article36559945.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC dismisses IAF officer’s bail plea||The Delhi High Court has said investigation is necessary against an Indian Air Force officer, who became part of an online matrimonial site using a different name, despite having a wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-hc-dismisses-iaf-officers-bail-plea/article36559946.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC declines relief to IAF officer||The Delhi High Court has said investigation is necessary against an Indian Air Force officer, who registered on an online matrimonial site using a different name, despite having a wife and two kids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-hc-declines-relief-to-iaf-officer/article36560152.ece
20 September 2021||Kolkata,||Life opened a new avenue for me: Babul Supriyo||Former Union Minister and BJP MP Babul Supriyo, who switched over to the Trinamool Congress, on Sunday said life has now opened a new avenue for him from the prospect of being ‘retired hurt’ from public affairs not so long ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/life-opened-a-new-avenue-for-me-babul-supriyo/article36560154.ece
20 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||2.57 lakh vaccine doses given in Belagavi||By administering over 2.57 lakh doses of vaccine in a single day, Belagavi district stood second in the entire nation, Deputy Commissioner of Belagavi M.G. Hiremath has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/257-lakh-vaccine-doses-given-in-belagavi/article36560043.ece
20 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Cable operators warned||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has warned local cable operators against telecasting any undesirable programmes that hurt peace and tranquillity or religious sentiments. Chairing a review committee meeting in Dharwad, Mr. Patil said that stringent action will be taken against those violating the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cable-operators-warned/article36560049.ece
20 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Naidu lauds Paralympians for record medal harvest||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday praised the grit and determination of Indian Paralympians and said they brought cheer and hope to the entire nation in these troubled times through their stellar performances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naidu-lauds-paralympians-for-record-medal-harvest/article36560237.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC declines relief to IAF officer||The Delhi High Court has said investigation is necessary against an Indian Air Force officer, who registered on an online matrimonial site using a different name, despite having a wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-hc-declines-relief-to-iaf-officer/article36560238.ece
20 September 2021||MANGALURU,||14-year-old boy rescued||Railway Protection Force personnel at Mangaluru Junction rescued a 14-year-old boy from Surat who was travelling on Train No 6355 Gandhidham- Nagercoil Express. After directions came from the CWC, the boy was lodged in a child care centre in Surathkal here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-year-old-boy-rescued/article36560204.ece
20 September 2021||Chennai,||Pay tax liability soon to reduce interest burden||Even though the due date for filing income tax returns has been extended to December 31, taxpayers should note that they have to pay 1% interest every month if their remaining tax liability exceeds Rs. 1 lakh and if it was not paid by July 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pay-tax-liability-soon-to-reduce-interest-burden/article36559982.ece
20 September 2021||Coimbatore,||Coimbatore makes a mark in inoculation||Coimbatore district is leading in the State in COVID-19 vaccination by covering the highest percentage of the eligible population, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coimbatore-makes-a-mark-in-inoculation/article36560303.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||Centre yet to take call on 68 names sent by SC Collegium||The Union government is yet to take a call on the recommendations made by the Supreme Court Collegium on appointing a total of 68 judicial officers and advocates as judges of various High Courts, sources aware of the procedure for appointment to the higher judiciary have said. Between August 8 and September 1, the Collegium processed over 100 names recommended by various High Courts and had finally sent 68 names to the government for appointment as judges to 12 High Courts. The government is yet to take a call on the names recommended by the SC collegium headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, the sources said. Out of the 68 names, two from Karnataka and one from Jammu and Kashmir have been sent for a third time, while 10 others have been recommended for a second time. The rest are fresh recommendations. Prior to these recommendations, in a historic decision on August 17, the SC Collegium had sent nine names, including three women, for elevation as judges of the Supreme Court. The names were cleared with significant pace by the government leading to their swearing-in as judges on August 31. On Friday, the Supreme Court Collegium recommended eight names of judges, including Acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court Justice Rajesh Bindal, for their elevation as Chief Justices of different High Courts. Besides, the marathon Collegium meetings on Thursday and Friday have led to recommendations of transfer of five High Court Chief Justices, including Tripura High Court Chief Justice Akil Kureshi, and 28 other judges. The combined sanctioned strength of the 25 High Courts of the country is 1,098 judges. As on September 1, there were 465 vacancies, according ti data put in public domain by the Law Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-yet-to-take-call-on-68-names-sent-by-sc-collegium/article36559550.ece
20 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Captain baiter, Sidhu loyalist takes charge||Charanjit Singh Channi, the Congress’s choice as the next Chief Minister of Punjab, will be the first Dalit to head the government in the State. Mr. Channi, 49, was the State Technical Education Minister in Captain Amarinder Singh’s Cabinet. A close aide of State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, he was among the Ministers who had rebelled against Capt. Amarinder, expressing lack of faith in the former Chief Minister’s ability to fulfil the party’s election promises.  Journey begins in 2002 The three-time MLA began his political journey as president of the Kharar municipal council in 2002 — a post he held for two terms. He was first elected to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha in 2007 as an Independent from Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district. Later he joined the Congress and retained the seat in 2012 and again in 2017. He was elected the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly from 2015 to 2016 during the SAD-BJP regime. In 2017, Mr. Channi secured a place in the Amarinder Singh government as a Cabinet Minister, handling the portfolios of Technical Education, Industrial Training, Employment Generation and Tourism and Cultural Affairs. Share of controversies The Chief Minister-designate has had his share of controversies. In 2018, a woman IAS officer had accused him of sending an “inappropriate text” message. Thereafter, the Punjab Women Commission had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and had sought a response from the government. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had then asked Mr. Channi to apologise to the woman officer and had said he believed the matter had been “resolved” to her satisfaction. But amid the infighting in the party and Mr. Channi’s strident opposition to Capt. Amarinder, the issue returned to haunt him in May this year when the women’s panel chief threatened to go on a hunger strike if the State government failed to apprise her within a week of its stand on the issue. In 2018 again, as Minister he was at the centre of a row when he chose to toss a coin to decide on postings for lecturers at a polytechnic. Mr. Channi had invited 37 lecturers for a discussion before handing them orders All the candidates had been selected through the Punjab Public Service Commission examination. While 35 lecturers amicably reached a consensus over the station of their choice, two candidates wanted the same station in Patiala. To break this deadlock, Mr. Channi then decided to toss a coin, which he later said “was done after both the candidates had agreed to it”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/captain-baiter-sidhu-acolyte-takes-charge/article36559560.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anti-tank missile completes all trials||The helicopter-launched Nag Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM), Helina, being developed indigenously, has completed all trials and the process for issuing of acceptance of necessity (AoN) by the Army has started, said Sachin Sood, project director of Helina and Dhruvastra at the Defence Research and Development Laboratory (DRDL), Hyderabad, a laboratory of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). “The launcher and missile are ready. There are some Human-Machine Interface [HMI] to be realised, which are going on now,” Dr. Sood told The Hindu . While the cost estimate was yet to be done, each missile was expected to cost under Rs. 1 crore, and around 500 missiles and 40 launchers would be required initially, he added. Once the AoN is issued, the request for proposal (RFP) would be issued. Some firing trials would be done from the first production lot by the Army at a later stage. Helina is a third-generation fire-and-forget class ATGM mounted on an indigenous Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH), and has a minimum range of 500 metres and a maximum range of 7 kilometres. All issues with the minimum range had been sorted out and the integration with other weapons on the platform was over, said Dr. Sood. Stating that the Air Force had asked for the feasibility of integrating the Helina on the soon-to-be inducted Light Combat Helicopter (LCH), Dr. Sood said this would be done and would bring in economies of scale in the production of the missile. “There is also very good export potential,” Dr. Sood added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-tank-missile-completes-all-trials/article36559572.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Security alert on threat of human bombs||Security agencies issued an alert early this month on the possibility of human bombs targeting vital installations or targeted individuals as part of an Islamic State terror plot to eliminate enemies of jihad . Acting on specific information that ‘Al-Saqri Foundation for Military Sciences’ had published a book in multiple languages on the ways and means of making explosive belts and vests, the alert was issued to intensify security arrangements at vantage points, sources in the intelligence agencies told The Hindu on Sunday. The book titled The Mobile Bomb, released by “Al-Azm Media Foundation” associated with the IS, explains how various types of explosive belt/vests could be made with different chemicals. Besides explanatory content on the making of bombs, the book lays emphasis on ‘Media Jihad’. While the accounts of many IS supporters were blocked by cyber security agencies in the recent months, the book was being circulated on certain social media platforms by activists propagating the jihadi ideology. “Working in the media is the same as performing jihad …if your intentions are right, then the media jihad against the enemy is not less important than facing the enemy in a fight,” a police officer quoted an excerpt from the book. Evade cameras IS urged its cadres to avoid being noticed or identified in surveillance cameras while executing their plans and start their mission from remote or deserted locations where there would be no Closed Circuit Television network. Calling for meticulous planning, the terrorist outfit urged its operatives to cover their faces, change bodily features and use different number plates for vehicles during the operations in remote or deserted locations, the sources said. Stating that the IS soldiers were fighting the fiercest of battles, including those who carried out ‘martyrdom’ attacks, the outfit called upon its sympathisers to support by way of spending time, effort and money and prevent the enemy from accessing information about the jihadists. The alert sent to all city and district police chiefs in the State has come at a time when security forces have enhanced cover following an input that armed militants in Afghanistan could “aggressively” infiltrate into India, particularly in Jammu and Kashmir. Security has also been beefed for Israeli establishments, settlements and tourists following information that they could be targeted, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-alert-on-threat-of-human-bombs/article36559545.ece
20 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. a model State, says Adityanath||On completing four-and-a-half years in power, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said his tenure would be remembered as a “memorable” one in the history of the State from the point of security and good governance, and that it was looked upon as a “model” by the rest of the country and the world. Making public his government’s ‘report card’ at a press conference here, the Chief Minister hit out at the Opposition. Targeting the previous governments, especially the Samajwadi Party rule from 2012 to 2017, Mr. Adityanath said that earlier “professional criminals and mafia used to create an atmosphere of fear and terror and spread lawlessless” under the patronage of power. Uttar Pradesh had the reputation of being a “ danga pradesh (riot province)” , he said, claiming that under Akhilesh Yadav there was a big riot in the State every three or four days. In contrast, he claimed, there had been zero riots in the State since 2017. ‘150 shot dead’ Since March 2017, 150 suspected criminals have been shot dead in alleged exchange of fire, termed “encounters” by the State, while 3,427 others were injured, said a booklet released by the government on the occasion. The government also said it had arrested 44,759 persons under the Gangsters Act, booked 630 under the National Security Act and seized and demolished property worth Rs. 1,886 crore belonging to alleged mafia dons. The government said it had taken Uttar Pradesh out of the “BIMARU” tag and given it a label of prosperity. Mr. Adityanath said his government took “tough action within the law” against criminals and mafia irrespective of their caste, religion or region. In the booklet, the government also highlighted that it had put up hoardings of those accused of violence and damaging property during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens in 2019 and recovered damages from them. It also shut down “illegal slaughterhouses” and brought a new law against illegal conversion of religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-a-model-state-says-adityanath/article36559556.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||Fault lines deepen within Congress||The political turmoil in Punjab Congress and the manner in which Captain Amarinder Singh was removed as the Chief Minister is likely to sharpen the fault lines between the Gandhi family loyalists and the group of 23 (G-23) senior leaders who had sought internal reforms in the party. Amid signs of assertion by the Congress high command — especially former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra — two cryptic tweets from Lok Sabha member from Punjab Manish Tewari and Rajya Sabha member Kapil Sibal pointed to a divide over the Punjab developments. “Changing Guard... Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Punjab. Age old saying : A stitch in time saves nine Will it?” tweeted Mr. Sibal on Sunday. Full-time chief While his tweet can be read as questioning the timing of the Punjab decision, another interpretation could be that it is a reiteration of the G-23’s demand for a “full time”, elected party president instead of the current arrangement of Sonia Gandhi being the party’s interim president. ‘Ekla Chalo Re’ Known for his proximity to Capt. Amarinder, Mr. Tewari did not refer to Punjab but posted a 32-year-old picture of Rajiv Gandhi, addressing a National Students Union of India convention in April 1989, to make a political point. “This was the Congress!” tweeted Mr. Tewari. Later, in another tweet, he added that “there is dignity in Ekla Chalo Re (Go it alone)”. On Saturday, Lok Sabha member from Thiruvananthapuram Shashi Tharoor, who is also a G-23 member, spoke of the need for a “permanent president” for the Congress party. “We all want Congress to have a permanent president. No one will speak against Sonia Gandhi. Sonia Gandhi is a leader who has led us so well. But even she has been saying for years that she has a desire to step down,” Mr. Tharoor told reporters in Kerala. “We saw a new leadership emerge under Rahul Gandhi when Sonia Gandhi had stepped down. But if he is willing to come back into the party’s leadership role, that needs to happen fast,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fault-lines-deepen-within-congress/article36559558.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Taliban have responsibility to exercise good governance, to be inclusive’||India and Saudi Arabia have discussed the way forward in Afghanistan, says Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal Bin Farhan Al Saud . D uring his first visit to India, he spelt out plans for investments in India, despite the delays in Saudi Arabia’s $100 billion pledge made in 2019, and offered Saudi Arabia’s “good offices” for any talks between India and Pakistan.  You spoke with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar about Afghanistan… But, as of now, neither Saudi Arabia nor India actually has a diplomatic presence there or any formal engagement with the self-styled Taliban government. How do you hope to cooperate on the issue? On Afghanistan, I think the thing that is of most concern is stability. Our other main priority is security and that it does not become a source of transnational terrorism. And in that regard, the leadership in Afghanistan now, the Taliban, has a responsibility to exercise good judgment and good governance, to be inclusive, to bring in all people in Afghanistan, and to forge a path that can lead to stability, security and prosperity. And they must also take into account the concerns of the international community as regards the security situation. Unlike 25 years ago, Saudi Arabia has not maintained a diplomatic engagement with the Taliban regime this time, while rivals Qatar, Turkey and Iran have. Why? We hadn’t been in contact with the Taliban for many years and that was a policy decision we took then that they must completely renounce any connection to transnational terrorism. They have made certain promises on that regard and even recently reaffirmed those promises, and we look to them to adhere to them. We will work with our international partners in an effort to make sure that that commitment holds and that they stick to it. And we will base our decisions on that. Do you think that there is any chance that the Taliban are going to be moderate when it comes to their stand on women’s education, terrorism and so on? And what exactly can the international community do if they don’t? There’s a lot we can do. Engagement, setting a good example, cooperation and coordination can help to encourage actors to go in the right direction… Would you suggest withholding international aid until they do? I think international aid is directed primarily for the benefit of the Afghan people and, therefore, our position is that aid should continue and should not be affected by these situations. On India-Saudi Arabia ties, is there any movement on the $100 billion investment plan made in 2019 for India (by the Saudi government and Aramco)? We have a very broad ranging relationship with India. India is one of our key partners, a strategic partner and for us, the relationship is a top priority. Of course, COVID-19 has been a challenge for all of us and has perhaps delayed some of this. Nonetheless, India has become the third largest trade partner for KSA, a significant growth in both trade and also investment. When this announcement was made, we had $500 million direct investments, and we are more than $3 billion now. Is there a need to reassess the $100 billion figure and how Saudi Arabia hopes to proceed on investment in India? Our priorities haven’t changed, our excitement about the relationship hasn’t changed. COVID-19 has dampened some activities just because of the restrictions on travel, and, of course, the effects it had on oil, etc. I’m confident that not only will we achieve the ambitious targets that we have set, we will probably exceed them over time. Earlier this year, India asked OPEC countries to rationalise oil prices, and there was an exchange that led to the Indian Energy Minister terming the statement by the Saudi Energy Minister an “undiplomatic response from a friendly nation”. Did this come up in your talks? It’s not my portfolio, so we did not address it. But I would say that Saudi Arabia has always worked with OPEC to stabilise the oil market. The primary driver is a stable market that allows for both consumers and producers to benefit. Another issue that has come up between India and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), which Saudi Arabia is a leader of, are statements about Jammu and Kashmir, the status of Indian Muslims, communal violence. Did you discuss this with your Indian counterparts? From our perspective, these are domestic issues. And it is up to the people of India and to the Government of India to address these concerns. And we would, of course, always support any initiatives in this regard that the Indian government takes, but from our perspective, it’s a domestic affair. Will Saudi Arabia take the initiative to stop these OIC statements ? On the statements as regards to Kashmir, this is an issue that continues to be a dispute between two countries and, therefore, what we would encourage is that there should be a focus on a path of dialogue and discussion among India and Pakistan to resolve these issues in a way that can settle these concerns permanently. Given the closeness of ties between Saudi Arabia and India and Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, are you disappointed that there aren’t talks between the two countries? We will always provide our good offices when we can, but it’s up to India and Pakistan to decide when the time is right.  We will always provide our good offices, but it’s up to India and Pakistan to decide on talks when the time is right||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/taliban-have-responsibility-to-exercise-good-governance-to-be-inclusive/article36559574.ece
20 September 2021||Jaipur,||‘Hope Amarinder won’t hurt Cong.’||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said the Congress’s high command was forced to take a decision in Punjab in the party’s interest on the basis of the feedback received from the MLAs and the public at large. Mr. Gehlot expressed hope that former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh would not take any step that would harm the party. Mr. Gehlot said Capt. Amarinder is a respected leader of the Congress and had himself stated that the party had kept him as the Chief Minister for nine-and-a-half years. “Capt. Amarinder Singh has served the people of Punjab by working to the best of his ability,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted. Mr. Gehlot said since the high command was forced to take a decision in the party’s interest, it would be wrong to blame it for the timing of the change in the State. “I personally believe that the Congress president has to face the resentment of several leaders who are in the race, while selecting a CM. The same leaders later blame the high command for its decision.” “In such moments, one should listen to one’s conscience,” Mr. Gehlot said. He said while the people should be worried about the fascist forces taking the country in the wrong direction, the responsibility of the Congress members had increased manifold in this situation. The senior Congress leader said party workers should rise above their personal interests and think about the party and the nation. Mr. Gehlot said he earnestly hoped that Captain Amarinder would continue to work in future keeping the party’s interest above anything else.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hope-amarinder-wont-hurt-cong/article36559564.ece
20 September 2021||Chandigarh,||Congress faces challenge of retaining Hindu votes in State||After the Congress high command ‘cornered’ Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh into resigning from his post, making it amply clear that the Assembly election due early next year would be contested under his detractor and party’s State president Navjot Singh Sidhu, the road ahead for the party is likely to be bumpy. Even as 78 of the 80 MLAs on September 18 attended the meet of the Punjab Congress Legislature Party (CLP) convened by the All India Congress Committee (AICC), in which a resolution was passed authorising the Congress president to select the new CLP leader, Capt. Amarinder’s stance making it clear that he was “not hanging his boots anytime soon”, has set alarm bells ringing within the party even as Mr. Sidhu has other challenges to face ahead of the election. While contesting the election under the aegis of Mr. Sidhu would help in galvanising the party cadre because of his mass appeal and oratory skills, the anti-incumbency factor among the public against the ruling Congress would not be easy for Mr. Sidhu to counter. Though Mr. Sidhu has been pointing the finger at his own government, accusing it of failing to resolve several issues — be it the Bargari sacrilege, the failure to curb the drugs and transport mafias and other unfulfilled 2017 election promises — he would be under immense pressure to deliver on the promises with the election just a few months away. Over the past few months, Mr. Sidhu has been consistently hitting out at the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), led by the ‘Badal’ family, in an attempt to make inroads into the ‘Panthic’ (Sikh) vote bank. In Punjab, ‘Panthic’ voters have been traditionally associated with the Akali Dal, and the Hindu voters with the Congress, especially under Capt. Amarinder’s moderate face at the helm. Some political observers, however, feel that in an attempt to woo the ‘Panthic’ voters, Mr. Sidhu may end up losing substantial support of the Hindu vote bank. Moreover, with the SAD breaking alliance with the BJP, there is a good chance that the Hindu vote bank could eventually shift towards the BJP, whichover the years had been contesting as the junior partner in the former BJP-Akali Dal alliance. “Sidhu has been targeting the Akali Dal and questioning their credentials as a ‘Panthic’ party surrounding religion-related issues to garner the Sikh votes, but he is not realising in this entire episode Hindu voters, could silently shift. Capt. Amarinder has a moderate image and is an acceptable leader among Hindus in Punjab, but the party has already sidelined him, which shall only cause trouble,” said Professor Ashutosh Kumar of the Political Science Department of Panjab University. Not just outside, but within the party as well Mr. Sidhu’s trouble seems to be far from over. Capt. Amarinder has clearly stated that he would decide his future political course of action after consultation with his supporters who have stood by him for more than five decades. While the 79-year-old outgoing Chief Minister may have lost the numbers game with his loyalists in the party he could still play spoilsport. Already Capt Amarinder has hit out at Mr. Sidhu, targeting his “Pakistan connection” and dubbing him “anti-national, dangerous, unstable and incompetent”. This comes as the Opposition parties, including the SAD and the Aam Aadmi Party, have already been cornering Mr. Sidhu, accusing him of trying to fool the people of Punjab by pointing the finger at the government of Capt. Amarinder, of which he had been a part as a Cabinet Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-faces-challenge-of-retaining-hindu-votes-in-state/article36559566.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||End backdoor entries to educational institutions: HC||The Delhi High Court has remarked that permitting “backdoor” entry of students to any educational institution would be grossly unfair to those candidates who are denied admission, despite being more meritorious, on account of the seats being taken and blocked by such entrants. “It is high time that such back-door entries in educational institutions, including medical colleges, should stop. Lakhs of students all over the country work hard and toil to secure admissions to educational institutions on the basis of their merit,” a Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh said. The court’s remarks came while dismissing an appeal filed by five students who were granted admission in 2016 by L.N. Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, Bhopal, without their undergoing the centralised counselling conducted by the Department of Medical Education (DME). The Medical Council of India (MCI), had then issued letters of discharge to the five students. Against the discharge letters, the students moved the court seeking that they be permitted to continue their studies in the college as regular medical students. In the meantime, the college continued to treat them as students and allowed them to attend the course, appear in the examinations and get promoted. “The petitioners [students] have only themselves to blame for the mess that they find themselves in,” the court said, adding if they had acted in terms of the discharge letters, they would have saved four years. The court said that despite not having any orders in their favour, they continued in the course at their own peril. It relied on a judgment of the Supreme Court where it held that in the case of back-door entries, i.e. grant of admissions in medical colleges by bypassing the central counselling system, the court would not allow the students to continue their course on equitable considerations. Raps medical college The court also came down heavily on the medical college saying it appears to have brazenly gone ahead to grant admission to the five students between September 4-28, 2016, without communicating the vacant positions to the DME. It noted that the medical college does not appear to have informed the DME of the vacancies, and proceeded to grant admissions to the five students much before the close of the date of admission on October 7, 2016. Due to this the other meritorious students remained unaware that they could stake a claim against a seat in the medical college on the basis of their merit, the High Court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/end-backdoor-entries-to-educational-institutions-hc/article36559541.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will Congress act on Captain’s charge against Sidhu, asks BJP||The BJP on Sunday demanded answers from the Congress after former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh termed State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu an “anti-national.” Former Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said the allegations were serious and questioned the silence of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi over the claims. “We demand that Congress speak on the issue and put forward their version. Will the Congress take cognisance of these allegations and take any action on the issue?” Mr. Javadekar said. Hours after quitting as the Chief Minister, Captain Amarinder had on Saturday alleged that Mr. Sidhu was overly friendly with the Pakistan military establishment and its chief, General Qamar Javed Bajwa, and called the State party chief an “anti-national”. Capt. Amarinder added that he would not accept Mr. Sidhu as his successor for this reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-congress-act-on-captains-charge-against-sidhu-asks-bjp/article36559561.ece
20 September 2021||NABARANGPUR,||R&D labs transform livelihoods in Odisha’s poorest district||In 2019, a consortium of 12 national research and development (R&D) laboratories joined hands in a rare effort to transform livelihoods at Nabarangpur in Odisha, one of India’s poorest districts. Two years later, the interventions appear to be creating quite a stir. With 56% tribal and 15% Dalit population, Nabarangpur has the lowest per capita income of Rs. 14,700 in Odisha (at 2004-05 prices), and 50% of its working population does not have any work. The collaboration involves five Council of Scientific and Industrial Research laboratories — the Institute of Minerals and Materials Technology (IMMT) in Bhubaneswar, the National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI) in Lucknow, the Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP) in Lucknow, the Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI) in Mysuru and the Indian Institute of Petroleum in Dehradun; and an equal number of Indian Council of Agricultural Research centres — the Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture (CIFA) in Bhubaneswar, the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research in Bengaluru, the Central Tuber Crops Research Institute in Thiruvananthapuram, and the Central Avian Research Institute and the Indian Institute of Water Management in Bhubaneswar. The Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) Regional Medical Research Centre and the Department of Biotechnology’s Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar are also involved. Nabarangpur now has 5,000 farmers, artisans and women self-help groups (SHGs) involved in livelihood generation with 12 government departments and 15 entrepreneurs. A three-day training by scientists of the CFTRI propelled Albedin Bagh, 30, from being a housewife to a chocolate maker. Her handmade chocolates help her earn her Rs. 30,000 a month. “As I have got a fair idea about the market, I intend to switch to automation this year itself,” Ms. Bagh said. The CFTRI has formally transferred nine processes and technologies in favour of Nabarangpur’s new entrepreneurs. Nabarangpur’s almost non-existent fish market, which was heavily dependent on imports from Andhra Pradesh, is also likely to see local fish flooding it in a year or two. “After the CIFA conducted a number of refresher courses and live demonstrations on scientific fish farming, I have expanded my operations,” said Sujit Das, who runs a hatchery at Umarkote. CIMAP’s high-yielding curcuminoid-rich variety of turmeric named ‘CIM-Pitamber’, and the NBRI’s ‘Keshari’ variety of turmeric have also been introduced in Nabarangpur. Women SHGs have been asked to donate seeds after the annual harvest to prospective farmers. “Government and other agencies must pitch in to create a sustainable market for the products so that the interventions could spread among the masses,” said S.K. Mishra, project coordinator and former scientist with the IMMT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rd-labs-transform-livelihoods-in-odishas-poorest-district/article36559568.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘PM will take a call on Afghan investments’||Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said a final decision on continuing infrastructure investments in Afghanistan will be taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar after considering the situation. Mr. Gadkari also said while many infrastructure projects there had been completed by India, some were yet to be completed. Last month, the Taliban seized control of Afghanistan, ousting the previous elected leadership that was backed by the West. “We have built a dam [Salma dam]... We have worked in areas of water resources in Afghanistan,” Mr. Gadkari said while responding to a query on whether India would make further investments in the now Taliban-controlled country. “As a friendly country, we had discussions with Afghanistan government officials for building some roads... Good that I did not start the construction of roads [in Afghanistan]... The situation there is of concern,” Mr. Mr. Gadkari added. India has invested $3 billion in welfare and infrastructure projects in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-will-take-a-call-on-afghan-investments/article36559576.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||2,988 kg heroin seized in Gujarat; two held||In what is said to be one of the largest-ever seizures in the world, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has impounded two containers carrying about 2,988.22 kg heroin at the Mundra port in Gujarat. Two persons have been arrested and the role of some Afghan nationals is being investigated. The breakthrough came after the agency received a tip-off about a consignment imported by Aashi Trading Company, located in Vijayawada, declared as semi-processed talc stones originating from Afghanistan and shipped from the Bandar Abbas Port in Iran to the Mundra Port. Suspecting that the consignment contained narcotic drugs, being supplied from Afghanistan, the DRI intercepted the two containers. In the presence of experts from the Gandhinagar-based Forensic Science Laboratory, the containers were searched. The experts confirmed the presence of heroin, according to an agency source. While 1,999.58 kg was recovered from the first container, 988.64 kg of the stuff was found in the second. The contraband was seized under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Subsequently, searches are being conducted in Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Gandhidham and Mandvi in Gujarat. “Two persons have been arrested and a number of persons and entities are under investigation. The probe conducted so far has also revealed the involvement of Afghan nationals, who are under the scanner,” said the official . In July, the Directorate had seized about 300 kg heroin from some containers at the Nhava Sheva Port in Navi Mumbai. The consignment had also originated from the Bandar Abbas port. It was being smuggled in the garb of talcum powder. At the same port, the agency seized 191 kg heroin in August 2020 and arrested Suresh Bhatia, Mohammed Nauman and Mahendra Nigam, apart from two Customs house agents, Meenanath Bodake and Kondibhau Gunjal. It was routed through Chabahar in Iran from Pakistan’s Gwadar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2988-kg-heroin-seized-in-gujarat-two-held/article36559547.ece
20 September 2021||IMPHAL,||Two tribal insurgents arrested in Manipur||A combined team of 29 Assam Rifles and Manipur police arrested two tribal insurgents along with weapons at 4.30 p.m. on Saturday in Noney district of Manipur. A press release said the team carried out combing operations at the general areas of Nungkhang village in the district on receipt of information that some militants were sighted there. The 29 Assam Rifles team was led by Major Amirthraj N.S. Officials said that two hardcore leaders of the banned Zeliangrong United Front were nabbed. They were identified as G. Kamei, “home secretary” of the outfit and N. K. Diromun. Both of them are from Noney district. The team recovered some explosives, one magazine of M-16 gun, one .12 bore gun and three mobile phones. They were found camping in a nearby farm. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-tribal-insurgents-arrested-in-manipur/article36560155.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||NRC final, rules Assam Foreigners’ Tribunal||The document says anyone born between January 26, 1950 and July 1, 1987, can be considered an Indian citizen by birth irrespective of the nationality of his or her parents. However, Mr. Dey observed that Mr. Singha’s documents pointed to his father and grandfather having been residents of Jamirala village before 1968 although there were no documents to show they were residents in Assam prior to 1966 (year of first amendment to Citizenship Act). The member also observed that Mr. Singha’s name figured in the NRC that was supervised by the Supreme Court on the basis of the Citizenship Act of 1955 and The Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003. “…final NRC… has been published on 31.08.2019 which is available online on the official website of NRC Assam wherein also it’s referred and mentioned as ‘Final NRC’. This legal position is still in force. The National Identity Cards have yet to be issued to the citizens whose names have been included in Final NRC. But there is no doubt that this NRC Assam published in 2019 is nothing but Final NRC,” the order said. “I am of the considered opinion that the Opposite Party (Singha) is not a foreigner but a citizen of India,” the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nrc-final-rules-assam-foreigners-tribunal/article36559542.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Punjab gets first Dalit CM Charanjit Channi||The Congress’ decision of choosing Mr. Channi is being seen as an attempt to win over the Dalit votes ahead of the Assembly polls due in early 2022. In Punjab, which has the highest percentage of Dalit population among States — close to 32% — political parties have been making all out efforts to garner their support. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has already announced that if voted to power, the deputy chief minister would be from the Dalit community. Mr. Channi’s announcement came after AICC-appointed observers Harish Chaudhary and Ajay Maken, and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat held hectic meetings in Chandigarh with party leaders and collected feedback from MLAs ahead of short-listing the name of CLP leader. During the meeting, the name of senior Congress leader Sukhjinder Randhawa was at the forefront. However, it has been learnt that Mr. Sidhu strongly batted for Mr. Channi. Later, before announcing the decision, senior leaders Ambika Soni, K.C. Venugopal held a meeting with Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi. Following Mr. Rawat’s announcement, Mr. Gandhi tweeted: “Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi ji for the new responsibility. We must continue to fulfil the promises made to the people of Punjab. Their trust is of paramount importance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-gets-first-dalit-cm-charanjit-channi/article36559546.ece
20 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Iranian boat with drug seized off Gujarat coast||An Iranian boat carrying over 30 kg heroin worth more than Rs. 150 crore in the international market was seized off the Gujarat coast in a joint operation by the Coast Guard and the Anti-Terrorism Squad of Gujarat police late on Saturday night. There were seven Iranian crew members on board when the fishing boat entered the Indian territorial waters and was intercepted and apprehended by the agencies based on intelligence inputs. According to sources, the boat carried an estimated 30 to 50 kg of the contraband, worth about Rs. 150 to Rs. 250 crore in the international market. The exact amount will be known after its inspection once the boat is anchored at a nearby port. The crew members have been apprehended and are being taken to the port in Gujarat for investigation. “We had credible inputs from our intelligence sources about a big drug contraband on its way for delivery in the mid-sea,” said ATS DIG Himanshu Shukla. “On an intelligence based joint act, @IndianCoastGuard with ATS #Gujarat apprehended #Iranian boat in #Indian waters with 07 crew carrying #drugs. The boat is brought to the nearest port for further rummaging and investigations,” a Defence PRO of Gujarat said on their official Twitter handle. In the last few years, the coast has become a preferred route for smuggling drugs from Pakistan or Iran. In April, eight Pakistani nationals onboard a boat were apprehended with heroin worth around Rs. 150 crore off the coast. In January last year, five Pakistani nationals on board a fishing boat were apprehended while they were allegedly trying to smuggle drugs worth Rs. 175 crore into the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iranian-boat-with-drug-seized-off-gujarat-coast/article36559548.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||Foreign tourists may be allowed to visit India||Amid a decline in COVID-19 cases in the country, India may soon reopen its doors for foreign tourists for the first time in a year and a half, officials said. First five lakh foreign tourists will be issued visas free of cost, in an attempt to revive the tourism, hospitality and aviation sectors, badly hit by the pandemic since March 2020 when a nationwide lockdown was announced. Top Union Home Ministry officials are deliberating with all stakeholders on the expected date and modalities for opening up of the country for foreign tourists. A formal announcement allowing foreign tourists to visit India may come within the next 10 days, an official from the Home Ministry said. The decision is being taken in view of the declining number of COVID-19 cases in the country. The free visa to the tourists will be issued till March 31, 2022 or the issuance of five lakh visa, whichever is earlier. The total financial implication for this would be Rs. 100 crore. The free visa move is expected to incentivise short-term tourists visiting India, the official said. The e-tourist visa has been suspended since March 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/foreign-tourists-may-be-allowed-to-visit-india/article36559551.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Hindi gains ground due to demographic shift||The Centre cites the Census’ mother tongue data to justify its stance on the languages used in governance. In March, DMK MP A.K.P. Chinraj raised a query in the Lok Sabha asking for the estimated number of people from non-Hindi speaking States who would understand the Central government’s notifications and Acts. The Home Ministry responded with Census data claiming that the Hindi-speaking population of Nagaland was 62,942, while the English-speaking population was 419. For Kerala, the figures were 51,928 and 4,471, respectively. However, these are in fact, the number of people who claimed Hindi and English as their mother tongues, not the number who can actually speak these languages. An analysis by The Hindu of the bilingualism and trilingualism data gathered for the first time in 2011 shows that 16% of Nagaland’s population said Hindi was among their top three spoken language choices, only half of the 33% who chose English. Similarly, in Kerala, 9% had Hindi among their top three languages, while 20% included English on their list. The 2021 Census will be the second to gather such data, and thus record for the first time the growth among actual speakers of a language, rather than those who claim it as their mother tongue. “So far, the Census data has not been about the knowledge of a language, but rather identity with a language,” said Ayesha Kidwai, a professor of linguistics and the politics of language at the Jawaharlal Nehru University. “Hindi is identified as a language of power. When Hindi is promoted, it is not a promotion of choice, but a promotion of power.” She noted that the choice of Hindi in the Census in fact subsumes 50 other choices, as variants like Bhojpuri, Rajasthani, Magadhi and Chhattisgarhi — each of which has more than a crore speakers — are all clubbed under the Hindi umbrella. In fact, only about 26% of the Indian population selected Hindi itself as their mother tongue. Almost 40% of those clubbed under the Hindi label actually chose one of the variants. At the celebration of Hindi Divas last week, Home Minister Amit Shah emphasised that “Hindi is the friend of all Indian languages” and can only progress through coexistence. Even while increasingly shifting the daily routines of governance into Hindi, the Centre has in fact taken steps to incorporate powerful regional languages. For instance, the NEET for entrance into medical programmes is now offered in 13 different languages, while engineering colleges have started offering courses in five Indian languages this year. Faced with political pushback from non-Hindi speaking States, the Centre had also amended the draft of the National Education Policy to ensure that Hindi is not imposed as a compulsory language choice for school students. While the political tussles around language in education revolve around schools, it is significant that higher education — which produces the teachers who teach the language in schools — is significantly skewed towards Hindi and English. Education Ministry data shows there were 1.3 lakh students enrolled in M.A. Hindi programmes in 2019-20, while the next highest language, Bengali, had only 22,719 students at the postgraduate level. Interestingly, English has almost 2 lakh students enrolled for Masters degrees. “Unless English is replaced at the higher education level, nothing will change. For that, speeches at Hindi Diwas are not sufficient; the government must be willing to put in the painstaking background work needed to develop curriculum, reading materials, resources and teachers for Hindi,” said Abhay Kumar Dubey, who heads the Indian Languages programme at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies. “There is a top-down pressure to promote Hindi, from the government, as well as the more organic promotion via popular culture. For English, there is a societal pressure, from the bottom-up, from a society which recognises it as a language of aspiration. Both have their engines in place,” said Deepesh Chandrasekhar, an assistant professor of English at Shiv Nadar University, who has a background in linguistics. “ I’m more worried about languages like Bhili or Gondi, which have lakhs of speakers, but are not in the Eighth Schedule. If a diwas is needed to promote a language, those are the languages that need it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hindi-gains-ground-via-demographic-shift/article36559554.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Desire to seek God||Realised souls seek to rid themselves of any worldly desire and set their goal in meditation of the Lord at all times. The story of Dhruva, narrated in the Bhagavata Purana, illustrates the truth that all desires are fulfilled and all sorrows are alleviated by seeking the help of God, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. No doubt Dhruva is disappointed when his wish to sit on the lap of his father is not fulfilled. It is an innocuous desire of a small child longing for his father’s kindness. Narayana Bhattatiri interprets the king’s silence when the stepmother intervenes to prevent Dhruva from ascending the father’s lap as a hidden gain for Dhruva. Moreover, if Suruchi advises him to do penance to get his wish fulfilled, Suniti, though distraught at the situation, seconds it as it seems to be the only option available. Her advice to Dhruva is pertinent to humanity at large. All the sorrows faced by jivatmas are owing to their past karma. Only the Lord can rid us of this karma and lead us to salvation from samsara. To seek the Lord is not easy. It requires tremendous effort involving deep meditation and severe penance. Dhruva is determined and with Narada’s grace and advice gets steeped in penance and is able to have direct darshan of the Lord within a short span. But the irony is that he is more disappointed that in spite of beholding the Supreme Lord and receiving His blessings, he has to wait for 36,000 years to get liberated from samsara. His worldly wish is responsible for this long separation from God. One can imagine how desires in every jivatma cannot be dismissed easily and that these desires will distance us more and more from God. The way of desire is that it seeks fulfilment and this process continues endlessly tying down the jivatma to this cycle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/desire-to-seek-god/article36559569.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC declines relief to IAF officer||The Delhi High Court has said that investigation is necessary against an Indian Air Force (IAF) officer, who became part of an online matrimonial site using a different name, despite having a wife and two children. The IAF officer, who faked his name as Aman Saini on the matrimonial site, is facing charges of rape and criminal intimidation levelled by a woman who met him through the online site. “Investigation is necessary to find out whether he has lured other women also,” Justice Subramonium Prasad said. “A perusal of the FIR indicates that the petitioner [the IAF officer] was married and yet he became part of the matrimonial site and that too using a different name which shows that there was no intention of the petitioner to marry the prosecutrix [woman] right from the inception,” Justice Prasad said, while rejecting the officer’s anticipatory bail plea. The woman, in her complaint, alleged that she had met the IAF officer through a popular matrimonial site in March 2017. The woman said the officer introduced himself as Aman Saini, unmarried and working in the Indian Air Force. The woman stated that in May 2017, they established physical relationship. In July 2017, the officer introduced her to his mother. Later, she came to know that his real name was not Aman Saini, and that he was married and had two children. The woman filed a complaint against him with the IAF as well. However, after requests from his mother, she withdrew her complaint. The woman finally registered her complaint at a police station in the Capital in 2020. The IAF officer, in his plea, stated that he has been falsely implicated in the case. He stated that even after coming to know that he was married, the woman was in touch with him. He said that he had joined the probe and was always available for investigation.  Investigation is necessary to find out whether he has lured other women also Justice Subramonium Prasad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-declines-relief-to-iaf-officer/article36559543.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Peace trip||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/peace-trip/article36559553.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP takes a dig at Congress over CM pick||The BJP on Sunday took a swipe at the Congress over its Punjab chief ministerial pick Charanjit Singh Channi, citing reported allegations that he had sent an inappropriate text to an IAS officer in 2018. BJP leader Amit Malviya, who is its IT department head, tweeted, “Congress’s CM pick Charanjit Channi faces action in a 3-year-old MeToo case. He had allegedly sent an inappropriate text to a woman IAS officer in 2018. It was covered up but the case resurfaced when Punjab Women’s Commission sent notice. Well done, Rahul.” The issue had resurfaced in May this year when Punjab women panel chief threatened to go on a hunger strike if the State government failed to apprise her within a week of its stand on the “inappropriate text” message allegedly sent by Mr. Channi, who was then a Minister in the Amarinder Singh government. Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati had said she had written to the Chief Secretary seeking the government’s action taken report. Mr. Malviya also posted a story reported in May this year that said that the Chief Minister’s rivals within the party had accused him of “hounding” them with old cases. Following the 2018 allegation, the Punjab Women Commission had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and had sought the government’s stand even then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-takes-a-dig-at-congress-over-cm-pick/article36559562.ece
20 September 2021||Chandigarh,||Sidhu’s aide slams remark by Amarinder||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s strategic adviser Mohd. Mustafa on Sunday attacked former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for calling Mr. Sidhu “anti-national”. Mr. Mustafa, a former IPS officer, also accused Capt. Amarinder of targeting the Gandhi family, and said he is in possession of “irrefutable proofs” of wrongdoings by the former Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhus-aide-slams-remark-by-amarinder/article36559757.ece
20 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Stop fighting for junta in Myanmar’||A pro-democracy organisation in coup-scarred Myanmar has threatened to evict extremist groups from Manipur after democracy returns to the country. The People’s Defence Force asked the Manipur outfits to stop fighting on behalf of the junta against the civilian forces. Manipur has seven active outfits that Indian security forces call VBIGs, or (Imphal) valley-based insurgent groups. On September 17, the People’s Defence Force said the “Manipuri UGs” (undergrounds) had been hobnobbing with the military in Myanmar instead of “living peacefully in Manipur in India”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stop-fighting-for-junta-in-myanmar/article36559570.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Playgrounds across the city see heavy rush during weekends||While the Greater Chennai Corporation has intensified efforts to ensure COVID appropriate behaviour in public places, mask compliance and physical distancing norms are being widely flouted in many playgrounds across the city. Corporation officials and the police had to vacate the ground in Officers Colony, Anna Nagar Western Extension, on Sunday as there were too many youngsters playing, many of them without masks. A zonal-level Corporation official said residents complained that crowding occurred at the playground every weekend. “A majority of them are less than 18 and not vaccinated. Hence, there is a higher risk of COVID-19 spread,” he said. He added that though playgrounds were permitted to remain open only for a few hours of the day, people ended up utilising the ground throughout the day during weekends. Acknowledging that the ground did get crowded occasionally, a football coach training students at a ground in Mandaveli said that it was not possible for children to wear masks while they were playing. “We, however, ensure that children with even minor fever or other symptoms of COVID-19 do not come to the ground,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/playgrounds-across-the-city-see-heavy-rush-during-weekends/article36559879.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel will ensure reservation at the micro level||As Tamil Nadu is known for reformation and the social justice movement, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s recent decision to constitute a committee to monitor social justice in education, employment, postings, promotions and appointments has raised a pertinent question: is there any failure in the implementation of reservation that has necessitated the formation of a committee? “There is no problem at the macro level. But reservation is not strictly followed at the micro level. The [proposed] committee will closely monitor the situation and make recommendations to the government,” said a senior government official. Mr. Stalin, who made the announcement to mark the centenary of the first Communal Government Order issued by the Justice Party government in the Madras Presidency in 1921, pointed out that though legal measures were in place, the government decided to constitute a committee to ensure that reservation was implemented fully. Government sources said one of the areas that required attention was admission to Class XI at government as well as government-aided schools. “Schools, especially those in urban areas, do not follow reservation in the allotment of groups (mathematics and science) that are in demand. Students of the open category normally occupy the classrooms where the first and second group subjects, necessary for professional courses, are taught,” said an official. He said the government would also ask government-aided schools to strictly follow reservation. “In fact, there is a Government Order for that. But it is not followed. Former VCK MLA Ravikumar brought it to my knowledge when I was the Minister for School Education [2006-11]. I directed schools to follow reservation in the admission to Class XI,” Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said. He recalled that his review meetings had covered the reservation in the Class XI admission, but said he did not know whether it was strictly followed in the last 10 years (of AIADMK rule). Mr. Ravikumar, now Villupuram MP, said the backlog of vacancies in various departments was proof that reservation was not fully implemented. “It is glaring in seats reserved for the Scheduled Caste in the Group IV government services,” said Mr. Ravikumar, who wrote to the Chief Minister, highlighting the vacancies in the Department of Higher Education. Citing the All India Survey on Higher Education, he said that in Tamil Nadu, Adi Dravidas had been denied 14,317 teaching posts meant for them. “In the non-teaching category, 4,643 seats due to them have not been filled.” At some State universities, he said, the 200-point communal roster system was not implemented effectively in the appointment of faculty members. Instead of applying the communal roster to each department, they sought to adopt it for faculty appointments for the university as a whole. Urging the Chief Minister to fill the backlog of vacancies, Mr. Ravikumar also wanted the government to implement reservation at private and self-financing colleges as they received government aid and support in many ways. According to Mr. Ravikumar, the root-cause of the problem lay in the appointment of employees on a temporary basis. “There is no need to follow reservation rules for temporary appointments and when the services of these employees are regularised, reservation is bypassed. The government should make reservation mandatory even when temporary appointments are made and the services of temporary workers are regularised,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-will-ensure-reservation-at-the-micro-level/article36559873.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dug-up streets inconvenience Manali residents||Residents of CPCL layout in Manali are finding it difficult to use the streets dug-up to lay sewer lines. In many places, the lanes — where the works were underway — were covered with the dug-up earth, making movement tough for both pedestrians and motorists. CPCL layout comprises areas such as Amulavoyal and Vaikkadu. About two to three months ago, Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) took up works to lay underground sewage pipelines. Though residents say they know the importance of the ongoing works, they have urged the officials to clear the dug-up earth from at least one side of the lanes to facilitate easy movement. In some places, the dug-up stretches were not closed properly, leaving potholes behind. “The work started about two months ago. Instead of putting the dug-up earth on one side of the streets, it is spread across the stretches. Elderly persons and differently-abled persons are finding it extremely difficult to use these streets. We took up the issue with the contractor and CMWSSB but to no avail. It is going to take at least six to eight months for them to complete the works after which proper roads will be laid. How can we use the roads until then?” D. Kesavan, a resident of CPCL layout, asked. “Except for some important places, proper soil backfilling has not been carried out in many of the lanes,” he added. Solomon, another resident, said almost all streets in the locality were dug-up at the same time for the underground sewage works. “ In my area, all three lanes have been dug-up and covered with earth. We cannot walk on the lanes or ride two-wheelers as the vehicles skid. It is difficult for the lorry that supplies water every alternate day to reach our houses. The condition of the streets turn worse with rains,” he said. A group of residents signed a petition and submitted to the officials of the CMWSSB, Manali zone. An officer said that the residents’ petition was forwarded to CMWSSB’s head office to take up works to clear the dug-up earth from the roads. “Underground sewerage works is being undertaken across Manali. Sewer lines have to be laid, and only after completion can we handover the roads to Chennai Corporation for restoration. The work may take a year to be completed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dug-up-streets-inconvenience-manali-residents/article36559889.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic wardens return to work after 2 years||After a gap of two years, traffic wardens will return to important junctions in the city to regulate weekend traffic. The Tamil Nadu Police Traffic Warden Organisation was formed in 1977. The wardens are of various backgrounds. They are appointed by the Commissioner of Police/the Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, in the limits of the Greater Chennai Police. The organisation is headed by the chief traffic warden, who is assisted by four deputy chief traffic wardens, one each for the north, south, east and west zones. The zones are further divided into ranges. Each range is headed by a senior duty planning officer and a duty planning officer. At present, there are 145 traffic wardens in the city. They do regular duty at various junctions at weekends, regulating traffic and ensuring road discipline among the road-users. They also assist the police during night checks for drunk driving and security duties for New Year’s Eve, festivals, elections and VVIP visits. Another important activity of the organisation is road safety patrols. About 470 schools have been registered under this programme and more than 18,500 students have been enrolled. Cadets are enrolled annually from corporation and private schools. Various programmes are conducted from time to time by the organisation to drive home the importance of wearing helmets and seat belts, following traffic rules and observing road discipline. System revived Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Pradip Kumar said that because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the services of the traffic wardens were not utilised for close to two years, except during the Assembly election. Now that the situation has improved, the system has been revived on the instruction of Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal. The traffic wardens will be deployed at important junctions for weekend traffic regulation, and during festivals. After the schools are reopened, their services will be utilised for road safety patrol cadet enrolment, the conduct of road safety awareness programmes and traffic regulation in front of important schools, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-wardens-return-to-work-after-2-years/article36559892.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Honour for a Tamil writer after 25 years||After a gap of 25 years, the Sahitya Akademi has chosen a Tamil littérateur — Indira Parthasarathy, commonly known as Ee. Paa — for its highest honour of Fellowship. In 1996, D. Jayakanthan, aged 62, was the youngest to become a Fellow of the Akademi. Before him, only two from the Tamil literary world — Rajaji or C. Rajagopalachari (1969) and T.P. Meenakshisundaram (1975) — were chosen. Though V. Raghavan (1979) and K.R. Srinivasa Iyengar (1985), both Tamils, were also given the Fellowship, they were recognised for their contributions to Sanskrit and the Indian writing in English. In an interaction with The Hindu on Sunday, Prof. Parthasarathy, 91, who is, in the words of the Akademi, an “eminent Tamil writer, scholar and cultural historian”, said, “At my age, getting this honour, it beats me completely on how to react. I thank the Akademi for remembering me.” Talking of the three previous recipients, he pointed out that Rajaji was known for his elegant Tamil prose. Meenakshisundaram was a “great Tamil scholar and proficient in many languages”. Jayakanthan was the “first full-fledged creative writer” who was made a Fellow. Political themes Author of over 40 books, including 16 novels, 10 plays and six collections of short stories, Prof. Parthasarathy is noted for his works on political themes. He considers the play Ramanujar his magnum opus. His Kurithi Punal , written against the backdrop of the 1968 Keezhvenmani massacre of 42 poor farmers, fetched him the Sahitya Akademi award in 1977. He went on to win several prestigious awards, including the Bharatiya Bhasha Parishad Award and the Saraswati Samman. He is the only Tamil writer to be given awards by both the Sahitya and Sangeet Natak Akademis. In the 1990s, he rejected the Kalaimamani award for the Tamil Nadu government’s attitude of “taking the artiste for granted”. The littérateur, who taught Tamil at Delhi University for 25 years, was deputed by the Union government to Warsaw University as a Visiting Professor of Indology from 1981 to 1986. He had a pleasant surprise when one of his Polish students sought his guidance in researching the uniqueness of participles in Tamil. Between 1988 and 1992, he was the Founder-Director of the Sankaradoss School of Performing Arts at Pondicherry Central University. He was also the Senior Fellow of the Union Ministry of Culture and served as a visiting scholar at various universities in Canada.  G. Thilagavathy, herself a winner of the Sahitya Akademi award, says Prof. Parthasarathy came out with many of his celebrated works while working at Delhi University. His innings at Pondicherry University was famous for introducing unconventional ways of accommodating diverse people for their core competence despite their having no or modest academic credentials. Ravi Subramanian, poet and maker of several documentary films, including one on Prof. Parthasarathy, describes him as the Bheeshma of the Tamil literary field. “He is versatile, which is rare to see in Tamil. He is an academic, a short story writer, a novelist, a playwright and an essayist. He is the first Tamil playwright to be given the Fellowship,” he says, adding Prof. Parthasarathy has been a source of great support and strength to young play producers and directors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honour-for-a-tamil-writer-after-25-years/article36559866.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Writer Chudamani’s women come alive on celluloid in Aynthu Unarvugal||While dubbing for Pathil Piraku Varum , one of the five stories in the film Aynthu Unarvugal (Five feelings), based on a short story by late writer R. Chudamani, was in progress, sound engineer Arul Mano was stunned when the heroine bluntly said, “I may remain unmarried, but I am not a virgin.” “The reaction of the sound engineer made me realise the power of the lines,” said award-winning director Gnana Rajasekaran, who has made five stories written by Chudamani into a film. While it is like an anthology, all stories in Aynthu Unarvugal are connected by threads represented by the personalities of five different women, of different ages. “Chudamani has delved deep into the minds of her characters and has created a devastating effect through them. She was far ahead of her time in capturing the aspirations of a modern woman, and they are unconventional,” said Mr. Rajasekaran, who has earlier directed Mogamul, Bharathi, Periyar and Ramanujan.  The other stories in the film are Kalangam Illai, Amma Pidivathakari, Thanimai Thalir and Irandin Idayil . Though originally planned for release on an over-the-top (OTT) platform, the opinions of a distributor, a theatre owner and an agent for satellite channels, after watching the film, convinced Mr. Rajasekaran to release it in theatres. “They were actually in tears after watching Thanimai Thalir , the story of a child who refuses to leave her grandparents to join her parents. Pathil Piraku Varum also had a huge impact on them, and they asked me to release the film in theatres,” Mr. Rajasekaran said. For a director whose earlier films were met with cold reactions during first-copy stages, the reaction from those who watched Aynthu Unarvugal was encouraging. “When I completed Mogamul , many said I could try to get an award. No one said anything positively about Bharathi and it received approval only after being screened in theatres,” he said. A challenge Mr. Rajasekaran agreed that it was a challenge to convert a short story into a film, as a short story had its own openings and endings. “The ending of suspense is the first sentence of the story Amma Pidivathakari . The canvas, a novel created for a film, will not be available in short stories. I have to remove a character in one story and create a character in another who finds only a reference in the story to make the film realistic,” he said. Justice Prabha Sridevan (retd.), who has translated some stories of Chudamani into English and who has watched the film, was happy with the way the stories were converted into film. “When you translate a story from one medium to another, it is not possible to fully achieve the effect of the original. A trace of Mr. Rajasekaran is inevitable. Similarly, an element of myself will be there in the English translations,” she said. Mr. Rajasekaran also explained the challenges of creating subtle, fine and ordinary feelings between characters, just as they were portrayed in the films of late director Bhim Singh. “While such feelings are retained in Malayalam films, they are overstressed or exaggerated in Tamil movies. It is my strong conviction that the content of the film should decide its length,” Mr. Rajasekaran said. Ms. Sridevan said that at a time when people did not have the patience to read stories, the film would kindle interest in Chudamani, who has effectively conveyed the idea of compassion in her works. “She dealt with current issues and modern ideas long ago. Her characters reject the role the society has assigned to women,” Ms. Sridevan said.  Chudamani was far ahead of her time in capturing the aspirations of a modern woman, and they are unconventional Gnana Rajasekaran Director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/writer-chudamanis-women-come-alive-on-celluloid-in-aynthu-unarvugal/article36559871.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lifestyle changes can reduce risk of dementia||There are a number of modifiable factors such as diabetes, midlife obesity, hypertension, sedentary lifestyle and smoking that increase the risk of dementia, said Madhav Thambisetty, unit head, Clinical & Translational Neuroscience Section, Laboratory of Behavioural Neuroscience, Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, here on Saturday. Addressing a webinar moderated by Ennapadam S. Krishnamoorthy, behavioural neurologist and neuropsychiatrist and founder of Buddhi Clinic, on the topic ‘Alzheimer’s dementia: from ayurveda to precision medicine,’ Dr. Thambisetty said interventions to reduce these risk factors could help in preventing dementia. He said that while dementia was the broader term that referred to difficulties with memory, thinking and problem solving that affected a person’s day-to-day functioning, Alzheimer’s was the most common cause of dementia. Highlighting the point that treatment options were limited for Alzheimer’s, he said that it was important for people to focus on the modifiable risk factors to prevent dementia. This was particularly true for low and middle income countries that faced resource constraints but an increasing burden of Alzheimer’s. Suhas Kumar Shettu, professor and head, Department of Manovijnana Avum Manasa Roga, Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara College of Ayurveda and Hospital, said ayurveda offered different options depending on patient’s stage of dementia. Dr. Krishnamoorthy stressed on the need to explore the integration of modern medicine with wisdom from ancient medicines to offer improved treatment options for dementia patients. Rema Raghu, clinical director, Buddhi Clinic, shared the experience of treating an 80-year-old patient using the clinic’s unique integrated approach. The discussion was organised ahead of World Alzheimer’s Day on September 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lifestyle-changes-can-reduce-risks-of-dementia/article36560028.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Repeal repressive laws: activists||The Movement against the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and other Repressive Laws (MURL), a joint platform of activists and groups for mobilising public opinion against these laws, has passed resolutions demanding repeal of all repressive laws. Overall 796 cases have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in 2020, according to the latest data published by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Besides, 4,071 cases were pending investigation till 2019 and 10 cases were reopened for investigation. In total, 4,827 cases are pending. Human rights activists and advocates discussed about the UAPA, Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA), National Investigation Agency (NIA) Act, National Securities Act (NSA) and sedition law at a seminar ‘Repressive laws under BJP Regime’ held in Chennai on Saturday. They expressed concern about the judiciary not granting bail to those jailed under such laws and urged the government to provide compensation and take legal action against investigation officers in the cases which end up in acquittal. The activists sought a time-frame to conclude trial in these cases. E.M. Abdul Rahiman, an activist from Kerala said, “Not only minorities, but even journalists, human rights activists and all those who are raising their voice against the policies of the government are being targeted under these laws.” Prof. A. Marx, chairperson of National Confederation of Human Rights Organisation said, “It is the duty of every Indian to defend the Constitution by fighting the draconian laws that are against the Constitution.” Singh Juj a farmer leader from Punjab, felt the farm laws completely violate the rights of the farmers. Efforts are being made to arrest them in false cases under these laws, he charged. Highlighting the repressive provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), K.P. Mohamad Shareef, an advocate, said the main threat contained in the PMLA is that both powers of investigation and adjudication are being given to a single agency, which ultimately leads to deeper misuse. Rajesh Ningthoukhongajam, a rights activist from Manipur highlighted the “blatant missue” of the AFSPA for the last 53 years in Manipur.  Pendency rate of cases for trial in the courts is 94.4%, the activists said.    “ Acquittal rate is five times more than conviction . Out of 142 cases disposed of by the courts, only 27 were convicted with the rate of 21.1 %; 14 cases were abated; in 2 cases, the accused were discharged and 99 cases ended in acquittal,” said A. Mohamed Yusuff, an advocate and central committee of MURL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repeal-all-repressive-laws-say-activists/article36559905.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State sees marginal rise in fresh cases||Fresh COVID-19 infections went up marginally in Tamil Nadu, as 1,697 people tested positive on Sunday. Chennai, Coimbatore, Erode, Chengalpattu and Thanjavur continued to be the districts with the most number of cases. In Chennai, cases went up from 204 to 232. Districts’ tally Coimbatore followed with 215 cases, while Erode recorded 131. While 114 people tested positive in Chengalpattu, Thanjavur logged 103 infections. There were 95 cases in Tiruppur, while Salem and Tiruvallur recorded 71 and 66 cases respectively. With this, the State’s tally touched 26,45,380. Of these, Chennai accounted for 5,47,705, followed by Coimbatore (2,40,241), Chengalpattu (1,67,523), Tiruvallur (1,17,032) and Erode (1,00,706). The State’s positivity rate stood at 1.08%. Another 27 people (three in private hospitals and 24 in government facilities) succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 35,337. Of the 38 districts, 23 did not report any fatality due to COVID-19. There were four deaths in Coimbatore and three deaths each in Salem, Thanjavur and Tiruvallur. Chennai recorded two deaths. Among the deceased was a teenager, a 17-year-old boy from Chennai, with intellectual disability, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on September 17. He died on the same day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 33-year-old man from Coimbatore with systemic hypertension and chronic kidney disease died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on September 17 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Active cases As many as 1,594 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,93,074. A total of 16,969 people are under treatment for COVID-19. While there are 2,198 active cases in Coimbatore, the number rose from 1,936 to 2,011 in Chennai. As many as 1,56,850 samples were tested, taking the total count to 4,53,01,370.  As many as 1,594 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,93,074. A total of 16,969 people are under treatment for COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-sees-marginal-rise-in-fresh-cases/article36559864.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Projects proposed to mitigate floods in city’s southern parts||As part of its continued efforts to mitigate floods, the Water Resources Department (WRD) has proposed various projects to strengthen infrastructure and bridge the missing links between waterbodies and waterways in the southern parts of the city. The department has proposed projects as emergency flood mitigation works, particularly in the Sholinganallur and Tambaram belt, that witnessed inundation last year. The projects, worth nearly Rs. 240 crore, would be taken up with funding from the State government as one of the disaster management strategies. The schemes proposed for comprehensive flood mitigation and conservation in city and peri-urban areas was still awaiting funding from the World Bank and could take time to execute, said officials of the WRD. Link channels would be created to carry surplus floodwater between waterbodies. For instance, a channel would be formed from Sembakkam lake, which does not have a defined surplus course, and connected to Nanmangalam lake. Similarly, a link channel would be built to transfer excess water from Nemilichery lake to Nanmangalam lake. Officials said implementation delays were unlikely since land acquisition was not required. “We have identified works where there are missing links in channels either due to topography or urban development. Earlier, floodwater would have travelled through vacant/agricultural lands to reach waterbodies,” an official said. Another major project, worth nearly Rs. 96.50 crore, has been proposed. It involves the creation of a floodwater channel to link Ottiyambakkam channel and Madurapakkam drain and to Pallikaranai marshland to reduce inundation in areas, including Perumbakkam and Semmenchery. The new channel may cut down distance of travel by 6 km. A macro-drain would also be constructed from Puduthangal lake, near Tambaram, to Pappan channel. A flood protection wall would be built along Pappan channel and a stretch of Adyar river near Dargah Road in Tambaram. More floodwater drains would be formed to provide connectivity in various places, including from Irumbuliyur lake to GST Road. Improving waterways The waterways between Kovilambakkam lake and Keelakattalai channel and between Adambakkam lake and Veerangal Odai would also be improved and would benefit a population of at least 30,000, including areas such as Jeevan Nagar and Surendra Nagar. “We expect these projects to reduce inundation by at least 50% and bring down the flood risk level from vulnerable to moderate. Tenders may be floated in a couple of months. These projects were proposed based on the success of cut-and-cover channels in reducing waterlogging in areas such as West Tambaram, Mudichur and Narayanapuram,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/projects-proposed-to-mitigate-floods-in-citys-southern-parts/article36559881.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Make payments at IOC bunks through GPay||To encourage digital transactions, Indian Oil Corporation has introduced the option to make payments for fuel at its outlets through the Google Pay app. The tie up with Google Pay also gives an opportunity to customers to get their cash back through the app, subject to terms and conditions. IOC’s loyalty program, Xtrarewards, will also be made available in some time. Around 38% fuel purchases in the State are made through the digital mode, which is higher than the national average of 32%. At fuel outlets in the Chennai region, nearly 60% customers pay using digital modes, including credit/debit cards, followed by the Salem region with 40%, Tiruchi with 33%, Coimbatore with 31% and Madurai region with 23%. Salem has a higher percentage of cashless transactions, since there are more inter and intra-State truckers in the region. Chennai and its surrounding areas lead with 60% digital transactions as there is more awareness among the residents and people find it easier than going to an ATM and getting cash, said a city-based fuel dealer. S. Chandrasekaran, a dealer in Dharapuram, Tiruppur, said the local economy in the area was cash based, and the use of debit/credit cards too was limited. “If I get 300-500 customers a day, only five to 10 make digital transactions, and these are people whose accounts do not have cash or those whose cards did not work. People are afraid due to phishing issues too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-payments-at-ioc-bunks-through-gpay/article36559901.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teams to persuade residents to get vaccinated||Having set a deadline of vaccinating all residents above 18 in one month, the Greater Chennai Corporation has started sending teams to households to persuade residents unwilling to get their shot. At least 1,000 Corporation workers have hit the streets; visiting households to identify unvaccinated residents. The teams will collect details of the unwilling residents and take them for vaccination camps in the next few weeks. The number of doses administered in the city is set to touch 50 lakh this week. During the inspection by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi at the mega vaccination camps in various parts of the city on Sunday, residents stressed the need to persuade those unwilling to get the vaccine in order to prevent a third wave. Suresh Shanbogue, a representative of the 5th Trust Cross Street Residents’ Welfare Association, Mandaveli, said: “There is some reluctance or fear amongst people who are below the poverty line. The government must make vaccination compulsory for those who travel, visit public places, offices, restaurants, religious places, gatherings and Tasmac shops. A door-to-door vaccination administration program is a must, and counselling should be held.” Geetha Ganesh, secretary of the Velachery AGS Colony Residents’ Welfare Association, said 3% to 4% of residents in their area were not vaccinated. “A few people had issues when actor Vivekh died the next day after receiving the vaccine, but they overcame it and understood the importance of getting vaccinated during the second wave. We have had numerous camps in our area and all of them were received well,” she said. Coverage in slums In many of the 1,600 camp sites organised by the Corporation on Sunday, a number of residents from slums were mobilised by civic workers to be vaccinated. A few months ago, many slums had even resisted, preventing civic officials from even entering habitations for vaccination camps. More than 18 lakh residents live in slums in various parts of the city. The Corporation has not compiled a list of unvaccinated residents in the slums. Targeted vaccination of slums started on August 14, and the Corporation has vaccinated 81,572 residents so far. Of the 46.73 lakh doses administered in the city till Saturday, 35.16 lakh were Covishield and 11.57 lakh were Covaxin. On Sunday, more than 2 lakh residents visited the mega vaccination camps at 1,600 locations of the city. Most camps were crowded but some registered low footfalls. Corporation officials brought residents to such camps, sending teams to fetch residents from their households. Many, who were waiting for the second dose of Covaxin, got their shots on Sunday, owing to the supply of 1.2 lakh doses of Covaxin. According to Corporation officials, at least 75% vaccination coverage has to be achieved in a short period of time to prevent a third wave of COVID-19. An official of the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology said the strategy of persuading hesitant residents would improve safety during the pandemic and prevent a third wave. “The success of the initiative will depend on the supply of vaccine doses and awareness among residents,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-sets-one-month-deadline-to-vaccinate-everyone/article36559897.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine awareness drives to be intensified||The Corporation will intensify information, education and communication (IEC) activities to promote vaccination in the city. The next 30 days of the awareness drive will focus on each household using data from the electoral rolls, officials said. On Sunday, a 95-year-old senior citizen was administered the COVID-19 vaccine at Chinnakulandai Street, Royapuram. The local residents, who take care of the senior citizen, have been advised to promote COVID appropriate behaviour. Corporation officials will also monitor the condition of such residents, visiting households at regular intervals. The IEC activities will be organised at 123 crowding points of the city to promote COVID appropriate behaviour. Joint inspection of the police and Corporation officials will be intensified over the next month to create awareness among residents and traders. The police and the Corporation had already formed 123 teams to enforce COVID appropriate behaviour at crowding points in the city. Residents yet to get vaccinated will get messages about the need to inoculate themselves shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-awareness-drives-to-be-intensified/article36559894.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||16.43 lakh people get jabs at second mega camp||The second mega vaccination camp held on Sunday covered 16,43,879 people in the State, marking the administration of one crore COVID-19 vaccine doses from the start of September till now. This took the coverage in government vaccination centres to over four crore. With the State almost exhausting its stock of vaccines, there will be no inoculation on Monday, the Health Department said. The Department said regular vaccination would resume after supplies are received from the Union government. Vaccination was carried out at 18,824 centres in primary health centres, government hospitals, anganwadi centres, noon meal centres, schools and important places. The camp aimed at vaccinating 15 lakh people. At the end of the day, 16,43,879 people were covered (10,85,097 got the first dose and 5,58,782 the second). The second camp exceeded its target with an additional 1,43,879 people getting vaccinated, a release said. Among those vaccinated were 9,66,568 people in the 18-44 age group and 5,02,578 people aged 45 to 59. With this, the overall coverage in the 18-44 age group crossed two crore — 2,05,52,501. It may be recalled that the first mega vaccination camp, held on September 12, ended with a coverage of nearly 28.91 lakh people. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian visited vaccination centres in six districts — Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Namakkal, Salem and Dharmapuri. During the camp, Chennai crossed a coverage of two lakh and Karur one lakh — a record in itself, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. As many as 2,01,805 people got jabs in Chennai and 1,00,036 in Karur. “We had nearly 16.37 lakh doses in hand. Our goal was to exhaust the available doses,” he said, adding that they had reported to the Union government that the stock had been exhausted. “Our earliest supply is scheduled to arrive on September 22. But we hope we will get the supply on September 21,” he said. He said the State had completed administering over one crore doses from the start of the month. Till September 19, 1,07,70,761 doses had been administered. The coverage in government centres crossed four crore — 4,13,23,002. The Health Secretary complimented grass-root staff for the performance. On the availability of Covaxin, he said they were focusing online, listing those due for their second dose of Covaxin and those wanting Covaxin for medical reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1643-lakh-people-get-jabs-at-second-mega-camp/article36559874.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Russian expatriates vote in lower house election||A total of 49 Russian citizens living in India voted in the elections to the Russian Federation’s State Duma, the lower house, at the facility arranged here at the Russian Centre for Science and Culture on Sunday. The election to the State Duma was conducted from Friday to Sunday. The Russian Consulate General in India had already organised preliminary polling at different places of the country earlier this month to enable Russian expatriates to vote. For instance, the Russian Consulate in Chennai organised preliminary polling at four places on different dates earlier this month. The places included Auroville in Puducherry, Visakhapatnam, the Russian House in Thiruvananthapuram and at the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant in Tamil Nadu. A total of 110 people cast their votes. To provide an opportunity to those who missed voting earlier and to facilitate Russian citizens in Chennai to vote, polling was organised on Sunday. Oleg N. Avdeev, Consul General of the Russian Federation in Chennai, who also cast his vote here on Sunday, said that the arrangements were made to ensure that every citizen had the opportunity to vote as every vote made a difference. Polling was open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Apart from other Russian citizens, Consulate staff and their family members also exercised their franchise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/russian-expatriates-vote-in-lower-house-election/article36559877.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SUV rams into roadside temple, two injured||A vehicle rammed into a roadside temple in Karayanchavadi, near Poonamallee, on Sunday after the driver lost control due a burst tyre. The police said Balachander, 21, a student, was driving his SUV to Poonamallee on Sunday morning. After the car’s tyre burst, he lost control and rammed into a temple by the roadside after hitting a two-wheeler and some construction material kept near the pavement on Trunk Road. In the impact, Rajesh, 32, who was sleeping in the temple, and Mr. Balachander were injured. Passers-by rescued them and sent them to a private hospital. Wall collapse In another incident, a wall collapse was reported from Third Avenue, Ashok Nagar, on Sunday. At 6 a.m,. the 30-foot compound wall of a Government Higher Secondary School in the locality collapsed, damaging a car parked nearby and a junction box. A major mishap was averted since no one was around when the wall collapsed. On being informed about the incident, Corporation staff arrived and removed the debris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suv-rams-into-roadside-temple-two-injured/article36559882.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nine-year-old assaulted by teen in Maduravoyal||A nine-year-old boy was assaulted by a 17-year-old boy in Maduravoyal as the former resisted his physical advances. The police rescued the boy, who was in a serious condition, from under a bridge, and admitted him to hospital. The police said that the victim, a Class IV student, sold snacks near a theatre in the locality in the evening to support his family. On Friday, he did not return home. The parents lodged a complaint with the Maduravoyal police station. After searching, the police found him under the Maduravoyal flyover with serious injuries and rushed him to the Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital for treatment. “After regaining consciousness, the boy informed the police that a teenager had taken him to the flyover on a two-wheeler after promising to buy all his snacks. When the boy resisted the teen’s advances to get intimate with him, he was beaten up with stones and logs. The perpetrator then fled the scene,” a police official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-year-old-assaulted-by-teen-in-maduravoyal/article36559883.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition of ‘Kolu’ dolls to be inaugurated today||Poompuhar will hold the ‘Kolu bommai’ exhibition from September 20 to October 20 at its showroom in Anna Salai from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., according to a press release. On Monday, Rural Industries Minister T.M. Anbarasan will inaugurate the exhibition. There will be a 10% discount on the dolls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exhibition-of-kolu-dolls-to-be-inaugurated-today/article36559890.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss disapproves of ‘local understanding’ with AIADMK||Hours after a section of AIADMK leaders said the PMK, which walked out of the alliance led by the Dravidian party last week, seemed to favour a “seat adjustment” in at least Chengalpattu for the local bodies elections, party founder S. Ramadoss indicated his disapproval of any “local understanding”. PMK sources, too, earlier indicated that such an arrangement had been sought in Vellore also. Insisting that the PMK had given a “wish list” for Chengalpattu, a senior AIADMK leader told The Hindu that the list covered panchayat union wards, too. However, the PMK’s position would be known only on Monday when the party nominees are expected to file their papers. The last date for submission of nominations is September 22. However, reacting to reports that PMK leaders and workers in the districts are having “local understanding”, Dr. Ramadoss late on Sunday uploaded a post on Twitter, which appeared to disapprove of any attempt at such an arrangement. He uploaded an image in which the words, ‘local_under_standing’ were struck off, and he asked, ‘Do you understand?’ Sources in the PMK earlier said that while it was not the official position of their party to have a pact with the AIADMK, there were “murmurs of an understanding” between the cadre of the two parties in Chengalpattu and Vellore districts. They added that these “decisions” were made locally. Party’s reasons Among the reasons cited by the PMK a week ago for contesting in the local bodies elections alone were the “lack of time” to finalise the alliance and the need for satisfying the demands of the local workers who were “eager to contest”. On Sunday, the AIADMK and the BJP held talks at the AIADMK headquarters. The senior AIADMK leader said the negotiations were “fruitful”, and for “99% of the seats, an understanding” had been reached. The AIADMK was represented by former Ministers P. Thangamani and Natham R. Viswanathan and the BJP by State general secretary Karu Nagarajan and ‘Karate’ Thiagarajan. During the Assembly election, in Chengalpattu district, the AIADMK-led alliance, which included the PMK then, won only in one of the seven constituencies. Its vote share was 37.65%, whereas the DMK-led alliance, which bagged six seats, got 45.5%. In Vellore, the former, with 44.9% vote share, won only in one of the five constituencies and the latter, with 46.23%, bagged the remaining four seats. The PMK was allotted only one seat in the two districts — Thiruporur of Chengalpattu district — where it lost to the VCK by less than 2,000 votes.  While it was not the official position of their party to have a pact with the AIADMK, there were “murmurs of an understanding” between the cadre of the two parties in Chengalpattu and Vellore districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramadoss-disapproves-of-local-understanding-with-aiadmk/article36559903.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor Vijay files civil suit against conducting meetings in his name||Actor Vijay has filed a civil suit in a city court seeking to restrain 11 persons, including his parents, from conducting any meeting or activities using his name. In the civil suit, he also sought a declaration that the deed of association is null and void, and sought a stay on the conducting of any meeting and activities with the use of his name. He also sought an interim stay against 11 respondents, including his parents. The office-bearers of his fan club were also cited as respondents, said sources. The matter is likely to be heard on September 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actor-files-civil-suit-against-meetings-in-his-name/article36559885.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Child abducted from Pattravakkam rescued at Nagpur railway station||A special team of the city police rescued a three-year-old child abducted from Pattravakkam at the Nagpur railway station within four hours of a complaint being lodged by the parents. Police said the child’s parents — Mithilesh, 23, and Meera Devi, 21, natives of Bihar — were staying with two children, aged five and three, on Mariamman Koil street in Pattravakkam. The couple was working in a private firm. On Saturday, when the couple returned home from work, the three year-old child was found missing. They searched several places and later learnt that two persons, natives of Madhya Pradesh staying on the terrace of the house, were also missing. Mr. Mithilesh lodged a complaint with the Ambattur Estate police on Sunday morning. A special team launched a search. Train located The police collected details of all north-bound trains and found the train on which the two men were travelling with the child. They alerted the Railway Protection Force (RPF) in Nagpur, and shared photographs and other details of the child and the duo. A special team, led by the RPF inspector, nabbed the duo at the Nagpur station and rescued the child. The accused were identified as Shivkumar Noria alias Shibu, 22, and Monu Garibdas, 25, from Raisen district. A team from the Ambattur Estate station has rushed to Nagpur to bring back the child and the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-abducted-from-pattravakkam-rescued-at-nagpur-railway-station/article36559898.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stick to stand on GST bracket for fuel: OPS||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday wanted Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to stick to the latter’s position before the 2021 Assembly election on bringing the prices of petroleum products within the purview of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and take steps towards getting the prices reduced. Recalling that Mr. Stalin, as the Leader of Opposition, took the stand in 2018, Mr. Panneerselvam said the DMK, after the election, had changed its stance on the matter. He referred to a reported letter written by Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in which he had argued against getting fuel prices covered under the GST system. The AIADMK leader said efforts to get the prices lowered would help the implementation of the DMK’s electoral promise of reducing the prices of petrol and diesel, by Rs. 5 and Rs. 3 a litre respectively. In a separate statement, AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami said many direct procurement centres in districts with high production of paddy had remained shut. In the interest of the farmers, the government should immediately open them, Mr. Palaniswami added.  Efforts to get the prices lowered will help the DMK implement its electoral promise of reducing the prices of petrol and diesel, by Rs. 5 and Rs. 3 a litre respectively O. Panneerselvam AIADMK coordinator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stick-to-stand-on-gst-bracket-for-fuel-ops/article36559868.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite going solo, PMK’s ‘wish list’ to AIADMK||The PMK, which announced that it would contest alone for the local bodies’ poll last week by walking out of the AIADMK-led alliance, has given a “wish list” to the AIADMK for “seat adjustment” at least in one district — Chengalpattu. PMK sources said such “local” arrangements had been sought in Vellore too. Confirming this, a senior leader of the AIADMK said the list covered panchayat union wards too. However, the actual position regarding the PMK would be known only on Monday morning, when its nominees are expected to file nominations. [The last date for submission of nomination papers is September 22]. Sources in the PMK said while it was not the official position of the party to have a pact with the AIADMK, there were “murmurs of an understanding” between local cadre of the two parties in two districts — Chengalpattu and Vellore. They added that the “decisions” were taken at the local level in the districts. Among the reasons cited by the PMK a week ago for contesting the local bodies’ elections alone were “lack of time” to finalise the alliance and the need for satisfying the demands of the local cadre, who were “eager to contest” in the polls. Meanwhile, on Sunday, the AIADMK and the BJP held talks at the AIADMK headquarters. A senior functionary of the principal Opposition party said the negotiations took place “fruitfully” and for “99% of the seats, an understanding between the two parties had been reached”. The AIADMK was represented by former Ministers P. Thangamani and Natham R. Viswanathan and the BJP by its State general secretary Karu Nagarajan and “ Karate” Thiagarajan. During the Assembly election, in Chengalpattu district, the AIADMK-led alliance, which included the PMK then, won only in one of the seven constituencies. Its vote share was 37.65%, whereas the DMK-led alliance, which bagged six seats, polled 45.5%. In Vellore, the former, with 44.9% voteshare, won only in one of the five constituencies, and the latter, with 46.23%, secured the remaining four seats. The PMK was allotted only one seat in the two districts — Tiruporur in Chengalpattu district — where it lost to VCK by a margin of less than 2,000 votes (below one percentage point).  Among the reasons cited by the PMK a week ago for contesting the local bodies’ elections alone was “lack of time” to finalise the alliance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/despite-going-solo-pmks-wish-list-to-aiadmk/article36560017.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work begins on clearing drains in Koyambedu||The Market Management Committee has launched the work to remove silt and repair the stormwater drain network in the Koyambedu wholesale market premises to prevent water-logging during northeast monsoon. The Federation of All Associations of Koyambedu Periyar Vegetable Market plans to provide bags for vegetable waste collection to avoid clogging of drains. S.S. Muthukumar, president, Koyambedu Semi-wholesalers Merchants Association, said rainwater stagnated in and around the market because storm drain network was damaged. Garbage strewn on the road too clogged the drains. “Some traders have already started collecting vegetable waste in sacks. The Market Management Committee must take stringent action against unauthorised shops that dump vegetable waste on roads. The sewer lines must be cleared of silt,” he said. Federation president G.D. Rajasekaran said the MMC had assured traders that work would soon be completed on drinking water lines in the market. “We have made several representations to improve other infrastructure. We want the working hours of semi-wholesale market to be extended up to 4 p.m. to help retailers buy produce,” he said. The Federation has demanded a dedicated parking space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-begins-on-clearing-drains-in-koyambedu/article36560267.ece
20 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Ex-panchayat chief gets double life term||The Special Court for bomb blast cases in Poonamallee has convicted a former panchayat president for the murder of a 45-year-old man in a village in Tiruvarur district nearly sixteen years ago and sentenced him to undergo double life imprisonment on two counts. Poyyamozhi, 55, a former panchayat president of Ullikottai village was convicted by the court for criminal conspiracy and murder. According to prosecution, On December 25, 2005 at 9.30 a.m, the accused along with Poyyamozhi, Aasaithambi, Selvam, Elangovan and others brutally attacked Tamilselvan, a farmer with deadly weapons at Sundarakottai Main Road, Keelathirupalakudi, Tiruvarur district. They caused multiple cut injuries and Tamilselvan died before reaching a hospital. This pre-planned murder happened due to enmity over a property dispute between the deceased Tamilselvan’s family and accused Aasaithambi’s family. Poyyamozhi who is from neighbouring village had intervened and was abused by Tamilselvan. In order to settle the score, Poyyamozhi and others murdered him, said the prosecution. Paravakottai police registered a case and recovered country made bombs from Aasaithambi’s house. The case was later transferred from Principal District Sessions Court, Tiruvarur to the Special Court in Poonamallee for exclusive trial of bomb blast cases. Nine were cited as accused in the chargesheet and the charges against one abated since he died. The case was split as three of the accused were absconding. In 2019, the court sentenced two of the accused Elangovan and Amutharasan to life imprisonment and acquitted three women who were cited as accused in the case. Poyyamozhi was arrested in November 2019 and the case against him was tried separately. N.Vijayaraj, Special Public Prosecutor said the prosecution totally examined 30 witnesses and marked 50 documents and 14 material objects. In this case, no prosecution witnesses turned hostile and all the 30 prosecution witnesses supported the prosecution case. At the conclusion of trial, the court sentenced Poyyamozhi to undergo double life imprisonment besides imposing a total fine of Rs. 1 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-panchayat-chief-gets-double-life-term-for-murder/article36559998.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man shares obscene photos on WhatsApp group, held||The Avadi Police on Sunday arrested a 39-year-old man who allegedly posted obscene content on the school WhatsApp group of his son. Police said that the accused B. Munusamy, 39, of Avadi, is an employee of a private company and his 11-year-old son is studying in Standard VI of a private school. Inebriated condition On Saturday evening, the man, under the influence of alcohol, allegedly shared a few obscene pictures and videos on the WhatsApp group of his son of which all teachers and parents are a part of. The police said that the headmaster of the school, on knowing about the incident, lodged a complaint with the Avadi police station, and the man was arrested. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-shares-obscene-photos-on-whatsapp-group-held/article36559886.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pay tax liability soon to reduce the interest burden||Even though the due date for filing income tax returns has been extended to December 31, taxpayers should note that they have to pay 1% interest every month if their remaining tax liability exceeds Rs. 1 lakh and if it was not paid by July 31. The due date for filing returns would normally be July 31, 2021. This was initially extended up to September 30, and has now been extended to December 31. The return pertains to the financial year 2020-21 and the assessment year 2021-22. “While filing tax returns, we calculate our tax liability. As per Section 234A of the Income Tax Act, after deducting our prepaid taxes, if the remaining tax to be payable exceeds Rs. 1 lakh, and is not paid by July 31, it attracts an interest of 1% a month till the tax is paid,” Sujit Bangar, founder of TaxBuddy.com, said.  “In this situation, taxpayers should immediately compute their tax liability and pay the self assessment tax. They can file the returns later, for which time is available,” he said. Paying taxes earlier help reduce the interest burden, even if the return is filed later, an official from the All India Tax Payers’ Association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-tax-liability-soon-to-reduce-the-interest-burden/article36559869.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for sexual assault on toddler||A 19-year-old youth was arrested on Saturday by the personnel of the All Women Police Station, Poonamallee, for allegedly committing aggravated sexual assault on a three-year-old girl. The police said the parents left the child with her grandmother and went to work. While the grandmother was sitting outside the house, the youth entered the house under the pretext of playing with the child and committed the offence. Following a complaint from parents, the police arrested the youth who was identified as Sakthivel alias Sappa, 19, of Nazarathpet, Tiruvallur district under the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-sexual-assault-on-toddler/article36560268.ece
20 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Serving of food to resume in temples||The system of serving food on leaves to devotees seated inside temples as part of the Annadhanam Scheme will resume from Monday, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P. K. Sekarbabu said on Sunday. The announcement comes following requests from devotees, he said adding that serving on leaves would be done from Monday to Thursday when temples are open for public darshan. This would be done while following all safety protocols including personal distancing since devotees can consume food seated inside the temple premises. On the remaining days, packed food would be served as has been the practice. Annadhanam is being served to approximately 66,000 beneficiaries every day in 754 temples under the administration of the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annadhanam-scheme-to-resume-in-temples/article36559908.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on Russian scholarship||Russian House in Chennai will hold a webinar on Russian government scholarship programme 2022-23 at 4 p.m. on September 20. For details, call on 044-24990050. Zoom meeting ID is 89518987185 and password: russia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-russian-scholarship/article36559918.ece
20 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||94,723 doses administered in second mega vaccination drive||A total of 94,723 doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered to those aged above 18 in the second mega vaccination drive held in Coimbatore district on Sunday. Of these, 49,007 were first doses and 45,716 were second doses. The district has 29,27,149 lakh people aged above 18 eligible for vaccination. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian launched the mega drive at the Government Headquarters Hospital, Pollachi, and visited vaccination centres in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts. Coimbatore Collector G.S. Sameeran supervised the exercise which was carried out by government doctors, nurses, staff from private hospitals, anganwadi workers and volunteers. The drive was held at 440 centres in Coimbatore rural. A total 1,51,685 doses of vaccines - 1,00,330 first doses and 51,355 second doses - were administered to the public in the first mega vaccination drive on September 12. In Tiruppur district, 88,549 people were inoculated in the second mega drive on Sunday. While 56,179 persons received their first dose, 32,370 people had their second dose. In the first drive, 1,21,634 doses of vaccines - 99,752 first doses and 21,882 second doses - were administered to the eligible population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/94723-doses-administered-in-second-mega-vaccination-drive/article36559937.ece
20 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Steep drop in demand for pumpsets hits MSMEs||More than 50 % drop in demand for pumpsets used at houses (residential use pumpsets) for about a month has hit the micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) here. K.V. Karthik, president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association (SIEMA), said a large number of large companies that sold branded residential pumpsets across the country sourced their requirements from the industries in Coimbatore. These companies had reduced their sourcing now. A substantial volume of residential pumpsets were made here. Vice-president of the Association Ma. Sendil Kumar added that the drop in demand was because of two or three factors. Usually, construction activities slowed down during rainy season and sale of residential pumpsets dropped during these months. However, the decline in orders was high this year. In Coimbatore, nearly 50 % of the residential pumpsets made were for other leading brands and the rest were for own brand. The larger companies had given orders a few months ago for September too. They did not expect sudden drop in sales and had cancelled the orders in August. Now, the manufacturing units here had the raw materials. “We are unable to plan and this can lead to financial crisis,” he says. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Micro Enterprises, said 40 % of the micro units in Coimbatore did job orders for pumpset units. The orders from these units were very low now. “They (pumpset manufacturers) are asking for less number of parts and in different varieties. Catering to such orders will result in losses for the job working micro units,” he said. Mr. Sendil Kumar added that the pumpset manufacturers planned to tap opportunities in exports. The Indian pumpset market was Rs. 17,000 to Rs. 18,000 crore a year and the global market was nearly $ 95 billion. “We have large scope to bring forex through exports. We plan to form a cluster involving 10 to 20 companies,” he said. The focus would be on marketing, creating common infrastructure, and investing in research and development, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steep-drop-in-demand-for-pumpsets-hits-msmes/article36559920.ece
20 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 34,000 vaccinated in city||In the second mega vaccination drive held here on Sunday, Coimbatore Corporation had administered 34,615 vaccines. According to sources in the health wing, the civic body administered the vaccines in 266 camps. The civic body had clubbed the camps based on their proximity to urban health centres and allotted a medical officer to each of the urban health centre to oversee the mega vaccination drive. The sources said that in a few places, the civic body ran out of doses within the first few hours. At the close of the drive at 7 p.m., the Corporation had administered 12,314 first dose and 13,360 second dose Covishield and 3,636 first dose and 5,305 second dose Covaxin. The highest vaccination was in North Zone with 8,822 persons receiving the vaccine followed 7,037 in West Zone, 6,542 in Central Zone, 6,287 in South and 4,927 in East Zone. The Corporation was left with only a few doses of Covaxin, the sources said and added that it would organise a camp in the coming dose for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-34000-vaccinated-in-city/article36559925.ece
20 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Shops closed on Sunday following orders||All shops, including department stores, markets, malls and cinemas, remained shut in Coimbatore on Sunday following orders from the District Collector. The Collector had, on September 15, said he was placing additional curbs on Sundays to contain COVID-19 spread as the number of cases reported was on the rise. Barring shops selling vegetables, groceries, milk and medicines, he had ordered all shops to be closed for the day and added that even department stores and supermarkets should remain closed. Based on his order, all shops remained shut in the city and other parts of the district. Wholesale markets functioned as did farmers’ markets, but with only 50% sellers. The closure saw the otherwise busy Big Bazaar Street, Oppanakara Street, Raja Street, Sukhrawarpet, D.B. Road, Trichy Road in Singanallur, Ondipudur, Avinashi Road and several other places wearing a deserted look. Restaurants and bakeries were open, but offered only parcel service. Coimbatore City Police personnel and flying squads from the Coimbatore Corporation went around the city to enforce the additional lockdown restriction, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-closed-on-sunday-following-orders/article36559923.ece
20 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi GH gets two oxygen generators||Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian on Sunday inaugurated two medical oxygen generators at the Government Headquarters Hospital, Pollachi. The two units, which together could generate 1,667 litres of oxygen per minute (LPM), would equip the hospital to produce adequate volume of oxygen in the event of a possible third wave of COVID-19, he said. Of the two plants, one with an oxygen enriched airflow rate of 1,000 LPM was installed at a cost of about Rs. 1 crore with funds from the Union Government. Another plant with 667 LPM capacity was set up at a cost of Rs. 85 lakh using the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding by ACT Grants, a non-profit coalition. Mr. Subramanian said 19 such oxygen generation plants were installed in Coimbatore district, making it self-reliant in terms of medical oxygen. He said the district reeled under the pandemic in May end. The Chief Minister initiated the CSR funding in COVID-19 management and enhanced facilities to save the State from getting into such a situation again, he said. The Minister also released a COVID-19 awareness video brought out by the Coimbatore district administration in the presence of District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T.S. Selvavinayagam, Pollachi sub-collector Thakare Shubham Dnyandeorao and other senior officials. The Minister later visited the inter-State check post at Meenakshipuram to check screening of people coming from Kerala. He told media persons checking was tightened at the 13 check posts and also at the railway stations in view of high numbers of COVID-19 cases in Kerala and a recently reported case of Nipah virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pollachi-gh-gets-two-oxygen-generators/article36559928.ece
20 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Educate people on rules in using drones near airport’||The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) has stressed authorities of the Coimbatore International Airport on the need to educate people living in the vicinity of the airport on the rules and regulations in using drones. The airport authority has decided to put up wall posters on airport perimeter wall to educate people on regulations in using drones and unmanned aerial vehicles. The decision was taken in a joint inspection on security measures at the airport carried out by S. Kalyanaraman, Regional Director, BCAS, Chennai, along with Pawan Kumar, Deputy Commandant of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) at Coimbatore International Airport and Airport Director S. Senthil Valavan on Sunday. They inspected the cargo facilities, construction sites inside the airport’s operational area, perimeter area and the Security Operations Control Centre. According to Mr. Senthil Valavan, the Regional Director of BCAS felt satisfied on the overall security arrangements. After the site visits, Mr. Kalyanaraman chaired a meeting of the airport security committee which was attended by representatives from all airlines, CISF, the police, oil companies, engineering agencies, commercial contractors and different agencies of the Airport Authority of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/educate-people-on-rules-in-using-drones-near-airport/article36559933.ece
20 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murder of 80-year-old woman||The Anamalai police arrested a 46-year-old man on charges of murdering an 80-year-old woman after sexually assaulting her. The police said P. Ponnusamy of Ganapathipalayam near Anamalai, committed the crime under the influence of alcohol. Ponnusamy worked in a farm close to the residence of the woman who lived with her daughter and son-in-law. Around 8 p.m. on September 16, the daughter and her husband found the elderly woman vomiting outside the house. They gave water to her and later she died. The body was autopsied the next day and doctors said the woman was raped and smothered. Her son-in-law found a pair of sandals and a towel near the residence and handed them over to the police. The investigating team questioned farm workers in the locality and some of them identified that the sandals and the towel belonged to Ponnusamy. The police took Ponnusamy into custody late on Friday and he confessed to have committed the crime under the influence of alcohol. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murder-of-80-year-old-woman/article36559929.ece
20 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SDPI stages protest||Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) staged a protest here on Saturday to highlight the lack of basic amenities in several parts of the city. In a release, the party said the way the Coimbatore Corporation went about implementing projects under the Smart Cities Mission had created an imbalance of sorts in the city. Basic amenities While a few wards were well-developed with all basic amenities others were below par with not even good roads, the party said and cited Marakkadai. N.H. Road, Kembatty Colony, Kallamedu, Kamarajapuram, Chairman Raja Nagar, Thillai Nagar and a few more areas as examples. There were no good roads, the drains were choked and the residents suffered community dog menace, the party said and urged the Corporation to immediately solve the residents’ demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sdpi-stages-protest/article36559924.ece
20 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man robbed of cash||The Kovilpalayam police are on the lookout for two men robbed a 30-year-old man of his cash after assaulting him late on Friday. The injured has been identified as P. Aruldass of Krishna Nagar near Kovilpalayam. As per the complaint lodged by Aruldass, supervisor of a salon at Saravanampatty, two men followed him on a two-wheeler when he was riding his motorcycle and assaulted him with an iron rod. They took away Rs. 10,000 from him. He suffered injuries on his head, hands and chest. Held with ganja A 34-year-old man from Bihar was held with 1.25 kg of ganja on Saturday. The police said Sanjaykumar Misra, a native of Purnia district in Bihar had been staying at Lakshmi Nagar near Malumichampatty. He was arrested based on specific information from a place on Malumichampatty – Chettipalayam road. The police seized 1.25 kg of ganja and Rs. 40,140 from him. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-robbed-of-cash/article36559930.ece
20 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Internship programme||Suguna Institute of Poultry Management has tied up with Agriculture Skill Council of India - Poultry sector to offer internship programme. Graduates can do the programme to gain work experience in poultry sector. For details, contact 9786997727 or 9344021326 Classrooms donated Walkaroo Foundation has signed a three-year agreement with the Education Department to support the education of underprivileged children. It recently built classrooms for the government higher secondary school, Malumichampatti, worth Rs. 50 lakh and provided financial aid to students, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/internship-programme/article36559934.ece
20 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Additional train services sought||Members of Pollachi Train Passengers Welfare Association on Saturday petitioned Madathukulam MLA C. Mahendran demanding the operation of additional trains via Madathukulam and Udumalpet in Tiruppur district. In the petition, association secretary B. Mohanraj said the broad gauge railway line from Coimbatore to Madurai via Madathukulam is an important rail link that connects the western region of the State such as Coimbatore and Pollachi with the southern districts namely Madurai, Rameswaram and Thoothukudi. All the trains that were operated from Coimbatore on the railway line to Rameswaram, Thoothukudi and Madurai during the metre gauge era, and discontinued following the broad gauge conversion, must be restored. Stoppages for these train must be provided at Madathukulam Junction, the petition demanded. Other demands were transferring Kinathukadavu-Pollachi railway section from Palakkad Division to Madurai Division and operation of MEMU electric trains connecting Dindigul, Palani, Madathukulam, Udumalpet, Pollachi, Coimbatore and Mettupalayam. The association had earlier petitioned Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan appealing for the operation of MEMU passenger train services between Pollachi to Erode and Salem via Coimbatore and Tiruppur and a dedicated overnight express train service between Pollachi and Chennai via Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem and Katpadi Junctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-train-services-sought/article36559913.ece
20 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No power supply||September 21 (9 a.m. to 1 p.m.)   Pattanam sub-station  Pattanampudur, part of Peedampalli and Vellalore, Sathya Narayanapuram, Stanes Colony, Nesavazhar Colony, Pattanam, and Nayakkenpalayam.  September 22 (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)   Kuniamuthur sub-station  Kuniamuthur, Puttuvikki, Edayarpalayam, part of Sundarapuram and BK Pudur, Kovaipudur, and NS Puram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-power-supply/article36559926.ece
20 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman hacked to death in Cuddalore||A woman, 27, was hacked to death by a gang in Kuppankulam near here on Saturday night. The victim was identified as Gandhimathi, wife of Krishnan, a history-sheeter, who was killed in a police encounter in February this year. Gandhimathi was returning home with a relative on a two-wheeler when a three-member gang waylaid them near her house and attacked her with sharp weapons. She suffered injuries on her head and body, and died on the way to the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER) in Puducherry. Police said it seemed to be revenge killing for the murder of Veera alias Veerangan, in which the victim’s husband was the main accused. A case has been registered, and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-hacked-to-death/article36559910.ece
20 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Five booked for running illegal bars in Dharmapuri||The police have registered a case against five persons for running illegal bars close to Tasmac liquor outlets in the district. The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) formed three special teams to identify illegal bars functioning close to their outlets. The officials found that a few shops close to Tasmac outlets in the district were selling disposable glasses, snacks and were permitting people to drink liquor on their premises. Following this, the Tasmac officials lodged a complaint against Govindasami from Ariyakulam, Chinnasami from Pennagaram, Selvam from Eriyur, Noor Mohamed from Papireddipatti and Suresh from Bommidi and the police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-booked-for-running-illegal-bars-in-dharmapuri/article36560042.ece
20 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Three youth allege casteist attack||Three persons from Semmanahalli village in Palacode petitioned the District Police recently alleging casteist attack by members of a different caste near Ellikottai here to avenge the elopement of a girl. According to the police, Raja, Govindaraj and Kumar from Semmanahalli village belong to the Irular community. Recently, a youth from their village eloped with a girl from Vellalar community. The three persons in their complaint to the police alleged that they were recently kidnapped by a gang of 12 persons, reportedly the kin of the girl, and were attacked by the gang in a mango farm near Ellikottai. They claimed that the gang thrashed them, forced them to drink liquor and urinated over them. The three managed to escape from the place and underwent treatment at Dharmapuri government hospital. The petitioners have demanded stern action against the accused. Marandahalli police have registered a case and are inquiring. The police are on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-youth-allege-casteist-attack/article36559921.ece
20 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Helpline for senior citizens||In order to address the problems of senior citizens, the district administration has established helpline ‘14567’ since April 2021. According to an administration release, the helpline seeks to provide information on senior citizens homes, maintenance homes, nurses, palliative geriatric care; provide counselling, guidance to seek out welfare schemes by the government; relief to destitute senior citizens, those deserted by families, or those in need of rescue from families. The helpline is in operation on all days from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Public are urged to call the helpline number 14567 and seek help for senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helpline-for-senior-citizens/article36560032.ece
20 September 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Enter Kodaikanal only with vaccination certificate’||Visitors to Kodaikanal in Dindigul district should have taken at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, said officials of Kodaikanal Municipality on Sunday. Tourists, hoteliers and resort operators are happy with opening up of the hill station for public. However, the officials have planned to keep a tab on the arrivals with a slow rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases. “Public arriving here should have taken at least one dose of the vaccine,” the official told reporters. The public cooperation is mandatory to contain the pandemic. The vehicles carrying passengers without the vaccine shots would not be permitted to enter the hill station. With the educational institutions in Kodaikanal getting ready to commence classes from the next week, the vigil had been intensified. Already some 10 students of a private international school here had tested positive and they were in isolation. So, the cooperation from the public entering the hill station was absolutely essential to face the challenge. Meanwhile, health department officials said that those arriving from Kerala, Karnataka and other parts of the country were subjected to screening of body temperature and certificates of vaccination were checked. The hoteliers have been clearly instructed to ensure that health protocols are followed. Shopkeepers, tourist cab operators and restaurants in Kodaikanal were also told that their employees/drivers and waiters should wear masks while on duty. Collector S. Visakan said on Sunday that vaccine shots were being administered to people above 18 years at the designated PHCs. The district covered over 50,000 people during the first mega campaign held on September 12 and the focus would be to inoculate people in urban pockets in the coming weeks. He said so far, 9,99,242 people had taken first dose and 2,30,708 had taken the second dose thus taking the total to 12,29,950. In Sunday’s campaign, 23,147 people got the first dose and 6,977 the second dose taking the tally to 30124. Thoothukudi A large number of people at the 417 centres across the district and in the city limits got COVID-19 vaccine doses on Sunday. However, in remote locations in rural areas and in some places within the corporation limits, the vaccine stock was insufficient as many, who came after 10.30 a.m., could not get the shots. While the health department officials said that they had sufficient stocks during the mega campaign held on September 12, with close to 74,000 people getting vaccinated, they were taken aback as large number of public above 18 years turned up at the vaccination centres as early as 9 a.m. on Sunday. They said that in Thoothukudi health district, 202 centres were set up, 135 in Koilpatti and 80 in the Corporation limits were opened. However, they had very little stock in many centres as more people turned up. In Tirunelveli district, a similar situation prevailed in many centres. A staff said that they received the regular quantum of doses which, they had exhausted by inoculating beneficiaries by 10 a.m. With the support of NGOs, doses were given to people on the move near Vannarpet flyover and people were happy that Covaxin was available. Only Covishield was in short supply at many PHCs. Health department officials told reporters that all the PHCs received their regular quota of vaccines and they would place order for more vials on Sundays as the turnout was heavy during weekends. In Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts, the district administration arranged the vaccine shots for travelling public at specially installed check-posts. The vigil was tightened after Nipah virus cases were reported in Kerala. Only those who had RT-PCR certificates and vaccine certificates were allowed entry, an official at the check-post, said. Officials in Tenkasi district were confident of stepping up the vaccination drive as people in rural areas voluntarily came forward to get inoculated. Overall, the four southern districts had a record of over 40 % who had taken the first dose, while Tirunelveli had marginally better vaccination of second dose than the other three districts till Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enter-kodaikanal-only-with-vaccination-certificate-say-municipal-officials/article36559909.ece
20 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Krishi Vigyan Kendra inks deal with IFGTB to set up forest science centres||To cater to the needs of silviculture field research, tree improvement, soil and water conservation techniques and to develop superior planting material to enhance the productivity of seedlings, ICAR Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) MYRADA at Gobichettipalayam has signed an memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB), Coimbatore, here recently. The MoU was signed by C. Kunhikannan, Director, IFGTB, and P. Alagesan, Senior Scientist and Head, ICAR-KVK, MYRADA, in the presence of Rajesh Gopalan, Chief Conservator of Forest, and Head, Extension Division, and S. Senthil Kumar, CCF, IFGTB. It paves way for establishing Van Vigyan Kendras or forest science centres to help disseminate technologies developed by farmers, forest-based industries and forest research institutes. Mr. Alagesan said the Van Vigyan Kendra would focus on afforestation techniques for saline land, forestry extension, organic farming and composting techniques, sustainable land use systems and introduction and evaluation of both timber and non-timber species. “Emphasis will also be on developing superior planting materials to enhance the productivity of seedlings which will help people associated with forestry and agriculture”, he added. The senior scientist said that as a pilot project, a Van Vigyan Kendra was established at Arepalayam station in Hasanur that would act as a hub, while stations at Talamalai and Talavadi would act as satellite centres for field trials, models and experimental plots. “The MoU will help in promoting improved clonal varieties of trees, products and technologies developed by IFGTB and other institutes of Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE) of the Ministry of Environment and Forests of Government of India. On Friday, IFGTB and ICAR Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), MYRADA, jointly conducted a “Tree Growers Mela 2021” at Gobichettipalayam on the theme ‘High yielding tree varieties for Agro Forestry Systems’ in which farmers from across the district participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishi-vigyan-kendra-inks-deal-with-ifgtb-to-set-up-forest-science-centres/article36560039.ece
20 September 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 16,000 take the jab at mega vaccination camp in Kallakurichi||As many as 16,602 persons were vaccinated in the second mega vaccination programme held in Kallakurichi district on Sunday. According to Collector P.N. Sridhar, the vaccines were administered in 423 camps. The camps began at 7 a.m. and ended at 7 p.m. About 12,804 people took the first dose of the vaccine while 3,798 took the second dose. Official sources said there was no wastage of doses. The district reported 32 cases, taking the overall tally to 30,697. Camp in Villupuram In Villupuram district, Collector D. Mohan inaugurated the mass vaccination camp at Government Higher Secondary School in Villupuram. Twenty-seven persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 45,229 Meanwhile, Cuddalore district reported one COVID-19 death and 40 new cases on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 63,010. The official death toll stood at 854. The district saw 61,818 recoveries and 338 were active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-16000-take-the-jab-at-mega-vaccination-camp-in-kallakurichi/article36560280.ece
20 September 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||‘Maruthur-Umayalpuram barrage will be established as a road link’||The proposed barrage across the Cauvery river between Maruthur near Kulithalai in Karur district and Umayalpuram near Musiri in Tiruchi district would have a road link for vehicles, said V. Senthilbalaji, Minister for Electricity. Inspecting the proposed site in Maruthur on Sunday, he said that the barrage would be built at a cost of Rs. 750 crore. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had made an announcement to that effect in the State Assembly recently. Mr. Senthilbalaji said that the barrage was a long-pending demand of the people of Karur and Tiruchi districts. It would not only serve the purpose of storing water for irrigation but also foster transport activities. The exact location and the land required for the project in both the villages would be finalised soon. The Public Works Department (PWD) had initiated steps to prepare the Detailed Project Report. After sourcing funds for the project, a tender would be floated. The Minister said that one TMC of water could be stored in the barrage. It would be immensely used for providing drinking water to many villages around Maruthur and Umayalpuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maruthur-umayalpuram-barrage-will-be-established-as-a-road-link/article36560006.ece
20 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Farmer hacked to death||A 66-year- old farmer was hacked to death by an armed gang here in Veppanapalli on Saturday. The incident happened when Vengadappan of Seelepalli village was returning home from his field when the gang in a car chased him and hacked him to death. Vepanapalli police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-hacked-to-death/article36560031.ece
20 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||GRH gets one more oxygen plant||In a joint philanthropic gesture, Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI), Madura Coats and Fenner India have donated an oxygen generation plant costing about Rs. 90 lakh to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here. It was commissioned at a function in which Finance Minister P. T. R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan and Commercial Taxes Minister P. Moorthy, MLAs G. Thalapathi and M. Boominathan, Collector Aneesh Sekhar, Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan and officials of Health Department participated. The philanthropists were represented by president N. Jegatheesan and senior president S. Rethinavelu of TNCCI, and manufacturing director A. Ramkumar and associate vice-president P. G. S. Selvan Dinesh Davidson of Madura Coats. The move follows an appeal from Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on May 18 to liberally contribute for establishing oxygen generation plants and other infrastructural facilities for the benefit of the public. Speaking to The Hindu , GRH Dean A. Rathinavel said that the hospital had four oxygen generation plants which could produce around 2,000 litres a minute. If need arose, the production could be increased. For instance, if there were 25 to 30 patients on ventilator, the oxygen requirement may be anywhere around 1,000 litres/minute. If the patients were in regular isolation wards for COVID-19 virus, 1,000 litres of oxygen could serve 250 beds, he said. Three more oxygen generation plants sponsored by the House of TVS and the DRDO had been installed and were on trial mode. They would be commissioned soon, he said. All facilities ready GRH doctors were of the view that with 189 fresh COVID-19 cases having been reported on Saturday, the hospital was comfortably placed with regard to infrastructural facilities. The oxygen support and bed strength had been increased and there was adequate manpower. Dr. Aneesh Sekhar said that with intensified vaccination drive in rural areas, first dose of inoculation could be done to all the eligible people above 18 years soon. Dr. Karthikeyan said that they had roped in all Urban Primary Health Centres in the city to carry out the drive extensively. The Corporation has opened vaccination centres at 253 sites, manned by 1,200 frontline workers, with a target to administer vaccine to 50,000 people.  The hospital has four oxygen generation plants to produce around 2,000 litres a minute A. Rathinavel Dean, GRH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grh-gets-one-more-oxygen-plant/article36560025.ece
20 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Social justice crucial for a society’s growth: Minister||Social justice, equal rights, and equal opportunities for people were crucial for a society’s growth and Tamil Nadu excelled in upholding such values, said Finance Minister P. T. R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan at the release of a book, ‘Protestant textuality and the Tamil modern’ at The American College here on Sunday. The book was written by late Bernard Bate, an American linguistic anthropologist and historian, who specialised in Tamil and spent many years in Madurai. The book charts the development of political oratory and its influence on Tamil society in the last three centuries. Referring to the highlights by the book on the oratory of Christian missionaries who came to Tamil Nadu in the 1900s, Mr. Thiaga Rajan said, “Be it in India or Tamil Nadu or even Madurai, the contribution of American missionaries is not always talked about much. The link between Madurai and American missionaries goes back to 1881 or even beyond. They contributed to the overall development of the region by providing educational and medical facilities, though there were not the colonising power here,” he said. Many movements in history, be it the work of American Christian missionaries across the world, the civil rights movement in the US, or the social justice movement in Tamil Nadu - they were closely linked in terms of the cause - the people’s welfare. “People’s welfare is the ultimate aim and in that way Tamil Nadu has always believed in social justice and providing equal opportunities and rights to all people. Social justice is crucial for a society’s growth. In India, Tamil Nadu leads among the few States that have an integrated growth of economics and social justice,” the Minister said. After being published by Stanford University Press recently, the book was released in India by the Study Centre for Indian Literature in English and Translation (SCILET) at The American College. Malarvizhi Jayanth, a member of the book’s editorial team, said that as Bate, who worked at Yale-NUS College in Singapore, passed away in 2016 without completing this book, some of his friends and former colleagues made the effort to compile and publish it. Principal Davamani Christober said that it was fitting to release the book at the college where Bate spent a lot of time in his research. “Bate spent a great deal of time with SCILET during his years as a foreign research professor in our college. He was a great human being. He had memorable social ties with our campus,” he said. Pramila Paul, SCILET Director; Stalin Rajangam, Assistant Professor, Tamil Department; R. Nedumaran, retired professor of English Department, and J. Balasubramanian, Assistant Professor, Department of Jourlanism and Science Communication, Madurai Kamaraj University, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-released/article36560018.ece
20 September 2021||MANGALURU,TAMIL NADU||One held for issuing threat to Bommai, others||The Mangaluru police arrested one person and took three others into custody for issuing a life threat to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, veteran BJP leader B.S. Yediyurappa, and Muzrai Minister Shashikala Jolle, and for making statements creating communal tension over the temple demolition episode at Nanjangud in Mysuru district. The Barke police of Mangaluru have arrested Dharmendra, a resident of Urwa, while Rajesh Pavitran, Prem Polali, and Sandeep Shetty Adka are being questioned. In addition, the police have named Kamalaksha Padil, Sudhakar Shetty, Praveen Shetty, and Ullas as accused in the FIR registered following a complaint filed by Lohith Kumar Suvarna, State president of Akhila Bharat Hindu Mahasabha. They have been booked Sections 120(B) (criminal conspiracy), 153(A) (promoting enmity between different groups), 505(2) (statement conducing to public mischief), 506 (criminal intimidation), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 469 (forgery for purpose of harming reputation), and 149 (unlawful assembly). In the complaint, Mr. Suvarna stated that despite removing Dharmendra, Rajesh Pavitran and other accused persons from the Akhila Bharat Hindu Mahasabha, they had continued to misuse the forum’s name, issued statements in public and made defamatory posts on social media. He had come to Mangaluru from Bengaluru four days ago to file a complaint. Dharmendra, Polali and four others had held a press conference on Saturday claiming to be Mahasabha office-bearers and issued a statement using the forum’s letterhead condemning the action of the BJP government with regard to the temple demolition issue. They had gone on to state the following: “When the Mahasabha did not spare Mahatma Gandhi and killed him to safeguard attacks on Hindus, what makes the Chief Minister, Yediyurappa and Ms. Jolle think we will spare you?” The statement by the accused is tantamount to creating unrest among communities and questioning the credibility of the judiciary, Mr. Kumar said, making it clear the Mahasabha was not associated in any way with the statements made. Mr. Kumar said Rajesh Pavitran and Sandeep Shetty had conspired with the other accused to hold the press conference. Pavitran, who has claimed to be president of the Mahasabha’s State unit, is an accused in a honeytrap case registered in Mangaluru city’s Barke police station. He was also an accused in a case of issuance of death threats registered in Kavoor police station and in a police station in Bengaluru. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Sunday that the police were verifying facts, including whether the accused had any meeting before holding the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-held-for-issuing-threat-to-bommai-others/article36559586.ece
20 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Irregularities found in sanctioning of gold loans||The Cooperative Department has found irregularities to the tune of Rs. 16 lakh in sanctioning of gold loans by the Primary Agriculture Credit Society at Malasamuthiram. According to the officials, inspections were being held on gold loans disbursed by the Society for the past few days, as both the previous and present governments have announced waiver for loans taken on jewellery up to five sovereigns. On inspection, officials found that loan has reportedly been availed by pledging fake gold. Officials from the Cooperative Department have initiated measures to lodge a police complaint against the Director and a few other members related to the Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irregularities-found-in-sanctioning-of-gold-loans/article36560035.ece
20 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Flood-prevention work on in full swing in U.T.||People living in low-lying areas of the town want the authorities to speed up flood mitigation work before the onset of the monsoon. Rains are synonymous with inundation for residents of Krishna Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Venkata Nagar, Mohan Nagar, Pavanan Nagar, Anitha Nagar, areas in Mudhaliarpet, Nellithope, Reddiayarpalam and Indira Gandhi Square. “It is a problem that residents in low-lying areas face every year. Successive governments have made promises but so far no concrete steps have been taken. Rainwater enters ground floor of residential buildings causing heavy damage,” said Karthikeyan of Krishna Nagar. Last year, rains triggered flash floods. “Water just gushed in all of a sudden in the middle of the night. Many appliances and furniture were damaged beyond repair, not to talk of the slush that settled on the premises,” he added. R. Vinod of 4th Cross in Rainbow Nagar said the government should desilt the Karuvadikuppam and Uppar drains before the monsoon. The accumulated silt should be removed from the spot and the carrying capacity of the channel increased. Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan said this time the impact of heavy rain on residents would be less as the government had started work involving several crores of rupees under various schemes, including Smart City, using funds available with the department. There was even a proposal to install pumps with sensor in low-lying areas. These pump sets could capture the level and pump out the water into the drains. This would help in timely intervention in managing floods, the Minister said. Work picks up pace “We have started work in several places, including Rainbow Nagar, Ellaipillaichavady. Work on projects worth around Rs. 30 crore had been initiated. We are sure that there will be a lasting solution to the problem of inundation of low-lying areas,” he said. Explaining the projects, he said the administration planned to install four high-capacity pumpsets at Vasantham Nagar, Krishna Nagar and Rainbow Nagar to pump out water into the Karuvadikuppam drain. Moreover, the rainwater that flows from Lawspet area would be diverted to the Gorimedu drain by providing a pumping main from ECR overhead tank to Kokku Park at a cost of Rs. 11.50 crore, he said.. To prevent flooding at Indira Gandhi Square, Reddiyarpalayam, Pavanar Nagar, Anitha Nagar and Mudaliarpet, the earthen channel from Mettuvoikkal to Pallavoikkal would be made a concrete drain to let the water reach Ariankuppam river without any spillover. The project would cost around Rs. 39.80 crore, said Chief Engineer of Public Works Department Sathiyamurthy. Work was on to install a pumpset near Women and Child Hospital to drain water into Mohan Nagar drain. The drain had been desilted, he said. The Chief Engineer said work, including desilting of main drains in several areas, was full in swing and would be completed before the northeast monsoon sets in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-in-low-lying-areas-pin-hopes-on-flood-prevention-work/article36560271.ece
20 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||75% of U.T. population given at least one dose of vaccine||The number of vaccine doses administered against COVID-19 in the Union Territory has crossed the 9-lakh mark. According to the Health Department, 10,905 persons, the highest single-day number in several weeks, received the jab on Sunday to take the aggregate number of doses administered in the Union Territory to 9,08,166. As on Sunday, about 75% of the population has been partially or fully vaccinated. “As of now, 6.5 lakh people have received one dose while over close to 2.5 lakh have completed both doses,” Health Secretary T. Arun said. The Union Territory has 10 lakh population above 18 years of age identified as eligible for vaccination, and needs to complete administering 11 lakh doses more to attain full coverage (both doses) of the population. Following a recent Covid Task Force meeting chaired by Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan, the administration has set a target of achieving 100% vaccination with at least one dose by October 2. 79 new cases, 2 deaths Meanwhile, the Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 79 new cases on Sunday. The fatalities were reported in Puducherry and Mahe taking the cumulative toll to 1,831. The region-wise break-up of the toll is Puducherry (1,439), Karaikal (243), Yanam (106) and Mahe (43). Puducherry accounted for 50 new cases, which were detected from 4,765 tests, followed by Karaikal (17), Yanam (2) and Mahe (10). The test positivity rate was 1.66%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.80%. With 78 persons recovering from COVID on Sunday, the number of active cases stood at 923. Of these, 161 are in hospitals and 762 cases in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,25,463 cases against 1,22,709 patients recovered. Of an estimated 17.37 lakh tests administered so far, over 14.73 lakh returned negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75-of-people-in-ut-given-at-least-one-dose-of-vaccine/article36559906.ece
20 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G nod for aid to fishermen||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has accorded approval for release of the second instalment of grants-in-aid (phase II) of Rs. 1.21 crore towards compensation to fishermen families for the period of fishing ban. Each of the 2,216 fisher families will get Rs. 5,500 under the “Welfare and Relief for Fishermen During Lean Seasons and Natural Calamities” scheme in the Union Territory, according to a pressnote from the Raj Nivas. Another file cleared by the Lt. Governor pertained to approval for an increase in the rate of consolidated remuneration from Rs. 40,000 a month to Rs. 50,000 a month to the Medical Officers (ISM&H) engaged on contract basis on par with Medical Officers (Allopathy) working in Health Department. New rule The decision of the Council of Ministers to empower the tahsildar-cum-executive magistrate in Puducherry and Karaikal regions and deputy tahsildar-cum-executive magistrate in Mahe and Yanam regions to issue legal heir certificate has received concurrence of the Lt. Governor. This will reduce inconvenience of public in approaching courts for obtaining legal heir certificate and alleviate piling up of cases in the subordinate courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-nod-for-aid-to-fishermen/article36560273.ece
20 September 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Death of doctor: decision taken to use old railway gate path||Consequent to public outcry following the freak accident near Thudaiyur in the district in which a government doctor drowned after the car she drove got stuck in a pool of stagnant rainwater in an underpass beneath the railway track, a decision was taken to use the old railway gate path as a temporary alternative at a peace meeting convened in the office of the Tahsildar at Kulathur. Doctor S. Sathya (32) who was serving in the Government Hospital at Hosur in Krishnagiri district was driving the car to Thudaiyur when she drowned after the vehicle got stuck in the flooded underpass beneath the railway track. Her mother-in-law Jayam was rescued and admitted to Pudukottai Medical College Hospital. The incident triggered protests by the public. The peace meeting had the participation of officials from the revenue department, railways and police personnel besides Thudaiyur panchayat president and general public. During the course of the meeting presided over by the Revenue Divisional Officer, Illupur, demands were raised by the general public for closure of the underpass immediately and opening of the railway gate path that was used earlier. Heeding to the public demand, the officials decided to close the underpass. Temporary measure At the end of the nearly three-hour long peace meeting, a decision was take for utilising the railway gate path temporarily for public movement until a permanent alternative path was created. It was also decided to deploy gatekeepers at the railway gate and close the underpass. It was also decided to recommend to the State government and the railway administration that due compensation within the stipulated rules should be given to the family of the deceased government doctor. The sources said the decisions taken at the meeting and signed by officials and a section of the public who had taken part has been forwarded to the higher ups. Officials and police sources said the railway gate path was opened on Saturday for public movement as decided at the peace meeting. The railway gate falls in the Tiruchi - Pudukottai broad gauge section between Keeranur and Vellanur railway stations in Pudukottai district. Sources said the work of pumping out the rainwater which was nearly 10 feet in the underpass following heavy rains on Friday evening was taken up. Police have posted pickets at the spot as a precautionary measure to avert any fresh problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-of-doctor-decision-taken-to-use-old-railway-gate-path/article36560010.ece
20 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Sea cucumber seized||In a joint patrol by Coast Guard and Forest department, a country boat found abandoned in the sea near Manoli island here on Sunday morning revealed that it had 1,500 kilograms of sea cucumber worth Rs. 30 lakh. According to the officials, the patrol team was led by Venkatesh from the Forest department. When they spotted the country boat and checked, it had the banned items. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sea-cucumber-seized/article36560199.ece
20 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Residents demand speedy completion of service road at Four Roads junction||Residents and motorists have urged authorities to complete construction of service road between Four Roads junction and New Bus Stand road at the earliest. Motorists here complained that with road works progressing on Thamannan Road, they were forced to drive on the wrong side to reach New Bus Stand, if they were to skip the flyover or take the narrow lane. A flyover was constructed at the Four Roads junction as part of the two-tier flyover project connecting major junctions in the city. The 7.87 km-long two-tier flyover connects major junctions here including AVR Roundabaout, Kuranguchavadi, New Bus Stand, Hasthampatti and Omalur Main Road that leads to the District Collectorate. The flyover stretch from Anna Park to Kurunguchavadi passes over Four Roads junction and has a downward lane that ends near the TVS bus stop. Though service road works from New Bus Stand to Four Roads junction have been completed, works are yet to gather pace in the return direction. V. Raj, a resident of Shankar Nagar here, said that many businesses were operating on the service road and people were forced to either drive on the wrong side or manage through the narrow lane. It is quite riskier to drive through the road during rains, he said. Officials from the State Highways Department said that drain construction works were progressing in the service lane and the road works would be completed once land acquisition process was over. According to officials, 10-12 metres of land from the wall of the flyover was being acquired for the service road and due to objections for removing a temple, the land acquisition process was getting delayed. Peace committee meetings were being conducted and works were expected to be completed soon, a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-demand-speedy-completion-of-service-road-at-four-roads-junction/article36560030.ece
20 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special education loan scheme for higher studies||The Salem district administration has launched a scheme to facilitate education loan to students for admission to colleges here. District Collector S. Karmegham said students interested in availing themselves of education loans can apply on the websitewww.vidyalakshmi.co.inwith required documents such bank passbooks of the student and parent, passport size photograph and PAN card of parent and student, Aadhaar card, salary certificate, mark sheet, offer letter from respective college and fee structure of college. According to a release, teachers (in-charge) have been appointed in each school to assist students regarding the scheme and a help desk has been set up at Room 211 in Distict Collectorate. Public can contact officials through phone number0427-2414200, Whatsapp no.9342752510 and through email salemeducationalloan@gmail.com, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-education-loan-scheme-for-higher-studies/article36560040.ece
20 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘All NEET aspirants to be covered through counselling in 15 days’||Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma.Subramanian said the government plans to cover all NEET aspirants and their parents in the State through telephonic counselling in 15 days. Speaking to reporters in in Erode on Sunday after visiting mega vaccination camps in Salem, Namakkal and Dharmapuri districts, Mr. Subramanian said the State government was pursuing it legally to get exemption for State in NEET examinations. He advised students to not consider suicide. To reduce mental pressure of students, telephonic counselling was started for NEET aspirants and they were targeting to make 5,000 calls from the centre on a day. He said that counselling was also being provided to parents of aspirants. He said that 1.10 lakh students applied for NEET examinations in the State and over 24,000 students were covered in counselling till date. The Minister said that vaccination camps were held at 20,000 places across the State to administer 15 lakh doses on the day on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-neet-aspirants-to-be-covered-through-counselling-in-15-days/article36559917.ece
20 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Minister promises over 1 lakh vaccine doses for Salem dt. in future camps||Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said the State government would ensure that over 1 lakh doses were allotted to Salem district in the future camps. After visiting various mega vaccination camps in Salem on Sunday, the Minister told reporters that 54% had received their first dose and 16% second dose in the district. There was a need to create more awareness among the public about vaccination, he said. He said Covaxin was being primarily given to those awaiting second dose. In Dharmapuri, Mr. Subramanian said the Centre has promised to allot 1.04 crore doses to the State in September and one crore doses have been administered as on Sunday. “We are expecting more allotment for the rest of the month,” he said. He said that COVID-19 positive cases among school students need not be blown out of proportion as only 83 students have been affected so far and they were asymptomatic. Public representatives have been requested to create awareness among villages in hilly terrains, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-promises-over-1-lakh-vaccine-doses-for-salem-dt-in-future-camps/article36560037.ece
20 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three deaths, 71 new cases in Salem||Salem district on Sunday reported 71 new COVID-19 cases and three deaths. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 13 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 47 cases, all indigenous. While Erode reported 131 cases, Dharmapuri saw 21 cases and Krishnagiri 26 cases. One death was reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-deaths-71-new-cases-in-salem/article36560034.ece
20 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||64 persons held in special drive||As many as 64 persons who were facing arrest warrants were arrested by the Salem District Police on Sunday. As per Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav’s direction, a special drive was held on Saturday to arrest persons facing non-bailable warrants and 64 persons were held, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/64-persons-held-in-special-drive/article36560041.ece
20 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination camps witness huge turnout||A large turnout of public at the 417 vaccination centres across the district and in the city limits resulted in inoculation of covid-19 vaccine doses to a majority of the beneficiaries here on Sunday. However, in remote locations in rural areas and in some sites within the Corporation limits, the vaccine stock was insufficient as many, who came after 10.30 a.m., could not get the shots. While the health department officials said that they had sufficient stocks during the mega campaign held on September 12, that close to 74,000 people were vaccinated, they were taken aback as large number of public above 18 years turned up at the vaccination centres as early as 9 a.m. on Sunday. The officials said that in Thoothukudi health district, 202 centres were designated, in Koilpatti 135 and in the Corporation limits, 80 centres were opened. However, the health department officials said that they had very little stocks in many centres as the arrivals were far from expectations. In Tirunelveli district, a similar situation prevailed in many vaccination centres. At a PHC in Palayamkottai, a staff said that they received the regular numbers for which, they had exhausted by inoculating to beneficiaries till 10 a.m. With the support of NGOs, vaccination doses were given to travelling people near Vannarpet flyover and people expressed satisfaction as Covaxin was available. Only Covishield was in short supply at many PHCs. Senior Health department officials told reporters that all the PHCs received their regular quota of vaccines and from now onwards, they planned to place order for more number of vials on Sundays as the turnout was higher than the weekdays. In Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts, the district administration had arranged the vaccine shots for travelling public at specially installed check-posts. The vigil was tightened after Nipah virus cases were reported in neighbouring Kerala. Only those who had RT-PCR certificates and vaccine certificates were allowed entry, an official at the check-post said. Kanniyakumari Collector Arvind had recently told reporters that against the targeted 85,000 vaccine doses, they achieved a little over 75,000 in the September 12 mega campaign. Similarly, the officials in Tenkasi district were confident of stepping up the vaccination drive as people in the rural areas voluntarily came forward to get inoculated. Overall, the four southern districts had a record of over 40 % who had taken the first dose, while Tirunelveli had marginally better vaccination of second dose than the other three districts till Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccination-camps-witness-huge-turnout/article36560311.ece
20 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Burning of waste again raises a stink on Oyamari Road||Burning of household waste continues unabated on Oyamari Road between Melachinthamani and Chennai Bypass Road, causing inconvenience to passers-by. Till a few years ago, there was not much activity on the road except for mourners who visit the gasifier crematorium to perform last rites of their departed relatives and those who take bath in the Cauvery river. Since the road overbridge (ROB) was constructed, it has become a busy stretch with a large number of vehicles plying on the road. A one-km portion on the stretch from Melachinthamani to Chennai bypass road is where dump yards have become visible. Waste right from construction materials, leftover food, plastics and bottles, and household materials such as sofa, cushion, mattresses, and pillows are dumped and set on fire. As it affected the people in the surroundings, the Tiruchi Corporation had stepped in and put up notice boards, warning those setting fire to the discarded items. This had brought down the instances of people throwing unwanted items along the roadsides. After a lull, the menace has reappeared now. It is a common to sight to see the burning of waste any time on Oyamari Road. In most cases, relatives and family members of the deceased do not want to keep the clothes, mattresses, mats, pillows, bedcovers and bedsheets of the dead in their homes. The materials are dumped on the roadside at night and set afire, thereby causing air pollution in the area. It is an added discomfort to the people who are already grappling with the air pollution caused by continuous burning of dead bodies in the crematorium at Oyamari. Local residents and road users complain that though they had petitioned to the Corporation officials on several occasions, the menace continues unabated. “The road can not be allowed to be used as a dump yard. The garbage collectors confine to picking up food and domestic waste. People looking to discard unwanted household items use the spot as a convenient location. The Corporation should have a system to collect and dispose materials discarded by relatives of the deceased,” says N. Jamaludeen, a civic activist. When contacted Corporation Commissioner P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman told The Hindu that tough action would be initiated against those polluting the Oyamari Road. Surveillance would be stepped up to identify them. A solution will be arrived at shortly, he assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burning-of-waste-again-raises-a-stink-on-oyamari-road/article36560004.ece
20 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination drive in Tiruchi exceeds target||The second installment of the mega vaccination drive organised across the district was a success as over 60,000 took the jab in a single day. The authorities had set a target of 55,000 vaccinations but they exceeded the target by covering 64,448 people. Tiruchi accounted for the seventh-highest coverage among the districts in the State in a single day. The vaccines were administered at 623 camps, of which 497 were in the rural and semi-urban parts of the district, while 126 camps were in Tiruchi city. In some camps, the allotted doses ran out by noon. Various prizes announced by each zone of the Corporation and the awareness drive undertaken had a role to play in the turnout, officials said. District Collector S. Sivarasu said that the percentage of vaccination achievement was 115.7%. The district vaccination achievement reached 60,000 jabs by 2 p.m. At the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, prizes were distributed by Dean K. Vanitha. The first 50 people to get the vaccine shot were presented with a sapling each. At the end of the day, a lucky draw was conducted and Lakshmi, a 55-year-old woman from the city was presented with a Blood Pressure Monitor as prize. The prizes announced by each zone of the Tiruchi Corporation would be made known soon. In Karur, a record number of people were vaccinated. The district made the second highest achievement after Chennai. A total of 1,00,036 people took the jab. In Perambalur district, a total of 12,727 people were vaccinated at special camps held today at 189 locations. Thanjavur vaccinated 47744 people, Tiruvarur- 33,465, Mayiladuthurai- 27,682, Ariyalur- 17,944, Nagapattinam- 15,055, Perambalur- 12,727, Pudukottai- 10,469 and Aranthangi- 10,273.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-drive-in-tiruchi-exceeds-target/article36559995.ece
20 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Change name to Thanthai Periyar College: alumni||The Alumni Association of Periyar E.V.R. College here has requested the State government to rename the institution as Thanthai Periyar College. Member of Parliament Tiruchi N. Siva, an alumnus, said the college had given wings to many a dream for a very nominal fee. J. Suganthi, Principal, highlighted the need for a well-stocked library and a computer laboratory. Appointment of additional maintenance staff and Physical Education instructors were also a necessity, she said. The alumni association, formed in 2003 has been instrumental in the improving various facilities. A conference hall and ladies restrooms were constructed utilising the MP fund. Noted alumni such as Marachi Subburaman, the founder of Society for Community Organisation and People’s Education (SCOPE) were honoured with awards at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-name-to-thanthai-periyar-college-alumni/article36559993.ece
20 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for killing daughter||A 30-year-old woman V. Vijayalakshmi, a widow, was arrested on Sunday in Thanjavur on charges of killing her seven-year-old daughter and dumping the body in a river. Along with Vijayalakshmi, her distant relative R. Vetrivel (36) has also been arrested by the Thanjavur East Police on the same charges. Police sources said after her husband's death, Vijayalakshmi - of Gandharavakottai in Pudukottai district - came to Thanjavur with her children Vidya (7) and Vignesh (4). The woman is alleged to have developed intimacy with Vetrivel who resided in Thanjavur. Vetrivel - an alcoholic - is said to have frequently visited Vijayalakshmi in her house. Sources said Vetrivel under the influence of alcohol visited Vijayalakshmi's house in the late hours on Saturday and allegedly made advances. However, Vijayalakshmi had avoided him purportedly because her daughter was awake. Irked over this, Vetrivel reportedly assaulted Vijayalakshmi. On hearing her scream, Vidya tried to intervene. She was allegedly assaulted by Vetrivel and pushed to the ground. The minor girl developed a seizure and was rushed to the hospital where she was declared brought dead. Vetrivel and Vijayalakshmi thereafter tried to bury the body in a burial ground but could not carry out the act as there was public movement. Later, they threw it in a river. The entire crime came to light after a local resident alerted the police. Vijayalakshmi and Vetrivel reportedly confessed to their crime while being inquired. A search has been launched by fire fighters to retrieve the bodys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-arrested-for-killing-daughter/article36560011.ece
20 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T and TIIC sign MoU||National Institute of Technology Tiruchi (NIT-T) and Tamilnadu Industrial Investment Corporation Limited (TIIC) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to facilitate financial support to Start-ups, MSME units, and incubatees with the Centre for Entrepreneurship Development and Incubation (CEDI), a Section 8 company promoted by the institute. The MoU envisages financial support in the form of working capital, seed fund, capital financial support to member Start-ups or MSME units identified and incubated by CEDI NIT-T. The MoU was signed by Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, NIT-T, and T. Kirubakaran, General Manager, TIIC Ltd in the presence of Minister for Industries, Thangam Thennarasu; Jayashree Muralitharan, Special Secretary - MSME; and Hans Raj Verma, Chairman and Managing Director of TIIC. Prof. Mini Shaji Thomas said that NIT-T has also been identified as the ‘Design Implementing Agency’ by MSME. The Siemens Centre of Excellence in Manufacturing, and Centres of Excellence in Advanced Manufacturing and Artificial Intelligence would provide technical support to the MSMEs in the locality. The MoU is an outcome of measures taken by the newly-formed committee headed by retired senior IAS official Sundaradevan to revive the health of MSME sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-and-tiic-sign-mou/article36560014.ece
20 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||300 COVID-19 cases reported||The central region reported 300 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. Nine patients succumbed to the illness in the region. Of them, three belonged toThanjavur, and two each to Mayiladuthurai and Pudukottai. One each from Nagapattinam and Perambalur also died due to the illness. The number of cases in the region recorded a dip. On Sunday, 103 patients reported positive in Thanjavur and 51 in Tiruchi. Tiruvarur recorded 40 fresh cases, while Nagapattinam reported 34. In Pudukottai, 20 patients reported COVID-19 positive, and in Mayiladuthurai, 19. In Karur district, 15 patients reported positive, and in Ariyalur, 11. Perambalur continued to report the least number of fresh cases among the central districts with seven fresh cases being reported on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/300-covid-19-cases-reported-in-central-region/article36560007.ece
20 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 73.52 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 14,121 cusecs and the discharge 15,999 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article36560013.ece
20 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 81 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 836.62 cusecs and a discharge of 883.50 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 62.83 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 15 cusecs and nil discharge. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Kalakkad 52.4, Kodumudiyar dam 50, Nanguneri 20, Tirunelveli 5.6, Cheranmahadevi and Palayamkottai 2 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36560308.ece
20 September 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Plea to upgrade Tiruvarur Municipality||The Tiruvarur Town unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has called upon the State government to expedite the process of upgrading the Tiruvarur Municipality as a special grade municipality initiated during the last regime of late Chief Minister M.Karunanidhi. In a resolution passed at the 23rd CPI(M) Tiruvarur Town Unit Conference held here on Saturday, the DMK government was reminded that an initiative towards upgrading the Tiruvarur Municipality as a Special Grade Municipality was taken up when Karunandhi was Chief Minister during 2006-11. Subsequently, the process witnessed slackness and was almost put in the cold storage. Hence, the CPI(M) Tiruvarur Town Unit has exhorted the DMK, which has come to power, to consider and expedite the process, the resolution added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-upgrade-tiruvarur-municipality/article36559999.ece
20 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Garbage removed from roadside in Coonoor||More than a tonne of garbage was cleaned up along the 5-km stretch between Bandishola and Halakkarai Road in Coonoor on Saturday. The clean-up drive was organised by Coonoor-based NGO, ‘Clean Coonoor’ to mark World Cleanup Day and involved the participation of volunteers as well as personnel from the Forest Department and civic bodies. According to managing trustee of the NGO, Samantha Iyanna, the drive was organised after residents had brought to the notice of the NGO the unchecked and illegal dumping of garbage along the road by passing vehicles and people living nearby. Members of Clean Coonoor spent an entire day on cleaning the stretch. P.J. Vasanthan, trustee of Clean Coonoor, said that there was more trash along the stretch which would be removed in the coming weeks. Furthermore, in order to prevent dumping of waste along the stretch, which is home to a variety of wildlife, two rural dry-waste collection centres at Bellattimattam and another at Halakkarai was inaugurated by the Coonoor sub-collector. Dry waste “The Coonoor Panchayat Union has put at our disposal two of its buildings for the purpose of sorting and storage of dry waste which will be later disposed of as per established norms by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. The centres will be manned by staff appointed by Clean Coonoor, and will collect dry waste from the nearby villages, gated communities and individual homesteads,” said Mr. Vasanthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-removed-from-roadside-in-coonoor/article36559915.ece
20 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Probe ordered into bid to auction panchayat posts||The Villupuram district administration has ordered a probe into allegations of attempts to auction the post of panchayat president in two blocks in the district, ahead of the rural local bodies polls next month. According to official sources, complaints emerged of an attempt to auction the post of president in Ponnankuppam panchayat in Gingee block. The panchayat, with 3,000 voters, is reserved for Scheduled Caste (Women). The panchayat has two hamlets — Thuthipet and Ponnankuppam. The village elders of Thuthipet convened a meeting on Saturday to weed out a contest by “auctioning the seat” to the highest bidder from Thuthipet, based on its population size. Allegations surfaced that the post had been sold for Rs. 13 lakh. However, the residents opposed the move and contended that the candidate from their village should be elected. Following information provided by villagers of Ponnankuppam, a team of officials, led by Collector D. Mohan, visited the village and held inquiries. Discreet probe under way Mr. Mohan said that a discreet probe by the police was under way. Stringent action would be initiated if prima facie evidence was found. Revenue and police officials have been asked to keep a close watch on the village. Official sources said that claims had emerged of attempt to auction the post of president in Sitheri panchayat in Kaanai block. Five candidates from the panchayat had proposed to file their nominations and the village elders convened a meeting on Saturday evening to auction the seat to the highest bidder. However, a section of youth opposed the move and lodged a complaint with the authorities concerned urging them to take action against those who were trying to subvert the democratic process.  Five candidates from panchayat had proposed to file their nominations and the village elders convened a meeting on Saturday evening to auction the seat to the highest bidder Official sources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-ordered-into-bid-to-auction-panchayat-posts/article36559907.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 215 new cases||The number of new COVID-19 cases saw a slight increase in Coimbatore district on Sunday as 215 persons tested positive for the disease. The district had 201 cases on Saturday. The Health Department said that 217 persons recovered from COVID-19 in the district on Sunday and active cases stood at 2,198. Four more persons from the district died of COVID-19 and the death toll increased to 2,317. The district had a Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of 1.7 % on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 95 new cases on Sunday and 97 persons recovered from the disease. The district had 900 active cases. A 52-year-old woman died of COVID-19 in the district on Saturday, taking the death toll to 947. Tiruppur district had a TPR of 1.9 % on Saturday, according to the Health Department. In the Nilgiris, 34 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 32,352. The number of deaths stood at 196 on Sunday while 369 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-215-new-cases/article36559932.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore makes a mark in inoculation||To push it up further, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin ordered the conduct of the second mega vaccination drive on Sunday, he said. The State used 29 lakh of the 30 lakh doses it had on September 12. On Sunday, it aimed to administer more than 15 lakh doses out of the stock of 16 lakh. As the entire stock was utilised for the mega vaccination drive on Sunday, no camp would be conducted on Monday. The camps would resume once the State received a sufficient stock from the Union government, he said. After inspecting the camps in Tiruppur district, Mr. Subramanian said 13.86 lakh out of the eligible population of 20.77 lakh had received the vaccine. Of the 20.77 lakh, 67% had received the first dose and 13% the second. The Minister said the spread of the contagion in schools was under control. Students started attending in-person classes after one-and-a-half years and people should not create panic. At Namakkal, he said the State required 12 crore doses to administer the first and second doses. He said 56% of the people had received the first dose. The State had not received the doses as required from the Union government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-makes-a-mark-in-inoculation/article36559875.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||On a mission||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-a-mission/article36560266.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore’s pride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellores-pride/article36560318.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||READERS MAIL||After upgrading the underground drainage network at Ayyappa Nagar, the dug-up roads have not been levelled properly. The uneven road replete with pits and bumps cause two-wheelers to skid. The authorities seem to have given a go by to the procedure of laying a new layer of asphalt after milling of the road. Instead, the uneven surface is filled with sand and stones. At times of heavy rain, water stagnates exposing residents to more inconvenience. Rectifying the road under due supervision of the authorities concerned will be much appreciated. R. Nikil Krishna Ayyappa Nagar   The State government’s plan for renovation and rehabilitation of the Uyyakondan canal is laudable. Sewage and the effluent released through the Uyyakondan canal and the Korayar river and the waste water from hotels let through small canals into the Kudamurutti river eventually drain into the Cauvery river. It is a sad sight to see people bathing in polluted water at Chinthamani ghat. Only ten years back, the Kudamurutti river was not polluted compared to the present level. People used to bathe in the river and cattle used to drink the water. But now, the river carries only sewage and other effluents making the life of the people who live on the bank of the river more miserable. The residents get only polluted water through the borewell. Renovation and rehabilitation of the Kudamurutti river also would be ideal for the well-being of the people. V. Sundararaju Srinivasa Nagar South   Garbage strewn on the opposite side of the post office functioning along Williams Road is an eye sore. The garbage dumped by shops, hotels and liquor bars remain uncleared for long and have turned into breeding spots for mosquitos. Cattle rummage in the garbage and unbearable stench emanates from the heap. The Corporation has to step in early to address the health hazard. M. Raja Tiruchi   Farmers in Perambur and surrounding villages in Needamangalam taluk are an aggrieved lot since the paddy they had harvested have been kept in the open. Farmers fear that unexpected rain and rodents will cause trouble. There is no reason why the godown close by must be kept under lock and key in such a situation. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram   Sterilisation of 100 dogs in a month by the Anti-Birth Control Unit in Tiruchi city is a welcome measure. The same initiative must be carried out in Thanjavur city where the menace is high. S. Sethuraman Thanjavur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article36559997.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - Madurai||This is with reference to the news on construction of a flyover at Mudakkusalai junction. The proposed flyover will be of no use unless it is extended across the existing flyover at Kalavasal junction. There is already an unused flyover at Palanganatham. The flyover being constructed opposite Madurai Kamarajar University also is going to be used less. But, at Kalavasal junction signal, traffic from all four sides is stopped for two minutes, warranting a modification at this point first. Connecting the proposed Mudukkusalai flyover to Kalavasal flyover is the best choice for Madurai residents. Mohamed Ismail N, SBO Second Colony   The two/four-wheeler parking area at the western entry of Madurai railway junction does not have adequate lighting facility. Apart from providing proper lighting arrangements, surveillance by RPF personnel should also be intensified in this area where a reservation centre is also functioning. Since the railways observes ‘cleanliness fortnight’ from September 16, apart from cleaning the platforms, the signboards should also be cleaned. For example, the board denoting platform number 4 is masked with dust and not legible. C. A. Pradeep, Moondrumavadi   Apropos the report on customers getting surprise gift of lakhs and crores of rupees in their accounts in Bihar (September 17), the bank attributes it to a computer glitch. There is possibility of cash being removed from one’s account also due to a similar glitch. I went to a nationalised bank for remitting cash - the cost of a book purchased - into a society’s account. I was told that such transactions had to be done only on digital mode, and as digitalisation had become the norm, all, including the old, had to learn to live with that. Wouldn’t it be proper to leave the choice of mode of transaction - digital or manual - to the customer?. K. Natarajan, Tahsildar Nagar   The northern stretch of Gokhale Road is in a very bad condition ever since work started on the elevated corridor on New Natham Road. Because of the potholes and uneven surface of the road, two-wheeler riders get back pain and four-wheeler drivers find it difficult to negotiate this stretch. Besides, the vehicles also get damaged. I request the authorities to repair this stretch. M. Sundararajan, Surveyor Colony   Chennai and Tiruchi airports have COVID-19 Rapid Test Facility to screen passengers travelling abroad, but not Madurai airport. Since a lot of passengers from southern districts use Madurai airport, I request the Airports Authority of India and Union Health Ministry to have the testing facility here. Asmabagh Anvardeen, Ramanathapuram   There are reports that Chennai Central-Madurai triweekly AC express may be extended to Theni on the Bodi line since broad gauge conversion work is over till Theni. But the common people in this region cannot afford to travel in AC coaches. Citing poor patronage, the service may be stopped, it is feared. So, the railways must operate a train with non-AC coaches, and run it daily. Railway users’ forum, Kanniyakumari||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-madurai/article36560196.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||coimbatore today||Coimbatore Management Association: Monday Musings, Manoeuvring sales during lockdown, zoom meeting, 6.30 p.m.  ABT and Sakthi Group: Launch of website on cartoonist Mathi, Sakthi Group, Race Course, 3 p.m.  Karpagam Academy of Higher Education: Department of Tamil, five-day long series of lectures on humanities, arts, inauguration, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article36559936.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City engagements||National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi: Inauguration of OPAL - Ladies Hostel and Centre for Advanced Manufacturing (through video-conference) by Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister for Education, Government of India;Bhaskar Bhat, Chairperson, Board of Governors, presides, 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article36560302.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Motorcyclist dies after falling into pit dug up on road||Bad roads have claimed the life of yet another motorist this month. A 47-year-old man was killed, when his two-wheeler skidded and hit barricades around a pit that had been dug up in the middle of Hesaraghatta Main road, on Friday night. The barricades had been put for ongoing Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) work without adequate lighting, warnings or safety measures, said a police official. This is the third incident this month where motorists have met with fatal accidents while trying to negotiate potholes or bad stretches. The deceased was identified as Anandappa S., who lived in T. Dasarahalli and worked in a private firm. He was returning home from work when the accident took place. “He was near Sri Krishna Cake Palace on Hesaraghatta Main Road, but did not see the barricade or the pit in the middle of the road, and fell,” the police official added. The pit had allegedly been dug up by private contractors on behalf of the BWSSB to replace a valve, but it had not been closed and there were not enough barricades. Mr. Anandappa sustained severe injuries when he fell. Passers-by, along with the traffic police, took him to a hospital in the area where he succumbed to his injuries early on Saturday. Cases registered While the police have registered a case against the contractors of the private company which had taken up the work and BWSSB engineers concerned, they have also registered a case against the deceased motorcyclist under Section 279 (rash driving on public way and Section 304(a) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. The accident took place just before the September 20 deadline for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to repair all potholes on arterial roads. While it wasn’t a pothole- related death in this case, motorists, especially two-wheeler riders, are more at risk when navigating bad stretches. In the first week of September, a 75-year-old physically challenged senior citizen was killed while he was allegedly trying to navigate a pothole on Manganahalli Main Road. He died on the spot. The Bangalore Development Authority which was responsible for maintaining the road said that BWSSB has cut the road to lay some pipeline. However, the contractor had not restored the road. A few days ago, a 25-year-old youth riding a two-wheeler was killed when he came under the wheels of a speeding mini-bus after he swerved abruptly while trying to avoid a pothole. However, in this case the police registered a case against the bus driver and not the civic agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/motorcyclist-dies-after-falling-into-pit-dug-up-on-road/article36559819.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Coffee Act will be simplified, says Piyush Goyal||Saying that the Coffee Act would be simplified, Union Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has said that he would discuss the implementation of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act with other Ministries to address the concerns of coffee growers losing their land. Interacting with coffee growers, roasters, exporters and other stakeholders of the coffee industry at Coffee Board in Bengaluru on Saturday, the Minister said that the present Coffee Act, enacted in 1942, has many provisions that have become redundant and are impeding coffee trade. It has been decided to look again at the provisions of the Act to remove those provisions that are restrictive and regulatory in nature, so as to bring in a simple Act that suits the present needs of the coffee sector and facilitates its growth, an official release said. On the SARFAESI Act, while many coffee growers expressed concerns about losing their land in view of the notices issued by banks, the Minister assured the grower fraternity that the issue would be favourably discussed with other related ministries and a suitable solution found soon. When the Coffee Board requested the Minister to announce restructuring of all existing loans into a single-term loan with long repayment period and to also extend fresh working capital with soft interest, Mr. Goyal expressed his solidarity with the coffee growers in this period of distress. He promised to work out a feasible package with the ministries concerned, the release stated. Mr. Goyal also said that there was a proposal to shift the Coffee Board from the Commerce Ministry to the Agriculture Ministry to ensure that benefits of all schemes of agriculture are extended to the coffee growers. He also directed the board to develop a dashboard for real-time update of extension activities, including field visits, workshops, and demonstrations to effective monitoring. The Minister also said that a request would be made to the Agriculture Department and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research to initiate advanced research on coffee white stem borer. Mr. Goyal also assured the exporters that a special package to assist agri exports at least for one year would be considered under the transport and marketing assistance scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coffee-act-will-be-simplified-says-piyush-goyal/article36559843.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Walking the path to success||How did a mechanical engineering student from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) who played cricket with Ravi Shastri in college become the Director of the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru? And why did a young girl from Varanasi who topped her board exams in school eschew the obvious choice of medicine as a career? In a session, ‘Careers in Science’, on the third and final day of the ‘The Hindu Career Counselling Digital Conclave’ on Sunday, Smith Jain, associate director (academia and government relations-India) at Cactus Communications, and Satyajit Mayor of NCB,S drew from their personal experiences to talk about opportunities in science beyond medicine and engineering.  It takes curiosity, confidence and courage to embark on a journey — one that entails hard work and passion but will bring you joy and success, said Ms. Jain, who until recently was the executive editor of IndiaBioscience, a non-profit science outreach platform that bridges gaps within life sciences. “Your career is your responsibility. It’s not the responsibility of your parents, teachers or peers,” said Ms. Jain, who along with Prof Mayor underscored the importance of the scope of interdisciplinary studies in science. “The mindset was that career paths are set in stone, and you move linearly from graduation and post graduation to a PhD, maybe a postdoc and then a researcher. There’s nothing wrong in this, but it’s not the only option.” She urged students to network with people beyond their fields of interest, gain insight from professionals, take up internships and volunteer work to understand the ecosystem, and master the ‘elevator pitch’.  Dr. Mayor conveyed his passion for the discovery aspect of science. “Like art, science is at the pinnacle of human creativity. It is a way of thinking, a way of questioning constructively, never accepting dogma in any form,” he said, adding that it brings knowledge to different fields: law, administration, technology, etc. If science provides answers to the fundamental questions of life, then law is the framework that governs all aspects of human activity. “Law is a noble profession that will broaden your outlook, and give you a better understanding of global and national problems. All professions be it medicine, engineering or business are regulated by law,” said Suresh V. Nadagoudar, principal and chairman, University Law College, Bangalore University, in the first session of the day. He pointed out that many of our freedom fighters were graduates in law — Motilal Nehru, Jawaharalal Nehru, Mahatma Gandhi, Rajendra Prasad and the architect of our Constitution, Babasaheb Ambedkar, for instance. “Law is one such profession where if you are competent and hard working, you can make a mark and serve those seeking justice,” he said.  Mr. Nadagoudar helped students understand the many areas of specialisation in the private and public sector. “Earlier there were only two specialisations, criminal and civil law. But that is no longer the case,” he said. Those who have studied engineering, business management, B.Com, etc. can take up specialisations, he said, citing patent, copyright, international law, and other areas such medicine, health, etc. He also guided students on how they can become prosecutors and judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/walking-the-path-to-success/article36559834.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Giraffe dies of asphyxiation at Bannerghatta Biological Park||The Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) lost a male giraffe on Sunday afternoon. According to sources, the giraffe, Yadunandan, left his enclosure unsupervised and entered the treatment area. “But its neck got trapped in the rods, leading to asphyxiation,” said the source. According to sources, the animal twisted its 6-foot neck when he got entangled. An official told The Hindu that the treatment area is located at the back end of the enclosure where the giraffe was confined. The park has a kraal for its giraffes, spread over 7,000 square metres of land. “It is an unfortunate incident. Animals are taken to the treatment area under the supervision of the staff,” said the official. On Sunday, Yadunadan entered the area by accident, and started panicking when he couldn’t extricate himself. “The animal twisted its neck twice in an effort to escape. It’s possible that the giraffe’s ossicones [conical skin-covered bone structures on the head] got stuck. Our staff, including the veterinary doctor, rushed to his aid immediately, but in five to six minutes he died of asphyxiation.” When asked whether it was a lapse on the part of staff, the official said, “We are looking into the issue and an enquiry is under way.”  Yadunadan was a gift to the park from Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Garden, Mysuru, to keep Gowri, the lone female giraffe at the BBP , company. He arrived in April 2020 when the COVID-19 lockdown began.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/giraffe-dies-of-asphyxiation-at-bbp/article36559817.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Massive protest outside police station after labourer is held for sexually abusing minor||Hundreds of people gathered outside the Sanjaynagar police station on Sunday night after news spread that a migrant labourer, who lived in the area, had sexually assaulted a minor girl. Members of Kannada organisations joined the protesters and by night, the number had grown to over 500 people, leading to a tense situation, as the accused labourer was inside the station. Senior police officials as well as Byrathi Suresh, MLA, arrived at the spot to quell the angry crowd. What sparked the protest was the arrest of a 25-year-old labourer from West Bengal on Sunday evening for allegedly sexually assaulting a five-year-old girl, who lived next to his house. He had invited the girl to his house promising to show her animated cartoons online. When the girl returned to her house, her parents found marks on her body, and alerted the police. The Sanjaynagar police secured the accused and escorted him to the station. The police have ruled out rape but are waiting for the medical report. As the news started to spread, residents started gathering outside the station. One woman protester collapsed owing to exhaustion and had to be taken to the hospital. Many women accused the police of not taking action whenever they complained about being molested by drug addicts and thugs. “Police come to the spot with sirens blaring and these people escape,” said one protester. Some people claimed that they were worried about leaving their children at home alone. “The police and the administration should ensure the safety of girls,” another protester said. Members of Kannada organisations raised slogans against the rising cases of sexual assault against children in the State. “There have been cases in Mysuru, Dandeli, and now this,” said one member. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Dharmender Kumar Meena assured protesters that they would take strict action against the accused. “The accused was arrested and subjected to a medical examination. The victim is under observation. Based on the outcome of the medical report, action will be taken,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/massive-protest-outside-police-station-after-labourer-is-held-for-sexually-abusing-minor/article36559815.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police raid ‘rave party’ at Anekal resort, arrest 37 persons||The Anekal police on Saturday night raided an alleged rave party at a resort on the outskirts of the city and arrested 37 persons, including college students, IT professionals, and businessmen. After receiving a tip-off from a few villagers, who heard the blaring music and saw cars at the resort, a police team was dispatched to investigate. “The team seized a huge amount of liquor bottles as well as what appear to be chemicals mixed with water,” said a police officer. DJ sound equipment and 17 bikes were also seized. Many partygoers allegedly tried to flee and hide in the fields around the resort. The police arrested 37 persons who were allegedly too intoxicated to escape the raid. Those arrested have been booked under various sections of the Excise Act, the Karnataka DM Act, and also under the Karnataka Police Act, a police officer said. “We are waiting for the medical reports to ascertain whether they were under the influence of drugs,” he added. An initial probe revealed that the party organiser, identified as Abhilash, shared details of the event and entry fees to guests online. He shared the entry code and location on WhatsApp. In another case, the Byadarahalli police have taken up a case of rash and negligent driving against a private car owner after they recovered the abandoned vehicle in the middle of NICE road on Saturday night. Eyewitnesses told the police that four people, two boys and two girls, abandoned the car after they met with an accident. “We suspect that this incident is linked to the Anekal rave party raid and are trying to track down the owner of the car,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-raid-rave-party-at-anekal-resort-arrest-37-persons/article36559820.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Despite achieving 100% first dose coverage, Bengaluru Urban still administering first doses||On August 30, Bengaluru Urban (excluding BBMP) became the first district in Karnataka to achieve 100% first dose vaccination coverage. It had also topped the list of districts with the highest second dose coverage. According to data from the State Health and Family Welfare Department, 28.2% of the 10,62,262 population in this district had been fully vaccinated till August 30. However, a fortnight after achieving 100% first dose coverage, the district continues to administer first doses and as of Wednesday, 11,15,135 people had received the first dose. This is 52,873 persons over and above the target population of 10,62,262. If 100% first dose coverage was achieved a fortnight ago, why are vaccination centres in this district continuing to see people seeking the first dose? While officials attributed this to the floating population and people from neighbouring districts and BBMP getting vaccinated in Bengaluru Urban vaccination centres, the variation is because the current target population has been extrapolated on the basis of the 2011 census data. Sources said this will lead to variations and inaccuracy in vaccination coverage data. “Instead of considering a decade-old census data as the base for target population, the State should have conducted a survey to ascertain the current target population. Depending on 2011 figures will skew our coverage data,” sources said. Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said although the base population is as per the 2011 census data, projections have been made by the State Department of Planning and Statistics for the 2021 population. “In the absence of 2021 census data, minor variations are bound to be there,” she said, adding that the aim is to vaccinate every adult in the State. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said the first dose vaccination in Bengaluru Urban may have exceeded the eligible adult population of 10,62,262 due to many reasons. “Firstly, the floating population is generally not part of the population numbers. Secondly, it is possible that people from neighbouring districts may have taken vaccines in Bengaluru Urban district,” he said. Admitting that the target population numbers are only an estimate of the 2011 census, the Minister said: “Any variation that may occur will be minimal. This will be the same case with all districts that will complete 100% vaccination.” Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner J. Manjunath said that as Bengaluru Urban has many industrial areas, people who are not residents of Bengaluru Urban, would have opted to get vaccinated at their workplaces. “There is no bar on people from adjoining districts getting vaccinated in Bengaluru Urban. Our aim is to cover everyone,” he said. “Also, as our district has achieved 100% coverage, people from adjoining districts think that it is easier to get vaccinated in Bengaluru Urban centres. Our staff have been conducting a door to door survey to ascertain the health and vaccination status of people in the district. A lot of effort has gone into achieving 100% coverage,” he said. “Steady decline in the number of new cases in Bengaluru Urban is proof of the success in vaccination coverage,” he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-achieving-100-first-dose-coverage-bengaluru-urban-still-administering-first-jab/article36559826.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Central Prison inmates charged with extortion||Despite raids, the use of mobile phones within Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara, continues. Barely a week after a convict was caught using a mobile phone in his barrack last Sunday, another case has now caught the attention of the police. A 33-year-old scrap dealer from Gurappanapalya lodged a complaint with the police after he started getting threat calls from two accused, presently lodged inside the prison. In his statement, the dealer said that the accused was demanding that he pay them protection money. Based on a complaint filed by the scrap dealer, the Sadduguntepalya police registered a case against Fakhruddin and Abdul Jabeer charging them with extortion. In his complaint, the victim, Nayaz Pasha, said that the duo called him while he was at work, demanding Rs. 1 lakh protection money and threatened to kill him if he did not pay. A few hours later, a person, identifying himself as Irfan, called him demanding that he meet him with the money. When Nayaz refused, Fakhruddin allegedly called him again on Friday and abused and threatened him. Worried about his safety, Nayaz approached the police seeking help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/central-prison-inmates-charged-with-extortion/article36559824.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be disruption in power supply on Monday (September 20) from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in areas coming under the 66/11kV Shobha Apartment MUSS Bellandur. The areas to be affected are: Ibbalur village and surrounding areas. Power will also be affected from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in areas serviced from 66/11kV Kengeri Satellite Town The areas to be affeected are: New KHB Central Block, Vinayakanagar, Bandemutta, Kengeri Satelletie Town, Arundathi Nagara, Beedi Colony, Kalikamba Temple Road, Sachidananda Nagar 1st Main to 6th Main, Manasa Layout, Hoysala Circle, Valagerahalli, Krishnappa Garden, MTS Layout, Sir M.V. First and Second Blocks, Chikkanahalli, Sai Krupa Layout, Vaishnodevi Layout, Hosa and Hale Byrahally, Challaghatta, Bettanapalya, Ramohally, Maligondanahalli, Kodipalya, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article36559812.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SBI home loan utsav held||State Bank of India (SBI) organised a two-day home loan utsav on Saturday and Sunday. Sixteen top builders participated in the utsav, stated a press release. The bank offered “attractive interest rate and 100% waiver on processing fee, legal and valuation charges on loans availed at the SBI Utsav”. Variety of projects Visitors got a chance to interact with realtors and choose from a variety of projects as per their budget and location. “In-principle approval and sanction letter was handed over to customers by the bank on the spot,” the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sbi-home-loan-utsav-held/article36559821.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||AI centre to come up on IISc. campus||Kotak Mahindra Bank in partnership with the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) will set up an Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Centre (Kotak-IISc AI-ML Centre) on the IISc. campus in Bengaluru. Under its CSR project on Education & Livelihood, KMBL has partnered IISc. to establish the Kotak-IISc AI-ML Centre. Spread across approximately 1,40,000 square feet at the IISc., the centre would offer Bachelors, Masters and short-term courses in areas such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, deep learning, fintech, reinforcement learning, image processing, computer vision, natural language processing, speech understanding, robotics, computational finance and risk management, cyber security, fraud analytics, blockchain, and more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ai-centre-to-come-up-on-iisc-campus/article36559839.ece
20 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM to go on State tour||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is set to embark upon a State tour soon after the ending of the ongoing legislature session to activate the administrative machinery. Disclosing this to reporters after attending the BJP State executive committee meeting in Davangere, he said the executive had welcomed the Union government’s move to delegate powers to the State to include communities into the backward classes list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-go-on-state-tour/article36559845.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 783 new cases, 16 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday recorded 783 cases of COVID-19, the maximum number of which – 267 – were reported from Bengaluru District. With this, the total number of positives stands at 29,67,866. With 16 deaths, the toll rose to 37,603. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. Seven of the people who died were from Bengaluru Urban. As many as 1,139 people were discharged on Sunday, taking the total recoveries to 29,14,852. There are currently 15,383 active patients in Karnataka. While the positivity rate for the day was 0.60%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) rose to 2.04%. As many as 1,29,874 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,01,497 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-karnataka-reports-783-new-cases-16-deaths/article36559832.ece
20 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man dies in road accident||A bike rider died after he was hit by a car on Arsikere-Channarayapatna Road near Gandasi on Saturday evening. The police gave the name of the deceased as Thammaiah, 42, of Gollarahalli in Arsikere taluk. He was on the way to his place on a two-wheeler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dies-in-road-accident/article36560229.ece
20 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Youth murdered||A 28-year-old youth was found murdered at Tipu Nagar in Shivamogga on Saturday night. The police gave the name of the deceased as Ifran of Marnami Bailu in the city. A group of people allegedly hit him with a knife following a heated argument. Assad and Shabbir, who were accused in cases related to the sale of ganja in the city, picked up an argument with Ifran late in the night. In retaliation Irfan hit one of the opponents with a knife, following which his rivals retaliated and killed him, according to the complaint registered with Tunga police station. The police have arrested four people in connection with the murder. Efforts were on to nab the rest, said a press communiqué issued by Shivamogga SP B.M. Laxmi Prasad, on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-murdered/article36560230.ece
20 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man gets life term for murder||A Hassan court, on Friday, convicted a person accused of murdering his wife and sentenced him to life imprisonment. Chandra G. committed the murder on November 15, 2018. Chandra, a native of Baikere Jaragallu in Sakaleshpur taluk, married Shanthi in 2012. The couple had two children. The husband and wife had differences on many issues. He murdered her following a heated argument. Circle Police Inspector Vasanth S.H. filed the charge sheet. E.D. Srinivas represented the prosecution. The fifth additional district and sessions judge pronounced the judgment. The convicted was sentenced to life term under Section 302 of IPC and a penalty of Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-gets-life-term-for-murder/article36559830.ece
20 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Cable operators warned against telecasting undesirable programmes||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has warned local cable operators against telecasting any undesirable programmes that hurt peace and tranquillity or religious sentiments. Chairing a review committee meeting of the Local Cable Network Monitoring Committee in Dharwad on Saturday, Mr. Patil said that stringent action will be taken against such cable operators who violated the guidelines. And, also steps will be taken to recommend cancellation of their licence. The Deputy Commissioner also ordered the cable channel operators not to discontinue free channel service being provided to customers on the expiry of their subscription. He said that customers can file their complaints or grievances at the offices of the Deputy Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner, Information Department and also at the tahsildar’s office. Emphasising the need for ensuring adherence to rules, he asked the operators to keep a tab on channels being telecast and also alert the local administration in case of suspicious content or fake videos being uploaded. “News should not provoke people to revolt against anyone or the system. Cable operators have to compulsorily display Free-to-Air channels in the interest of customers,” he said. President of Dharwad District Union of Working Journalists (DDUWJ) Ganapati Gangolli requested the district administration to keep a vigil over YouTube channels some of which were creating nuisance in society. Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant referred to a complaint by Star India Company which had sought action against Tahir Cable Network for violating rules. Action against the cable network has been taken, he said. Hubballi-Dharwad Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Information and Public Relations Officer Manjunath Dollin and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cable-operators-warned-against-telecasting-undesirable-programmes/article36560051.ece
20 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Nanjangud incident: CM pledges corrective steps||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that the government is contemplating taking legal and administrative steps to ensure that instances such as the temple demolition in Nanjangud do not recur. Inaugurating the State executive meeting of the BJP in Davangere on Sunday, Mr. Bommai said that the incident had pained everyone and had taken place because officials took action in a hurry without bringing it to the notice of the government. The Chief Minister said that immediately after the incident, he held continuous discussions with concerned parties and also on previous court decisions. “Efforts to disturb the peace and tranquillity of society have been made by few. We will take a firm decision that will put a full stop to such instances that disturb peace and religious sentiments,” he said. Mr. Bommai also said that it was not the first time such a thing had occurred. Similar incidents had happened in Gujarat, Maharashtra, and other States, and senior leaders had resolved the issues showing statesmanship, he said. He said he had taken the developments post the Nanjangud incident as a challenge and reiterated that all the requisite steps would be taken to end such issues. “A decision on mitigating the pain suffered by the devotees will be taken by chalking out a solution in consultation with seniors,” he said, adding that the decision would be one acceptable to all. Govt. measures Listing out various measures taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his predecessor B.S. Yediyurappa, the Chief Minister assured his partymen that the government would work in such a way that the party workers would be able to walk with their heads held high when they went before people seeking votes for the 2023 Assembly elections. While praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Bommai did not forget to praise Mr. Yediyurappa. He said while the party didn’t get the desired response from people in all southern States, Karnataka was an exception as Mr. Yediyurappa worked among the people, understanding their pulse and becoming their voice. Because of his untiring efforts, the party came to power for the second time in the State and all the good work done under him would be continued, he added. Mr. Bommai said the party would make all efforts to ensure pro-people governance. “The first report of administrative reforms by a committee led by Vijay Bhaskar has been submitted. We will, after discussions, implement some of the key recommendations under the first report from November 1. We want the governance to be more people-friendly. We will work in such a way that the BJP will retain trust of the people,” he said.  We will take a firm decision that will put a full stop to such instances that disturb peace and religious sentiments Basavaraj bommai, Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nanjangud-incident-cm-pledges-corrective-steps/article36559844.ece
20 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Steps taken to capture stray leopard in Nrupatunga Betta||In the wake of reports about a leopard being sighted in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Betta and surrounding localities, the Forest Department has set up traps to capture the wild animal. The general public have been cautioned against moving out late in the evening and going for walks early in the morning. In a press release, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that various teams of the Forest Department have already taken steps to trace the wild animal, which has reportedly strayed into a residential area. The forest personnel are keeping vigil and traps have been set up at Nrupatunga Betta, where the animal was said to have been sighted first. Additional teams from Gadag and Uttara Kannada districts too have arrived in Hubballi and the equipment required is kept ready. The Deputy Commissioner has said that usually leopards come out of their hideouts late in the evening, at night and in the early hours of the day. He appealed to the general public not to go for early morning, evening, late evening walks around Nrupatunga Betta. He also requested them not to venture out alone at night in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Betta, Raj Nagar and adjoining localities. Mr. Patil requested the public to cooperate with the Forest Department in catching the wild animal and also not subject themselves to any kind of threat by unnecessarily venturing out alone. The administration has made public announcements at Raj Nagar and in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Betta about the leopard and precautionary measures to be taken by them. Fake videos Meanwhile, rumour mongers have added to the panic among the public by circulating unrelated videos of leopard attacks on social media. The authorities have warned people against circulating unconfirmed and fake videos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steps-taken-to-capture-stray-leopard-in-nrupatunga-betta/article36560060.ece
20 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||2.57 lakh vaccine doses administered||By administering over 2.57 lakh doses of vaccine in a single day on Friday, Belagavi district stood second in the entire nation, Deputy Commissioner of Belagavi M.G. Hiremath has said. In a press release, Mr. Hiremath has said that the district executed its plan well leading to 2,57,604 doses of vaccine administered on Friday, while the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike has topped the nation by administering 4,09,777 doses. He has said that although the district could not achieve its target of 3 lakh doses, it performed well in terms of the number of doses administered. It was a proud achievement after having stood second in the nation as far as administering vaccine is concerned. The Deputy Commissioner has thanked all officials, employees elected representatives and the general public for their cooperation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/257-lakh-vaccine-doses-administered/article36560056.ece
20 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Cong. is playing politics in everything, says Arun Singh||“If Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister when COVID-19 pandemic hit the country, the nation’s condition would have been unimaginable,” BJP State In-Charge for Karnataka Arun Singh has said. Speaking at the BJP State Executive Meeting in Davangere on Sunday, Mr. Singh said when the vaccination drive was launched, initially Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Siddarmaaiah and D.K. Shivakumar in Karnataka made fun of the drive and now themselves had got vaccine jabs. “Congress is playing politics in everything including the issues of the country’s development,” he said. He said BJP was leading the country with the ‘mantra’ of ‘Sab ka saath, Sab ka vikas, Sab ka vishwas. Twenty MPs from SCs and STs and 17 from Backward Classes had been made Ministers in the Modi-led Union Cabinet. However Congress did not allow the newly-inducted Ministers to be introduced in the Parliament, he noted. He said the Congress was on the verge of extinction. While Punjab CM Amrinder Singh had resigned, Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot were fighting in Rajasthan and same was the situation in Chattisgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-is-playing-politics-in-everything-says-arun-singh/article36560063.ece
20 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Youth killed in road accident||A motorcyclist was killed and a pillion rider injured in an accident near Marewad village in Dharwad district on Sunday. The accident occurred on Dharwad-Saundatti Road when the motorcycle the youth was riding was hit by a car coming in the opposite direction. The deceased was identified as Sagar Pujar (28), a resident of Sattur in Dharwad.  Dharwad Rural Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-killed-in-road-accident/article36560055.ece
20 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||New electric vehicle for North Karnataka region||Tata Nexon, a new electric vehicle, was launched for the North Karnataka market through a simple function at Manikbag Automobile in Hubballi on Saturday. After launching the new electric vehicle, director of Manikbag Sanjot Shah handed over the key to the first customer of this vehicle Felix Joseph, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-electric-vehicle-for-north-karnataka-region/article36560054.ece
20 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Operation to catch tiger||With reports of a tiger being sighted at Kohalli village in Athani taluk of Belagavi district, Forest Department officials have launched a search operation to catch it. Teams reached the village on Sunday. However, officials are yet to confirm whether it is a tiger and say it is likely to be a hyena. But they are continuing with the search.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/operation-to-catch-tiger/article36560061.ece
20 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||State-level conference||The 36th edition of the State-level Conference of Karnataka Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) will be held in Kalaburagi in November, KUWJ State president Shivanand Tagadur said. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, Mr. Tagadur recalled that the 20th edition of the KUWJ State-level conference was held in Kalaburagi in 1996. He said that various committees will be formed under the chairmanship of district in-charge Minister Murugesh Nirani and Dr. Sharnbaswappa Appa, eighth peethadhipati of Sharnbasaveshwar Samsthan. Mr. Tagadur added that the conference is tentatively scheduled for the second week of November. However, the date will be decided after Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s schedule is finalised. To prevent the spread of COVID-19, the conference originally scheduled for two days has been reduced to a one-day event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-level-conference/article36560050.ece
20 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||State government to provide quality, affordable education for students||Mangaluru South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath on Saturday said that the government has taken necessary steps to provide quality education at affordable cost by giving priority to the education sector. He was speaking at a programme marking commencement of I PU classes at the newly sanctioned Government PU College, Nalyapadavu in Shaktinagar, here. Welcoming students, Mr. Kamath said that the new college has been opened to provide quality education to students of the region under a government set-up. Mr. Kamath noted that the demand for a government PU college in the area had been pending for a long time. The then Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar responded to the demand and sanctioned the college, he said and thanked Mr. Suresh Kumar. At present, the college will offer courses in arts and commerce streams, he added. The MLA said that he got Rs. 5 crore sanctioned for Mangaluru out of the Rs. 21 crore sanctioned for the Department of Pre University Education by the government. A sum of Rs. 4.82 crore was released for the construction of a building for the government PU college at Bokkapatna. Similarly, Rs. 4.82 crore will be sanctioned for the Nalyapadavu college too once 50 cents of land is made available. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh will visit the district this month-end and the foundation stone will be laid during that occasion, he said. City Corporation Councillors Vanitha Prasad and Shakeela Kava, Deputy Director of PU Education Jayanna, college principal Jayananda Suvarna and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-government-to-provide-quality-affordable-education-for-students/article36560213.ece
20 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Protest over delay in road work||Congress activists and other residents on Sunday protested the poor condition of the National Highway 169, a road stretch in Parkala in Udupi,and delay in paying compensation to people whose land had been acquired for the widening of the highway. The protestors blocked the movement of vehicles for a brief period and planted banana saplings in some potholes. Addressing the protestors, Leader of Opposition in Udupi Municipal Council Ramesh Kanchan said the national highway stretch had been filled with potholes and was causing hardship to motorists. Parkala residents were facing difficulty in walking along the highway. Holding MLA Raghupati Bhat responsible for the poor condition of the highway, Mr. Kanchan said urgent action should be taken to make the highway motorable. He said Parkala, where voters have been supporting the BJP for a long time, continues to be neglected by the State government for development works. If the neglect continues, they would intensify their protest, he said. Another protestor said not all people whose land was acquired for widening were given the compensation. There was disparity in the way compensation has been worked out. The State government should resolve the issue at the earliest, the protestor said..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-over-delay-in-road-work/article36560218.ece
20 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Declare Clock Tower to Clock Tower stretch in city as one-way’||The Mangaluru City Corporation on Thursday wrote to the Police Commissioner to take steps to declare Maidan Road, from Clock Tower to Clock Tower via A.B. Shetty Circle, as one-way as decided by Mangalore Smart City Ltd. (MSCL). Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar, quoting decisions by the Citizen Advisory Committee of Smart City on August 17 and MSCL meeting chaired by the Mayor on August 14, requested the Police Commissioner to take steps to declare the stretch as one-way. The Mangaluru City Traffic Police have already been enforcing the one-way rule on the stretch from about a month, saying it was being done on trial basis. MSCL has removed road medians on the stretch, demolished A.B. Shetty Circle structure, and has plans to remove Hamilton Circle and Rao and Rao Circle structures soon. Opposition Congress leader in the corporation council A.C. Vinayraj said that the corporation Commissioner cannot suo motu write to the police seeking declaration of a stretch as one-way. The issue has to be debated in the council which then can pass a resolution approving of such major change in traffic pattern. Moreover, the city corporation is not the appropriate authority to decide traffic issues. Recommendations on traffic issues have to come from the Police Commissioner and the council can take a decision on them, he said. On the need for one-way rule around Clock Tower, Mr. Vinayraj said that the corporation has already constructed four-lane roads which were enough for the existing traffic flow. At a time when the district office is proposed to be shifted, traffic flow is bound to get reduced. There is no need for one-way rule on the stretch, he said and added that MSCL is functioning as if it is above the corporation.  Social activist G. Hanumanth Kamath said that the corporation commissioner’s letter could have been an afterthought as some people sought information from traffic police under the RTI Act on the basis the one-way rule is being implemented. He said that instead of reducing traffic volume, the one-way will increase volumes between A.B. Shetty Circle and Rao and Rao Circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/declare-clock-tower-to-clock-tower-stretch-in-city-as-one-way/article36560210.ece
20 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pvt. bus owners urged to get permits released, resume full operations||Udupi Regional Transport Officer G.P. Gangadhar has urged private stage carriage owners who have surrendered their permits owing to the pandemic to get them released at the earliest as life was returning to normal following the decrease in the number of positive cases. As many as 573 permits of private stage carriage buses have been with the Udupi RTO for a year now. Only a few of the owners got them released, Mr. Gangadhar said in a recent Janaspandana programme held in his office. Instances of buses being operated without getting permits released are being reported. In such cases, heavy penalty will be levied on owners who also have to pay the required road tax, he said. Responding to complaints from the general public that not all buses are being operated thereby causing inconvenience to regular travellers, including students, Mr. Gangadhar said that private bus owners as well as the KSRTC have been told to resume services at the earliest. The problem should get resolved soon, he hoped. Vehicle insurance Speaking about vehicle insurance, United India Insurance Company’s Senior Divisional Manager L.N. Muralidhara said that four public sector general insurance companies and over 30 private general insurance companies are functional at present. There are instances of private insurance companies reselling vehicles that are taken by policy holders on “total loss” basis due to accidents. One should be careful with this, he said. If repair cost exceeds 75% of the declared value of the vehicle, companies opt for “total loss” and pay the owner the declared value. In many instances, these vehicles are refurbished and sold again. Therefore, owners should first surrender registration certificates of “total loss” vehicles to the respective RTO, Mr. Gangadhar suggested. Mahaveera Motor Driving School Principal Nemiraj Ariga said that despite paying/ renewing vehicle insurance on time, it takes time for renewal to get reflected in the VAHAN software of the Transport Department. Owners will find it difficult to submit claims if accidents happen during this interval, he said. Mr. Muralidhara, however, said that payment gets updated in two days and any dispute may be submitted to the IRAID, Hyderabad. Many general public urged the Transport Department to ensure that bus operators resume full services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-bus-owners-urged-to-get-permits-released-resume-full-operations/article36560214.ece
20 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dharmasthala rural development project offers Rs. 18 cr. aid in 5 months||The Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP) has released Rs. 18 crore towards various community development projects across the State since five months. Executive Director H.L. Manjunath in a release here said project chairman Dharmadhikari D. Veerendra Heggade ordered the release of funds at a time when the common man was severely affected by COVID-19. With the dairy sector helping hundreds during the pandemic, the project provided Rs. 1.84 crore towards building 132 dairy buildings, the release said. The project has been implementing Grama Kalyana programme to improve rural infrastructure. As such, it has provided Rs. 1.68 crore towards 90 projects including community halls, managing of goshalas, orphanages and senior citizen houses, building of residential schools for specially abled children etc. As much as Rs. 1.72 crore was released towards 22 projects under Jnana Deepa Shikshana programme to construct school buildings, meeting halls, open air theatres, toilets, compound walls, drinking water provision, playgrounds, classrooms etc., in Belagavi, Uttara Kannada and Haveri districts. Mr. Manjunath said Rs. 26 lakh was released towards improving Hindu cremation grounds. In all, funds were released for 257 works in 30 districts in the last five months. The project has also spent Rs. 23 lakh towards equipment for 771 specially-abled people, Rs. 4.25 crore towards sustenance amount to 11,447 economically weaker people, Rs. 3.41 crore towards scholarships to 9,713 students in the last three months under the Sujnananidhi Scholarship scheme, Rs. 4.6 crore towards food kits, medical oxygen, ventilators and oxygen concentrators, etc. Besides releasing funds, expert teams visited villages and offered necessary technical guidance in implementing various projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharmasthala-rural-development-project-offers-rs-18-cr-aid-in-5-months/article36560217.ece
20 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pune-Ernakulam Weekly Special Express reintroduced by Railways||The Railways has decided to reintroduce Pune-Ernakulam Weekly Special Express running via Belagavi and Madgaon, and increase the frequency of another Pune-Ernakulam Express Special running via Panvel and Madgaon from weekly to bi-weekly. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. said the measures were taken in coordination with Central Railway, South Western Railway and Southern Railway. The trains would run as fully reserved services. Train No. 01197 Pune - Ernakulam Weekly Express Special will leave Pune at 10.10 p.m. every Saturday (starting September 25) to reach Ernakulam at 3.20 a.m. the third day. Train No. 01198 Ernakulam - Pune Weekly Superfast Special will leave Ernakulam at 6.50 p.m. every Monday (starting September 27) to reach Pune at 11.35 p.m. the next day. The services have commercial halts at Belagavi, Londa, Castle Rock, Karwar, Gokarna Road, Kumta, Honnavar, Murdeshwar, Bhatkal, Mookambika Road Byndoor, Kundapura, Udupi and Mangaluru Junction in Karnataka. They would have one 2-tier AC, four 3-tier AC, 11 sleeper class, four second sitting and two luggage-cum-brake vans. Frequency increased The frequency of Train Nos. 1150/1149  Pune - Ernakulam - Pune Weekly Superfast Special running via Panvel and Madgaon would be increased to bi-weekly. Train No. 01150 Pune - Ernakulam Superfast Special would run every Sunday and Wednesday (starting September 29). Train No. 01149 Ernakulam - Pune Superfast Special would run every Tuesday and Friday (starting October 1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pune-ernakulam-weekly-special-express-reintroduced-by-railways/article36560058.ece
20 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||14-year-old boy rescued||Railway Protection Force personnel at Mangaluru Junction rescued a 14-year-old boy from Surat who was travelling on Train No 6355 Gandhidham-Nagercoil Express on Saturday. After directions came from the Child Welfare Committee, the boy was lodged in a child care centre in Surathkal here on Sunday. After a message from RPF Divisional Control Room in Palakkad came about the missing boy travelling on the train, Train Ticket Examiner Rohidas Ghunagi traced the boy in a sleeper coach of the train. The boy left his house a few days ago. A complaint was filed with Sarthana Police Station in Gujarat. Mr. Ghunagi handed over the boy to Assistant Sub Inspector K. Sasi at the Mangaluru Junction on Saturday evening. After giving food to the boy, Mr. Sasi and his team subjected him to a RT-PCR test. On Sunday morning, the boy was produced before the Child Welfare Committee which directed the police to lodge the boy in the care centre. RPF personnel then called the boy’s mother and also the Sarthana Police and informed them about the rescue, an RPF official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/14-year-old-boy-rescued/article36560215.ece
20 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||NEP 2020 is student-centric, flexible, says Ashwath Narayan||The National Education Policy 2020 being implemented in Karnataka for first-year undergraduates from the academic year 2021-22 will be student-centric with flexibility to promote broad-based learning, besides specialisations in domain areas. This was stated by Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan while speaking on the ‘Importance of National Education Policy’ at The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling Digital Conclave on Sunday. First in the country The State is set to be the first in the country to implement the NEP and all educational institutions have geared up to create the ecosystem and the platform required to provide the kind of education relevant to the 21st century, said the Minister. Mr. Narayan released ‘The Hindu Career Guidance Handbook 2021’ which will be available at The Hindu offices across Karnataka from September 23. The soft copy in a PDF format will be emailed to all registered participants. Preparing for civil services In the earlier session, L.K. Atheeq, Principal Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Government of India, provided a perspective on the civil services and how one should go about preparing for the same. In the session on ‘How to Crack the UPSC Exam’, he drew from his own experience of preparing for the civil services examination. “Give yourselves a two-year window for preparation before appearing for the exam. Ideally, make serious effort from the second year of degree onwards by building up your knowledge base, especially in current affairs,” he said. In the context of preparing for the UPSC exam, Mr. Atheeq stressed upon the importance of cultivating the habit of reading newspapers and said The Hindu and Frontline magazine were the most valuable as they provided a comprehensive and analytical coverage of serious issues germane to society. Before embarking on preparing for the civil services examination, aspirants should be clear about why they are opting for IAS, IPS or any other service. He said a career in the civil services was satisfying because people can make a positive impact on society through policy making or by implementing it. Event sponsors The gold sponsors for the event are AMC Institutions, Bengaluru; Atria Institute of Technology, Bengaluru; and INSIGHTS IAS, Bengaluru. The silver sponsors for the conclave are Sir M.Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Bengaluru; Hindustan Business School, Bengaluru; K.S. Group of Institutions, Bengaluru; Shaheen Group of Institutions, Bidar; Ramaiah University, Bengaluru; and Rajarajeshwari Group of Institutions, Bengaluru.  Give yourselves a two-year window for preparation before appearing for the exam. Ideally, make serious effort from the second year of degree onwards by building up your knowledge base, especially in current affairs. L.K. Atheeq Principal Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-2020-is-student-centric-flexible-says-ashwath-narayan/article36559829.ece
20 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Construction sector on the road to recovery||The construction sector in Mysuru is witnessing a major revival driven by the demand surge for housing even as builders have put the pandemic blues behind them. There is a general sense of optimism of the future fuelled by the end-users’ interest in pressing ahead with their housing plans and this is evident in a slew of construction of individual units or row houses. Major players and stakeholders such as members of the Builders Association of India (BAI) aver that the pessimism of the pandemic days are clearly behind them and they are close to achieving the pre-pandemic days of business turnover. “There is demand for individual houses and this is fuelling the growth and the construction sector reached the pre-pandemic level of growth and turnover way back in November/December 2020. But the second wave from March/April 2021 put a break on the growth but now it is on the path to recovery,” said Ravindra Bhat of Foundations Group and former chairman of BAI. The optimism is also driven by the vaccination drive and administration of nearly 750 million doses so far, according to N. Subramanya of BAI, who owns a construction firm. He pointed out that there were no issues related to labour either which emerged during the first wave of the pandemic. Another leading builder who took a project of 160 units completed it during this period; and out of his share of nearly 110 units, almost 85% has been occupied. This is a general perception among the various builders and stakeholders in the sector who anticipate a boom that was projected and witnessed during 2001-2010. “But there is a general concern over the increase in the building material cost which is affecting the purchase or final construction cost that has to be borne by the end-users. The rates of most construction materials – ranging from sanitary fittings to steel and m-sand – have increased by 15% to 20% and this will push up the overall construction cost, Mr. Subramanya said. But notwithstanding the rise in the price the sense of negativity which pervaded the sector has almost disappeared and unlike the tourism sector which is still in the doldrums, the construction sector is witnessing a boom. The slew of infrastructure projects initiated by the government including better roads is also playing a role in drawing attention of long-term investors to Mysuru, according to the stakeholders. The demand for sites and apartments is also showing an uptick. However, the commercial space segment is yet to gain traction and this is evident in the slew of vacant office complexes within the city and Outer Ring Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/construction-sector-on-the-road-to-recovery/article36560227.ece
20 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Workshop to offer training under Rail Kaushal Vikas Yojana||The Central Railway Workshop on Manandavadi Road in Mysuru is among the 75 railway institutes across the country chosen to train 50,000 youths across the country over the next three years in industry-relevant skills under the recently launched Rail Kaushal Vikas Yojana of the Indian Railways. Under the Rail Kaushal Vikas Yojana, launched by Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw on Friday, training will be provided to 1,000 candidates initially in four trades – electrician, welder, machinist, and fitter. The initial basic training will be spread across 100 hours. “Training programmes in other trades will be added zonal railways and production units based on regional demands and needs assessment,” said a press statement issued by South Western Railways. Training will be provided free of cost and participants will be selected from applications received online, following a transparent mechanism on the basis of marks in matriculation, the statement said. Candidates, who had passed class X and aged between 18 and 35 are eligible to apply. “Participation in the scheme shall, however, have no claim to seek employment in railways on the basis of this training,” the statement said. A nodal website is being development as a single source of information about the programs offered, notification inviting applications, lists of selected candidates, results of selection, final assessment, study material, and other details. “Currently, applicants may apply in response to the advertisements issued locally in the initial phase. Submission of online application shall be opened soon on the centralised website,” the statement added. Trainees will be required to undergo a standardised assessment and will be awarded certificate in the allotted trade by the National Rail and Transportation Institute upon conclusion of their programme. “They will also be provided toolkits relevant to their trade, which would help these trainees utilise their learning and enhance their capacity for self-employment as well as employability in various industries,” the statement added. The scheme will not only improve the employability of the youth, but also upgrade the skills of self-employed and those who are working with contractors through re-skilling and up-skilling and contribute towards Skill India Mission, the statement from South Western Railways said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workshop-to-offer-training-under-rail-kaushal-vikas-yojana/article36560234.ece
20 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Healthy week’ for UGD workers of MCC||A host of programmes have been organised for the Under Ground Drainage (UGD) department employees of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) as part of Healthy Week initiative scheduled to be held from September 26 to 30. A marathon, pranayama workshop, health camp, first aid training programme, and integration with health schemes will be part of the initiative. While the marathon will be kicked off from Kote Anjaneya Temple in front of Mysuru palace at 6.30 a.m. on September 26, the pranayama workshop will be held at Chamundi Vihar Stadium between 6.30 a.m. and 10 a.m. on September 28. A health camp will be held at Vani Vilas Water Works in Yadavgiri between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., the first aid training will be held at Town Hall between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. on September 30. The healthy week is scheduled for conclusion with a programme on integration with health schemes, which will be held at Town Hall in the evening between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. on September 30. More details can be obtained on 74068-85654 and 87488-03431. Mysuru was among the 242 cities in the country that had taken up the Safai Mitra Suraksha challenge last year to prevent hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/healthy-week-for-ugd-workers-of-mcc/article36560232.ece
20 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cong. hits out at Ramdas over ‘utsav’ in public park||KPCC spokesperson H.A. Venkatesh on Saturday hit out at BJP MLA S.A. Ramdas for organising a political event in a public park in Krishnaraja constituency here. The park purely meant for public use has been used for a political event which is condemnable, and the premises stands spoiled, he claimed. Mr. Ramdas is holding an event titled “Modi Yug Utsav” at the park in Vidyaranyapuram marking the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Demanding action against the MLA for the act, he said a platform has been established for the stage programme and plants were removed for accommodating stalls, affecting the park’s greenery. Chairs were put on the space meant for public use. “The MLA who talks about the environment cannot understand how to protect a park,” he said. Mr. Venkatesh alleged that the MCC officials have turned a blind to the issue. He urged the district administration to remove the stage and stalls immediately. The park and its greenery will be damaged further if the 20-day event was allowed to continue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-hits-out-at-ramdas-over-utsav-in-public-park/article36560228.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Back to school: Tough road ahead for teachers||Normally students in rural areas assist their parents in agriculture works during vacation. However, this time as there was no school for several months, many had taken up non-agricultural work. “Some parents due to financial problems sent their children to different places to work and earn. When we enquiry, the parents maintain that their children had been to a relative’s place. They are yet to return to school. Moreover, the department has not made attendance compulsory,” said a teacher, who wished not to be named. The teacher said many students were still working at construction sites, grocery shops and vegetable markets as helpers. “Children from families with education background are doing well. But, the parents with no good income could hardly afford to cellphones and internet connection. We insisted such children visit schools once a week in the last few months. Because of our efforts, our students have not given up studies,” said Rekha Prabhakar, teacher at Government Higher Primary School, Nulligere in Hosanagar taluk. In some schools, the situation is not bad. As the schools reopened, the students happily returned. “In our school attendance in classes 6 and 7 is full. Students and their parents are happy that the schools reopened,” said Chaitra K.N., teacher at GHPS at Byadarahalli in Hassan taluk. The teachers were in touch with parents through WhatsApp. “We distributed work-sheets to parents and ensured students fill them up. This has helped us keep the children learning during these months,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/back-to-school-tough-road-ahead-for-teachers/article36560231.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Deadline day||A pothole on Jalahalli Main Road. The BBMP has time till Monday to repair bad reaches and fill potholes on 1,332 km of arterial roads. The deadline was set by Minister for Revenue R. Ashok following protests on the condition of roads owing to rains and other work. The civic agency has time still September 30 to fill potholes on ward roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deadline-day/article36559823.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ganpati Bappa Morya||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganpati-bappa-morya/article36560053.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Beachside view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beachside-view/article36559848.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Beach cleaning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beach-cleaning/article36560222.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah was full of praise for the multilingual abilities of former Minister the late C.M. Udasi (in picture) during an obituary reference in the Legislative Assembly last week. The Congress leader said that he, in contrast, was not able to learn more than two languages (Kannada and English). Udasi, who was first elected as an independent MLA from Hangal in 1983, could speak several languages — Kannada, Marathi, Konkani, Malayalam, Hindi, English, Tamil, and Tulu — fluently. Revealing the secret behind how the late leader came to speak so many languages, the former Chief Minister said Udasi used to tell him that he learnt them all while travelling to other States as a businessman who traded in rice in his early career. Udasi, who jokingly called himself “permanent CM”, used to switch from one language to another depending on whom he was conversing with. An enviable skill, as Mr. Siddaramaiah put it.   Newly-inducted Ministers in the Basavaraj Bommai-led government seem to be hunting for “efficient and clean” personnel for their office work. Faced with shortage of staff as a result of this, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa (in picture) appealed to MLAs and Ministers not to write letters/recommendations to him seeking transfer of his department staff on deputation. According to him, he has been receiving letters almost daily from MLAs and Ministers seeking “good and efficient” personnel from the department to appoint them as personal secretaries or PAs. The transfer of officials on deputation has impeded development work in the RDPR Department. Many panchayat development officers and field officers have gone on deputation, leaving a shortage of staff in the field, the Minister pointed out. MLAs suggested to the Minister to issue an order to end the whole business of deputation.   The serious debate on price rise in the Legislative Assembly was not without lighter moments, especially because of the repartee between Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah (in picture) . While Mr. Siddaramaiah kept urging the Chief Minister to adopt a resolution asking the Narendra Modi-led Union government to reduce taxes on petroleum products, Mr. Bommai sought to know why most of the issues raised by him related to the Centre. “Your party colleagues who helped you prepare your speech are obviously trying to send you to Delhi so that they can get rid of you from State politics. Do not fall into their trap,” he said with a smile. And pat came Mr. Siddaramaiah’s friendly warning to Mr. Bommai, “Nobody tried to pull me down when I was Chief Minister for five years. But your case is different. When the leaders of your party can pull down B.S. Yediyurappa who formed the BJP government here, they may not spare you.” At another point, when Home Minister Araga Jnanendra tried to argue that the impact of price rise was not as bad as was made out to be by the Opposition, Congress leader M.B. Patil said, “The Home Minister should consult his home minister [wife] on price rise. She’ll know [the impact] better.”  Nagesh Prabhu   B.S. Satish Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors/article36559852.ece
20 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||KSCADC to open MIMI fish stores in three districts||The Kerala State Coastal Area Development Corporation (KSCADC) will open MIMI Fish stores in Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts as part of the expansion of its novel retail venture that assures delivery of fresh-and-cleaned fish at doorsteps. In a statement issued here on Sunday, officials said that MIMI stores would come up in 16 municipalities and 55 panchayats in the three districts. Of these, six municipalities will be in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts each and four in the Pathanamthitta district. As many as 20 panchayats each in Alappuzha and Kottayam and 15 panchayats in Pathanamthitta will have MIMI Fish outlets. MIMI Fish is part of the Parivarthanam project that the government launched in November 2020, aiming to bring about a qualitative socio-economic transformation in coastal areas. The project also seeks to promote green energy and technologies and sustain traditional fishery activities. Hygienic standards Officials said the fish sold through MIMI strictly follows the hygienic standards and protocols set by European Union and other advanced countries in processing, preservation and storage. The fish, captured by traditional fisherfolk or collected from trustworthy farms, is chilled immediately using the technology developed by the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology that matches European export standards. Online orders can be made through the MIMI app over the mobile phone. The fish, which is totally free from adulterating materials, will be served at the doorstep as half-kg packets. Off-line purchases start only after MIMI stores go full-fledged in operations. Those interested in setting up MIMI stores in respective localities can contact authorities at http://www.parivarthanam.org/ or +91 9383454647.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kscadc-to-open-mimi-fish-stores-in-three-districts/article36560176.ece
20 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Cellphones, axe seized from Kannur prison||Mobile phones, chargers, power banks, knives and an axe were confiscated in a raid conducted inside the Kannur Central Jail on Saturday. Jail Superintendent Romeo John said the raids were conducted by 50 personnel, including those from sub-jails. He said two mobile phones without SIM cards, four chargers, two power banks, dumbbells, iron rods, and beedi packets were confiscated. Most of them were old. The premises were thoroughly checked, he said. Mr. John said following complaints from people living near the jail, jammers had to be disconnected. Taking advantage of this, the prisoners had sneaked in mobile phones and other products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cellphones-axe-seized-from-kannur-prison/article36560148.ece
20 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur tops in AMRUT fund utilisation||The Kannur Corporation has topped all the civic corporations in the State in fund utilisation on projects executed under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation scheme. The corporation is also second in expenditure, after Alappuzha, among the nine mission cities, which also include Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode, Kollam, Kochi, and Guruvayur. Five sectors The corporation has spent Rs. 199.54 crore, which is 62.29% of the total amount allocated for the schemes. The projects are carried out under the five sectors of water supply, sewerage and septage management, stormwater drainage, urban transport, and green space and park. According to Rilson P. Ranjith, urban planner, AMRUT, 38 projects of the Kannur Corporation were sanctioned for implementation at a cost of Rs. 225.65 crore. An amount of Rs. 199.54 crore was sanctioned, and Rs. 197.61 crore has been disbursed so far for the projects, he said. Twenty-four works had been completed, and except for works in sewerage and septage management, all the projects were expected to be completed by the end of March next, said Mr. Ranjith. Just as in other cities, the COVID-19 outbreak brought most of the projects to a standstill. As many of the major projects depended on labourers from outside the State, many who had travelled back home, the work slowed down, he said. Mr. Ranjith said the largest percentage of funds had been spent on water supply projects. Twelve projects were undertaken at a cost of Rs. 117 crore. They included laying of new pipelines and renewal of old ones and the construction of a water treatment plant at Chavassery. The works under sewerage and septage management at a cost of Rs. 50.23 crore was in progress. Likewise, Rs. 36 crore had been sanctioned to implement stormwater drainage projects in 12 panchayats. Of these, four projects had been completed. Cycle tracks, footpaths Similarly, work on two cycle tracks and two footpaths undertaken under the urban transport sector had been completed, while the work for a multilevel parking, which can accommodate around 200 vehicles, was under way. Five park projects of SN Park, Babu Rajendra Park, Avera grama mandiram, Kappad Shivira mandiram, and Annakulam park had also been completed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-corporation-tops-in-amrut-fund-utilisation/article36560102.ece
20 September 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Youth arrested for molesting minor||A 23-year-old man was arrested for allegedly molesting a minor girl at Nileswaram. According to the police, Harinathan, a lorry driver, was arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The case was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the victim from Pullur Periya panchayat, who alleged that she was taken away in a vehicle and molested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-arrested-for-molesting-minor/article36560100.ece
20 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||100 e-autos set to operate from Kochi metro stations||Signalling that Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) and autorickshaw unions will work together to provide first- and last-mile connectivity from metro stations, the metro agency and Ernakulam Jilla Autorickshaw Drivers Cooperative Society (EJADCS) have reached a pact to operate 100 e-autos from metro stations on the 25-km Aluva-Pettah stretch. The society has agreed to provide e-autos at all metro stations from State Formation Day(November 1). Conventional autos too will be available at the stations, metro sources said. The decision was taken at a meeting in which KMRL officials led by its managing director Loknath Behera and representatives of the society participated. EJADCS director board member Simon Edappally said commuters would be able to pay autorickshaw fare at the metro station from where they board the train, following which they will be issued ‘integrated tickets’, which include the fare for metro travel and the pre-fixed auto fare as per government norms. “This will provide a seamless and hassle-free experience to commuters. The ticket can be shown at the auto stand at the station where the passenger alights, following which he can commute to his pre-fixed destination without paying anything extra for the auto journey,” he said. KMRL has in turn agreed to ready parking space and recharging infrastructure at all the 22 metro stations en route. Drivers trained in soft skills and other components will be given preference to operate from the stations. KMRL and the society will train more drivers, following which they will be issued identity cards and later on special uniform. The drivers will be given fixed wages by the society which will be the owning agency of e-autos. This will make them eligible for ESI, PF, and other benefits. A list of trained drivers will shortly be handed over to the metro agency, sources said. German agency GIZ will provide the seed fund of Rs. 45 lakh, in the form of initial down-payment to purchase e-autos. The society will avail loan to raise the rest of the capital. In addition, each e-auto is expected to get government subsidy of approximately Rs. 30,000. An office-bearer of the AITUC-affiliated auto drivers union said a procurement committee had been formed to shortlist the firm which manufactures e-autos that are apt for use in Kochi. “Auto drivers are neck-deep in crisis owing to the skyrocketing fuel prices, competition from online taxi cars, and commuters shunning public transport modes for private vehicles during the pandemic times. The AuSa app readied by the society to prevent disputes over travel fare is alone insufficient to help drivers,” he added. Cost of e-autos E-autos on which swappable batteries can be installed cost approximately Rs. 2.15 lakh. They come without a battery and performed well in different parameters during test drives. Drivers/owners need not bother about the warranty or lifetime of a battery, since they are assured of a fully-charged battery within a few minutes, on payment of a fee. On the other hand, e-autos that come with factory-fitted batteries cost approximately Rs. 3 lakh, with the battery cost alone working to over Rs. 1 lakh. They have to be charged for at least four hours if they run out of charge. Kochi has less than a dozen e-autos, since their procurement suffered delay owing to the pandemic and also because KMRL and EJADCS were on different pages on the metro’s feeder services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/100-e-autos-set-to-operate-from-kochi-metro-stations/article36560122.ece
20 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Thrikkakara Municipality to acquire five acres at Brahmapuram||Thrikkakara Municipality has said it will acquire five acres at Brahmapuram to establish a set of facilities that will permanently solve the problem of waste disposal, which has been dogging the municipal administration for over two decades. Rashid Ullampally, Health Standing Committee chairman, said the municipal authorities had identified five acres at Brahmapuram, where the civic body not only planned to set up a modern waste disposal facility but also a modern abattoir and a facility for sterilising dogs and taking care of them. He said that Rs. 5 crore had already been set aside for the initial works. The land price will have to be decided upon by the district authorities before the municipality is able to take over land from willing owners, he said. The land had been identified, and there was no obstruction to obtaining it for the project, he added. He said that proper waste disposal had been a big problem for the municipality. It is estimated that around 40 tonnes of waste is generated in the municipal area every day. It include about 20 to 22 tonnes of biodegradable waste as well as a portion of non-biodegradable waste being thrown around the municipal areas. An incinerator is also part of the municipal programme for scientific waste disposal. The municipality has come under criticism for not addressing the issue of waste disposal and basically dumping the collected waste at a yard close to the District Collectorate and the headquarters of the district panchayat. Once the centralised waste disposal facility comes up at Brahmapuram, the municipal authorities plan to establish a shopping complex as well as a garden and a park at the place where waste is being dumped now. The bus station, which is now working close to the waste dumping yard, can also be developed after the waste treatment facility is shifted to Brahmapuram. A team comprising municipal Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan and Vice Chairman A.A. Ibrahimkutty had visited Brahmapuram recently as part of efforts to identify land for the waste treatment plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrikkakara-municipality-to-acquire-five-acres-at-brahmapuram/article36560124.ece
20 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||MLA to engage students as interns||A job call is the last thing one associates with the office of a local MLA. Mathew Kuzhalnadan, Muvattupuzha MLA, however, has chosen to walk down a less trodden path encouraging youngsters to earn while learning and not to leave the burden entirely to parents. Having started practising as a lawyer while doing M.Phil and PhD at Jawaharlal Nehru University about a decade ago, Mr. Kuzhalnadan is definitely preaching what he did practise. His office, which was inaugurated by Shashi Tharoor, MP, on Saturday, is set to engage students from his constituency as office assistants. “A group of five students will be engaged to manage the reception desk at my office for a couple of hours daily for which they will be paid a stipend. Each group will have to make way for a new one after three months,” said Mr. Kuzhalnadan. He has also reached an agreement with the merchant community in Muvattupuzha for the traders to engage the best-performing hands from his office. He has devised an automated system for generating performance points based on which youngsters will be rated and recommended for potential part-time jobs with traders. He also proposes to give internships to three youngsters, one at his Thiruvananthapuram office and possibly two at his Muvattupuzha office. Postgraduate students, mostly doing social work, law or journalism, will be considered for it, and the office assistant job will be opened to anyone from across the State. The legislator recalled how even before being elected MLA, he did a study on the impact of COVID-19 on pineapple farmers in Muvattupuzha in which a Delhi-based student enthusiastically participated. She went around and met farmers and collected data, which he used to bring the plight of farmers to the notice of the State Agriculture Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-to-engage-students-as-office-assistants-interns/article36560103.ece
20 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cardinal calls for preserving harmony||Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church, has called for preserving religious friendship and communal harmony. “Discussions and controversies endangering religious harmony and communal fraternity are raging in Kerala now. It is the tradition of Kerala that all religious believers and communities live in the spirit of brotherhood. We should take extreme care to see that no move of ours affects this adversely. We should hold fast to the fraternal feelings among different communities,” said a communication from the Cardinal here on Sunday. He said that misinterpreting the statements and actions of persons holding responsible positions in society will lead to serious misunderstandings and discord. “We should be cautious against such tendencies,” he added. On Christian faith It is imperative that everyone turns back from the current vitiated situation to return to peace and friendship. Love and brotherhood are the very foundations of Christian faith. The Church has always been insistent on respecting all religious faiths and cooperating with all people. No Christian Church or its servants wish to create any situation leading to conflict in society. “Let us put an end to all controversies and move forward in the spirit of love and brotherhood. Let us cooperate wholeheartedly with our religious, political and community leaders in their efforts to bring about harmony in our society,” the Cardinal said in his communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cardinal-calls-for-preserving-harmony/article36560133.ece
20 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rapid antigen tests still being used in 30% of cases in district||Rapid antigen tests constitute 30% of the COVID-19 tests in Ernakulam despite the government directive to replace it with RT-PCR tests in districts that has clocked vaccination rate of 80%. The district has administered the first dose to around 90% of the target population as per the latest official estimates. A review meeting held by the government recently had recommended limiting antigen tests to necessary situations of testing inside hospitals. It was also decided to replace rapid antigen tests with RT-PCR tests in districts that had attained 80% coverage in administering the first dose of the COVID vaccine. An analysis of the pandemic situation by the District Health Department had stated that rapid switching to RT-PCR tests may lead to delay in diagnosis and treatment. Even with maximum RT-PCR capacity, replacing rapid antigen tests with RT-PCR tests may not be possible, and it may lead to increase in the ratio of reported and missing cases, it said. N.K. Kuttappan, District Medical Officer, said that rapid antigen tests were done mostly for testing patients who have to undergo surgeries or dialysis. Rapid antigen tests are carried out in accident/trauma cases as per the guidelines. For all symptomatic cases, RT-PCR is being done, and the percentage of such tests has gone up,” he said. Of the total 78,530 COVID-19 tests done over the last week, the number of RT-PCR tests was 56,320. The number of rapid antigen tests was 22,206. An average 5,000 tests done daily were rapid antigen tests. Vaccination The health authorities are hopeful of attaining the 100% target of administering the first dose to the target population in the district by the end of September. With the colleges reopening partially from October 4 onwards, the vaccination of students will be given priority as per data made available by the Higher Education Department. College managements have to assess the number of students who have not yet received the first dose, according to the health authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rapid-antigen-tests-still-being-used-in-30-of-cases-in-district/article36560130.ece
20 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Biomining: Former Mayor serves legal notice on Corpn.||The biomining of legacy waste accumulated on the Brahmapuram campus of the Kochi Corporation has ended up in a legal battle, with former Mayor Tony Chammany serving a legal notice on the civic body demanding retendering of bids for waste processing. The Kochi Corporation awarded the bid to a Bengaluru-based firm after retendering bids. The certificates produced by the firm selected for the job were manipulated ones, alleged Mr. Chammany in a legal notice served on the civic body. Though the bid was floated for ‘dump-site land reclamation through biomining process’, the company which was selected for the job lacked the required experience in the sector. The firm had experience only in capping of waste, which did not require much machinery and experience, he said. Mr. Chammany alleged that the bid was illegally awarded to the firm owing to the consideration that the managing director and the director of the firm were close relatives of a prominent CPI(M) leader. If the local body fails to cancel the tender and retender bids, appropriate legal action will be taken, he said. ‘No role’ Responding to the developments, Mayor M. Anilkumar said the floating and screening of bids and awarding of the contract were carried out by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) for the State government, and that the civic body had no role in the process. “The Secretary of the Kochi Corporation will reply to the notice served in his name. “All that the civic body is concerned about is clearing the waste that has accumulated at the site. No other agency but the Kochi Corporation is solely responsible for the garbage heaps, which has been causing environmental degradation,” he said. The Congress-led civic administration, which was in power for a decade, should be blamed for failure in managing waste, he said. Legal notice was also sent to the KSIDC, the firm and the State government secretaries concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biomining-former-mayor-serves-legal-notice-on-corpn/article36560123.ece
20 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Traffic to be regulated in Aluva||Traffic will be regulated in Aluva town from Monday, owing to relocation of water pipeline on the Pump Junction - Bypass Junction stretch, the police said. The stretch will be made one-way, with vehicles permitted only in the Bank Junction - Pump Junction direction. Vehicles in the other direction must use the railway station - Market Road stretch to reach Bank Junction. In the meantime, the Sree Sankara Bridge at Kalady will be opened to traffic after repairs from Monday following completion of rubberised tarring, the Public Works Department informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-to-be-regulated-in-aluva/article36560120.ece
20 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Officials flag threats posed by ambulance misuse||Even as demand for ambulances peaked last year following the COVID-19 outbreak, police and Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) personnel say that instances of they being unnecessarily driven at high speeds and rash driving have gone up. The privileges that ambulances enjoy — to overtake and enforcement personnel not waving them down for routine inspections — are, in many cases, being used as a cover for smuggling, ferrying of hawala cash, and other crimes, said a senior MVD official. Pointing to the need to make it mandatory to have inbuilt, tamper-proof GPS in all ambulances, he said it would prevent their misuse to a large extent. There are individuals who own over 30 ambulances each, which operate for different organisations. Some of them consider them as money-spinners and fleece hapless patients who are in need of emergency care. Standardised fare “We are flooded with complaints of operators/drivers levying many times the normal fare. “This calls for standardised fare fixed by the government, depending on the type of ambulance, the basic ones sans oxygen support, ones which provide oxygen support, and those that have ICU-like infra,” the official said. Police sources said many hospitals provided handsome commission to ambulance operators to ferry accident victims to their casualty wings, with the result that unwary victims are transported long distances, overlooking multi-speciality hospitals en route which have trauma care facility. “Ambulances are not exempt from Motor Vehicle Rules, and they have to abide by them,” they added.  Many hospitals provide handsome commission to ambulance operators to ferry accident victims to their casualty wings Police sources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/officials-flag-threats-posed-by-ambulance-misuse/article36560129.ece
20 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Standing crops damaged, says Pokkali Samithy||The Pokkali Samrakshana Samithy has alleged that despite assurances given to the Kerala High Court to drain water from the Maruvakkad pokkali rice fields, the water level has risen damaging standing crops. In a statement issued by the Samithy, which is working to preserve the traditional rice cultivation in the coastal areas of the State, said that rice plants, about five weeks old, had been damaged due to the high water level. There are around 420 acres of pokkali rice fields that need to be protected from high saline water levels. However, the outer bund that should protect the fields from saline water incursion has not been strengthened, the samithy alleged in a statement here. Francis Kalathungal of the Pokkali Samrakshana Samithy said that the aquaculture lobby was constantly trying to sabotage the cultivation cycle and trying to corner the fields for fish and shrimp culture throughout the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/standing-crops-damaged-says-pokkali-samithy/article36560125.ece
20 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two-year-old drowns in bucket||A two-year-old girl reportedly drowned in a bucket full of water in the bathroom at Alangad, near Aluva on Sunday evening. Based on the statement given by her parents, the police said she was having a bath when they discovered her in the bucket. She could not be saved despite being taken to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-year-old-drowns-in-bucket/article36560119.ece
20 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||2,810 fresh COVID cases in Ernakulam||A total of 2,810 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. Of these, the cases of local spread amounted to 2,771. There were 34 cases in which the source of infection was not known. Four health workers were among the infected. The test positivity rate in the district stood at 18.23%, said a communication from the district health authorities here. A total of 111 cases were reported from Karukutty, the highest in the district, and Thrikkakara reported 76 cases.  The communication said 5,708 people were declared COVID-19 negative in the district on Sunday while 3,963 people came under home observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2810-fresh-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article36560126.ece
20 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,392 test positive in Kollam, 1,349 recover||Kollam reported 1,392 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,349 recoveries on Sunday. While 1,388 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include four health workers. At present the district has 27,510 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 23,90,261. While 1,795 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 3,54,238 primary and 19,859 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 16.4 %. Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 1,288 people testing positive for the disease on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 1,253 people including three health workers contracted the disease through local transmission. With 141 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Erumeli , which recorded 76 cases . As many as 1,434 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 6,890. Meanwhile, 51,309 people remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Alappuzha Alappuzha logged 1,270 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 21.14%. The new cases include 1,232 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 35 others remains unknown. Three health staff also tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, 1,414 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 10,187. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 826 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but one person contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of four cases were yet to be ascertained. With 52 cases , Pallickal panchayat reported the highest number of cases, closely followed by Pandalam - Thekkekara, which reported 51 cases. Meanwhile, the decease claimed four more lives in the district. With 760 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 8857 ( With contributions from bureaus in Kottayam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1392-test-positive-in-kollam-1349-recover/article36560190.ece
20 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Coastal clean-up drive launched in Kollam||Neendakara coastal police on Sunday conducted ‘Operation Bluebeat,’ a clean-up drive in connection with International Coastal Cleanup Day. M.Mukseh, MLA, inaugurated the cleaning and planting of Calophyllum inophyllum (Punna) saplings at Kollam beach and a total of 100 saplings were planted, a pressnote said. While the MLA said that beach cleaning will be made more efficient with the help of surf rake device, Sub Inspector M.C.Prashant said that measures will be taken to ensure the protection of the saplings. Coastal clean-up programmes were carried out in many places and Matsyafed Chairman T.K. Manoharan inaugurated plastic waste collection from Ashtamudi Lake. Coastal police along with the volunteers of Kadalinte Makkal Cultural Society covered several islands in 20 boats and collected the plastic. The garbage will be taken to the plastic shredding unit in Saktikulangara for processing. With the support of residents, inorganic waste was collected from the coastal area near Neendakara. Sujith Vijayan Pillai, MLA, inaugurated the sanitation drive at the taluk hospital. Coastal police station Sub Inspectors Abdul Majeed, Rajeevan, Harikumar and PRO D. Sreekumar coordinated various programmes. Neendakara coastal police is the recipient of Biodiversity Award and Vanamitra award for Kollam district instituted by Kerala Forest and Wildlife Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coastal-clean-up-drive-launched-in-kollam/article36560181.ece
20 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Three seafood hotels opened in Kollam||Society for Assistance to Fisherwomen (SAF) functioning under the Fisheries Department has opened three seafood restaurants in the district. Women groups from fishing community are the beneficiaries of the project and the Karikadi, Kanthari and Saras restaurants will function in Neendakara and Saktikulangara. The restaurants will be run by five-member groups and the project cost is around Rs. 6.67 lakh for each unit . The women were given a government subsidy of Rs. 5 lakh to start the project. Along with the 75% government grant and 20% bank loan, the beneficiary contribution for the unit is Rs. 34,000. The Department has been conducting training sessions for the women picked for the programme helping them to operate the business in a more efficient manner. All the women are selected from Fisherfolk Family Register.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-seafood-hotels-opened-in-kollam/article36560178.ece
20 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Training||Fisheries Department has invited applications for its 8-month aquaculture training programme. Qualification required is degree in aquaculture or VHSE and applicants from fishing community will be given priority. Those coming in the age group of 20 to 30 years can apply and the selected 15 persons will receive a stipend of Rs. 7,500 per month. Interested persons can submit their applications at the office of Fisheries Deputy Director before September 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training/article36560179.ece
20 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Students get obscene content on social media||Using fake profiles on the social media platform Instagram, a gang of unidentified persons allegedly secured the WhatsApp numbers of several girl students from the rural areas of Kozhikode district and have been using them to spread obscene content. Many students in high school and higher secondary classes were sent pornographic videos and obscene messages from phone numbers registered in other countries. The parents of the students, many of them from a local school near Mukkom, have approached the police with screenshots of the messages. “The fraudsters secured my WhatsApp number by sending messages to one of my Instagram friends using a fake profile they created with my photographs. Many students exchanged the numbers of their friends with the fake account holders unaware of the trickery,” said a Class X girl, who approached the police for action. Threats She said they also threatened to upload morphed images of the girls on various social media pages. The students said the fraudsters spoke in Malayalam. The suspects also allegedly recorded video calls and threatened to upload them online. A student from Mukkom said a person who contacted her pretended to be an officer of the cyber cell and spoke of the department’s plan to launch a girls’ security project with their photographs. “After securing the photo, the sender threatened to upload a morphed photo on social media,” she said. The cyber cell sources said investigation was under way to track the fake profiles and the source of video and voice messages. Students with social media accounts had been asked to secure their accounts with strong passwords and minimal photographs, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-get-obscene-messages-threats-on-social-media/article36560105.ece
20 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Minister visits pothole-riddled Chengottukavu flyover||Following mass complaints, Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Sunday visited the pothole-filled Chengottukavu flyover that has been disrupting traffic on the Kozhikode-Kannur national highway. The Minister visited the spot along with Koyilandy MLA Kanathil Jameela and other Public Works Department (PWD) officials. “On Monday itself, there will be a solution to repair the damaged stretches. Henceforth, there will be efforts on the part of the department to complete such emergency renovation works ahead of the monsoon season,” he said. Mr. Riyas said the sides of the bridge would be renovated by laying tiles, and the condition of handrails would be improved. “Both the works will be completed this year itself. There will also be spot visits and other supervisory actions to monitor the works,” he added. Explaining the PWD’s initiative to address public grievances, Mr. Riyas said arrangements were in place for people to file complaints about the department and its services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-visits-pothole-riddled-chengottukavu-flyover/article36560106.ece
20 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cong. steps up effort to ease social tension||The Congress on Sunday stepped up its efforts to ease the simmering social tension following the controversial ‘narcotic jihad’ remark by Pala bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran had been holding talks with leaders of the two minority communities for the past few days. On Sunday, they met Samastha president Syed Jiffri Muthukoya Thangal, Kerala Nadvathul Mujahideen leaders T.P. Abdullakoya Madani and Hussain Madavoor, Sunni leader Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar, and Kozhikode bishop Varghese Chakkalakkal. On Saturday night, they met Thamarassery bishop Mar Remigiose Inchananiyil. Addressing the media on Sunday, Mr. Satheesan and Mr. Sudhakaran alleged that the State government’s response to the issue had been lethargic. Mr. Satheesan alleged that soon after the bishop had made the remarks, poisonous messages and videos were being spread through fake social media accounts to disrupt the peace and communal harmony in society. From the Koran Quoting from the Koran, Mr. Muthukoya Thangal said there was no need to forcibly convert anyone to Islam. “We don’t have the concept of love jihad, of luring girls through love to Islam. Some isolated individuals may be doing it. But it is unfair to blame the whole community for it… Muslims have never encouraged terrorism or communalism here,” he said. Inter-religious marriages have been happening here, but nobody should call it love jihad, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-steps-up-effort-to-ease-social-tension/article36560132.ece
20 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Nun secures right to cull wild boars||A Catholic nun from the Congregation of Mother of Carmel (CMC) is among the 12 farmers from Kozhikode who recently secured permission from the High Court to cull crop-raiding wild boars. Sr. Jophy Jose, the superior at CMC convent, Muthukad, will get the copy of the order on Monday to begin the task on the four-acre farmland around the convent. “I am not a licensed gun holder or trained shooter. I approached the court with other farmers to end the menace that has been destroying our efforts for years,” says Sr. Jophy. She hopes to get the support of other farmers in the village who have arms licence to tackle the problem. Tapioca crop destroyed The nun, hailing from an agrarian family near Iritty in Kannur, says wild boars have been targeting the convent’s crops, including nutmeg, tapioca, and yams. “In the recent attacks, tapioca plants in large areas were destroyed. It was difficult to remain silent as we had struggled a lot to grow the plants,” she adds. In the absence of a gun licence, Sr. Jophy plans to temporarily use other culling options. “As per the court order, farmers who secure court clearance can employ any means of culling. I am open to securing a gun licence in future and exercise my right to save the field,” she says. It was with the support of ‘We Farm’, a settler farmers’ organisation in Kozhikode district, that the 12 farmers, including a Wayanad native, recently secured the court order for culling wild boars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nun-secures-right-to-cull-wild-boars/article36560147.ece
20 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Active caseload drops to 21,247||Active COVID-19 caseload dropped to 21,247 in Kozhikode district on Sunday. As many as 17,445 infected persons are under home isolation. 1,957 new cases While only 1,957 fresh cases were reported, the number of recoveries surged to 3,065. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 1,927 cases of local transmission of infection, while the source of 23 others is not known. As many as 10,198 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation reported 394 cases of locally acquired infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-caseload-drops-to-21247/article36560099.ece
20 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Village unites to raise Rs. 50 lakh as medical aid for 24-year-old||Kavassery, a village in the district, is gearing up to bring about a revolution in humanitarian aid. Hundreds of people from the village will take part in a charity drive on Tuesday to raise nearly Rs. 50 lakh. “It may be a history of sorts; but for us, it is just another humanitarian act,” said Vijayan V. Anand, principal of BSS Gurukulam Higher Secondary School, Alathur. The Daya Charitable Trust, a humanitarian organisation based at Peringottukurissi, is spearheading the six-hour charity drive. The Kavassery grama panchayat and BSS Gurukulam Higher Secondary School are joining hands with the trust. The organisers have set a target of Rs. 40 lakh, which will be used for the kidney transplantation of Saumya, a 24-year-old indigent woman from Kavassery. “Although our target is Rs. 40 lakh, we expect to raise more than half a crore of rupees,” said Deepa Jayaprakash, convener of the drive. Immeasurable kindness Mr. Anand said that they had learned from their past experience that the kindness of the people was immeasurable. “The people are willing to donate for humanitarian causes. What they want is surety of transparency. They should know that the money they part with goes for a genuine cause,” he said. Seventy-five squads have been formed for the drive. The squads will reach all houses with buckets. The people, who have been informed in advance about the drive, will make their donation, which will be accounted instantly through an application. “As hundreds of people are involved in this drive, we have to ensure that every single paisa that people give is accounted,” said E.B. Ramesh, chairman of the Daya Charitable Trust. The children of BSS Gurukulam HSS have already raised Rs. 5 lakh. “It’s a wonderful life lesson for the children as well,” said Mr. Anand. Mr. Ramesh said that the excess amount would be used to provide medical aid for the poor people of Kavassery panchayat. The chairman can be reached at 97449 59756.  People are willing to donate for humanitarian causes. What they want is surety of transparency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/village-to-raise-nearly-half-a-crore-of-rupees-for-charity/article36560104.ece
20 September 2021||Palakkad,KERALA||Parallel phone exchange: one held||The police on Sunday arrested Moideen Koya P.P., 63, the key accused in connection with a parallel telephone exchange unearthed at Mettupalayam Street here. He was arrested from Nallalam Bazaar, near Kozhikode. Moideen, nicknamed BSNL Koya, was managing an Ayurvedic shop for eight years and had procured 200-odd SIM cards in the name of his shop. The police said he was illegally making profit by converting international calls into STD calls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parallel-phone-exchange-one-held/article36560135.ece
20 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Now head for Seethathodu to kayak||After the smooth coracle rides down the lazily meandering Kallar, it’s time to paddle through the tumbling drops and rapids of the Kakkattar. As Konni seeks to open up to tourists, kayaking is one of the latest additions to this nascent destination. Marking the opening of a water-trial circuit here, the authorities have successfully completed a trial run of kayaks along a 5-km stretch of the waterbody from Kochandy, near Angamoozhy, to the Seethathodu powerhouse. Flagged off by the District Collector Divya S. Iyer and K.U. Janeesh Kumar, MLA, a five-member team of expert kayaks covered the stretch on single-seat kayaks during the expedition, staged on Saturday. Water rafts Buoyed by its success, the authorities are also exploring the possibility of launching inflatable water rafts and canoes at the destination. According to authorities, the river stretch is one of the best facilities available in India for conducting long distance, short distance and adventure water sport activities. The development of Seethathodu as a destination for water sports is expected to give the much-needed push to the tourism business in the region, which seeks to evolve itself as a major eco-tourism destination. Aquatic training centre “Plans are afoot to open an aquatic training centre with SAI (Sports Authority of India) recognition at Seethathodu, which will train the local youth in adventure sports. The facility can transform tourism into a source of employment and income for the locals, besides grooming sportspersons of international standard,” said Mr. Janeesh Kumar. “The objective is to develop the whole of Konni as a single tourism village in association with the various local bodies. An expert team comprising various stakeholder agencies and experts has been entrusted to prepare a master plan for the project,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/get-set-to-kayaking-in-seethathodu/article36560187.ece
20 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Title deeds: Central team conducts inspection||Ending a wait that lasted several decades, the authorities have finally kick-started the process to issue title deeds to the thousands of families settled in the hilly terrains of Pathanamthitta. As part of it, a central team led by B. N. Anjankumarm, Assistant Inspector General at the Bengaluru regional office of the Ministry of Forest and Environment, visited the district a few days ago. The team visited several villages in the Ranni and Konni regions including Chittar, Seethathodu, Thannithode, Konni, Aruvappulam and Kalnajoor . Following the field inspection, the central team also held discussions with the District Collector Divya.S.Iyer. The team is expected to submit its field inspection report later this month. Official sources said over 6,000 farmers in the region would benefit from the scheme. The farmers have been up in arms over the delay in issuing title deeds to their property. Inspection Recently, the State government approached the central government seeking steps inspect the location for giving title deeds to the farmers settled here. Though the State government had distributed 40 title deeds in 2016, they were cancelled later in the absence of a nod by the Forest Department. Following this, the State government kick started the proceedings for issuing new title deeds and completed a joint verification by the Forest and Revenue departments. The reports prepared by the Pathanamthitta District Collector, and the Forest Division Officers in Ranni and Konni was later submitted to the Union government with the State cabinet’s approval..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/title-deeds-central-team-conducts-inspection/article36560188.ece
20 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||‘Meet the masters’ to be held in Ranni||Meet the Masters, a programme organised as part of the Ranni Knowledge Village project by Pramod Narayan, MLA, will begin on Monday. District Collector Divya S. Iyer will inaugurate the event at 5 p.m and interact with the children during the programme, which seeks to give them the opportunity to interact with experts in various fields. Children from Ranni who have achieved high marks in 10th and 12th classes will be felicitated on the occasion.  The program will also be streamed live on the MLA’s official Facebook page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-the-masters-to-be-held-in-ranni/article36560189.ece
20 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. sidelines daily tests, new cases||Kerala is taking its eyes off COVID-19 testing because the administration believes that the State has crossed that critical point in the pandemic, wherein the immunity in the population, either due to natural infection and/or through vaccination, has made the number of new cases, samples tested daily, and the test positivity rate (TPR) irrelevant. The State has now decided to do away with antigen testing in the private sector, even when scientific literature says that antigen tests are very efficient in picking up a person in infectious stage (apart from the convenience of use and quick results). The release issued by the Chief Minister’s Office also said the asymptomatics should not be tested. Hospitalisations down The official stance now is that as long as vaccination is proceeding at the current pace and the State is keeping an eye on the hospitalisation graph, the new cases reported daily do not really matter. It is pointed out that despite the 20,000-odd new cases daily, hospitalisations have been coming down steadily (only about 13% of the active cases), which is attributed to the impact of vaccination. The State, which used to do around 1.5 lakh tests daily, has now reduced it substantially. In the past few days, it has also done away with TPR as an indicator for assessing disease transmission. As vaccination progresses, vaccine breakthrough infections and re-infections will make up a substantial proportion of the new cases. With community transmission on, there is no point in increasing testing as it will only contribute to more cases and a higher TPR, which the government feels is being used by media and vested interests to ‘belittle’ its achievements. The other argument is that since transmission is expected to continue even when the entire population is vaccinated, why should one test more. ‘WIPR is better’ “With a good proportion of the population still vulnerable to infection, it would be foolish to expect TPR to go down as it did in northern India, where a chunk of the population was infected when Delta swept through. The weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) is a better indicator because it determines infection in a population, which is a constant,” says T.S. Anish, epidemiologist and a member of the State’s experts’ committee on COVID-19. Case of asymptomatics That said, doing away with antigen testing and testing of asymptomatic individuals is short-sightedness, many public health experts say. Testing has to be maintained at adequate levels so that new infections are picked up, according to them. Current testing guidelines say that the primary contacts of a positive case should test for COVID-19 on the eighth day of quarantine, or earlier, if they develop symptoms. Or else they should remain in quarantine for 14 days. The Health Department’s own data analysis says that 74.23% of those tested positive for COVID-19 in the State are asymptomatic. The role of asymptomatic persons in the transmission of COVID-19 is huge. The disease can also be transmitted by a patient in the pre-symptomatic phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-sidelines-daily-tests-new-cases/article36560143.ece
20 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hill highway work launched||The completion of the hill highway will open up developmental possibilities in the high ranges of the State, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the construction of the Peringamala-Koppam section of the hill highway here on Sunday. He said the hill highway would also provide an impetus to the tourism sector. Major works Steps had been taken to complete major works in a time-bound manner. The Peringamala-Koppam road passed through the Vamanapuram and Aruvikkara constituencies. The road was being constructed for a distance of 9.45 kilometres with a width of 12 metres. The project was being funded through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). D.K. Murali, MLA, presided over the function held at Thennur. G. Stephen, MLA, was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hill-highway-work-launched/article36560296.ece
20 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||46 women cyclists reclaim streets in a milestone event||Forty-six women of various age groups and on colourful bicycles came together in the city on Sunday as part of Fancy Women Bike Ride, an international event where women in fancy attire ride bicycles to promote the participation of their sex in environment-friendly transportation modes and for the sheer joy of cycling. Thiruvananthapuram became the first city in the country to join the annual event that would be hosted by over 150 cities around the world this year, a statement from the Indus Cycling Embassy (ICE) said. What started as a casual bike ride in Turkey nine years ago has evolved into a big movement with women from various backgrounds riding bicycles to claim more visibility and raise awareness of safe bike routes. Volunteers show their support by organising all-women bike rides simultaneously. Cities such as Paris, Vancouver, London, and Berlin are among those celebrating the event. SHEROES and ICE’s women’s wing organised the ride that was flagged off by Olympian Padmini Thomas at Kowdiar square here on Sunday evening. The aim, the organisers said, was to create urban cycling infrastructure, plan bike-friendly services, and bring women together with a focus on mental and physical health. Although the event is held once a year, women peer-to-peer initiatives continue all year around. Women organise cycling courses in their communities, group rides for the weekends, and cycling events for families with small children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/46-women-cyclists-reclaim-streets-in-a-milestone-event/article36560289.ece
20 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Azhimala turns a death trap for visitors||Having claimed 15 lives in eight months, the scenic Azhimala beachside cliff near Vizhinjam in Thiruvananthapuram is soon gaining notoriety as a death trap. The recent death of a weekend holidayer has yet again spotlighted the need to declare such slippery rocks as off-limits for selfie enthusiasts. With the easing of lockdown curbs likely to attract more people to the 58-ft-tall famed Lord Shiva statue, local residents have demanded precautionary measures including lifeguard deployment to prevent further mishaps. The issue also calls into question the safety preparedness by the Tourism Department that has lately focused on identifying tourism spots in each grama panchayat in the State in a bid to project its unexplored destinations. Azhimala, which had burst into limelight since the unveiling of the majestic Gangadhareswara sculpture at the Azhimala Shiva Temple last year, has been witnessing a spurt in casualties, the most recent being the death of a 36-year-old Thiruvallam native who fell off the slippery rocks that he had climbed to click selfies. C. Jerome Das, the president of Kottukal grama panchayat, says the local community has faced a torrid time in deterring travellers from climbing the unfenced cliff edge and venturing close to the seas. The local body had recently placed three warning sign boards in the area, but such measures have been inadequate. Mr. Das demanded steps to station lifeguards along the shoreline in Pulinkudy, Azhimala, Chowara and Adimalathura. A police aid post was also necessary for effective patrolling. The Vizhinjam Coastal police, which patrol the 36-km coastline from Adimalathura to St. Andrews, too felt the delay in posting lifeguards and constructing fences could endanger more lives. There is need for constant surveillance in the area like in Kovalam and Varkala, station house officer H. Anil Kumar says. Senior Kerala Tourism officials say a proposal for hiring lifeguards in places like Azhimala is pending before the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/azhimala-turns-a-death-trap-for-visitors/article36560291.ece
20 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Puffer fish wreak havoc||Several fishermen who put out to sea from the district have reported extensive damage to their nets after encountering puffer fish. The torn fishing nets mean loss of income and work, they say. Over the past few days, several boats have returned with nets damaged by the puffer fish, say fishers from the coastal areas of Chirayinkeezhu taluk. “More than a dozen nets have been damaged in the past 20 or so days. The big nets cost Rs. 15 to Rs. 18 lakh each. Mending them is a time-consuming affair and needs a lot of money,” says Nasar, a fisherman from Perumathura. Locally, puffer fish (Lagocephalus inermis) go by names such ‘Petha’ and ‘Yeva’. This fish is often referred to as ‘Valakadiyan’ by the local fishers, as they bite and damage the nets, A. Biju Kumar, Professor and Head, Department of Aquatics Biology, University of Kerala, explains. “They have sharp joined dentition that is like a sharp knife, enabling them to cut through the nets easily. Studies show their numbers are increasing in the Arabian Sea,” Dr. Biju Kumar says. Fishers rue the fact that not much assistance will be forthcoming from the government for repairing the nets. “It’ll be another 10-14 days before out net is repaired and we can put out to sea,” Mr. Nasar says. A decline in the population of bigger fish that prey on the puffer fish could be a reason for their increasing presence the waters off Kerala, Jackson Pollayil, State president, Kerala Swathantra Matsya Thozhilali Federation, says. “Puffer fish also could be entering the coastal waters in search of smaller prey,” he says. In recent months, jellyfish also has been causing trouble for fishers, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/puffer-fish-wreak-havoc/article36560264.ece
20 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM, Satheesan soft on radical Islam: Minister||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan of toeing a soft line on radical Islam. Inaugurating the birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi here, Mr. Muraleedharan said radical Islamists had infiltrated organisations such as the DYFI. “They are DYFI by day and SDPI by night,” the Minister said. The CPI(M) had admitted in an internal circular that fundamentalist organisations aspired to recruit professional college students for terrorist purposes. However, the Mr. Vijayan did little about it. A cold political calculus drove the Chief Minister to keep fundamentalists on his side by turning a blind eye towards the extremist fringe and their illegal activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-satheesan-soft-on-radical-islam-minister/article36560139.ece
20 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Secretariat employee dead||A Secretariat employee died after reportedly drowning in the Meenmutty waterfalls in Neyyar on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Harikumar of Pothencode. He was a section officer in the Revenue Department. The incident is suspected to have occurred by afternoon after Harikumar along with few of his colleagues had gone to the tourist spot located within the Neyyar wildlife sanctuary. Case registered According to the Neyyar Dam police, the circumstances that led to the death were unknown. A case of unnatural death has been recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/secretariat-employee-dead/article36560295.ece
20 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,105 cases recorded in capital||The district recorded 2,105 COVID-19 cases and 2,180 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 16,388 on Sunday. The district authorities have currently placed 43,333 people in quarantine. The pandemic has claimed 3,767 lives in the district thus far. New containment zones have been declared in Kavalayoor ward of Manamboor grama panchayat and Vazhvelikonam ward of Vamanapuram grama panchayat. The existing containment zones in Palode ward of Nanniyode grama panchayat and Manjappara ward of Pulimath grama panchayat, and the micro-containment zones in Vivekananda Lane in Vazhimukku ward of Neyyattinkara Municipality have been lifted. District Collector Navjot Khosa has released an order to enforce intensified lockdown in areas with a weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) of above 10. As many as 53 such wards have come under stringent curbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2105-cases-recorded-in-capital/article36560294.ece
20 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Truck hits 3 cars, bike||A truck laden with wooden logs slammed into three cars and a motorcycle that were waiting at the traffic signal at the Plamoodu junction on Sunday. The truck first hit a car that was dragged for some distance, when it hit two other cars and a motorcycle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/truck-hits-3-cars-bike/article36560297.ece
20 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Active cases drop again||The State on Sunday reported 19,653 new cases of COVID-19 when 1,13,295 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The active case pool has dropped to 1,73,631, with 26,711 patients recovering from the disease on the day. The official cumulative case fatality now stands at 23,591 with 152 recent deaths added to the official list. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 was 1,906 while the hospitalisations has declined to 25,267. Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 2,810 cases, Thrissur 2,620, Thiruvananthapuram 2,105, Kozhikode 1,957, Palakkad 1,593, Kollam 1,392, Malappuram 1,387, Kottayam 1,288, Alappuzha 1,270, Kannur 856, Idukki 843, Pathanamthitta 826, Wayanad 443 and Kasaragod 263.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-cases-drop-again/article36560145.ece
20 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MCH gets two more ICUs||The Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital has been equipped with two more intensive care units (ICU) as part of its preparedness to deal with an upsurge of COVID-19 cases during the expected third wave of the pandemic. Health Minister Veena George has said 100 ICU beds have been set up in order to increase the hospital bed capacity. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will formally inaugurate the ICU wings that have been established at the seventh and eighth wards of the hospital on August 23. As many as 17 ventilators will be established for the new set of ICU beds in the initial phase. Of these, nine were already in place. Established at Rs. 5.5 crore, the ICU’s have been set up in a manner that could absorb a potential increase in occupancy of paediatric patients at the SAT Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-gets-two-more-icus/article36560292.ece
20 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||For want of a cavity, many tree dwellers will be left homeless||Loss of large old trees, with cavities that harbour a wide variety of species, has become a concern in many ecosystems. According to research conducted by a team of scientists led by Peroth Balakrishnan, scientist and head, Department of Wildlife Biology, Kerala Forest Research Institute, 517 species, which is about 18.4% of terrestrial vertebrate species of India, use tree cavities. Their research on ‘Patterns of tree cavity occurrence and use by vertebrates in tropical forests of the Western Ghats’ stresses that tree cavities play a key role in the functioning of forest ecosystems. “Trees with cavities are considered an important parameter in wildlife conservation and forest management. Their loss is a recognised concern in ecosystems worldwide,” says Dr. Balakrishnan. The residents Species that use tree cavities, like bats, hornbills, woodpeckers, and civets, are well-known service providers to the ecosystem and play crucial roles in pollination, seed dispersal, and pest control. “About 9% of tree-cavity users are red listed and deserve special conservation because of habitat loss. Therefore, cavity-bearing tree species have become a key target for conservation management.” Research shows that about 50% of the trees use by the south Indian hornbills belong to rare, endangered, or threatened categories. Among the 517 species that use tree cavities, 43.9% are birds, followed by reptiles (30.8%), mammals (17.6%) and amphibians (7.7%). Most of them are rare, elusive, and nocturnal species. While 51.4% of them use cavities for breeding, 23.8% roost in the dark holes. Another 9.3% use them as den or day rest sites, and 0.8% species use them to hibernate. Of the tree-cavity users, 54 species are primary users that drill wood (woodpeckers, barbets, trogons and nuthatches) and 463 are secondary users (hornbills, owls, parrots, tits, starlings, flycatchers, bats, tree squirrels, tree mice, civets, and martens). The review paper published in Current Science (August 25, 2021) is authored by Mr. Balakrishnan, Bharati Patel and Sreejith Sivaraman.  Tree cavities are home to 517 vertebrate species in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-want-of-a-cavity-many-tree-dwellers-will-be-left-homeless/article36560137.ece
20 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Karuvannur scam: party activist goes missing||Sujesh Kannat, 37, a former CPI(M) activist, who had strongly objected to the Karuvannur cooperative bank loan scam in party forums, is missing since Saturday. His brother has lodged a complaint with the Irinjalakuda police in this regard. Sujesh, a resident of Madayikonam, who was expelled by the CPI(M) for alleged anti-party activities, had led a lone protest in front of the bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karuvannur-scam-party-activist-goes-missing/article36560138.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safety at risk||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-at-risk/article36560128.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||While the sun shines||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/while-the-sun-shines/article36560110.ece
20 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gangulavai Palyam MPTC seat goes to Congress||At Gangulavai Palyam village MPTC seat in Madakasira mandal, Gangamma representing the Indian National Congress emerged victorious. But the Returning Officer gave her the certificate showing that she won on the YSRCP ticket. She was the lone MPTC contestant to win on Congress ticket out of the 781 seats for which polls were conducted in the district. Later, when the candidate noticed the discrepancy, the RO issued a fresh certificate. Gangulavai Palyam is the village adjacent to Neelakanthapuram, where former APCC president N. Raghuveerea Reddy resides. Meanwhile, a sub-inspector, Amzad Vali, who was posted at Madakasira for security, fainted at the counting centre. He was rushed to hospital and recovering there. At Talamavandlapalli of Nallacheruvu mandal, a youth, who identified himself as ‘Nallacheruvu mandubabula youth president’, put a slip in the MPTC ballot paper seeking sale of better brands of liquor and beer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gangulavai-palyam-mptc-seat-goes-to-congress/article36560249.ece
20 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP bags all but two ZPTCs||The YSRCP won 60 of the 62 ZPTC seats in the district . While TDP candidate Umesh won the Agali ZPTC seat by a margin of 765 votes, an Independent candidate Anantharaju won the Rolla ZPTC seat by a margin of 5,602 votes. Mr. Anantharaju had entered the fray after he was denied the ticket by the YSRCP. YSRCP’s Boya Girijamma, who won the Atmakur ZPTC seat, and Jakkala Jyothi, who won the Tanakallu seat , may vie for the ZP chairperson post, the elections for which will be held at 3 p.m. on September 25. Though the TDP had won two Assembly seats – Hindupur and Uravakonda, the party could win only one ZPTC seat from one mandal. It had voluntarily boycotted the MPTC / ZPTC elections. The MPTC results came as a surprise for the TDP as it managed to win 50 out of 782 seats for which elections were held. The YSRCP won 711 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-bags-60-zptc-seats/article36560250.ece
20 September 2021||Anantapur,ANDHRA PRADESH||94% candidates take APECET||The Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test-2021 for polytechnic students conducted by Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Anantapur on Sunday saw 94.30% attendance. The test was held in two spells at 48 regional centres in 13 districts of A.P. and in Hyderabad. University Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana inspected the exam centres at Ananthalakshmi Engineering College and SRIT in Anantapur district. He said in a release that out of the 34,271 registered candidates, 32,318 had appeared for the test. The preliminary key of the exam would be published on the website by Monday afternoon and objections would be received till 5 p.m. on September 23, said convener Chundupalli Sashidhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/94-candidates-take-apecet/article36559771.ece
20 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held in Bengaluru for moral policing||The Sadduguntepalya police on Saturday took suo motu action and arrested two persons on charges of moral policing after they allegedly harassed a man and a woman from different communities for riding on a motorbike. A video clip of the incident, which took place at Dairy Circle here on Friday evening, showed the men harassing and shaming the burqa-clad woman and assaulting her friend, who was riding the bike. “They were colleagues at a private firm,” said a police officer. As people gathered to watch, the men questioned the woman and asked her why she was travelling with another man. They made her share her family’s number and made a call. The clip showed the duo verbally harassing the woman’s family for allowing her to travel with a man on a bike. They then forced her to get off the bike and insisted she take an autorickshaw home. The video went viral on social media, prompting the police into action. They arrested the men within 12 hours of the incident. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant praised the swift action of the police, and announced a reward for the team. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai also commended the police action. “In connection with the case of assault on a bike rider travelling along with a woman of different faith, @BlrCityPolice has acted swiftly. A case is registered and legal action is initiated. My government deals with such incidents with an iron hand,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-in-bengaluru-for-moral-policing/article36559763.ece
20 September 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Video clip: Sadananda files complaint||A video clip, alleged to be fake, purportedly showing former Union Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda in a compromising position went viral on social media, prompting him to file a complaint with the Cyber Crime police on Sunday. Filing the complaint before the Bengaluru city Cyber Crime north division station on behalf of the BJP leader, one Thamme Gowda S. said the video was fabricated and circulated on social media to tarnish the image of the former Minister. “This is politically motivated and created through fabrication,” Mr. Thamme Gowda said, urging the police to take steps to stop circulation of the video clip and to take penal action against those responsible for it. Mr. Sadananda Gowda said on his social media account that “a morphed video of mine is doing the rounds on social media. I would like to inform that it is not me in the video. It has been created to tarnish my impeccable image by my adversaries with vested interests.” Mr. Sadananda Gowda, who has already obtained an injunction order from a city court, said as per the order it was a punishable offence to forward and upload the content of the video.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/video-clip-sadananda-files-complaint/article36559759.ece
20 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kuppam results shock TDP||The ruling YSRCP won all the 33 ZPTC seats and 389 out of 419 MPTC seats for which elections were held last year. The results of the elections were declared on Sunday. The YSRCP candidates wrested all the ZPTC seats and a majority of the MPTC seats in the Kuppam Assembly constituency, which came as a shock to the TDP. Similar results emerged in all the other 13 Assembly constituencies. Though the TDP could win 25 MPTC seats, they were distributed sporadically. Last year, after withdrawal of nominations for the MPTC and ZPTC elections, the YSRCP had won a majority of the seats unanimously. Out of 858 MPTC candidates, 342 were declared elected unopposed in the district. Of them, 323 candidates belonged to the ruling party and 19 to the TDP. Of the 65 ZPTC seats, the YSRCP had earlier won 37, leaving a blank to the TDP. The counting process commenced at 14 places in the district in the morning. But for the ruling party cadres, the presence of the opposition parties was minimal. TDP district spokesman V. Surendra Kumar termed the results as a “farce.” He said, considering the large-scale poll violations, including intimidation and forgery, the TDP had boycotted the elections. “The people are fully aware of the malpractices resorted to by the YSRCP, and they showed little or no interest in the results,” he said. However, the YSRCP cadres argued that the TDP had announced the boycott of elections after seeing Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s charisma sweeping the municipal elections. The leaders said that the YSRCP could post tremendous victories in Chandragiri and Kuppam Assembly constituencies. While the former is the home turf of TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, the latter is the one which he has been representing continuously since 1989. Meanwhile, SP S. Senthil Kumartold the media that police pickets would be in place at all villages with history of poll-related disturbances. “No victory rallies, processions and meetings are allowed. Cases will be booked against the violatiors,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kuppam-results-shock-tdp/article36560252.ece
20 September 2021||Coimbatore,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coimbatore leads in inoculation||Coimbatore district is leading in the State in the COVID-19 vaccination by covering the highest percentage of the eligible population, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Sunday. Of the 29,27,149 lakh people aged above 18 in the district, 75% received the first dose and 25% the second dose, he said after inaugurating the second mega vaccination drive at the Government Headquarters Hospital, Pollachi. He said Coimbatore had done a good job of controlling the spread of the contagion. The presence of 13 inter-State checkpoints, however, posed a challenge. “The number of daily cases is close to 200 in the district. Though the Kerala government is making special efforts to combat the disease, the State has been registering 20,000-30,000 a day for the last one month. As people travel between Kerala and Tamil Nadu for trade, jobs and education, we have taken steps to reduce the spread of the disease,” he said. Mr. Subramanian said the DMK government had been trying to get more vaccine doses from the Union government. “The number of people inoculated per day stood at 61,440 before the DMK came to power. Now, 2.49 lakh people are getting vaccinated daily,” he said. According to him, the national average of people who got their first dose stood at 62% against Tamil Nadu’s average of 45% as on September 11. The State’s tally went up to 52% when 28,91,000 people were vaccinated during the first mega vaccination drive on September 12. After a week, the figure increased to 56%. To push it up further, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin ordered the conduct of the second mega vaccination drive at 20,000 centres on Sunday, he said. The State used 29 lakh of the 30 lakh doses it had on September 12. On Sunday, it was aiming to administer more than 15 lakh doses out of the stock of 16 lakh. As the entire stock was utilised for the mega vaccination drive on Sunday, no camp would be conducted on Monday. The camps would resume once the State received a sufficient stock from the Union government, he said. After inspecting the camps in Tiruppur district, Mr. Subramanian said 13.86 lakh out of the eligible population of 20.77 lakh had received the vaccine. Of the 20.77 lakh, 67% had received the first dose and 13% the second dose. In the mega vaccination drive held on September 12, Tiruppur was allotted vials for 1.06 lakh doses. However, health workers extracted 15,000 extra doses from the overfill volume from the vials and administered 1.21 lakh doses. This was the highest volume of overfill extracted in the State, he said. The Minister said the spread of the contagion at schools was under control. Students started attending in-person classes after one-and-a-half years and people should not create panic. At Namakkal, Mr. Subramanian said Tamil Nadu required 12 crore doses to administer the first and second doses. He said 56% of the people had received the first dose. He said the State had not received vaccine doses as required from the Union government. Four municipalities, over 500 village panchayats and the Nilgiris district had been entirely covered with vaccination.  Four municipalities, over 500 village panchayats and the Nilgiris district had been entirely covered with vaccination Ma. Subramanian Minister for Health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coimbatore-makes-a-mark/article36559838.ece
20 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Immersion of Ganesh idols to continue today||There was no let up in the procession of Ganesh idols of all hues and size heading to Hussainsagar even at 9 p.m. on Sunday as the surroundings of the lake were chock-o-block with crowds and an unending convoy of the fleet of multi axle open body trucks carrying the idols. Senior police officials posted at the site expected the immersion to continue till Monday morning as only 2,000 idols were lowered in the lake and another 8,000 to 9,000 were still on the way. The idols from old city were making their way initially and more were yet to join the procession from other parts of the city. The trucks decorated with colourful lighting and youth dancing with gay abandon on the long platform atop the wheels were lined up right behind each another. There were also thematic idols focussed on COVID. Some of them were designed showing the Lord driving the evil force away. The procession continued even through a sharp shower in the afternoon. The blaring of music from the sound boxes fitted to the trucks and drum beat went on uninterrupted throughout the journey. Various organisations set up platforms to welcome the trucks and offered food and water to the participants. Around 6.30 a.m. on Sunday, there was a long fleet of trucks on Basheerbagh road giving an impression that the procession had started in right earnest at daybreak. But, it turned out that the idols had left the installation points on Saturday night. Thereafter, there was a long interval till the afternoon when the actual procession scheduled for Sunday began. The huge idol from Balapur was one of the first to leave for Hussainsagar followed by the five headed idol of Khairatabad. The laddu of Balapur idol was auctioned for Rs. 18.90 lakh. It was won by YSR Congress MLA from Kadapa district Ramesh Yadav and his business partner Marri Sashank Reddy. Mr. Yadav announced that he would gift the laddu to Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy. Hussainsagar and the adjoining Tank Bund and NTR Marg were illuminated adding to the resplendence of the lake. A large number of heavy duty cranes lined up the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/immersion-of-ganesh-idols-to-continue-today/article36559589.ece
20 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Admissions at Hellen Keller’s school for differently-abled||Helen Keller’s High School for the Deaf and Rehabilitation Centre is running a pre-school for aurally-challenged children in the age group of 2-6, where education is provided along with speech therapy, training in hearing and language skills. For details, contact the Secretary and Correspondent P. Dowlath Khan at 98493 11680.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/admissions-for-special-children/article36559772.ece
20 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Technical glitches delay counting in E.G.||The YSRCP registered a thumping victory in East Godavari district in the MPTC, ZPTC elections. It won 342 of 443 MPTC seats by the time the last reports came in on Sunday. The counting of votes was delayed by a few hours, particularly in the Amalapuram division, leading to the delay in completing the counting of votes polled in the 61 ZPTC and 999 MPTC segments. Technical glitches and termites eating the ballot papers in the Peddapuram division also contributed to the delay in the counting process. The District Collector’s office confirmed that by 7 p.m. “the counting of seven segments in the ZPTC elections has been completed and the YSRCP won six of them while the TDP emerged victorious in one (V.R. Puram). The segments won by the YSRCP are Yetapaka, Kunavaram, Chintoor, Devipatnam, Addateegala, and Sankavaram.” In respect of the MPTC elections, by 7 p.m., the YSRCP won 342 of the 443 segments. The TDP registered victory in 50 segments, the JSP in 31, and the CPI(M) in seven segments. Eleven Independent candidates too registered victory. District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran and SP M. Ravindranath Babu monitored the process. “All the candidates have already been informed not to conduct any processions or victory rallies. The counting process is still in progress amid tight security,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/technical-glitches-delay-counting-in-eg/article36560256.ece
20 September 2021||KASARAGOD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teacher held for suicide of Kerala teen||A teacher has been arrested in connection with the death of a 13-year-old girl in a case filed under various Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act. Usman, 25, a private school teacher, was arrested after being questioned at the Bekal Deputy Superintendent of Police’s office. Bekal is a small town in Kerala’s Kasaragod district. In addition to Section 174 of the CrPC, the police have registered a case against the teacher under Section 12. The accused, a native of Adoor, was arrested from a hiding place in Mumbai by the Melparambu police after his phone was tracked. Police said the teacher would chat on the social media platform, Instagram. His conversations, and the messages he sent, made it appear that the girl and he were “having an affair”. During questioning, the accused denied that he had threatened the student, but later confessed to the crime after evidence was presented, police sources said. They said that the minor girl was constantly followed and sexually targeted on social media. Cyber cell experts are examining his mobile phone to collect evidence. The investigation team said that the POCSO Act and the JJ Act was filed as the student was intentionally abused by the accused. This caused trauma to the minor girl. The Child Rights Commission has also registered a case in connection with the death of the student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teacher-held-for-suicide-of-kerala-teen/article36559580.ece
20 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Priest warns against ‘Christian girls being lured by Ezhava boys’||The controversy over ‘religious jihad’ took a new turn with a Christian priest cautioning the community against “Christian girls being systematically lured into love marriages by some Ezhava boys.” The statement was made by Fr. Roy Kannanchira, who heads the Deepika Children’s League, at a training session for catechism teachers. A recent statement by Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, Bishop of the Pala diocese of the Syro Malabar Church, that extremists elements were using ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotic jihad’ to lure away Christian girls had created a furore in the State. According to Fr. Kannanchira, a priest of the Carmelites of Mary Immaculate congregation of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, the statement was made to highlight the fact that the marital life of many Christian girls, who married outside the religion, ended up in familial discord. The case of Ezhava boys was discussed when one of the participants at the meeting brought up the issue of nine Christian girls of a parish marrying Ezhava boys, he said. The statement was not intended to show the Ezhava community in poor light, but to drive home the message that marriage was a holy sacrament and that the children from the community should pay heed to their parents while selecting their life partners, he said. SNDP view However, Vellappally Natesan, general secretary of the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam, said it was not the Ezhava community members who were converting the Christians, but it was the other way round. “Several Ezhava community members were converted into Christianity in the past decades. Hundreds of Ezhava and Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe members had been converted into Christianity in the hill areas of the State over the years. The Christians, who constitute around 17% of the State’s population, grew in strength by converting people from other religions to their faith,” he said.  Christians are the ones converting Ezhavas, responds Vellappally||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/priest-warns-against-christian-girls-being-lured-by-ezhava-boys/article36559590.ece
20 September 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Activists seek govt. help for release of Kerala rationalist||Rationalist groups have urged the Union government to secure the release of an entrepreneur from Kerala, who has been jailed in Dubai for alleged blasphemous remarks against Islam. According to sources, Abdul Khadar Puthiyangadi, who is from Kasaragod, ran an an IT-related business in the Gulf country for the past five years. Arif Hussain Theruvoth, president, Non-Religious Citizens, told The Hindu on Sunday that Mr. Khadar was earlier quite devout and had delved deep into Islamic texts and scriptures to counter those against the religion. However, his deep study later made him a vocal critic of the religion, Mr. Hussain said. “He started criticising Islam with the same vehemence with which once he defended that religion,” he said. Three year sentence According to Mr. Hussain, a section of Muslims from Kerala based in the United Arab Emirates objected to Mr. Khader’s criticism. They translated his writings and speeches in Malayalam into Arabic and presented them to the authorities in Dubai, seeking action against him. This led to Mr. Khader’s arrest on April 22. He was later sentenced to three years in prison. K.N. Anil Kumar, president, and Shooranad Gopan, State secretariat member, Kerala Yutkthivadi Sangham (Kerala Atheists’ Society), C.M. Liyakathali, president, Ex-Muslims of Kerala, and Mr. Hussain pointed out in a joint statement that the same group of Islamists were “champions of secularism, and freedom of expression” in India. “In another country, they are trying to suppress the freedom to express criticism against religion using their political clout. It is also quite ironical that Mr. Khader, who was a sharp critic of the Islamic laws being taught in Kerala’s madrassas, had to meet this fate,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/activists-seek-govt-help-for-release-of-kerala-rationalist/article36559587.ece
20 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resounding victory in Kurnool||The YSRCP made a clean sweep of all the 53 ZPTC seats, while the TDP managed to win 62 out of 807 MPTC seats in the district for which results were announced on Sunday. Sixteen ZPTC candidates from the YSRCP had won unanimously and elections were conducted in April for 36 seats. Polling for one ZPTC constituency was not conducted as the candidate had died. Out of the 807 MPTC seats, 312 MPTC seats were elected unanimously. While the YSRCP candidates had won 266, the TDP won 43, the BJP 2, and the CPI 1. Elections were conducted for the remaining 484 seats, out of which the YSRCP won 406. The TDP managed to win 62 seats, the BJP 3, the CPI 2 and Independents 11 seats. The race for chairmanship of the Zilla Praja Parishad will be very keen with many contenders. The election to the post will be held on September 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-zptc-seats-go-to-ysrcp-in-kurnool/article36560257.ece
20 September 2021||NELLORE / ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Winning streak continues in south coastal A.P||The ruling YSRCP continued its winning streak, bagging all the 101 ZPTC seats in south coastal Andhra Pradesh, including 46 in Nellore district, amid poll boycott by the opposition TDP, as the counting of votes polled in the rural local body elections were completed late on Sunday. In Prakasam district, the ruling party bagged 55 ZPTC seats, including 14 unanimously, Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer D. Devanand Reddy said. Election was not held for Podili ZPTC seat due to litigation in the wake of its upgradation into a Nagarapanchayat. In Nellore district, the YSRCP swept the ZPTC polls, annexing all the 46 seats at stake, District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu, who oversaw the counting process. The party nominees had won 10 of the 12 seats unanimously initially while party rebels won two seats. They too joined the YSRCP later. The results were no different in the MPTC elections as well. The YSRCP won 632 seats, including 312 in Nellore district, as elections were held for only 730 seats. The YSRCP bagged 320 of the 368 MPTC seats, which were decided unanimously in Prakasam district, and 188 in Nellore district. YSRCP Nellore district president Kakani Govardhan Reddy said people had strengthened the hands of the ruling party by continuing to repose faith in the leadership of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and increased the responsibility on the party to implement the welfare schemes and development programmes with more vigour. TDP supremo N. Chandrababu Naidu should either concede defeat or expel the TDP men who took part in the elections despite his poll boycott call. Senior TDP leader Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy accused the ruling party of misusing the official machinery on a large scale. The ruling party’s support base was waning since the Tirupati Lok Sabha bypoll, and it would face a rout if the Assembly elections were held now, he claimed. CPI leader K. Ramakrishna said the way the elections were held did not bring credit to the YSRCP. There was no level-playing field as the ruling party managed unanimous polls for a majority of seats by “dubious means,” including intimidation of the opposition party candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/winning-streak-continues-in-south-coastal-ap/article36560259.ece
20 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Support Bharat Bandh, CPI urges YSRCP, TDP||Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Sunday exhorted the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and the main opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) to extend support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by the farmers’ organisations on September 27 in protest against the ‘anti-people’s policies’ of the BJP-led Central government. Leading a ‘Jan Andolan’ padayatra from the Kurnool road bypass centre to the Church centre by the CPI activists and frontal farmers’ and labourers’ organisations such as AIKS and AITUC, Mr. Ramakrishna said that the Centre was selling away the public sector enterprises (PSEs) including the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), which was against ‘national interest’. “Privatisation of PSEs will only benefit a select few corporate firms. A firm having base in Gujarat is now ruling the roost on the east coast, annexing one port after another, the latest being the Gangavaram port,” he said as the protesters shouted slogans ‘Visakha Ukku Andhralu Hakku’. “The YSRCP and the TDP should gauge the growing dissatisfaction against the suicidal economic policies of the BJP-led Centre and join hands with non-BJP parties which have come together against such moves. Else, they will incur the wrath of the farmers and other sections of people including workers who have made it a common cause,” said Mr. Ramakrishna. Referring to recurring increase of fuel prices, Mr. Ramakrishna said the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders, which were hovering around Rs. 60, Rs. 50 and Rs. 440 respectively when the BJP assumed the office, had now shot up to Rs. 112, Rs. 99 and Rs. 960, adding more burden to the commoners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-urges-ysrcp-tdp-to-support-bharat-bandh/article36560243.ece
20 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curtains down on Ganesh Navaratri fete||Devotees bid adieu to Lord Ganesh as a steady stream of tractors and trucks carried idols to Kothapatnam and other beaches on the east coast for immersion on Sunday. The usual fanfare was missing in view of the COVID curbs put in place. There was no music nor was there any bursting of crackers this time. However, devotees did not give a miss to the celebrations altogether as many of them came to the water bodies, carrying idols on their heads, in compliance with COVID protocols. They took part in the auctions held for giving away ‘laddu’ to the highest bidder. Then the traditional sphere-shaped sweet was distributed as prasadam to the devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curtains-down-on-ganesh-navaratri-fete/article36560241.ece
20 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Airport mooted near Martur||An airport has been proposed near Martur in Prakasam district to spur economic growth. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the district administration to identify about 3,000 acres of land between Martur and Chilakaluripeta in neighbouring Guntur district for the project. Collector Pravin Kumar said the government was keen on having another airport closer to Krishna and Guntur districts, apart from the one at Gannavaram. District Joint Collector (Revenue) J.V. Murali has been directed to identify government and private land in and around Martur close to the Chennai-Kolkata highway. Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy is keen on developing an airport near Martur as the earlier proposal to develop Vadarevu and Nizampatnam Industrial Corridor, an industrial corridor and two sea ports coupled with an airport at Kothapatnam mooted during the then YSR regime in undivided A.P. to facilitate port-led development had not made any headway for various reasons, sources close to the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/airport-mooted-near-martur/article36559617.ece
20 September 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water project oustees seek early release of compensation||The farmers displaced by the Thota Venkatachalam Pushkara Lift Irrigation Scheme at Purushothapatnam in Sitanagaram mandal of East Godavari district met Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat here on Sunday and urged him to ensure early release of compensation for the land acquired by the State government for the Rs. 608 crore lift irrigation scheme. The project aims at providing irrigation facility for 1.86 lakh acres and drinking water for 5.3 lakh people of 19 mandals in nine Assembly segments by drawing water from the Godavari at Purushothapatnam. The Assembly constituencies to benefit from the project are Rajanagaram, Rajamahendravaram, Anaparthi, Jaggampeta, Prathipadu, Pithapuram, Peddapuram and Tuni in East Godavari district and Payakaraopeta in Visakhapatnam district. At least 90 farmers led by K. Srinivasa Raju and K. Dharma Raju shared their grievances pertaining to the delay in the release of compensation for their land and appealed to the MP to hold talks with the State authorities for its early release. Mr. Bharat told them that he would take up the issue with the officials concerned from the Irrigation and Revenue departments and also bring it to the notice of the higher authorities. The farmers submitted a memorandum to Mr. Bharat with the details of the farmers who had parted with their land for the lift irrigation scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-project-oustees-seek-early-release-of-compensation/article36560282.ece
20 September 2021||SAMARLAKOTA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Where termites eat away ballot papers||As many as 301 ballot papers stored in a ballot box belonging to Pulimeru MPTC and ZPTC elections under Peddapuram Revenue Division in East Godavari district have been eaten by termites. “A total of 139 ballot papers of MPTC and 162 ballot papers of ZPTC election have been found eaten by the termites during the counting process. All of them are in the same ballot box that contained 1,462 ballot papers (730 MPTC votes and 732 ZPTC votes),” Revenue Divisional Officer S. Malli Babu told The Hindu on Sunday. “The ballot papers eaten by termites have been seized in the presence of the candidates in the fray. They have been kept aside without counting,” he added. Mr. Malli Babu said that the status would be apprised to the State Election Commission for further action. Of the 70 ballot boxes, ballot papers in only one box were eaten by termites at the counting centre in the town, the officials said. Special Correspondent in Anantapur writes: Counting staff at Gowdanahalli village of Madakasira mandal in the district were shocked to notice that termites had eaten 593 ballot papers. Out of 2,360 votes, 1,886 votes were polled (79.65%) and the ballot papers cast in Box No. 10 got infested. The counting officials separated them to see if they were intact to be counted. They heaved a sigh of relief as all the ballots were found legible and the counting continued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/where-termites-eat-away-ballot-papers/article36560254.ece
20 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A massive memorial for the Attingal Revolt of 1721, on its 300th anniversary||A blood-red river, a charging native army bearing rudimentary spears, and armed East India Company soldiers, outnumbered and fear writ large on their faces. An imposing wall stretching to more than 900 feet, by the National Highway 66 near the Akkulam bridge in Thiruvananthapuram is now filled with these images of the Attingal Revolt of 1721. At a time when Kerala is observing the 300th anniversary of the first known organised rebellion against the English East India Company in the country, not many written records of it survive, nor are there any worthy memorials. Public artwork However, nine former and current students of the Government Fine Arts College Thiruvananthapuram, have now come up with a massive public artwork, as part of the Arteria initiative of the Tourism Department, painstakingly depicting the valiant battle of the natives against the Company force. “There are hardly any writings about the Attingal Revolt, nor are there any images to be used for reference. We did a thorough study of all the available material from various archives. We visualised it in this space with a massive central arch, which is 25 feet at its central point, to depict the major events. On the left side, we have shown the native forces organising and advancing, while on the right side, the Company forces are shown as approaching. The Company forces were attacked near the Vamanapuram River, which we have drawn in the entire central portion,” says K. S. Ratheeshkumar, one of the artists. Massive scale The scale is so massive that one has to cross the highway to the other side to get an idea of the artwork. It is also hard to catch the entire work in a single photograph. The artists, who had earlier prepared accurate sketches of the entire work, projected it on the wall from the opposite side and painted over it with the help of a boom lift, says artist Arjun Panayal. The team of artists also include Ajay K. P, Vivek V. C., Thushara Balakrishnan, Remith C., Sajith, Stephen and Akhil Vinod. The Attingal Revolt of 1721 was an uprising which became an expression of the brewing resentment of native farmers and traders against the East India Company’s policies, especially for the reduction in the rates of pepper. A bit of history The situation worsened with the arrival of the new Company officer William Gyfford, who on April 15, 1721 set off with a force of more than 130 men to meet the Queen of Attingal, to hand over customary gifts, bypassing the local lords. The locals, consisting of Kalaripayattu-trained men, launched an attack against the Company force, who were taken by surprise. As per various records, all of the Company men, including Gyfford, were killed in the attack. The Anchuthengu Fort was also under the control of the natives for the next six months, until the Company commandeered troops from elsewhere to oust them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/memorial-records-the-attingal-revolt-of-1721/article36559594.ece
20 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Election results a slap in the face of detractors: Peddireddi||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has termed the thumping victory of the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) in the MPTC and ZPTC elections as a slap in the face of the detractors of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government. Addressing the media at his residence here on Sunday, he recalled the manner in which the government had successfully overcome the hurdles created by the opposition parties. “Right from the then State Election Commissioner (SEC) to the opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu, Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan and finally the ‘yellow media’ (a section of the media supporting the TDP), everyone was hell-bent on creating hurdles for the election process. The election results are a testimony to the people’s support to our government,” he said. Recalling that the State government had spent Rs. 1 lakh crore through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) schemes that was credited to the accounts of the people during the fund-starved coronavirus pandemic, the Minister reiterated that the YSRCP government was committed to reaching out to the public. “The government may be facing the pinch, but the people are pleased with this move,” he said. Dig at Naidu The Minister accused Mr. Naidu and N. Lokesh of triggering chaos and creating a hostile environment in the State, instead of acting as the leaders of a responsible opposition, and advised the duo to ‘mend their ways’ at least after taking the election results into cognisance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/election-results-a-slap-in-the-face-of-detractors-peddireddi/article36560262.ece
20 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Question govt. on injustice being done to people’||Giving a clarion call to the youth to question the injustice being meted out by the Central and State governments, the Congress party urged the younger sections of the society to join the party for a better future of the country. Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president Sake Sailajanath made the call at a public meeting conducted by the party’s city unit president Mangati Gopal Reddy here on Sunday, where he welcomed the young men into the party fold by wrapping shawls resembling the party’s tricolour insignia around them. He wanted the youth to question the BJP-led Union government on the indiscriminate sale of public properties and enterprises to the ‘corporate cronies’. In the same vein, he flayed the ‘incompetent’ YSRCP government for pushing the State into a debt trap. “It is your future that is at stake and hence it is imperative for you to stand up against such arbitrary decisions of the Central and State governments”, he told the youth. Mr. Sailajanath hinted at offering a lion’s share of seats and responsibilities to young leaders and appealed to them to strengthen the hands of party chief Rahul Gandhi. He also told them in no uncertain terms that they should look beyond holding press conferences and posting social media updates to reach out to the public in distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/question-govt-on-injustice-being-done-to-people/article36559775.ece
20 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welcome arch crashes after truck hits it||A huge welcome arch erected and maintained by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) at Ramanuja Circle came down with a heavy thud on Sunday after a passing truck, engaged in construction activities, hit it. Two cars damanged The iron arch crashed when a truck, carrying construction material for the ‘Srinivasa Sethu’ elevated corridor project, came into contact with it. Two passing cars were also damaged in the incident. A person sustained minor injuries. Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) Commissioner P.S. Gireesha probed the matter and directed the contractors to exercise caution while executing the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/welcome-arch-crashes-after-truck-hits-it/article36559773.ece
20 September 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for LAWCET||Arrangements are in place for the conduct of the Law Common Entrance Test (LAWCET-2021) by Tirupati-based Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) in 66 centres across the State on September 22. As many as 15,261 candidates have applied for the test in three streams (5 years, 3 years and PG course). According to the convener Prof. N.B. Chandra Kala, the candidates would receive details of the exam centre, date and time in the form of an SMS on their registered mobile number. The hall tickets are available for download on www.sche.ap.gov.in/lawcet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-lawcet/article36559766.ece
20 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVU professor to head IEA meet||K. Munirathna Naidu, a retired professor of Economics at Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati, has been selected as the president of the 103rd annual conference of the Indian Economic Association (IEA) to be hosted by University of Rajasthan at Jaipur in December this year. The opportunity to become the IEA conference president comes to SV University after a gap of 36 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/svu-professor-to-head-iea-meet/article36559777.ece
20 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Congress is invincible, says Sajjala||Government Adviser (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said on Sunday that the victory of the YSRCP in the ZPTC and MPTC elections increased its responsibility to serve the people better. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said the party created history by securing over 62,000 votes in TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu's constituency Kuppam, and that the former Chief Minister owed an explanation to the people for his party’s debacle in what was supposed to be its citadel. He asserted that the YSRCP was capable of winning any election in a fair manner as people had put their trust in the leadership of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He said the many conspiracies hatched by Mr. Naidu could not prevent his party’s rout, and recalled that the ZPTC and MPTC polls were supposed to be held in 2018. The fear of defeat had prompted Mr. Naidu to keep postponing it, and he went on to thwart the government’s attempts to conduct the polls by moving courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-congress-is-invincible-says-sajjala/article36560248.ece
20 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,337 new COVID-19 cases reported in State||The State reported nine more deaths due to COVID-19 and 1,337 infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,070 and 20,38,690 while the number of active cases stands at 14,699. During the past day, 1,282 patients have recovered and the total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 20,09,921 and 98.59%. The daily test positivity rate of 68,568 samples tested was 1.95%, the lowest in the past 13 days. The overall test positivity rate of the 2.77 crore tests conducted was 7.35%. Chittoor and Krishna districts reported three deaths each and Prakasam, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari one each. Eight districts reported no death. District-wise cases Chittoor reported the highest single-day tally of 231 infections followed by East Godavari (198), Prakasam (161), Krishna (144), Guntur (141), Nellore (139), West Godavari (128), Kadapa (90), Visakhapatnam (51), Srikakulam (23), Vizianagaram (18), Anantapur (10) and Kurnool (3). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,89,203), Chittoor (2,42,086), West Godavari (1,76,661), Guntur (1,74,806), Anantapur (1,57,507), Visakhapatnam (1,56,157), Nellore (1,43,570), Prakasam (1,35,975), Kurnool (1,23,971), Srikakulam (1,22,556), Krishna (1,16,352), Kadapa (1,14,273) and Vizianagaram (82,678). Meanwhile, out of 90 samples taken from counting agents of ZPTC and MPTC elections, 21 tested positive in the Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. All the samples have reached the lab from the Payakaraopeta Primary Health Centre (PHC). The officials have made alternative arrangements to ensure completion of the counting procedure without any disruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1337-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-state/article36559779.ece
20 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP dares CM for fresh local body elections||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) State president K. Atchannaidu has termed the results of the local body elections as ‘bogus’. The ruling party had resorted to violations, attacks and forced unanimous elections in many places, he alleged. In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Atchannaidu dared Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to cancel the parishad elections and issue a fresh notification to hold the polls in a free and fair manner. “Can the YSRCP leaders face the rising anti-incumbency factor? The party has made a mockery of all constitutional institutions and processes and the elections are no exception,” said Mr. Atchannaidu. The TDP leader alleged that the Chief Minister had threatened his Ministers and MLAs with dire consequences including political exile if they failed to win the parishad elections. “As a result, the ruling party leaders had resorted to harassment, misuse of the government machinery and the violations of norms pertaining to the elections. The most shameful part of all was that the police and the officials of the government departments concerned became a party to the ruling party’s excesses,” he alleged. The former Minister said that the YSRCP had been throwing the democratic norms to the winds on all possible counts since it came to power. “The parishad election results do not reflect the mandate given by the people, who are upset with this atrocious governance. These results only highlight the extreme levels to which the ruling YSRCP leaders can go in their bid to win the elections,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-dares-cm-for-fresh-local-body-elections/article36560247.ece
20 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||APERC advisory panel meet today||The Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) is organising its State Advisory Committee (SAC) meeting in the virtual mode on September 20 to discuss ways to reduce the cost of service, streamline power purchases, improve performance of the DISCOMs and plan better implementation of demand-side management and energy conservation and energy efficiency projects. APERC Chairman Justice (retd.) C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy and members P. Rajagopal Reddy and Thakur Ram Singh and members of the SAC will take part in the deliberations. According to an official release, the APERC is striving to maintain a balance between the interest of consumers and DISCOMs and focusing on evolving a consumer-centric approach to the power sector. ‘True-up’ charges The APERC Chairman has laid emphasis on the availability of reliable and affordable power that would facilitate rapid agricultural and industrial growth which would help spur economic development of the State. He also stressed the need for APERC and power utilities to work in tandem to achieve the goals. It was stated that the APERC permitted the DISCOMs to recover the ‘true-up’ charges amounting to Rs. 3,669 crore for the period between 2015 and 2019, keeping their financial distress in view. As part of the efforts to improve consumer services, the APERC amended the Standards of Performance regulations to ensure that the DISCOMs paid automatic compensation to aggrieved consumers for certain services failures. The APERC has also cleared various investment proposals submitted by the DISCOMs and AP-Transco for strengthening the T&D network in order to ensure uninterrupted power supply to the consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aperc-advisory-panel-meeting-today/article36559770.ece
20 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP wins 39 of 41 ZPTCs in Krishna||The YSRCP won a majority of the ZPTC and MPTC seats in Krishna district. It wrested 39 of the 41 ZPTCs, and 572 of the 648 MPTCs across the district. The TDP won 60 MPTCs and two ZPTCs, while the Jana Sena Party (JSP) won nine MPTCs. The JSP won one seat each in Pamarru, Mopidevi, Ghantasala and Pamidimukkala and two each in Kalidindi, Ibrahimpatnam and Avanigadda. The BJP and the CPI registered victory in one MPTC each in Bapulapadu and Veerullapadu respectively. The TDP won more than one seat in Nuzvid, Agiripalli, Musunuru, Bapulapadu, Pamarru, Nagayalanka, Mopidevi, Challapalli, Vuyyuru, Kankipadu, G. Konduru, Chandarlapadu, Kanchikacherla and Vatsavai mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-wins-39-of-41-zptcs-in-krishna/article36560325.ece
20 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hard work, will power key to cracking Civils’||Minister for Transport and I & PR Perni Venkataramaiah on Sunday said success cannot elude for long if one was determined to achieve it. Speaking after releasing a current affairs magazine published by the Sarat Chandra IAS Academy in the city, the Minister said the Civil Services examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) are thought to be very difficult. “There is nothing one cannot achieve provided there is determination and hard work involved,” he said, appreciating the efforts of the coaching academy of putting together the important current affairs in one place to help the budding civil servants prepare well for the exam. The academy’s Managing Director Sarat Chandra said in keeping with the growing aspirations of the present generation, the academy had introduced combination courses of Intermediate with IAS coaching and Degree with IAS coaching and had roped in senior civil servants, both retired and in service, to impart classes and guide the students through their careers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hard-work-will-power-key-to-crack-upsc-exams-minister/article36560244.ece
20 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fibernet ‘scam’: Sambasiva Rao files quash, bail petitions in High Court||South Central Railway (SCR) official and former Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of Infrastructure Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (INCAP) Limited K. Sambasiva Rao, who was arrested in connection with an alleged scam in AP State Fibernet Limited (APSFL), has moved quash and bail petitions in the High Court. Officials of the Crime Investigation Department (CID), Mangalagiri, who recently registered a case on the alleged irregularities in APSFL, arrested Sambasiva Rao on Saturday. He was sent in judicial remand. An Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) official, he served as INCAP MD on deputation to the State government during 2015-2018 period. In 2015, the government took up the Rs. 329 crore Fiber Grid Project Phase-1 for laying fiber cables through towers and electric poles to provide digital services to the public. Following a complaint over irregularities in the finalisation of tenders and collusion of some officials with the managements of private firms causing a loss of about Rs. 121 crore, the CID police registered a case and took up investigation. Sambasiva Rao, who was the chairman of the technical and tender evaluation committees and convener of the high-level tender approval committee then, claimed that the CID officials had arrested him without obtaining the mandatory permission from the Government of India. In the petitions, he pleaded that many sections, including the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, were not applicable to him in the case, and urged the High Court to quash the FIR and release him on bail. Sambasiva Rao said that he was ready to cooperate with the investigation officers and share the information available with him with regard to the alleged APSFL scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsfl-scam-sambasiva-rao-files-quash-bail-petitions-in-hc/article36559778.ece
20 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||41 TDP leaders booked under SC, ST Act||The Tadepalli police registered a case against 41 Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and other sections in connection with the clash that took place near former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’s residence at Undavalli on September 17. Based on a complaint lodged by T. Ramu, car driver of Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh, the police registered a case against Vijayawada East MLA Gadde Rammohan Rao, former AP Police Housing Corporation chairman Nagul Meera, leaders Budda Venkanna, Bode Prasad and 37 others for allegedly attacking the complainant. He alleged that the TDP leaders and workers had damaged the vehicle, attacked him with sticks and stones and used filthy language against him. The accused were also charged for entering a prohibited area with deadly weapons, rioting, wrongful restraint, use of criminal force, criminal intimidation and other offences. The case is under investigation, the Tadepalli police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/41-tdp-leaders-booked-under-sc-st-act/article36559769.ece
20 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s celebration time for YSRCP||It was celebration time at the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) office, here on Sunday evening as the party emerged victorious in the ZPTC and the MPTC elections in Visakhapatnam district. Jubilant party leaders and workers offered sweets to district Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and senior leader and former Minister Dadi Veerabhadra Rao. Out of 37 ZPTC constituencies, which went to polls, the YSRCP bagged 35 seats, while the TDP and the CPI(M) won one seat each. In all, 176 candidates had contested the ZPTC elections in the district. Of the 612 MPTC seats, for which election was held in the past, the result of one seat (Pakalapadu) was not declared as the ballot paper was damaged. Of the remaining 611 seats, the YSRCP secured 450 seats. The TDP could win only 118 seats, while the BJP got six, Congress (INC) two, CPI(M) three, the CPI and the Jana Sena Party (JSP) bagged two each and Independents secured 28 seats. Of the 39 ZPTC seats in the district, elections were held to 37 constituencies. While it was unanimous in one constituency, the election was postponed in another due to the death of a candidate. Of the total 651 MPTCs in the district, elections were unanimous in 37 constituencies and polls could not be held at two places due to the death of candidates. Earlier, during the day, District Collector A. Mallikarjuna and Election Observer K. Imtiaz visited some of the counting centres at Pendurthy. The Collector said the counting was peaceful and the guidelines of the State Election Commission (SEC) and COVID-19 protocols were being followed at the centres. When his attention was drawn to the reports on delays in the counting process in the Agency areas, the Collector admitted there was a 15 to 20 minute delay and there was no cause for worry. He said there were no major issues anywhere in the district as prohibitory orders were imposed under Section 144 around the counting centres and no processions, including victory rallies, were allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-celebration-time-for-ysrcp/article36560330.ece
20 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP activists stage protest near GVMC||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders and workers gathered in large numbers and staged a dharna, in protest against the attack on the house of senior party leader and former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu, at the Gandhi statue, near the GVMC here on Sunday. Party Parliamentary constituency president Palla Srinivasa Rao, Visakhaptnam East MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu, party leaders Pasarla Prasad, Peela Srinivas Rao and Telugu Nadu Student Federation State president Gopal were among those who participated. They holding flags and banners raised slogans denouncing the attack on the house of Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu and demanding the arrest of the YSRCP MLA, who was responsible for the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-activists-stage-protest-near-gvmc/article36560331.ece
20 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan Kalyan will participate in VSP agitation soon: Nadendla||Jana Sena Party (JSP) State leader and PAC chairman Nadendla Manohar has said that the party will directly participate in the agitation, being organised by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee, seeking continuation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) in the public sector. The committee leaders met Mr. Manohar and submitted a memorandum to him, on the invitation of JSP leader Kona Tata Rao. Mr. Manohar told them that JSP chief Pawan Kalyan would visit the relay hunger camp soon and extend his support to the committee apart from directly participating in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-kalyan-will-participate-in-vsp-agitation-soon-nadendla/article36560332.ece
20 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crew of private bus arrested, 464 liquor bottles seized||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) conducted raids on a private travel bus here on Sunday and recovered 464 liquor bottles, which were being transported illegally from Telangana to Andhra Pradesh. According to Assistant Enforcement Superintendent (AES), SEB, Srinadhudu, based on credible information, they have intercepted the bus and recovered the liquor. “We have arrested two drivers of the bus and its cleaner, who were allegedly transporting the liquor,” he said. The seized liquor bottles cost about Rs. 45,000 in Telangana, while the same might be worth over Rs. 80,000 in the Visakhapatnam region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crew-of-private-bus-arrested-464-liquor-bottles-seized/article36560334.ece
20 September 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kolkata police arrest Narsipatnam youth in cyber crime case||A youth from Narsipatnam mandal in the Visakhapatnam district was arrested by the cyber crime police team of Kolkata on Saturday night. The arrested was identified as K. Nookaraju of Balighattam. According to the police, the youth had allegedly fraudulently collected Aadhaar numbers of several people through which he had applied for bank loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kolkata-police-arrest-narsipatnam-youth-in-cyber-crime-case/article36560328.ece
20 September 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘killed’ by former colleague||A 28-year-old man was allegedly murdered by his former colleague at the Panda Street under the One Town police station limits here on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as M. Santosh, a resident of Madhurawada. According to the police, Santosh was allegedly killed by Bhavani after a heated argument. It was learnt that Bhavani was taken into police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-killed-by-former-colleague/article36560333.ece
20 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP wins 389 of 487 MPTC seats in fort town||The ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) won all 34 ZPTC seats in Vizianagaram district. The party had already won three seats unanimously and remaining 31 also went into its kitty, with the little opposition from other parties. The same trend continued in MPTC elections too. YSRCP candidates won 389 seats out of total 487 seats for which elections were held a few months ago. The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) could win 86 seats while BJP could bag only one seat. As many as 11 independent candidates emerged victorious, despite a tough competition from their YSRCP and TDP counterparts. The TDP gave a tough fight to the YSRCP candidates in Ramabhadrapuram, Bobbili, Terlam and a few other places. Former MLA of Vizianagaram Meesala Geeta said that it was a moral victory for the TDP as the party could win respectable number of MPTC seats, despite of pressures and local dominance by the YSRCP leaders. She asked the party leaders to strengthen the party at grassroots level. Vizianagaram Collector A. Suryakumari thanked all political parties and officials for completing the counting process in a hassle-free manner. Recounting ordered Speaking to media, she said 25 votes were damaged in Badangi, but the TDP candidate was declared winner after getting a majority by 300 votes. “We have ordered recounting in five places where objections were raised by agents,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-wins-389-of-487-mptc-seats-in-fort-town/article36560260.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jana Sena, BJP register victory in 183 MPTCs||According to the official information, YSRCP trounced the TDP on the home turf of the party chief N. Chandrababu Naidu i.e. Chittoor district, where it won all 33 ZPTC seats for which elections were held, and 389 out of 419 MPTCs, including Naravaripalle. The TDP won 25 MPTC seats in the district. The YSRCP’s resounding victory in Chittoor district is being considered by it as a strong blow to the TDP, which it will find hard to recover from in a long time. The ruling party fared well in the MPTC elections in all the coastal districts by winning not less than 312 seats in each one of them. The Jana Sena Party (JSP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have put up a semblance of a fight by posting a combined tally of 148 MPTCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jana-sena-bjp-put-up-semblance-of-a-fight/article36560245.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adding colour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adding-colour/article36560336.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sending off||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sending-off/article36560327.ece
20 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Opposition parties unite to fight against Central, State govts.||In a rare political unity in recent times, the Opposition parties in Telangana led by the Congress have come together to hold a ‘Maha Dharna’ on September 22 at Indira Park and also work together to make the Bharat Bandh on September 27 a success, to expose the ‘anti-people policies’ of the TRS government and the BJP government at the Centre. At a meeting conducted at Gandhi Bhavan on Sunday, the Opposition parties decided to put up a collective fight against the Central and State governments. The meeting was presided by TPCC president Revanth Reddy and was attended by State CPI secretary Chada Venkata Reddy, CPI (M) secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram, Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) president Prof. M. Kodandaram, CPI-ML secretary S. Ranga Rao, Cheruku Sudhakar (Inti Party) and Govardhan (New Democracy). However, YSR Telangana Party, Jana Sena and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) representatives were not present. Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Revanth Reddy said that Opposition parties have decided to launch a series of agitation programmes on issues pertaining to tribal land, land acquisition and Dharani portal. He said that the all-party Maha Dharna on farmers’ issues would be organised at Indira Park on September 22. He said that committees would be formed at Parliamentary-constituency level to ensure the grand success of the proposed Bharat Bandh on September 27 and prominent leaders would lead the protests at NHs connecting Hyderabad. He added that activists and leaders of all Opposition parties in every constituency would be on the road to register their protest, involving people. Mr. Revanth Reddy also said that all-party delegations would submit joint representations to District Collectors on September 30 seeking redressal of problems being faced by farmers. On October 5, agitation programmes would be held with regard to Podu land in the 400-km road connecting the corridor. A ‘Podu Rasta Roko’ from Adilabad to Aswaraopet will also be organised. He said that tribal communities were not issued any pattas though they were cultivating forest land stretched across 20 Assembly constituencies for decades. Mr. Veerabhadram said that the Opposition would continue their struggle till all demands were resolved while Mr. Chada Venkat Reddy said that as many as 19 political parties at the national level have joined hands under the leadership of Congress president Sonia Gandhi to launch a joint agitation on farmers’ issues. Prof. Kodandaram appealed to people to support the Opposition. The meeting was also attended by TPCC Campaign Committee chairman Madhu Yaskhi Goud, senior vice-president Mallu Ravi, and Kisan Congress national vice-president Kodanda Reddy, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/opposition-parties-unite-to-fight-against-central-state-govts/article36560092.ece
20 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘What’s communal in seeking to celebrate Liberation Day?’||Telangana BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar, on Sunday, questioned if demanding to celebrate ‘Telangana Liberation Day’, paying homage to the martyrs or hailing the contribution of Sardar Patel for his role in ensuring Hyderabad State joined the Indian Union or even seeking pensions for freedom fighters was ‘communal’. Addressing public meetings at various places in Kamareddy on the 23rd day of his ongoing ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’, the BJP leader took on the critics of Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s public meeting held on September 17 at Nirmal for charging that it was ‘communal polarising’ and wanted to know if seeking due recognition for the sacrifices made by scores of people during the violent armed struggle would disturb the ‘social harmony’. “We have not insulted anybody or opposed any religion. We have respect for all religions. We have raised our voice only when there has been a vilification campaign against the majority community’s religious practices. Our government at the Centre brought forth the Triple Talaq for the benefit of Muslim women. Is CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao for it or not?” he sought to know. “Telangana State has been formed due to the martyrdom of hundreds of youth but KCR and his immediate family are the ones who reaped a rich dividend. Traitors are enjoying power whereas those who had participated in the agitation for the separate State have been left in the lurch, be it youth, scholars, poets, artistes, employees, or farmers,” he claimed. “The TRS has no right to be in power, having ‘cheated’ Dalits, unemployed youth, farmers, tribals and many others, since none of the election eve promises of free land, double bedroom housing, loan waiver, recruitment, stipends, and regularisation of cultivable land, has been fulfilled,” he alleged. “It is the BJP that has stood by the people during the first and second waves of COVID, with tribals being denied rights to cultivate land,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/whats-communal-in-seeking-to-celebrate-liberation-day/article36560085.ece
20 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Festivities back after a year in Hyderabad||The usual festivities connected with Ganesh immersion was back in Hyderabad on Sunday after a low-key celebration last year due to the prevailing first wave of COVID-19. The 10-day-long festival ended on Sunday (September 19). Laddus at prominent Ganesh pandals were auctioned, thousands of people visited the immersion sites in and around the Telangana’s capital city. The arterial roads leading to Hussainsagar were intermittently filled with flower petals and colour papers, indicating that the idols have passed by the route to the immersion site. Barricades were placed on the roads leading to the site to stop vehicles. People either parked their vehicles a little away, or made use of Metro Rail to reach the closest point and walked. Families and bunch of youngsters headed to the site. As one reached the roads around the lake on Sunday afternoon, they had to compete for every inch of space as everyone wanted to reach a vantage point to get a good view of the giant Khairatabad Ganesh idol being readied for the immersion. Families huddled to discuss how to reach the vantage points and concluded that there was no other way but to shove through the crowd. The pedestrian bridge near NTR Gardens was crowded. Some sat perilously on the frame of the bridge to get the view. Not able to withstand the long walk and wait, some started to move on. Though many did not have a clear view, everyone understood that the 40-foot idol was being immersed as people broke into a loud synchronous cheer when the giant Ganesh idol was being immersed in the lake in the noon. Thereafter, immersion of the smaller idols continued and more people walked towards the site. The drizzle which was followed by heavy rain from afternoon to evening did not stop the crowd. Children and adults blew pipe horns, and the occasional vehicles — two-wheelers or four-wheelers — tried to break through the crowd by constantly honking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/festivities-back-after-a-year-in-hyderabad/article36560070.ece
20 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS releases collection of poems penned by his AP counterpart||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar released “Dancing with Dreams”, a collection of poems penned by his Andhra Pradesh counterpart Adityanath Das, on Sunday. The book contains 40 poems revealing the creative side as well as philosophical, spiritual and humane sides of the AP Chief Secretary. The Chief Secretary said that the collection not only captivates the readers’ minds but give subtle hints about the mind of the poet who was in a journey to explore himself from within. He said that Mr. Das hailed from the land of Mithila, which gave birth to famous poets like Vidyapathy, and the seeds should have certainly been inculcated into his genes. Mr. Das said that many of the poems were written during his college days, when communication was in human form rather than through technology like the present day. Revealing his spiritual side, he said that God was like a passcode that would solve all the puzzles of life and he tried to look into the eyes of God through poetry. He said the most difficult journey was to connect with oneself than connecting with others or the world. Former Telugu University vice-chancellor N. Gopi said that poetry would enlighten life and this was the reason that a poet is more human in his day-to-day affairs. Publisher and editor Ram Prasad welcomed the guests on Sunday while former Sahitya Academy secretary K. Satchidanandan addressed the gathering through video message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-releases-collection-of-poems-penned-by-ap-counterpart/article36560087.ece
20 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IRISET finishes 1L trainee days in record time||Indian Railways Institute of Signal Engineering & Telecommunications (IRISET) has reached the milestone of one lakh trainee days this month itself with over three months left for completion of the training period. With this, it has become the first centralised training institute to achieve the feat. Director General S.K. Goel said that the ground work for the record-breaking feat was laid last year when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out and it became difficult to organise physical classes. “We reinvented ourselves by starting online classes, bringing synergy between the zonal railways, training schools and policy makers. A hybrid learning methodology was evolved consisting of online component for basic topics training and on-campus component for design aspects, practical demonstration skills and deeper analysis of the technical subjects for both technicians and senior officers,” he said. Apart from issuing provisional refresher certificates to supervisors in service after the completion of online courses, lab demonstration videos were developed and special doubt clearance sessions were organized for 2,354 supervisors. About 1,403 apprentice junior engineers/senior section engineers who were newly recruited were trained, equipping zonal railways with audio-video lessons, he said. Mr. Goel said physical sessions were started in December last year with COVID safety protocols being strictly observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iriset-completes-1-lakh-trainee-days-in-record-time/article36560077.ece
20 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Social security pensions for 40L delayed||As never before, social security pensions for nearly 40 lakh beneficiaries in the State are delayed by more than two weeks this month, making them go round post offices, banks and gram panchayat offices everyday, only to be told that the money will be credited to their accounts this day or that. Usually, pensions are distributed in person in gram panchayat offices in villages and credited to bank and post office accounts in urban areas by the sixth of every month. But, money payable for August did not happen so far this month. Funds not released Inquiries with government officials revealed that the funds were not released by the Finance Department. There are nearly 40 lakh aged, widows, single women, physically handicapped, poor weavers, HIV and filaria patients who received pensions of Rs. 2,016 a month. As they did not have money in their hands, they found it difficult to pay for their daily needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/social-security-pensions-for-40l-delayed/article36560088.ece
20 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR invited to WEF’s annual meet at Davos next year||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has been extended an invitation to attend the Annual Meeting 2022 of the World Economic Forum (WEF) to be held at Davos from January 17 to 21, 2022. WEF president Borge Brende, in the invitation, said that as India emerges from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, its ability to quickly adapt to innovation and emerging technologies will be vital for a sustainable economic recovery. “Your insights on harnessing emerging technologies for common good will be key to the discussions at the annual meeting,” he said. KTR said that the invitation was a recognition of Telangana government’s initiatives in the fields of Information Technology, industry and innovation. He would use the platform to showcase Telangana’s friendly industrial policies and opportunities for global companies to invest in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-invited-to-wefs-annual-meet-in-davos/article36560093.ece
20 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Aamir Khan takes up Green India Challenge||Actor Aamir Khan planted a sapling at Begumpet Airport on Sunday as part of the ‘Green Indian Challenge’ initiated by Rajya Sabha member Joginapally Santosh Kumar. Mr. Khan, who is on a visit to Hyderabad, planted the sapling at the airport along with his Lal Singh Chadda co-star and Telugu actor, Naga Chaitanya. Mr. Kumar was also present on the occasion. Meanwhile, Mr. Khan appreciated the novel initiative of the TRS Parliament member. The Dangal actor said that the initiative should be taken up across the country and appealed people to participate in large numbers and plant saplings wherever they can. Green India Challenge representatives Ram Mohan and Raghava were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aamir-khan-takes-up-green-india-challenge/article36560074.ece
20 September 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Spiritual ecstasy marks nimajjanam||Religious fervour permeated the Kalvavoddu area here on Sunday as hundreds of idols of the elephant-headed God Ganesha were immersed in the Munneru river marking the grand finale of the 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi festivities. The main streets leading to the Ganesh immersion site were abuzz with hectic activity as a steady stream of vehicles carrying the idols of Lord Ganesha in different hues and sizes reached the site earmarked for Ganesh idols nimajjanam amid elaborate bandobust arrangements made by the police. Spiritual ecstasy reached its crescendo as staunch devotees of Lord Ganesha chanted slogans in praise of Gajanana, the elephant-headed God, worshipped as the remover of obstacles, en route the religious procession. Earlier in the day, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar flagged off the Ganesha Shoba Yatra at Gandhi Chowk in the town. Collector V P Gautham, Khammam Police Commissioner Vishnu S Warrier, Additional Collector N Madhusudhan, members of the Sthambadri Utsav Samithi and prominent persons from various walks of life were present. The shoba yatra passed through the main streets of the town before culminating at Kalvavoddu peacefully amid tight security arrangements and constant surveillance through a wide network of around 180 CCTV cameras by the police from the command-and-control centre. In Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, the banks of the Godavari at the temple town of Bhadrachalam teemed with hordes of devotees carrying the idols of Lord Ganesha for nimajjanam . According to sources, Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt participated in the Ganesh idols immersion ritual and oversaw the smooth conduct of the event in the famous temple town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spiritual-ecstasy-marks-nimajjanam/article36560285.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Naga Chaitanya opens up on director Sekhar Kammula’s ‘Love Story’ and lavishes praise on Sai Pallavi||Actor Naga Chaitanya is no stranger to love stories, be it Ye Maya Chesave (2010), or his portions in Manam (2013) and Majili (2019). But his new Telugu film Love Story , directed by Sekhar Kammula and co-starring Sai Pallavi, will see him go through the beats of an intense story of romance and small town aspirations, if the trailer is an indication. Counting down to the theatrical release on September 24, the actor was game to field questions, but maintains a dignified silence on rumours about his marital life, choosing to talk instead of his work.  Love Story has him enacting the role of Revanth, who hails from a village in Telangana and opens a Zumba centre. Having grown up in Hyderabad and Chennai, Chaitanya admits that Kammula’s story ushered him into a new territory: “We don’t talk enough about small town issues. Telugu cinema has been mostly glamorous and larger than life. I was eager to be a part of Sekhar’s story and he took me through an incredible journey,” explains Chaitanya. Kammula and two other writers from the team coached Chaitanya on the Telangana dialect. Filming in Armoor in Nizamabad district, he says, helped him further understand Revanth’s world. The film’s pre-production involved discussions on the back stories of the characters. Chaitanya says Love Story is more than just a boy-meets-girl story: “The story looks at complex issues of how incidents that happen during childhood and the society influence upbringing.” Chaitanya likens the experience of working with Kammula to going to an acting school: “Most often, we take cinematic liberties and become heroes rather than actors. Sekhar keeps things as real and understated as possible. There’s a notion that Sekhar does things his way and takes a lot of time to make a film. But I would recommend every actor to go through this process. The experience has enriched me and made me a better actor.”  Love Story places Chaitanya amid a talented cast that includes Sai Pallavi and Easwari Rao. He quips about having to match dance steps with Sai Pallavi: “I am not a great dancer and everyone knows how good she is,” he laughs, and goes on to add that Sai Pallavi taught him complex dance steps by breaking them down into simpler ones. There were rehearsals not only for dance sequences but also for every scene. “An actor can shine only when co-actors lend support. If my performance is appreciated, half of that credit should go to Sai Pallavi and Easwari garu along with Sekhar.” Next, Chaitanya is working on the Telugu films Thank You directed by Vikram Kumar and Bangarraju with Nagarjuna, directed by Kalyan Krishna. He will also be making his Hindi debut with the Aamir Khan starrer Laal Singh Chaddha directed by Advait Chandan. Chaitanya will also begin filming for a horror series directed by Vikram Kumar, for Amazon Prime Video, in December. The pandemic has made audiences appreciate both theatrical films and digital series and the actor says it gives him the scope to do more.  (For the complete interview, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/naga-chaitanya-opens-up-on-director-sekhar-kammulas-love-story-and-lavishes-praise-on-sai-pallavi/article36560095.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Charges & counter-charges||The Road Transport Corporation has got a new chairman Bajireddy Goverdhan and a vice-chairman V.C. Sajjanar. The latter, an IPS officer, has already meant business travelling by an RTC bus from Lakdi-ka-pul to Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station for a first hand experience on commuting. He also inspected the MGBS platforms on another day. On Sunday, Mr. Sajjanar travelled with his family by an RTC bus to immerse a Ganesh idol. Clad in all white and sporting a Gandhian cap, the senior official was seen in a video occupying a seat with the idol in his hand and chanting of ‘Ganpati bappa’ in the background. Mr. Goverdhan, who will assume office on Monday, and Mr. Sajjanar will hopefully make a strong combination that will put the corporation back on the rails after a bad year due to pandemic.   The threat of COVID continues to haunt people even after the vaccination is reaching its peak. As the festive season started, the Centre asked States to be on alert and avoid huge congregations. States are asked to get reports on the pandemic on a daily basis and be prepared for imposing restrictions if need be yet again. The Centre’s advice is based on data that the severity of the pandemic still continues in close to 70 districts across States.   Charges and counter charges on drug culture in State are taking interesting turns every passing day. What started as an inquiry into the charges of involvement of certain film personalities in the drugs issue took a political turn recently. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president Revanth Reddy was the first to raise a hue over the TRS government’s failure to check the drug menace and alleged that few big names were involved. He threw a ‘white challenge’ asking politicians and celebrities to undergo tests, so as to send a positive message to the people of the State. TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao was quick to respond claiming that he was ready to undergo drug analysis tests provided Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accepts the same. KTR went ahead to assert that the government would not hesitate to file sedition cases against those intentionally trying to defame Telangana or belittle its achievements.  (N. Rahul and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/charges-and-counter-charges/article36560090.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Garage Sale||Miscellaneous items  Two-seater sofa with cushions Rs. 8,000, three cushion chairs Rs. 4,500, two cushion chairs Rs. 3,000, Symphony diet air-cooler Rs. 4,000, 6x4 mattress Rs. 3,000. Contact: Prakash on 8074646384  Refrigerator  Bosch Art Easy trim grass cutter Rs. 3,000, Panasonic Star Inverter refrigerator, 600 litres Rs. 25,000, cocktail mixer Rs. 3,000. Contact Vinodini on 9949739306.  Air-cooler  Air-cooler Rs. 1,200, revolving Gilma chair with SS base Rs. 500. Contact A.V.S. Kumar on 9676485757.  Treadmill  Gilma four-burner gas stove Rs. 4,000, Aerofit treadmill Rs. 15,000, executive chair Rs. 1,500, Persian carpet Rs. 15,000. Contact Parijatha on 8790066306.  Colour TV  53" Sony colour TV in excellent condition Rs. 11,000, 6'3"x3' single wooden cot with bed Rs. 7,000 & decolam centre table Rs. 1,500, Contact: 80960 74666/04048515065.  Digital Cameras  Kodak 3.2 Mega pixels Rs. 400, Canon (power shot-ELPH310HS), 12.1 Mega pixels , 8X optical zoom, Not working Rs. 1,200, Canon 16 mega pixels (power shot-A2500, 28mm wide, 5X) Rs. 2,000. Contact AVS Kumar on 9676485757||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garage-sale/article36560069.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Write to us||Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk@t hehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/write-to-us/article36560076.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Hard-earned||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hard-earned/article36560287.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Readers Mail||The government and organisers might have heaved a sigh of relief when the court allowed immersion of plaster of Paris (POP) Ganesh idols only for this year. Sadly, the govt., organisers, political parties and individuals who insist on immersion of PoP idols have scant respect for court rulings. Even in the past, the court ruled against the use of PoP idols but no one respected the order. Moreover, pandals continue to be erected on the main roads. More than devotion and sanctity, politicians are exploiting our religion for political power. N. Nagarajan    Hyderabadis were happy that after a long time the Tank Bund road, which connects the twin cities, got a facelift with new lamps, tiles and grills and people started spending Sunday evenings with children as it has become a beautiful walkers’ street once again. But it seems the happiness is short lived as again we are seeing the beautiful lamps removed, tiles and grills getting damaged with installation of cranes for Ganesh idols immersion. As Tank Bund road is a heritage road, the government should have spared it and used other three corners of lake like NTR Gardens road, Necklace Road and Sanjeeviah Park road for immersion. T. Kailash Ditya, Barkatpura   Hitherto the Red Hills area was free from mosquitoes, that was years back. Now here too the residents are not spared, as mosquitoes are proving to be a menace. With dengue and malaria cases rising in Hyderabad, the residents are scared. Those staying near cancer hospital and the water tank areas are the worst hit. What is needed is cleanliness of both homes and surroundings and not to allow the dreaded mosquitoes to breed for which both the residents and government agencies have to be watchful and take preventive measures. Thomas K.E Red Hills      We, the residents, are facing the nuisance from multiple construction projects in Secunderabad Cantonment. Not only is the construction activity a nuisance during the day, but bands of migrant labourers and material lorries make life hell 24/7. A group of affected neighbours had approached to Secunderabad Cantonment authorities for help with letters, emails, complaints on app, and personal visits, but they have not even responded once. Sandeep, West Marredpally||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail/article36560071.ece
20 September 2021||BODEN (ODISHA),||First-generation learners stare at a bleak future in Odisha||Being brought up amidst parents without any formal education generally leaves children at a disadvantage. But, when access to classroom-teaching, the only line of guidance for the first-generation learners, got cut-off during the COVID-19 pandemic, it proved to be a double-whammy for hundreds of children in rural Odisha. At Darlipada, in Boden block of Nuapada district, Laxmi Jagat, 17, feels the pain of being kept away from classroom teaching better than others. She considers herself lucky as she managed to scrape through the matriculation examination with 198 marks (32%) this year. In her own words she had no idea about the subjects, which were supposed to be taught in Class X. As one goes through her copies, half of them are left blank indicating towards inadequate studies she had undertaken. Laxmi’s parents, daily wage earners, have never been to a school. In her family, Laxmi is the first to have completed matriculation. As Laxmi knows that two academic years have gone waste without any semblance of serious studies, she decided that her younger brother, Bedavyas Jagat, will study in Class IX again to gain any meaningful knowledge. “I did not have a smartphone. We used to share one smartphone for online classes. The internet used to be patchy so was our studies. As a first generation learner, I faced low parental encouragement. Teachers never contacted us and discussed about academic advancement during the two academic sessions,” narrates Laxmi. ‘No guidance’ Tankadhar Jagat, who will be appearing for matriculation examination this year, is not able to solve simple addition problems. “During past two years, I have hardly studied. Neither my parents ever insisted me to study nor was there any family member to guide me during this critical phase,” Tankadhar, who is a first-generation learner, admits. He spent all his time playing cricket and herding cattle. In Darlipada, many first-generation learners even don’t know the subjects being taught in their respective classes. They clearly appeared to have lagged behind in their academic careers. “If these children are kept away from formal education for long, first-generation learners won’t not take much time to join the labour force which their parents are part of. Hundreds of families from Nuapada and other western Odisha districts travel annually for work in brick kilns. It would not be a surprise if some first-generation learners land in any of the brick kilns in the near future,” said Jyoti Prakash Brahma, a researchers with Aide et Action, a voluntary organisation. “First-generation learners need special attention if we want to ensure their career progress. Teachers will have a critical role to play as these students do not have anyone to guide them at their homes,” said Anil Pradhan, convener of Odisha Right To Education Forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/first-generation-learners-stare-at-a-bleak-future-in-odisha/article36560170.ece
20 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Naidu hails Paralympians for record medal harvest||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday praised the grit and determination of Indian Paralympians and said they brought cheer and hope to the entire nation in these troubled times through their stellar performances. Addressing a gathering during the felicitation of Tokyo Paralympians in Gurugram, the Vice-President lauded the sportspersons for the highest ever medal haul even though the Tokyo Paralympics was held in rather extraordinary conditions due to the pandemic. Recognising that these achievements were not easy, he said the entire nation was proud of its Paralympic athletes. “You have overcome several obstacles, demolished stereotypes and have triumphed over social attitudes that looked down upon sports,” Mr. Naidu told them, adding that their accomplishments despite such adverse conditions were an inspiration to every Indian. Emphasising the need to create a sporting culture in the country, he called for making sports an attractive and viable career option for the youth. Mr. Naidu complimented the Haryana government for taking several policy initiatives in this regard. Talking about many benefits of sports, the Vice-President said that it keeps one physically fit, inculcates discipline and team-spirit, apart from kindling the desire to excel through healthy competition. Referring to the increasing number of lifestyle diseases such as diabetes and hypertension, Mr. Naidu said these conditions weaken an individual’s immune system, making him or her more susceptible to infection by COVID-19. Taking cognisance of the general lack of sporting facilities for specially abled sportspersons at the local level, Mr. Naidu called for creation of necessary facilities for them. He also emphasised the need to identify and encourage specially abled sportspersons at the local level. Haryana govt. praised Praising the government of Haryana for supporting and promoting sportspersons in a big way, he said it would inspire the other States. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal was also present. Earlier, Mr. Naidu released five volumes of ‘Sir Chhotu Ram: Writings and Speeches’ brought out by the Haryana Academy of History and Culture at a separate programme in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/naidu-lauds-paralympians-for-record-medal-harvest/article36559973.ece
20 September 2021||Guwahati,||‘Protect RTI activists from NSCN (I-M)’||The Manipur Human Rights Commission (MHRC) has directed the State government to protect the lives of four RTI activists who went into hiding a year ago to keep an extremist organisation off their backs. The direction to the DGP and the Special Secretary (Home) was given on September 14 on the basis of a complaint filed by Imphal-based rights activist Wahengbam Joykumar Singh. The case had been filed with the National Human Rights Commission, which transferred it to the MHRC. ‘Arrange safe place’ The two officials were asked to arrange a safe and a secure place for sheltering the four activists — K. Enoch, P. Johnson, S.P. Benjamin and P.R. Amose — and look into the alleged threat to their lives. The four are from Manipur’s Senapati district. They had reportedly angered the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (I-M) by filing RTI applications seeking details of Central funds purportedly spent by an autonomous tribal council on development projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/protect-rti-activists-from-nscn-i-m/article36560168.ece
20 September 2021||Korba,||Man killed by wild elephant||A 50-year-old man was trampled to death by a wild elephant in Chhattisgarh’s Surajpur district on Sunday, taking the count of such fatalities in the State to 11 so far this month, a forest official said. The incident took place at around 2 am at Badma village under Pratappur forest range, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-killed-by-wild-elephant/article36560167.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Loading search results||Sometime early last month, a ‘Bharat Jodo (Unite India)’ rally was organised at the Jantar Mantar protest site in Delhi with members of several right-wing organisations in attendance. The ostensibly minor event made to the headlines the next day after several videos in which people could be heard allegedly raising inflammatory anti-Muslim slogans went viral. Under intense pressure to arrest and identify the accused, the Delhi police lodged a case and turned to their Facial Recognition System (FRS) for assistance. A few videos of the event and a poster with faces of eight persons were fed into the FRS. “The software was able to identify two persons from the poster via the driving licence database we have access to, but they have not been arrested yet,” said an officer privy to the case. This is the third time in two years that the police have used FRS during a major investigation. The software was used to probe a 2020 north-east Delhi communal riots case, and the January 26, 2021, Red Fort incident, when farmers stormed the monument during a tractor rally against new agriculture laws. Both incidents were widely covered by TV news channels and countless videos were shared on social media. The police currently use a “basic” level of FRS, which does not function in real-time. The force has access to all CCTVs in the city but is hamstrung by a lack of access to metadata: it can seemingly only tap into the driving licence and criminal databases of some adjoining States. Photos of missing and found children, and missing persons, have also been fed into the system. Sources said the Election Commission, UIDAI and other Ministries do not share data with the force. Several limitations  While probing the death of a Hindu man during the riots, the Investigating Officer (IO) sent notices to TV news channels to share videos of the incident. The IO also wrote to the Delhi government requesting it to share relevant CCTV footage. The request had to be hand-delivered. “At the time, getting CCTV footage was a task. But now the situation has changed, they [the authorities] have given us a password and username for the CCTVs and we can monitor footage in our areas,” the officer said. The police zeroed in on a suspect after examining all the footage. “The video and a mugshot of the suspect was uploaded to the FRS, which returned four matches. One of them was a Muslim; he turned out to be innocent. We did not make any arrest using FRS in that case,” the officer said. The software examines photos using parameters such as facial features, age, skin colour, etc. “It gives a 70-80% match against the photo put in the system. It only works as an aid. If it filters one lakh photos down to 50, then it helps in policing,” said a senior police officer. The software has had its successes. The officer said that the FRS is frequently used to trace missing children and identify bodies. When a child is reported missing, the IO is expected to upload details along with a photo on ZIPNET (Zonal Integrated Police Network). When a child is found, a photo is uploaded and the software sifts through the database for any matches. All Delhi police stations have access to the FRS and a few officers in every police station have been given the username and password for it, the officer said. Restricted access  While the force is still coming to terms with how the new software can be utilised, debates rage over its misuse and privacy concerns. However, the technology available to the police is a far cry from what sceptics fear — total or real-time surveillance. A sub-inspector said the police station he is posted in has no access to FRS as far as he is aware. “On the ground, most officers do not even upload the details of missing or found children. When they are not using ZIPNET properly, how will they get around to using FRS?” he said. Another officer said they do not have ready access to the software. In the rare case when FRS is required, permission is needed from senior officers. “We have to file an application along with FIR number and then send it to the Crime Review Office in Kamla Market police station. It is such a lengthy process that I am not sure if it is ever used in daily investigations,” the officer said. An officer who investigated the 2020 riots said the software is not very efficient as it does not consider the age parameter. “If the person’s driving licence is 20 years old, then it is impossible that the FRS will be able to find that person,” the officer said. The software was bought by the Delhi police in 2018 from Innefu, co-founded by Tarun Wig. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Wig said Delhi Police procured the software to find missing children and that he was not aware of the agency using it to find suspects. Mr. Wig said, “Delhi Police has around one lakh personnel and the city’s population is around 1.52 crore. They cannot really monitor so many people. That is where predictive policing comes into play. Its uses and misuses exist but that can be saidabout any technology,” he said, adding that they are regularly upgrading the software to increase its efficiency. The prospects of this getting used widely, more efficiently and hence more intrusively thus remain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/loading-search-results/article36559968.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Rising dengue, malaria cases will take a toll on healthcare system’||Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, doctors in the city have warned that a rising number of dengue and malaria cases will turn out to be the most difficult diseases to treat. As a result, they say, there will be increased pressure on the healthcare ecosystem. Hospitals in the city have been reporting a steady rise in dengue and malaria cases. “Apart from that, we are getting cases of chikungunya and leptospirosis. These diseases are caused by mosquito bites and contaminated water. Even cases of jaundice and hepatitis rise during monsoon. Both of them can be as dangerous as malaria, dengue or chikungunya,” said Shuchin Bajaj, director, Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals. He added, “The management of such diseases needs holistic views, especially if the patient is COVID-19 positive.” He said dengue, also known as breakbone fever, is a severe flu-like illness that affects all age groups. In most people, the fever takes its own course to subside. “However, in some patients, it can cause serious complications like hemorrhagic fever, which can damage the lymph and blood vessels and can cause high fever, bleeding from nose and gums, liver enlargement and circulatory system failure. It is important to stay under medical supervision during the course of the disease. If the platelet count dips too much, it may also increase the chances of internal bleeding, and platelet transmission becomes important,” he explained. According to an estimate by the World Health Organisation, nearly a third of the world’s population lives in areas where dengue is endemic. This means around 2.5 billion people are constantly in danger of acquiring the infection. Around 50 million of them contract the infection and about 25,000 people die from the infection every year. India has seen a steady rise in dengue infections from 2001, with Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Chandigarh accounting for the majority of cases. With more urbanisation, Mizoram, Odisha and Arunachal Pradesh have also reported dengue infections, where the disease was previously non-existent. Varying symptoms “Clinically, symptoms of dengue vary from mild flu-like illness with headache, fever with rash, respiratory symptoms, to bleeding, and multi-organ failure,” said Ruta Patwardhan, consultant microbiologist, Metropolis Healthcare. Dr. Patwardhan added that there is no specific drug or vaccine available against dengue in India at present and it is highly advisable for people to start taking preventive measures. Doctors have advised that people should not allow water to stagnate and wear full sleeve clothes while stepping out of the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rising-dengue-malaria-cases-will-take-a-toll-on-healthcare-system/article36559979.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||The surveillance trap||India has seen a rapid deployment of Facial Recognition Systems (FRS) in recent years, both by the Centre and State governments, without putting in place any law to regulate their use. The growing unabated use of this potentially invasive technology without any safeguards, legal experts say, poses a huge threat to the fundamental rights to privacy and freedom of speech and expression of the citizens. Currently, 18 FRSs are in active utilisation by the Centre and State governments for the purpose of surveillance, security and authentication of identity, and 49 more systems are in the process of being installed by different government agencies. The national capital has three FRSs in active utilisation by Delhi Police (security/surveillance), New Delhi Airport (authentication of identity), and Indian Institute of Technology (authentication of identity). Three more FRSs are in the process of being installed. Only Telangana is ahead of Delhi at present with four facial recognition systems in active utilisation for surveillance and authentication of identity, according to data published by Project Panoptic, which tracks deployment and implementation of suchsystems across India. Delhi Police was the first law enforcement agency in the country to start using the technology in 2018. It is important to note that the facial recognition technology is being used in Delhi without any legal framework in place to regulate it, said Anushka Jain, associate counsel (surveillance and transparency) at Internet Freedom Foundation. HC order In response to an RTI query filed by Project Panoptic over the legality of the use of FRSs, Delhi Police, on February 20, 2020, replied that it was authorised by the Delhi High Court in terms of the decision in the case of ‘Sadhan Haldar vs NCT of Delhi’. In that particular case, the High Court had authorised the Delhi police to obtain facial recognition technology for the purpose of tracking and reuniting missing children. On the question of any guidelines or standard operating procedure guiding the use of facial recognition technology, Delhi Police replied, “FRS may be used in investigation in the interest of safety and security of general public.” Ms. Jain pointed out that Delhi Police was now using the FRS, which was meant for tracking missing children, for wider security and surveillance and investigation purpose. There is a “function creep” happening with Delhi Police gradually using the technology beyond its intended purpose, said Ms. Jain, giving examples of use of FRS to identify accused who took part in the farmers’ tractor rally violence in January this year. Earlier, Delhi Police took the help of Automated Facial Recognition System (AFRS) to compare the details of people involved in the violence during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Jamia Millia Islamia in 2019 with adata bank of more than 2 lakh “antisocial elements”. The police have also been using facial recognition software to track down the suspects involved in the north-east Delhi riots that left 53 people dead. Bring accountability Surveillance of any kind happens in secret and the people generally don’t know that they are being watched, Ms. Jain said, adding that “there is a very obvious power dynamic and power imbalance which happen when surveillance takes place”. “Citizens are powerless because they don’t know what is happening in the name of surveillance. The public needs to know what the government is doing in order to hold them accountable,” Ms. Jain said. She said the idea behind Project Panoptic is to bring light to the fact that these technology systems are being used without any laws in place to regulate them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-surveillance-trap/article36559966.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||Another arrest in NC leader’s murder case||A third arrest has been made in connection with the killing of former National Conference leader Trilochan Singh Wazir whose decomposed body was found at a flat in Moti Nagar in west Delhi, the police said on Sunday. The body of Wazir was found on September 9 in a washroom of the flat. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said the accused, Harmeet Singh, has been arrested from Jammu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/another-arrest-in-nc-leaders-murder-case/article36559965.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP expels 3 councillors on graft charges||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Sunday expelled three municipal councillors for six years on corruption charges and for ignoring party workers. Mr. Gupta said it was a matter of regret, but the party can’t ignore the complaints and would not desist from taking similar action in future as well. The councillors expelled are Pooja Madan from Mukherjee Nagar, Rajni Bablu Pandey from New Ashok Nagar, and Sanjay Thakur from Said-ul-Ajaib. In the expulsion letter to the councillors, Mr. Gupta said they had been warned in the past and asked to improve their behaviour towards party workers but to no avail. “The party works on zero tolerance policy and this won’t be tolerated at any cost. If there is any laxity on this account or any corruption is detected, strict action will be taken,” Mr. Gupta said in his letter. Reacting to the action taken by the BJP, AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said it was the AAP that revealed in April how BJP councillors were looting people of Delhi and now that they fear losing the civic body elections, they are hastily covering up for their corrupt deeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-expels-3-councillors-on-graft-charges/article36559974.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi reports 28 new cases, zero fatalities||The Capital recorded 28 fresh COVID-19 cases and zero deaths on Sunday, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The bulletin said 63,302 tests had been conducted with a positivity rate of 0.04%. The death toll stands at 25,085. The city now has 387 active cases, of which 130 patients are in home isolation. The total number of cases since the pandemic began now stands at 14,38,497. Over 14.13 lakh patients have recovered from the disease. In the last 24 hours, 2,03,527 people were vaccinated, of whom 1,04,457 received their first dose. The total number of people vaccinated so far stands at 1,59,66,480, of whom 47,89,506 have received their first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-reports-28-new-cases-zero-fatalities/article36559975.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kejriwal blames stubble burning for poor AQI||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday shared the air quality index (AQI) of Delhi, which was recorded at 82 (satisfactory), and said the air quality is clean but deteriorates due to stubble burning from mid-October. He said State governments are yet to take action in supporting farmers to stop stubble burning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kejriwal-blames-stubble-burning-for-poor-aqi/article36559977.ece
20 September 2021||Berhampur (Odisha),||Daylight murder triggers tension in Odisha town||A 42-year-old man was allegedly killed in Odisha’s Ganjam district on Sunday, provoking a mob to set the house of the murder suspect on fire, the police said. Kalu Das was going to the market when he was hacked to death by some men, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/daylight-murder-triggers-tension-in-odisha-town/article36560159.ece
20 September 2021||Itanagar,||Landslides hit traffic movement in Arunachal||Two days of heavy monsoon rain led to massive landslides at more than 20 locations along the vital Balipara-Charduar-Tawang (BCT) Road in western Arunachal Pradesh, severely affecting movement of vehicular traffic, a Border Roads Organisation officer said on Sunday. No casualty was reported due to the landslides which occurred in West Kameng district following heavy rain on Friday and Saturday. A vast stretch of the road between Sessa and Nechiphu areas was damaged by the landslide and a large number of commuters were stranded on both ends, the BRO officer said. On receiving the information of landslides, the organisation mobilised men and machinery and started work on a war footing to restore connectivity by filling the breaches and clearing debris, BRO commander Col. Anil Kotial said. The stranded vehicles started moving through the affected areas from Saturday night while restoration works continued till Sunday, he said. The BCT Road connects three districts — East Kameng, West Kameng and Tawang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/landslides-hit-traffic-movement-in-arunachal/article36560156.ece
20 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan promotes concept of wellness centre||The concept of health and wellness centres is being promoted in the rural areas of Rajasthan to ensure community engagement and accountability for delivery of primary healthcare services amid the decline in the number of active COVID-19 positive cases. A large number of community health officers (CHOs) have been recruited for the purpose. The wellness centres are expected to provide universal healthcare and reduce out-of-pocket expenses for the villagers. The State government has treated the establishment of wellness centres as a step to reduce the burden on front-line health workers, who had faced difficulties during the pandemic because of the shortage of public health professionals. Jaipur-based Indian Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR) University was selected for providing orientation to the trainers who will guide the CHOs in providing palliative and rehabilitative care and extending the first-level care for emergencies and trauma, including essential drugs and diagnostic services. The State government has also posted health consultants and health assistants in the rural areas following a recommendation made by medical bodies and research institutions. IIHMR University president P.R. Sodani said here on Saturday that the CHOs would help strengthen the existing healthcare facilities in the primary and community health centres. Dr. Sodani said the training at the university was aimed at increasing the human resource capacity of healthcare workers and helping the rural populace with better accessibility and affordability for wellness delivery system. The Union Health Ministry’s Ayushman Bharat Scheme had adopted a similar approach for delivery of a comprehensive range of health services, he said. First wellness centre The State’s first wellness resource centre was launched in Jaipur in April this year in collaboration with Indus Wellness Code Trust (IWCT) of Silicon Valley, U.S., with the focus on catering to the wellness needs by reckoning on each person’s individual characteristics. The IIHMR University signed a memorandum of understanding with the IWCT for establishing the centre. The centre provides relevant information to the visitors and offers evidence-based resources in audio, video and text formats on multiple dimensions of wellness with the emphasis on a holistic model of health, happiness and well-being. The MoU has also sought to influence the government’s policies towards wellness and prevention of diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-promotes-concept-of-wellness-centre/article36560166.ece
20 September 2021||Kolkata,||Life opened a new avenue for me, says Babul on joining TMC||Former Union Minister and BJP MP Babul Supriyo, who switched over to the Trinamool Congress in a surprise move, on Sunday said life has now opened a new avenue for him from the prospect of being ‘retired hurt’ from public affairs not so long ago. Mr. Supriyo also said he has nothing to prove to anybody, and he has been involved in politics from the grassroots level since becoming an MP in 2014 on a BJP ticket from Asansol. “Life has opened a new avenue for me from the prospect of being retired hurt from public life…I received a lot of support from a party (TMC) with which I had a very tumultuous relationship,” Mr. Supriyo said at a press conference at the TMC headquarters here. “Being retired hurt was the feeling when I had wished to leave politics. But, I changed my decision in the last four days…I thank Mamata didi (CM Mamata Banerjee) and Abhishek (Banerjee) for giving me a big opportunity. It was completely unexpected,” he said. Resignation next week Mr. Supriyo will meet Ms. Banerjee on Monday, senior party leader and MP Saugata Roy said. He will leave for Delhi early next week to tender his resignation to the Lok Sabha Speaker as an MP from Asansol, he said. On his prospects in the TMC, Mr. Supriyo said Ms. Banerjee will take a call about this. Asked if Ms. Banerjee could become the consensus Opposition candidate for the Prime Minister’s post in 2024, he said, “Won’t you agree she is the most popular personality in the country?” Commenting on the 2015 controversy that erupted after he shared jhalmuri with Ms. Banerjee on his way to Raj Bhavan in a car after a programme, Mr. Supriyo said he had discussed with the Chief Mminister some important projects in his constituency. “As I was waiting for my car after a programme of the Prime Minister, Didi saw me and offered a lift. I agreed as I had to talk about key projects in my constituency. And, when she offered me jhalmuri , I accepted it. Where is the harm in it,” he asked. Admitting his displeasure at being dropped from the Union government during the reshuffle in July, he said, “I always prefer to be in the playing XI.” Mr. Supriyo also sought to downplay the criticism by Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari and other BJP leaders for his decision to cross over to the TMC, saying they have the right to make remarks. “I had respected his (Adhikari) decision when he had left the TMC to join BJP. Similarly, if I leave BJP, he should respect my decision.” He, however, sounded critical of the BJP State president, Dilip Ghosh, saying he would buy him a copy of ‘ Barna Porichoy ’ to learn the basics of the Bengali language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/life-opened-a-new-avenue-for-me-babul/article36559964.ece
20 September 2021||Lucknow,||Country under an undeclared emergency: AAP MP at media event||Senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh on Sunday alleged that an undeclared emergency has been imposed in the country with the media facing attacks. “Adhering to true news is becoming difficult,” he said at the All-India Federation of PTI Employees’ Unions here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/country-under-an-undeclared-emergency-aap-mp-at-media-event/article36560161.ece
20 September 2021||Mumbai,||Amid restrictions Mumbai bids a quiet adieu to Ganesha||Thousands of idols of Ganesha and goddess Gauri were immersed on Sunday across Mumbai as curtains came down on the 10-day Ganapati festival held amid strict COVID-19 restrictions for the second year in a row. No untoward incident was reported during the immersions, a civic official said. The festival, which in normal times used to witness large gatherings and long queues on streets at the various mandals which host the celebrations, began on September 10. This year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) set up artificial lakes at 173 locations in the city, as well as idol collection centres and mobile immersion sites at various places to avoid crowding, the BMC official said. Besides, there were 73 immersion spots at natural water bodies and at all these places necessary arrangements had been made by the BMC, he said. The BMC also deployed 715 lifeguards at various natural and artificial immersion sites, he said, adding that 587 steel plates were set up at the natural sites so that vehicles coming for immersions could be temporarily removed. The civic body also arranged 338 Nirmalya kalash (containers to collect offerings like flowers and other items), 182 Nirmalya vehicles, 185 control rooms, 144 first-aid centres, and 39 ambulances. In all, 145 reception rooms, 84 temporary toilets, 3,707 floodlights, 116 searchlights, 48 observation towers, 36 motorboats and 30 German rafts were available at natural immersion sites, besides other electrical arrangements. The BMC had issued guidelines to public mandals to minimise donation of garlands at the idols installed at their pandals. The civic body had, in an advisory to citizens, also said that household clay and environment-friendly Ganesh idols should be immersed in a bucket or drum at home, if possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amid-restrictions-mumbai-bids-a-quiet-adieu-to-ganesha/article36560158.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Petting zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/petting-zone/article36560164.ece
20 September 2021||Canberra,||‘France knew of Australia’s grave concerns’||France would have known Australia had “deep and grave concerns” that a submarine fleet the French were building would not meet Australian needs, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Sunday after the contract’s cancellation set off a diplomatic crisis. France accused Australia of concealing its intentions to back out of the 90 billion Australian dollar ($66 billion) contract for French majority state-owned Naval Group to build 12 conventional diesel-electric submarines. President Joe Biden revealed last week a new alliance, including Australia and Britain, that would deliver an Australian fleet of at least eight nuclear-powered submarines. Mr. Morrison blamed the switch on a deteriorating strategic environment in the Indo-Pacific. He has not specifically referred to China’s massive military buildup, which has gained pace in recent years. “The capability that the Attack class submarines were going to provide was not what Australia needed to protect our sovereign interests,” Mr. Morrison said. “They would have had every reason to know that we have deep and grave concerns that the capability being delivered by the Attack class submarine was not going to meet our strategic interests and we have made very clear that we would be making a decision based on our strategic national interest,” he added, referring to the French government. Mr. Morrison has said the contract cancellation will cost his government at least $1.7 billion. France responded to the contract cancellation by recalling its Ambassadors from Australia and the U.S. French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian on Saturday denounced what he called the “duplicity, disdain and lies” surrounding the sudden end of the contract and said France was now questioning the strength of the alliance. China has denounced the sharing of such U.S. and British nuclear technology as irresponsible. France won the contract in 2016 over offers from Germany and Japan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/france-knew-of-australias-grave-concerns/article36559530.ece
20 September 2021||Moscow,||After crackdown on critics, Putin’s party leading in polls||President Vladimir Putin’s party was set to retain a majority in Parliament as Russia on Sunday concluded a three-day election in which most Kremlin critics were barred from running. The vote comes in the wake of an unprecedented crackdown on the opposition this year, with Russian authorities jailing Mr. Putin’s best-known domestic foe Alexei Navalny and banning his organisations as “extremist”. In the lead-up to this weekend’s vote, all of his top allies were arrested or had fled the country, with anyone associated with his groups kept from running in the parliamentary and local polls scheduled to close at 8 pm in each of Russia’s 11 time zones. Polling stations in the exclave of Kaliningrad will be the last to close at 1800 GMT. “There is no one to vote for,” Andrei, a 33-year-old IT professional who declined to give his last name, said in Moscow. But he cast his ballot in the “sham” elections, he said, to “at least show some kind of protest against the current government”. The elections were also marred by claims of censorship and rampant ballot stuffing. As voting kicked off Friday, Apple and Google caused an uproar among Russia’s Opposition after they removed Mr. Navalny’s “Smart Voting” app, which showed supporters which candidate they should back to unseat Kremlin-aligned politicians. Sources familiar with Google and Apple’s decision told AFP the move was taken under pressure from Russian authorities, including threats to arrest the tech giants’ local staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-crackdown-on-critics-putins-party-set-to-win-polls/article36559537.ece
20 September 2021||Kabul,||Taliban-run Kabul govt. tells women workers to stay home||Women employees in the Kabul city government have been told to stay home, with work only allowed for those who cannot be replaced by men, the interim Mayor of Afghanistan’s capital said on Sunday. Witnesses, meanwhile, said an explosion targeted a Taliban vehicle in Jalalabad. Hospital officials said five people were killed in the second such deadly blast in as many days in the Islamic State stronghold. The decision to prevent most women city workers from returning to their jobs is another sign that the Taliban are going back from their promises that they would be tolerant and inclusive. In their previous rule in the 1990s, the Taliban had barred girls and women from schools, jobs and public life. In recent days, the new Taliban government issued several decrees rolling back the rights of women. It told women middle-and high school students that they could not return to school. On Friday, the Taliban shut down the Women’s Affairs Ministry, replacing it with a Ministry for the “propagation of virtue and the prevention of vice”. On Sunday, over a dozen women staged a protest outside the Ministry, holding up signs calling for the participation of women in public life. “A society in which women are not active is (sic) dead society,” one sign read. The protest lasted for about 10 minutes. After a short verbal confrontation with a man, the women got into cars and lef. Interim Kabul Mayor Hamdullah Namony said the women employees have been ordered to stay home, pending a further decision. He said exceptions were made for women who could not be replaced by men, including some in the design and engineering departments and the attendants of public toilets for women. Namony did not say how many women employees were forced to stay home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-run-kabul-govt-tells-women-workers-to-stay-home/article36559540.ece
20 September 2021||Paris,||Amid row, Biden asks for early talks with Macron||U.S. President Joe Biden has requested early talks with French President Emmanuel Macron, France said on Sunday, in an apparent effort to mend fences after a row over a submarines contract sparked rare tensions between the allies. French government spokesman Gabriel Attal said on Sunday that there would be a telephone conversation between Mr. Biden and Mr. Macron “in the coming days” at the request of the U.S. President. “We want explanations,” Mr. Attal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-row-biden-asks-for-early-talks-with-macron/article36559531.ece
20 September 2021||Jerusalem,||Israel recaptures last two jail-break fugitives||All six Palestinian fugitives who escaped a high-security Israeli jail through a tunnel dug under a sink are back in custody, after the Israeli Army said on Sunday it had recaptured the last two. The inmates, who were being held for attacks against the Jewish state, became heroes among many Palestinians when reports emerged they had burrowed out using tools as basic as a spoon. The full weight of Israel’s security arsenal was deployed to catch them, including aerial drones, checkpoints on roads and an Army mission to Jenin where many of the men grew up. The massive manhunt lasted almost a fortnight, with four of the six recaptured last week. In a tweet on Sunday, the Israel Defence Forces said the last two had surrendered “after being surrounded by security forces that acted precisely based on accurate intelligence”. The men, 35-year-old Ayham Kamamji and 26-year-old Munadel Infeiat, are both members of Islamic Jihad, an armed Palestinian Islamist movement. They were arrested in a joint operation with counterterrorism forces in Jenin, in the West Bank, the army said in a statement to the press, and were “currently being interrogated”. Two other men who had helped the fugitives were also detained, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-recaptures-last-two-jail-break-fugitives/article36559532.ece
20 September 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar junta’s convoy hit by bomb near Yangon||Myanmar anti-junta dissidents have carried out a bomb attack on security forces near Yangon, with several killed in an ensuing firefight, the military and media said. The Southeast Asian nation has been in turmoil since the military toppled Aung San Suu Kyi’s elected government in February, sparking mass pro-democracy protests and a bloody crackdown by the military. Various townships across Myanmar have formed so-called “people defence forces” to fight back against the junta, although the majority of clashes have been reported in rural areas. Security forces were travelling through Khayan, a suburb of Yangon on Friday, when they were attacked with a homemade bomb, the junta said in a statement on Saturday. “Both groups fired back and forth — a member of the security forces was injured,” the statement said. Local media reported at least two dissidents were killed and one arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-juntas-convoy-hit-by-bomb-near-yangon/article36559533.ece
20 September 2021||Peshawar,||Pak. constable on polio duty shot dead||Assailants on a motorcycle on Sunday shot dead a police constable guarding polio vaccination workers in Pakistan, police said. Police said the attack happened in Dhal Behzadi village, about 75 km south of Peshawar, the capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. Members of the vaccination team were unhurt, police added. Militants often target polio teams, claiming the vaccination campaigns are a Western conspiracy to sterilise children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-constable-on-polio-duty-shot-dead/article36559534.ece
20 September 2021||Seoul,||‘North Korea expanding nuclear plant’||Recent satellite images show North Korea is expanding a uranium enrichment plant at its main Yongbyon nuclear complex, a sign that it’s intent on boosting the production of bomb materials, experts say. The assessment comes after North Korea recently raised tensions with its first missile tests in six months amid long-dormant nuclear disarmament negotiations with the U.S. “The expansion of the enrichment plant probably indicates that N. Korea plans to increase its production of weapons-grade uranium at the Yongbyon site by as much as 25%,” Jeffrey Lewis and two experts at Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey said in a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-korea-expanding-nuclear-plant/article36559535.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A one-party juggernaut and its feeble challengers||The political Opposition in its entirety appears to have decided this — that each party would rather contest and lose to a smaller local adversary than challenge the one bigger, common and more ominous adversary. And win (or lose) the forthcoming Assembly elections, and more importantly, the crucial general election of 2024 together. The writing has been on the wall ever since 2019, reaffirming the urgency of the good old saying, “united we stand/win, divided we fall”. Some stirrings Only one leader with credible bona fides — the inimitable fighter and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee — appears to have recognised this and is striving to forge a united front to challenge the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Indeed, she had sounded out the Opposition on this even before 2019, but it was ignored then as it is being ignored now. Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar, the veteran, is also one leader sensitive to the nuances of the present scenario and did take some initial steps towards forging a common front to take on the strong adversary. It ended with an online conversation, with a prepared sermon by Indian National Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on how India must be saved. Period. The writing on the wall remains unread. Meanwhile, every party is busy finalising its list of candidates for the forthcoming Assembly elections and issuing statements to the press asserting its own invincibility in the forthcoming battle. The year 2024 is still too far on the horizon to exercise one’s mind. Never mind the link between the two. A contrast lies in strategy It is hard for an outsider to ignore the distinct modes of election management, one that the BJP has introduced especially over the past decade and that of the other established parties. The BJP prepares for an election at the ground level at least two years ahead by activating its cadres, especially cadres from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, in establishing personal contacts with potential voters, collecting information about the local issues that might motivate voters to its side, the caste/subcaste/community profile of each constituency to cohere with grandiose calls for Vikas, and Hindu Rashtra from the top-level leadership, not to forget the ever active BJP IT cell forging and spreading questionable material every day on social media. In other words, the BJP is forever preparing for an election. This is in contrast to the Opposition parties which get into action a month or two before election dates are announced, their chief concern being to usually nominate candidates with their own resources for winning. The leaders contribute their mite to the process by making speeches at election meetings. The BJP also learns quickly from its defeats and victories and does take immediate remedial action. The recent quick change of governments in several BJP- ruled States is a good example. The party also changes its tactics keeping in mind the lessons learnt. The contrast, of the energy of the BJP and the lethargy on the other side, is striking. The BJP and the Opposition rely largely on attacking each other. This suits the BJP more because the Opposition earns credibility only if it posits an alternative economic, political and social programme to the electorate that carries conviction, for which it has to be formulated long before the elections are seen on the horizon. Before 2019, the Congress did posit an attractive economic alternative by promising Rs. 6,000 per month to poor farmers, but it was formulated a few weeks before the elections, announced from electoral daises by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi with no groundwork to prepare the audiences for it, and thus, carried no conviction. Since then, no Opposition party has challenged the Government by positing an attractive alternative slogan. As of now, the reluctance of the Opposition parties to come together for the decisive fights ahead, and the absence of any evidence of serious preparations, do seem to indicate a willing walkover to the ruling party. The Congress’s problem It is easy to pin the responsibility for this denouement on the Indian National Congress. As the country’s second largest party in the Seventeenth Lok Sabha, with footprints around the country (besides being the oldest and the most experienced political party), the responsibility devolves upon it squarely to forge a vision and a programme which would accommodate most if not all the others into a single conglomerate (though preferably not a single unit), for the battles ahead. But it is this status it has that fills it with an arrogance to claim the unshared leadership of any possible combination of parties, expressed in the following formula: come and support us and we shall fight together. There is no need for discussion, for discussion involves sharing. Just listen to either Ms. Sonia Gandhi or second best, Rahul Gandhi, and do as they say and demand. This is contrary to what its high status should imply: openness, liberalism, generosity and a vision for India beyond a vision for the present party leadership. Its exclusive concern looks like retaining the three Gandhis (Ms. Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra) at the top even if the bottom keeps floundering and withering away. It is not only the pleas from leaders of a much higher stature such as Mr. Sharad Pawar but also pleas for the reinvigoration of the party from its own seniormost and most committed leaders (the G23, or 23 of them) that are perceived as a threat to Gandhis and thus sidelined. There has been nil “introspection” within the party after each stunning political defeat. There is no sign of the party being a living organism capable, or at least willing, to rectify its errors and move on. This is in contrast to its chief rival. The grimness of the situation is highlighted by the sterling fact that the Opposition cannot go forward without the Congress either. What more could make the BJP happier? A new brigade Paradoxically, the only avenue of political change through the elections that lies open, if at all, is in the non-political movements of resistance such as the farmers’ agitation. The farmers, who have withstood the indifference and the assaults of the Government show no sign of backing off. They have kept almost all political parties away while also shouting from the rooftops that their mission is to defeat the BJP in the elections by mobilising farmers around the country. That they do have the capacity to mobilise themselves has been demonstrated repeatedly, most recently in Muzaffarnagar (Uttar Pradesh) and Karnal (Haryana). The mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar has also cautioned farmers against the BJP’s use of the so-far successful strategy of divide and rule along communal lines, and the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister has already announced his intention to go the whole hog along this path. A major communal conflagration may also be in the offing. The results of these elections will decide the future of India to a large extent. Harbans Mukhia taught history at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-one-party-juggernaut-and-its-feeble-challengers/article36559518.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||How the 9/11 wars changed the world||The bombing by the Islamic State Khorasan Province on August 26 outside Kabul airport that killed about 200 Afghans and 13 Americans at a time when the U.S. was scrambling to evacuate its citizens from Afghanistan was a tragic testimony to everything that went wrong with America’s war on terror. After the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the U.S. went to Afghanistan to defeat al-Qaeda and topple the Taliban regime. Twenty years later, when the U.S. exited Afghanistan, the Taliban, which never fully severed its ties with al-Qaeda, was back in power in Kabul and the country was emerging as the new base of the Islamic State. U.S. President Joe Biden says the war on terror will continue. But the U.S.’s options are limited. It has lost its base in Afghanistan. Its alliance with Pakistan, which goes back to the Cold War, is over. Afghanistan’s neighbouring countries refuse to host an American base. This will impact intelligence operations. Even if the U.S. wants to carry out a drone strike in Afghanistan (which is not an effective counter-terrorism strategy anyway), it will have to fly the machines from the Gulf, based on intelligence collected from afar. If the U.S. couldn’t defeat terrorism after fighting two decades in Afghanistan along with Pakistan, how is it going to fight it in a Taliban-controlled Afghanistan from bases in the Gulf? Regime change wars After the 9/11 attacks, the U.S. saw a global outpouring of support and sympathy. There was a legal and moral argument in favour of its military action against al-Qaeda. But the fundamental problem with the war that the U.S. launched was that it wasn’t strategically focused on defeating al-Qaeda. Instead, the U.S., driven by the neoconservative hubris of the Bush administration, launched regime change wars to remake the Muslim world. President Biden now says the U.S. went to Afghanistan to defeat al-Qaeda. But facts on the ground tell a different story. In 2001, the U.S. brought down the Taliban regime and destroyed al-Qaeda’s base in Afghanistan. But instead of going after al-Qaeda networks, the U.S. initiated the next regime change war in Iraq. The invasion of Iraq, based on false intelligence or the lie that President Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, not only diffused the U.S.’s focus in Afghanistan but also created conditions inside Iraq for al-Qaeda, which was forced to retreat from Afghanistan, to establish a new branch. Al-Qaeda in Iraq, led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, rose from the ruins of post-war Iraq to become the deadliest branch of the global jihadist outfit. If the Bush administration did not learn from the mistakes of its Afghan invasion, the Obama administration did not learn from the mistakes of the Iraq invasion by President George Bush. In 2011, NATO launched another regime change war in Libya. The U.S. believed that with its superior military force, it could topple regimes, reorder political systems and remake the world. It did bring down regimes in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, but it remained clueless about how to tackle the instability that followed. Jihadists thrive amidst chaos and lawlessness. If post-war Iraq provided a new base for al-Qaeda, Libya’s collapse into anarchy, with different militias and governments fighting each other for control, allowed terrorists to spread to other parts of Africa. In Syria, the U.S. stopped short of a direct military intervention but backed armed rebels against the regime of President Bashar al-Assad. It is from the ruins of Syria that the Islamic State rose.  The regime change wars, which helped terrorist outfits proliferate in many countries, also led to the strengthening of both Islamist and Islamophobic politics across the world. The repeated attacks on Muslim-majority countries and the deaths of hundreds of thousands of locals, mostly Muslims, in these wars helped strengthen the jihadist narrative that the ‘Christian West’ is launching ‘a crusade’ against Muslims. The Islamic State repeatedly referred to all westerners as “crusaders” and broadcast videos of American strikes on social media with the aim of recruiting young Muslims. Anti-Americanism emerged as a dominant political theme across Muslim-majority countries, which Islamist hardliners sought to cash in on. The wars also triggered a massive outflow of refugees from the affected countries to neighbouring nations and the faraway West where the populist far-right, already on the ascent after the 2008 financial crisis, turned it into a political weapon. During the 2011-15 Libyan and Syrian crises that saw hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers take the perilous boat journey across the Mediterranean Sea to Europe, the far-right harped on Islamophobic rhetoric to drum up support. The Islamic State-inspired terrorist attacks in the West during this period further strengthened this narrative. In the end, the regime change wars, which failed to defeat terrorists, came back to divide and haunt the West in a different form. Geopolitical setback The most unexpected setback that the U.S. suffered was in geopolitics. When the U.S. was busy in the Muslim world, China was steadily rising. By the time the U.S. realised that China had become its greatest rival since the end of the Cold War, it was too late. The U.S. had already lost the war in Afghanistan; al-Qaeda had split into different branches (what President Biden called a metastasised threat); divisive, ethno-nationalist and Islamophobic politics had become stronger at home; and the moment of unipolarity had passed. In the face of these enormous challenges, President Biden decided to end the war in Afghanistan allowing the Taliban their victory. This left the war on terror uncertain and caused a shift in the U.S.’s strategic focus towards a resurgent China (policies followed by President Donald Trump). On August 31, Mr. Biden said the era of wars to reshape the world was over, marking an official end of the neoconservative regime-change foreign policy.  This doesn’t mean that the global hegemony of the U.S. is over. The U.S. suffered setbacks in the past and bounced back. The 1970s were particularly a bad decade for the U.S. during the Cold War. It had to withdraw from Vietnam in 1975, allowing the communists to win and unify the country. In 1978, the communists assumed power in Afghanistan. In 1979, the U.S. lost Iran. Yet, by late 1979, the U.S. was back in action, thanks to the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. Mr. Biden’s America, having suffered a crushing defeat in Afghanistan, might be reluctant to launch another direct military intervention in the near future. To be sure, America’s withdrawal and the perception of its weakness will embolden its rivals like Iran, Russia and China. But the U.S., which is seeking to return to realism from neoconservatism, might wait for its rivals, especially China, to commit blunders — like the Soviets, emboldened by America’s defeat in Vietnam, did in 1979 — or it might grab other strategic opportunities. Afghanistan is not the end of American power; it’s the beginning of the new U.S.-China cold war. Meanwhile, terrorist outfits will continue to operate from the havens they have already found. stanly.johny@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-the-911-wars-changed-the-world/article36559524.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The relative income, subjective well-being connect||“Well-being is attained little by little, and nevertheless is no little thing itself,” pronounced philosopher Zeno of Citium. While the centrality of the notion of well-being is hard to dispute, its measurement is far from straightforward. There are two distinct approaches to measurement of well-being: one is the conventional approach of measuring it in terms of objective criterion such as income/expenditure; and the second is the growing consensus around a measure of subjective well-being/SWB/life satisfaction/happiness that takes into account not just objective criteria such as income but also individual characteristics including age, gender, schooling, religion, caste, marital status, health, employment, social networks, and the overall economic and natural environment. The intuitive appeal of SWB measures is that these are influenced not just by objective criterion of income/expenditure but also by perceptions of individuals about their experiences of whether they are better-off, just the same or worse-off. In a previous OpEd article, Kulkarni et al. (“Money vs. happiness” – Subjective well-being and income are intricately linked, The Hindu , February 18, 2021), it was argued that subjective well-being varies with level of income but at a diminishing rate. Here, however, our focus is on whether relative income (i.e., relative to that of a reference group) matters more than the level of income and, in that case, whether a shift in policy is necessary to enhance SWB. Our analysis draws upon the two rounds of the nationally representative India Human Development Survey (IHDS), conducted by National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) and University of Maryland, covering the years 2005 and 2012. The data were released in 2015. Its salient features are: it is the only all-India panel survey; apart from the wide coverage of demographic, health, economic, and social variables, it asks a question on SWB. The question is: compared to seven years ago (2005), would you say your household is economically doing the same, better or worse today (2012)? Specifically, therefore, it is a measure of change in SWB, but for convenience of exposition we refer to it interchangeably as SWB, or, SWB outcomes. Admittedly, a broader coverage of both economic and social aspects (such as questions about the best possible life on a scale) would have been more helpful for comparisons with studies conducted using the Gallup World Poll.  SWB and income/expenditure are positively related but at a diminishing rate. Besides, the association is weak and arguably transitory. These findings are not surprising. First, we find that the relative income effect (actual per capita income/expenditure as a fraction of the maximum in the primary sampling unit) is much larger. This is consistent with the relative income hypothesis formulated by Duesenberry (1949) and the famous Easterlin paradox (1973). This paradox states that at a point in time, SWB/happiness varies directly with income both among and within nations, but over time, happiness does not trend upward as income continues to grow. Indeed, rank in the income distribution influences life satisfaction. As a society becomes richer, the average rank does not change and thus average life-satisfaction remains stable despite income growth. The relative income hypothesis cannot by itself explain why a permanent increase in an individual’s income has a transitory effect on his/her well-being, as relative standing would increase. However, the increase in relative standing can be offset by change in the reference group: with this increase, the new peers serve as a reference point, and the previous peers lose salience. On material goods Second, individuals adapt to material goods, and these goods yield little joy for most individuals. Thus, increases in income, which are expected to raise well-being by raising consumption opportunities, may in fact have minor lasting effect because consumption of material goods has little effect on well-being above a certain level of consumption or because of hedonic adaptation (https://bit.ly/3zrlPNA). This has been questioned on the grounds that there is no income threshold at which SWB diverged. Instead, higher incomes are associated with both feeling better moment-to-moment and being more satisfied with life overall. While there may be some point beyond which money loses its power to improve well-being, the current view is that the threshold may be higher than previously thought (https://bit.ly/3nQEYX8). Income changes We further analysed how relative income changed during 2005-2012. We classified relative income/expenditure into three intervals: 0-25%, >25-50% and above >50% in both 2005 and 2012. The cross-tabulation unravels sharp changes. Consider the first interval with lowest relative income, 0-25%, in 2005. About 40% remained in this interval, while about the same proportion experienced a sharp increase in relative income (by moving to the interval, >25-50%), and above a fifth a substantial increase (by moving into the interval, >50%). The next interval with higher relative income, (>25-50%), revealed a different pattern. While about 40% remained in this interval, more than a third ascended into the highest relative income interval, >50%, implying substantial narrowing of the income/expenditure disparity. However, a distressing feature was that well over one fourth experienced a marked increase of this disparity or lower relative income (i.e., by moving into the interval 0-25%). In the third interval, >50%, about 51 % remained in it, while about one third experienced a marked reduction in relative income (by moving into the lower interval, >25-50%) and a considerably lower proportion (over 16%) registered a sharp reduction (by moving into the highest relative income interval, 0-25%). Going forward So, to recapitulate, the lower the relative income, the lower is SWB. What our analysis shows is that a large majority of those with lowest relative income experienced substantially higher relative incomes; also, a large majority of those in the next higher range (>25-50%) recorded significantly higher relative incomes; and, nearly half of those in the highest range of relative income (>50%) recorded lower relative incomes in 2012. During a period of steady growth of per capita income (just under 6% annually), the benefits in terms of higher relative income accrued largely to those in the lower intervals. In sum, the important policy lesson is that, instead of relentless pursuit of income growth, more attention must be given to a strategy of shared growth through remunerative employment in order to enhance well-being. Varsha S. Kulkarni is affiliated to Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, U.S. Raghav Gaiha is Research Affiliate, Population Aging Research Centre, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, U.S., and (Hon.) Professorial Research Fellow, Global Development Institute, University of Manchester, Manchester, England||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-connection-between-income-and-well-being/article36559521.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Holding TNCs accountable||The UN working group on ‘human rights, transnational corporations (TNCs) and other businesses’ has published a new report on human rights-compatible international investment agreements. It urges states to ensure that their bilateral investment treaties (BITs) are compatible with international human rights obligations. It emphasises investor obligations at the international level i.e., the accountability of TNCs in international law. Given the enormous power that TNCs wield, questions about their accountability have arisen often. There have been many instances where the misconduct of TNCs has come to light such as the corruption scandal involving Siemens in Germany. Past efforts Former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said in 1975 in the UN General Assembly that the international community should articulate standards of conduct for TNCs. Subsequently, an audacious effort was made at the UN to develop a multilateral code of conduct on TNCs. However, due to differences between developed and developing countries, it was abandoned in 1992. An integral feature of the neoliberal project was to use international law to institutionalise the forces of economic globalisation, leading to the spread of BITs. These treaties promised protection to foreign investors under international law by bestowing rights on them and imposing obligations on states. This structural asymmetry in BITs, which confer rights on foreign investors but impose no obligations, relegated the demand for investor accountability. However, after the 2011 report of John Ruggie, UN Special Rapporteur on business and human rights, the issue of holding TNCs accountable gathered momentum again. In 2014, the UN Human Rights Council established an open-ended working group with the mandate to elaborate on an international legally binding instrument on TNCs and other businesses concerning human rights. Since then, efforts are being made towards developing a treaty and finding ways to make foreign corporations accountable. The latest UN report is a step in that direction. BITs can be harnessed to hold TNCs accountable under international law. The issue of fixing accountability of foreign investors came up in an international law case, Urbaser v. Argentina (2016). It involved a concessionaire that was looking after the supply of water and sewerage services in Argentina, in which Urbaser, a Spanish environment management company, was a shareholder. Argentina adopted emergency measures to ward off a financial crisis in 2001, which caused losses to the concessionaire, ultimately leading to its insolvency. Urbaser brought a claim against Argentina alleging breach of its rights guaranteed under the Argentina-Spain BIT. Argentina filed a counterclaim charging the investors for floundering in ensuring the required level of investment in the services provided and thus violating the international human right to water. The tribunal held that corporations can be subjects of international law and are under a duty not to engage in activities that harm or destroy human rights. However, as regards the question of whether the foreign investor was under an international law obligation to provide drinking water and sanitation, the tribunal held that only states have a positive obligation to meet the human right to water; corporations only have a negative obligation in this regard unless specific human rights obligations are imposed on the foreign investor as part of the BIT. The case played an important role in bringing human rights norms to the fore in BIT disputes. It also opened up the possibility of using BITs to hold TNCs accountable provided the treaty imposes positive obligations on foreign investors. In the last few years, states have started recalibrating their BITs by inserting provisions on investor accountability. However, these employ soft law language and are hortatory. They do not impose positive and binding obligations on foreign investors. They fall short of creating a framework to hold TNCs accountable under international law. Lessons for India The recent UN report has important takeaways for India’s ongoing reforms in BITs. India’s new Model BIT of 2016 contains provisions on investor obligations. However, these exist as best endeavour clauses. They do not impose a binding obligation on the TNC. India should impose positive and binding obligations on foreign investors, not just for protecting human rights but also for imperative issues such as promoting public health. The Nigeria-Morocco BIT, which imposes binding obligations on foreign investors such as making it mandatory for them to conduct an environmental impact assessment of their investment, is a good example. These reforms would help in harnessing BITs to ensure the answerability of foreign investors and creating a binding international legal framework to hold TNCs to account. Prabhash Ranjan is Professor & Vice Dean, Jindal Global Law School, OP Jindal Global University. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/holding-tncs-accountable/article36559527.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Empathy through education||India’s National Education Policy (2020) mentions social and emotional learning (SEL) as an important facet of education. SEL is the process of learning to recognise and manage emotions and navigate social situations effectively. While the policy notes numeracy and literacy as its central aims, SEL should be an equally important goal as it supports skills such as communication, collaboration, critical thinking and creativity. What is SEL? SEL is foundational for human development, building healthy relationships, having self and social awareness, solving problems, making responsible decisions, and academic learning. Key elements of SEL include cultivating empathy and theory of mind. ‘Empathy’ is the ability to understand another person’s emotions and be aware of why they might be feeling those emotions from their perspective. ‘Theory of mind’ is the ability to understand others’ intentions, knowledge and beliefs and recognise that those might be different from your own. Research finds that students with greater social skills and emotional regulation are more likely to have success. While some people may perceive discussions surrounding SEL as “fluff”, it is, in fact, rooted in physiology. Neurobiologically, various brain regions such as the prefrontal and frontal cortices, amygdala, and superior temporal sulcus are involved in the cognitive mechanisms of SEL. Interestingly, scientists have proposed that the physiological and psychological factors of SEL are inherently linked. Brain systems that are responsible for basic human behaviour, such as getting hungry, may be reused for complex mechanisms involved in SEL. This can explain why the way we feel physically directly impacts our social-emotional evaluation of the world. Despite its importance to life, SEL is often added as a chapter in a larger curriculum rather than being integrated in it. To overcome this challenge, it is vital to consider that the learning process is a social and emotional experience. The pandemic has brought unprecedented challenges for SEL as school closures reduced opportunities for students to deepen social relationships and learn collaboratively in shared physical spaces. Conversely, remote learning “gave parents the opportunity to discover their childrens’ social and emotional lives,” notes Jim Eagen, the head of Synapse school in California, where SEL is a key strategic pillar of the school. Even with parental involvement, the challenge of an inadequate support system for SEL remains. So, how do we move forward? A way forward Perhaps we can contextually adapt best practices from existing models. Synapse school seamlessly incorporates SEL into curricula through self-science classes, and places SEL centrally within the school culture. How can we sustainably incorporate SEL into education across communities, cultures, and social strata? In reality, individuals from underprivileged backgrounds have faced immense learning losses over the last one and a half years. A starting point would be to consider insights from the Indian SEL framework: one, application of SEL practices should be based on students’ socioeconomic backgrounds; two, SEL strategies of caretakers and educators must align with one another; three, long-term success requires SEL to be based on scientific evidence. While policies provide guidelines, a big challenge in moving forward is unlearning old habits. The lockdowns provided an unintended reset which afforded an opportunity for positive change. As a sustainable development goal outlines, policymakers now have to ensure that future changes prioritise “inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.” Importantly, the onus lies on all of us to make individual contributions that will drive systemic change. Radhika Gosavi is an educational neuroscientist and Assistant Director of the Brainwave Learning Center at Synapse school; Vikram Vincent holds a Ph.D. in EdTech from IIT Bombay||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/empathy-through-education/article36559528.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Cutting the captain||Amarinder Singh’s ouster, and the selection of his baiter Charanjit Singh Channi as Chief Minister of Punjab was scripted in Delhi by the Congress high command, which in effect is party MP Rahul Gandhi and AICC general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. They pushed for the change of guard only months ahead of the next Assembly election tenaciously. Punjab is one of only three States where the party is in power. The party MLAs had turned against Captain Amarinder, but not before the Gandhis made it clear that they wanted him out. Capt. Amarinder, 79, had said of the 2017 Assembly election that it was the last in his career, and the party should identify his successor ahead of the next election which is now due in months. While the Gandhis appear to have taken it too seriously, Capt. Amarinder, as those in power often do, went back on his words. Capt. Amarinder says the reason for his change of mind — he now says his retirement is not imminent — is the choice by the Gandhis of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the party State president, whom he considers as anti-national and mixed up with the Pakistani establishment. The incoming Chief Minister, a Dalit Sikh, and the party chief have been acting in tandem to unseat Capt. Amarinder. It is one thing to push for new leadership in the party and quite another to create a crisis in the process. The cost of this change for the Congress will be clear only in the coming days, but it is already evident that getting the party back in fighting shape will be an uphill task. Capt. Amarinder is exploring political options outside the Congress. While it may not be easy for him to build something new, he could queer the pitch for the Congress. His absence itself could be a drag on the feet for the party. Though admittedly inaccessible to ordinary workers and even party leaders, his sense of the people’s pulse in the communally sensitive border State has been critical for the party. His moderate image, secular approach, and nationalist rhetoric fit the Congress well. Mr. Sidhu and Mr. Channi have been making provocative appeals to Sikh religious grievances, in their efforts to outsmart the opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the outgoing Chief Minister. His propensity for communal appealing, and his unstable temperament make Mr. Sidhu a sinister joker in the Congress pack. Should the Congress win, he will claim the Chief Minister’s post. With the SAD on the back foot for being part of the Union government when it enacted the three farm laws that the State’s farmers are up in arms against, and the BJP friendless and faceless, the Congress had appeared poised to retain power. Perhaps such advantageous circumstances emboldened the Gandhis to go for the jugular in Punjab. But the SAD might have got a lifeline, and the Aam Aadmi Party new hope while the Congress deals with its internal crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cutting-the-captain/article36559512.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A spike||India on September 17 administered a record 2.5 crore vaccine shots, which an ebullient Health Ministry said was the equivalent of the populations of the whole of Australia, two-thirds of Canada and five times that of New Zealand. The only other comparison would be China’s pace of vaccination — 2.47 crore shots on a single day. Thus, 2.5 crore means 62% Indian adults have now got at least one dose and one in five fully inoculated. Friday’s drive was part of a concerted push by BJP-ruled States to boost vaccination numbers as a birthday gift to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But to encourage a behavioural nudge when supply is abundant and demand is not commensurate — as in the U.S. — and have a marked supply shortage even as vaccine production continues — as in India — are two different things. Bharat Biotech was supposed to be supplying 6-7 crore doses a month from July-August and 10 crore doses a month from September, according to a Department of Biotechnology statement in April. This would mean at least 52 crore doses from July-December, of which 40 crore is to be supplied from September-December. Since the vaccination drive began, only nine crore doses of Covaxin have been administered as of last week — at least three crore short. Several cabinet Ministers, in summer, had boasted that India would inoculate its adult population (about 94 crore) by the year end. This will require over 185 crore doses, or close to one crore inoculations a day; India has now crossed the 80 crore mark. Before the birthday drive, India’s most recent seven-day average was 0.6-0.7 crore. Bihar, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, which saw among the highest vaccination spikes on September 17, delivered 6-10 times their previous seven-day average. India is once again on a downswing as far as daily coronavirus numbers go, but at close to 30,000 cases a day is nowhere near the all-time low of nearly 10,000 daily cases in February which preceded the catastrophic second wave. The globally most prevalent Delta variant may have already washed over large swathes of India, but waning immunity and the emergence of variants capable of immune escape are thriving too. With educational institutions set to open in a big way during the winter and crores of unvaccinated children vulnerable, the imperative should be to boost daily supplies. India is lucky that there is so far no discernible vaccine scepticism and hesitancy and it has only to really bother with producing and delivering the jab painlessly. Instead of positioning vaccine drives as opportunities to set vacuous records, the Centre must prioritise vaccines to States and districts that are at greatest infection risk and follow up with vaccine makers to speed up and make good on their commitments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-spike/article36559513.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Secret Pak. directive on visitors||An official directive on how to manipulate foreign visitors to East Bengal has been issued under a “secret” classification to information officials by the Pakistan Government, it was reported to-day [London, September 19]. The Sunday Times said it had received a photocopy of the directive giving detailed guidance on the handling of journalists and other important visitors from abroad. The newspaper quoted the directive as saying that when a visitor wanted to visit a camp for refugees (who had returned from India), officials would make sure of having a crowd by delaying the normal dispersal of the refugees to other areas. Foreigners who wanted to check stories about army attempts to eliminate intellectuals at Dacca University following its intervention in the east in March could be allowed to see people there but only if the visitors were dependable. Security arrangements should be unobtrusive and there should be no overdisplay of military personnel according to the directive. Important visitors should also be encouraged to visit some of the scenes of massacre of non-Bengalis. They should be encouraged to visit the refugee camps of Mymensingh and listen to their tales of woe, the directive was reported as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/secret-pak-directive-on-visitors/article36559525.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Safety in a ‘champion’ index||When it comes to investing in Indian stocks, a few names such as TCS, HUL, Britannia, Nestle and ITC constantly provoke interest. However, interestingly over the last decade, it is neither the FMCG industry nor the IT sector that has outperformed the Nifty 50 index, but rather the banking sector. As seen in the accompanying graph, the Nifty Bank index has predominantly outpaced the Nifty 50 since 2008. According to the RBI, the number of scheduled commercial Indian banks includes 22 private sector banks, 11 small finance banks, and 12 public sector banks. In stark contrast, the U.S., which has merely one-third of our population, has 2,108 banks in total. Additionally, it should be noted that the top five banks in India dominate the share of the total deposits and transactions. Concentration risk Concentration of significant market share in the hands of a few leads to behaviour where independent firms may likely act in cohesion to ensure profit maximisation. A significant barrier to entry into the industry further spurs such behaviour. The RBI has meticulous rules and is very conservative in distributing large-scale commercial banking licences, as can be seen by the sparse number of banks. These large banks also keep the financial system in order by lending to and borrowing from each other. Therefore, as American economist Irving Fisher said, the collapse of even a single bank would wreak havoc in the financial system, as has been observed in the U.S. on multiple occasions. The RBI is aware of this and will go to great lengths to ensure no bank collapses, leading to an added layer of safety for banks as investments. The bailout of a troubled bank has been exhibited with great certainty if one may recall the Yes Bank fiasco. Among the several advantages that banks enjoy, the most significant is the access to big finance from their banking peers, and from the RBI, which acts as the lender of the last resort. ‘Low-risk bets’ This places banks in a unique position to receive cheap capital, as most of their asset books are liquid and therefore considered low risk. They have access to low-cost capital through the ability to open current accounts and savings accounts. Fractional reserve banking — in which only a fraction of bank deposits are backed by actual cash on hand and available for withdrawal, to help expand the economy by freeing capital for lending — also allows them to create money temporarily. It’s not just the markets that recognise banks’ dominance, but also NBFCs that want to enter the arena due to the superior benefit of access to low-cost capital. Capital First, an NBFC, merged with IDFC Bank to create the merged entity IDFC First Bank on December 18, 2018. At the time of merger, their loan book was Rs. 1.03 lakh crore. Capital First effectively gained access to low-cost capital to supplement its existing retail client base further. This was also a way for it to circumvent the need to possess a banking licence. There is also word in the wind of another NBFC following this path — Clix Capital is said to be in talks with Suryoday Small Finance Bank, to eventually join this elite group of banks, which highlights the attraction that the sector holds for aspirants. The graph comparison understates the dominance of banks because the Nifty 50 also consists of banking stocks. This means that the performance of banks has beaten the general market by a far more significant margin than is evident. This also highlights an important point — the market favours businesses with a steady cash flow stream in the long run. Nonetheless, it is prudent to understand that the banking business is resilient, but not immune to threats. This banding together of entities in the banking system can end in the future due to a plethora of reasons, the principal one being innovative and cutting-edge fintech companies making significant inroads into India. U.S. scenario different Small finance banks, which offer far more competitive rates, also bring an element of competition and healthy behaviour to the table. The eventual and much-needed liberalisation of the banking sector might also end the dream run. The U.S. has liberalised its banking sector immensely, resulting in the large number of players in the game there. Although most of the market share still belongs to the 10 largest banks, it is clear from the market performance that the banking sector (which underperformed the S&P 500) is nowhere as dominant as it is in India. Regardless of these threats, banks, at least for the time being, will continue to enjoy advantages that no other industry can.  (Anand Srinivasan is a consultant. Sashwath Swaminathan is a research associate at Aionion Investment Services)   Promise of steady cash flow in the long run attracts investors to traditional bank stocks. But, fintechs and small finance banks are readying to take market share and are looking sharp about it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/safety-in-a-champion-index/article36559510.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Insurers step in with riders as consumable costs spike||Over the last 18 months, medical expenses of in-patients with COVID-19 infection in India have risen to unprecedented levels. This has resulted in tremendous financial pressure on families of those infected by the deadly coronavirus, forcing them to borrow money from family and friends to pay the hospital bills. Detailed analyses of hospital bills show that the rise is majorly due to consumables that include PPE kits, syringes and sanitisation products. Consumables refer to single-use items used for medical treatment or procedures. During pre-COVID-19 times, the average cost of treatment at a private hospital was between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 60,000. However, during the COVID-19 phase, this has increased to Rs. 80,000-90,000.  The cost of consumables in hospital bills has significantly gone up since the outbreak of pandemic. Today, the per-day, per-patient cost of hospitalisation for COVID-19 treatment is Rs. 10,000, and for a 15-day hospitalisation, the cost comes around anywhere between Rs. 1.5 lakh and Rs. 2 lakh. During hospitalisation due to COVID-19, consumables make for one-fourth of the bill and if the stay extends for a longer period due to co-morbidities, the cost may rise significantly.  Additional equipment For context, till February 2020, the cost of consumables used to be up to a maximum of 3-5% of the entire hospital bill, according to an SBI report. The reason behind the extremely high usage of consumables in hospitals over the last 18 months is the highly contagious nature of the virus. Considering the severity of the pandemic, hospitals across the country have been forced to make it mandatory for staff to wear protective gear such as bodysuits and face shields all the time, and these add to hospital bills. While people without health cover have to pay the entire bill from their own pocket, those with a comprehensive health insurance plan have to bear the cost of consumables entirely on their own. Underwriting rule changes This is because, as per the underwriting rules of insurers, the cost of consumables under a health insurance plan is not payable by the insurance company. Consumables, in health insurance parlance, are non-medical items and hence, are not payable by the insurer. With the advent of the virus, many insurers have started to make amendments in their underwriting rules and have decided to cover the cost of consumables through additional riders that may be bought along with the base plan. ‘No-claim bonus protected’ Apart from providing coverage for consumables, the riders also protect your No-Claim Bonus (NCB), provided the claim amount is up to Rs. 50,000. Some riders also pay the customer for preventive health check-ups, wellness benefits, home care, doctor consultations, and diagnostics.  The average cost of the riders is 5% of the premium of the base plan. Say, if you choose a base plan whose annual premium is Rs. 8,000, the annual premium for the rider would be Rs. 400. Apart from these riders, there are standalone/comprehensive health plans that cover consumables without any rider. These plans are reasonably priced and available starting from monthly premium of Rs. 600 for a 30-year-old individual with a Rs. 5-lakh cover. These plans pay for consumables like such as Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits on a case-to-case basis. In fact, as per market trends, the claims payout ratio is highest among people with cover for consumables. Porting out Those already having a comprehensive health insurance plan, but still wish to be covered under a plan that covers the cost of consumables have the option of porting their health insurance plan. Policyholders can now easily port their existing plan to a different insurer online without the requirement of any physical paper work. Porting can help enhance the sum insured, avail better features, reduce waiting period for pre-existing ailments, among other reasons. Porting can be done up to 45 days prior to the policy renewal date.  (The writer is Head-Health Insurance, Policybazaar.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/insurers-step-in-with-riders-as-consumable-costs-spike/article36559507.ece
20 September 2021||Abu Dhabi,||David Hussey bets on Gill, Rana||The opening pair of Subhman Gill and Nitish Rana may not have fired in the first leg of IPL but Kolkata Knight Riders chief mentor David Hussey believes the duo can “shock the world” with their batting in the second phase of the tournament beginning here on Sunday. While Gill scored just 132 runs, Rana managed 201 runs in the first seven games for KKR in this year's IPL. However, Hussey pinned his hopes on the duo, calling them the 'next generation of Indian players'. Quality players  "They both are quality players, they are determined to do very well for the team and for themselves and they have a taste of international cricket now," Hussey told ESPNcricinfo . "I think they are about to shock the world that they are the next generation of Indian players, not just for one or two series but for perhaps a decade, so if they get going look out for them in the IPL." Hussey also backed skipper Eoin Morgan to come good in the second leg after a lacklustre performance in the first phase. "As a captain, he is going to lead from the front. We need some big performances from him. His is probably the hardest position to play in the middle order. He comes in either in deep trouble or coming in with 3-4 balls to go when top orders have done realy well," he said. "He also has to lead on the field, get the fields correct, take wickets and also gamble a few times... Eoin will be a little disappointed with the last seven games, but knowing well that he is going to be prepared really well, I back him to be dominant in the next 7 games not only with the bat but captaincy as well." The road ahead, however, is extremely difficult for KKR as the team is languishing at the seventh position on the points table.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/david-hussey-bets-on-gill-rana/article36559861.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Ruturaj delights in Super Kings’ win||Jolted early by pace, Chennai Super Kings recovered to make 156 for six as opener Ruturaj Gaikwad remained unbeaten with a serene and strokeful 88 against Mumbai Indians in their IPL clash in Dubai on Sunday. In reply, MI was never in the hunt, losing wickets at regular intervals. Deepak Chahar (4-0-19-2) removed the dangerous Quinton de Kock and his opening partner Anmolpreet Singh. Once skipper Kieron Pollard was trapped in front by Josh Hazlewood, the writing was on the wall for his team. Saurabh Tiwary waged a lone battle, making an unbeaten 50. Earlier, M.S. Dhoni’s decision to bat first was not without risks. The surface at Dubai has a reputation of assisting seamers early on. There was pace, movement and bounce for the fast bowlers and MI’s Kiwi pair of Trent Boult and Adam Milne were running hot. They fired out Faf du Plessis, Moeen Ali and Suresh Raina, all caught slicing on the off-side. Milne breathed fire. He delivered a nasty lifter to Ambati Rayudu that followed the batsman and struck a painful blow on the shoulder. Rayudu was off the park, retired hurt. Soon Raina, undone by short pitched bowling, went back to a full length swinging delivery and was picked up at point. CSK was seven for three — and Rayudu was retired hurt — and it was only the third over. Dhoni did not last long, pulling Milne with full force but finding Boult at deep square-leg. CSK was 24 for four in six overs. At the other end, Ruturaj played a few delectable shots. However, he was fortunate on 19, attempting to cut leg-spinner Rahul Chahar and seeing ‘keeper Quinton de Kock grass the offering. Ruturaj collected runs with typical efficiency along with the dependable Ravindra Jadeja during their 81-run fifth-wicket partnership. The calm Ruturaj innovated and created against spinners Krunal Pandya and Rahul as Kieron Pollard, leading in the place of the injured Rohit Sharma, surprisingly opted for a double spin attack. When Bumrah returned at the death, Ruturaj struck a fuller ball compellingly over covers for the maximum. His footwork and balance in sync with his timing and placement, he innovated and swept Boult to the fence. The final delivery of the innings was flicked from outside off and over square-leg for a six. Ruturaj’s 58-ball unbeaten 88 was priceless. The last nine overs produced a whopping 108 runs for CSK. The left-handed Jadeja batted with a mix of natural flair and chutzpah, and Dwayne Bravo struck his patented slashed sixes off pacemen over covers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ruturaj-and-bowlers-script-csks-win/article36559604.ece
20 September 2021||WARANGAL,||Triple jumper Praveen Chithravel hits a new high||Praveen Chithravel is very promising but is also one of the most inconsistent triple jumpers in the National circuit. And injuries have often troubled him. But everything came together nicely for the 20-year-old from Tamil Nadu on the final day of the 60th National Open at the Nehru Stadium here on Sunday. The youngster produced a massive 16.88m, which bettered his personal best by 37cm, in his opener for the gold. That made him the third best Indian ever, after Renjith Maheswary (17.30) and Arpinder Singh (17.17), and his series had three jumps over 16.70. Services’ Abdulla Aboobacker (16.84, new PB) and Karthik Unnikrishnan (16.80, equalled PB) took silver and bronze. This is probably the first time three triple jumpers were touching 16.80m or more in a Nationals. “I’ve not changed anything, everything is the same, only I’ve become stronger mentally and more confident,” Praveen, who trains at JSW’s Inspire Institute of Sport at Vijayanagar, told The Hindu . “I’ve had a lot of injuries earlier, hamstring at the 2019 Asians and then ankle pain. But I felt good and I think I can do 17m next year.” Meanwhile Asian Games champion Arpinder, making a comeback from last year’s knee injury, could manage only 15.91 for sixth. “My knee still hurts,” he said. Later, Assam sprinter Amlan Borgohain clocked a stunning 20.75s — the second fastest time on Indian soil — for the men’s 200m gold in a new meet record time. And Rajasthan’s Manju Bala, former Asian Games medallist, won the hammer throw in a meet record 64.42m, the second best by an Indian, behind Sarita Romit Singh’s 65.25m. Railways won the overall title and women’s team championship while Services took the men’s team title.  The results (finals): Men: 200m: 1. Amlan Borgohain (Asm) 20.75s (MR, Old: 20.92, S Arunjith, 2007), 2. Balakumar Nitin (TN) 21.06, 3. N. Shamugha Srinivas (AP) 21.12; 10,000m: 1. Kartik Kumar (Ser) 29:42.63s, 2. Dharmender (Ser) 29:49.56, 3. Shrawan Kumar (Har) 30:01.87; Hammer throw: 1. Damneet Singh (Pun) 65.65m, 2. Bajinder Singh (Pun) 63.29, 3. Sukhdev Singh (Rly) 63.18; Triple Jump: 1. Praveen Chithravel (TN) 16.88m, 2. Abdulla Aboobacker (Ser) 16.84, 3. Karthik Unnikrishnan (Ser) 16.80; 4x400m Relay: 1. Haryana (Pankaj, Sachin, Ayush Dabas, Vikrant Panchal) 3:087.86s, 2. Services 3:09.13, 3. Punjab 3:11.29.   Women: 200m: 1. Archana Suseendran (TN) 23.58s, 2. Taranjeet Kaur (Del) 23.64, 3. Chandra Lekha (Rly) 24.35; 10,000m: 1. Sanjivani Jadhav (Mah) 34:20.03s, 2. Kavita Yadav (Rly) 35:57.46, 3. Jyoti (UP) 36:37.90; Hammer throw: 1. Manju Bala (Raj) 64.42m (MR, Old: 61,67, Hardeep Kaur, 2002), 2. Sarita Singh (Rly) 59.58, 3. Jyoti Rana (Rly) 58.36; Discus throw: 1. Navjeet Kaur (Pun) 54.49m, 2. Nidhi Rani (Rly) 50.87, 3. Gurveer Kaur (Pun) 48.66. 4x400m relay: 1. Haryana (Nancy, Nisha, Nanhi, Kavita) 3:42.82, 2. Police 3:43.01, 3. Delhi 3:43.13.   Best athletes: Men: Praveen Chithravel (triple jump) ; Women: Harmilan Bains (1500m).   Championships: Overall: Railways (253.5 pts); Men: Services (187.5); Women: Railways (157) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/triple-jumper-praveen-hits-a-new-high/article36559597.ece
20 September 2021||VIJAYNAGAR,||Nishant shocks Naveen||Young Nishant Dev stunned Strandja memorial bronze medallist Naveen Boora to enter the semifinals and assure himself of a first podium finish in the National boxing championships at the Inspire Institute of Sports (IIS) here on Sunday. The 20-year-old Nishant, an IIS trainee hailing from Haryana and representing Karnataka, used his experience of sparring with National champion Naveen at the camp to record a 5-0 victory in the 71kg quarterfinal. Nishant, a southpaw, initiated attacks early and kept the hard-punching Services rival quiet. “The time spent at the camp made me fight fearlessly. Even though I had body soreness due to the previous bout (against Railways’ Ashish Kulheria), I was able to do well,” said Nishant. Promising Services boxer Sumit produced a power-packed performance to get the better of the experienced Ankit Khatana of Haryana 5-0 in a 75kg quarterfinal contest. The seasoned Shiva Thapa smartly handled the challenge posed by World youth bronze medallist Ankit Narwal of Railways. Thapa banked on his defensive skills and clean punches to beat Narwal 4-1 in a 63.5kg last-eight bout.  Other important results (quarterfinals):   48kg: Barun Singh (SSCB) bt Neeraj Swami (Del) 5-0, Govind Sahani (RSPB) bt Shiv Kant (Pun) 4-1.   51kg: Deepak Kumar (SSCB) bt Sparsh Kumar (Pun) 5-0, Ankit (Har) bt Ashish Insha (RSPB) 3-2.   54kg: Sachin Siwach (RSPB) bt Roshan Zameer (Goa) 5-0; 57kg: Mohd. Hussamuddin bt Rushikesh Goud (Mah) KO-R3.   60kg: Varinder Singh (RSPB) bt Inderjit Singh (DDNH) 5-0; 63.5kg: Abhinash Jamwal (HP) bt Hitesh Singh (DDNH) 4-1.   67kg: Amit Sheoran (Raj) bt Aman (Chd) 3-2; 71kg: Amit Kumar (DDNH) bt Nagesh Kharare (Mah) 5-0.   75kg: Buntee Singh (Del) Pushpender Rathee (Goa) 4-1; 80kg: Sachin Kumar (SSCB) bt Uday Singh (Kar) 4-1.   86kg: Gowtham Palani (TN) bt Vishal Bataan (Kar) RSC-R1, Sumit Sangwan (Har) bt Avinash Singh (MP) RSC-R3.   92kg: Sanjeet (SSCB) bt Sandeep Sharma (RSPB) ABD-R2; 92+kg: Narender (SSCB) bt Tarun Sharma (Raj) 5-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nishant-shocks-naveen/article36559599.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Upbeat RCB takes on KKR||Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB), on a roll before the IPL was suspended, will look to return to winning ways when it takes on Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) in their opening match of the second leg at Sheikh Zayed Stadium (Abu Dhabi) on Monday. Virat Kohli’s team, with five wins in seven matches, was on course for a memorable season. Australian Glenn Maxwell, dubbed the ‘X Factor’ of the middle-order, lived up to the tag with a couple of quick fifties. South African maverick A.B. de Villiers came good with two unbeaten match-winning knocks (75 n.o., 42b vs Delhi Capitals, and 76 n.o., 34b vs KKR).  Pacer Harshal Patel, a clever exponent of slower deliveries, is the tournament’s highest wicket-taker (17 wickets). Siraj a threat Fellow speedster Mohammed Siraj, who has improved leaps and bounds since finding success with the Indian team, is another threat. RCB’s replacement players, leggie Wanindu Hasaranga, pacer Dushmantha Chameera and batsman Tim David, add balance to the squad. KKR, on the other hand, could notch up only two wins in seven outings in the first leg. Eoin Morgan, Andre Russell, Shubman Gill and Dinesh Karthik all flattered to deceive with the bat. Bangladesh all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan is another big name who will need to step up to the plate. KKR, a two-time IPL champion, will bank on Kiwi fast bowler Tim Southee to trouble the RCB top-order. Southee replaced Australian Pat Cummins, who opted out of the second leg of the tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/upbeat-rcb-takes-on-kkr/article36559600.ece
20 September 2021||Brisbane,||Indian women’s team arrives in Mackay||The Indian women’s cricket team arrived in Mackay on Sunday for the first ODI against Australia on September 21. “Touchdown Mackay #TeamIndia arrive in Mackay for the 1st #AUSvIND ODI,” BCCI women wrote on its twitter handle. Team India departed for Australia on August 28 and upon landing, every member of the touring party underwent the mandatory 14-day hard quarantine. Smriti Mandhana said her team loves playing against Australia as the ultra-competitiveness of the Southern Stars rubs off on the Indians. “We all love playing against Australia, because they are one of the best teams in the world and quite competitive. When it comes to Australia, you’re a bit more pumped up because the level of competitiveness of the Australians just rubs off on us and we also start being extra competitive.” Smiri told The Scoop podcast, as reported by cricket.com.au, that  “the wickets have a true bounce and I think everyone loves batting in Australia. We are all just happy to play, whatever the quarantine period maybe.”  When it comes to Australia, you’re a bit more pumped up— Smriti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-womens-team-arrives-in-mackay/article36559607.ece
20 September 2021||London,||Chelsea zooms to the top with Spurs win||Chelsea powered to the top of the Premier League with an impressive 3-0 win at Tottenham, while David de Gea saved a stoppage-time penalty to preserve Manchester United’s 2-1 victory at West Ham. Thomas Tuchel’s unbeaten side sits top of the Premier League after winning four of its first five games, while Tottenham has suffered two successive top-flight defeats.  The results: Premier League: Brighton 2 (Maupay 35-pen, Welbeck 50) bt Leicester 1 (Vardy 61); West Ham 1 (Benrahma 30) lost to Manchester United 2 (Ronaldo 35, Lingard 89); Tottenham 0 lost to Chelsea 3 (Silva 49, Kante 57, Rudiger 90+2).   LaLiga: Mallorca 0 drew with Villarreal 0.   Serie A: Empoli 0 lost to Sampdoria 3 (Caputo 31, 52, Candreva 70); Venezia 1 (Ceccaroni 59) lost to Spezia 2 (Bastoni 14, Bourabia 90+4); Verona 3 (Barak 49, Caprari 54, Faraoni 63) bt Roma 2 (Pellegrini 36, Ilic 58-og); Lazio 2 (Immobile 45, Cataldi 83) drew with Cagliari 2 (Joao Pedro 46, Keita 62).   Bundesliga: VfB Stuttgart 1 (Mangala 38) lost ot Bayer Leverkusen 3 (Andrich 2, Schick 19, Wirtz 70); Borussia Dortmund 4 (Guerreiro 10, Haaland 24, 83, Friedrich 52-og) bt Union Berlin 2 (Kruse 58-pen, Voglsammer 81).   On Saturday: Premier League: Aston Villa 3 (Cash 66, Digne 69-og, Bailey 75) bt Everton 0.   LaLiga: Atletico Madrid 0 drew with Athletic Bilbao 0; Elche 1 (Lucas 33) drew with Levante 1 (Morales 55); Alaves 0 lost to Osasuna 2 (Garcia 23, Roberto Torres 29-pen).   Serie A: Salernitana 0 lost to Atalanta 1 (Zapata 75); Inter Milan 6 (Martinez 6, Skriniar 30, Barella 34, Vecino 54, Dzeko 63, 68) bt Bologna 1 (Theate 86).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-gea-and-lingard-are-uniteds-heroes/article36559609.ece
20 September 2021||CHENNAI:,||Alicia claims the Nilgiris Derby Stakes||Pesi Shroff-trained Alicia, piloted by P.S. Chouhan, claimed the Coromandel Gromor Nilgiris Derby Stakes, the star attraction of the season held here on Sunday (Sept. 19). The winner is owned by Mr & Mrs. Cyrus Palia & Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd.  1. DELHI RACE CLUB CUP (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: GLORIOUS SUNSHINE (Nihil Naidu) 1, Soul Mate (Akshay Kumar) 2, Shield Maiden (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Uncle Sam (Ashhad Asbar) 4. 1-1/2, 1-1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 27.36s. Owners: Mr. Vazhaparambil J. Joseph & Bharat V. Epur. Trainer: Sebastian.  2. BANGALORE TURF CLUB CUP (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: FULL OF SURPRISE (K. Mukesh Kumar) 1, Subjucate (Kuldeep Singh), Mayflower (Yash Narredu) 3 and Charliez Angel (A. Ayaz Khan) 4. 5, lnk and 4-3/4. 1m, 13.69s. Owner: Mr. Tatineni Prasad Rao. Trainer: Vishesh.  3. BANGALORE TURF CLUB CUP (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: PACIFIC (Ashhad Asbar) 1, Protea (C. Brisson) 2, Empress Eternal (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Oberon (H.M. Akshay) 4. 1-3/4, nk and 2-1/2. 1m, 13.75s. Owner: Mrs. Masooda Asad & Mr. M.J. Asad. Trainer: Saddam Iqbal.  4. ROYAL WESTERN INDIA TURF CLUB LTD. CUP (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): DASHING BEAUTY (P. Trevor) 1, Cartel ( C. Umesh) 2, Lakshanam (Nikhil Naidu) 3 and Amber Lightning (Nakhat Singh) 4. Not run: My Triumph. Hd, 1 and 4-1/2. 1m, 13.28s. Owner: Miss Yashasvi D Galvankar. Trainer: P. Krishna.  5. TURF AUTHORITIES CUP (1,400m), rated 60 to 85: NIGHT HUNT (Gaurav Singh) 1, Royal Currency (Akshay Kumar) 2, Angelino (S. John) 3 and Star Elegant (Ajeet Kumar) 4. Not run: Noble Heir. 4-1/4, 1-3/4 and 1-3/4. 1m, 25.54s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  6. NILGIRIS GOLD CUP (1,600m), 4-y-o & over (Terms): BORN QUEEN (P. Trevor), My Opinion (Akshay Kumar) 2, Rambunctious (Neeraj) 3 and Trafalgar (S. John) 4. 3-1/2, 1-1/2 and 2-3/4. 1m, 38.84s. Owners: M/s. United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: S. Narredu.  7. COROMANDEL GROMOR NILGIRIS DERBY STAKES (1,600m), 3-y-o (Terms): ALICIA (Western Aristocrat-Heather) P.S. Chouhan 1 , All Attractive (Excellent Art-Balmoral Castle) (P. Trevor) 2, Knotty Dancer (Gusto-Daffodils) K. Mukesh Kumar 3 and Siege Perilous (One Lucky Dane-Le Louvre) D.S. Deora 4. 2, hd and shd. 1m, 38.42s. Owners: Mr & Mrs. Cyrus Palia & M/s. Five Stars Shipping Co. Trainer: P. Shroff.  8. HYDERABAD RACE CLUB CUP (1,600m), rated 40 to 65: MR KOOL (Nikhil Naidu) 1, Emelda (Akshay Kumar) 2, Cotton Hall (C. Umesh) 3 and Dont Dilly Dally (Farid Ansari) 4. 2-1/4, 2-1/4 and 3-1/2. 1m, 42.10s. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: Sebastian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alicia-claims-the-nilgiris-derby-stakes/article36559793.ece
20 September 2021||New Delhi,||Expectations high from Abhishek and Jyothi||The Indian squad is set to take the centre stage at the World Archery Championships 2021, in Yankton, USA starting from September 19. The week-long event, which starts on Tuesday, will see competitions in both compound and recurve categories across men, women, mixed and the team divisions. Tokyo Olympians Deepika Kumari and Atanu Das did not make the team. The former Asian Games medallist Abhishek Verma and the bronze medallist from the last edition, Jyothi Vennam, are the experienced names among the compound archers. Youngsters Komalika Bari, Aditya Choudhary and Parth Salunkhe will lead India in the recurve. The recurve trio heads into the World Championships on the back of a successful outing at the 2021 World Archery Youth Championships in Poland last month. India finished on top of the medals table at the Wroclaw meet with eight gold, two silver and five bronze medals. Komalika Bari was the champion in the junior individual recurve event while Aditya Choudhary and Parth Salunkhe combined well with Dhiraj Bommadevara to hand India the title in the junior men’s team event. India’s best outing at the biennial event came at the 2019 edition in Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, where it finished sixth in the overall standings with a silver and two bronze medals.  The squad:   Compound: Men: Sangampreet Bisla, Abhishek Verma and Rishab Yadav. Women: Priya Gurjar, Muskan Kirar and Jyothi Vennam.   Recurve: Men: Aditya Choudhary, Parth Salunkhe and Atul Verma; Women: Ankita Bhakat, Komalika Bari and Ridhi Phor .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/expectations-high-from-abhishek-and-jyothi/article36560115.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sharmada pleased with doubles title||Sharmada Balu and Sravya Shivani beat the top seeds Dalayna Hewitt of the US and Elena Milovanovic of Serbia 7-5, 6-3 in the doubles final of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis in Monastir, Tunisia. It is a 16th professional doubles title, and first this season, for Sharmada, who has returned to the game after five years. For the 21-year-old Sravya — who is in the singles quarterfinals as well — it is her maiden doubles title in the ITF circuit in her third doubles final. “I am extremely happy with this win. It was not expected this week,” said the 28-year-old Sharmada. “I didn’t go with any expectation this week, and it works the best that way.” Sharmada and Sravya had won two AITA titles before the international circuit and were slowly getting into their rhythm over four weeks in Tunisia. “We get on really well off court and the energy is great on court,” said Sharmada, who has won titles with Rishika Sunkara, Sowjanya Bavisetti, Prarthana Thombare and Dhruthi Venugopal among others. “Each one of them have their unique style of play. I adapt very well to their strengths. Sravya also brings a lot of things to the table. Since we train together, it is a lot easier for us,” said Sharmada. “We have three more weeks here. Then we return home and get ready for the National championship,” said Sharmada who will continue to play singles but focus a little more on doubles. Sharmada — who trains at the Rohan Bopanna Academy in Bengaluru with coach M. Balachandran — has also been enjoying coaching stints at the Sports School. “Surprisingly I enjoy coaching after being unsure about it. It gives me a completely different perspective. When you are telling someone what to do, you realise that is exactly what you need to do! I am enjoying both sides of the coin,” Sharmada said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharmada-sravya-triumph/article36559804.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Snehit goes down in singles final||India’s Fidel R. Snehit lost to World No. 46 Kril Gerassimenko of Kazakhstan 6-11, 9-11, 3-11, 11-9, 6-11 in the singles final of the ITTF Kazakhstan International Open table tennis in Karaganda. Siddhesh Pande and Mudit Dani and Snehit and Sudhanshu Grover finished with bronze medals after losing their respective men’s doubles semifinals. Saudi Arabia’s Ali Alkhadrawi and Abdulaziz Bu Shulaybi defeated Mudit and Siddhesh 3-0 while the Kazakh pair of Alan Kurmangaliyev and Kirill Gerassimenko beat Snehit and Sudhanshu 3-2. Kaushani Nath and Prapti Sen made the women’s doubles title clash, outclassing Uzbek duo of Kamila Khalikova and Mekhriniso Norkulova 3-1. The Indians will take on Valeria Kotcyur and Valeria Shcherbatykh of Russia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/snehit-goes-down-in-singles-final/article36559802.ece
20 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Kohli to step down as RCB skipper after the 2021 edition||Virat Kohli will step down as Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) captain at the end of IPL 2021, Kohli announced on Sunday. This comes a few days after Kohli relinquished the captaincy of the Indian T20 side. Kohli added that he intends to remain a part of the RCB squad after he gives up the captaincy. “I spoke to the squad earlier this evening, to inform everyone that this is going to be my last IPL season as RCB captain. I spoke to the management too; this is something that has been on my mind for a while. “I recently announced that I’ll be stepping aside from the Indian T20 team captaincy as well to manage my workload. “My workload has been immense over the years. I felt I needed some space to refresh, regroup, and be absolutely clear on how to move forward. “I also understand that RCB is going to go through a transitional phase with a big auction next year. I’ve made it clear to the management that I can’t think of being in any other team apart from RCB. “I will continue to be an RCB player as long as I’m playing in the IPL. It’s been a great journey, with moments of joy and sadness. “I want to thank all of you from the bottom of my heart for supporting me unconditionally,” Kohli said in a video message. Despite tasting grand success with the bat, Kohli could not lead RCB to an IPL title in his long stint as captain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-to-step-down-as-rcb-captain-after-2021-season/article36559602.ece
20 September 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI’s apex council set to ratify 2021-22 home season||India is set to host four Tests, three ODIs and a whopping 14 T20Is at home in the forthcoming 2021-22 season, including a rare home series in June next year. The programme for a power packed home season of international cricket is set to be ratified by the apex council during its meeting on Monday. According to the proposed fixtures for the season, India will face New Zealand, West Indies, Sri Lanka and South Africa from November 17 to June 19 next year. In between, India will also tour South Africa in December-January.      Grandmaster R. Praggnanandhaa won all five rounds to lead the table after the first day of Hou Yifan Challenge online rapid event, part of the $100,000 Julius Baer Challengers Chess Tour on Saturday. Praggnanadhaa beat Balaji Daggupati (USA), and then defeated elder sister R. Vaishali, Zhu Jiner (China), Yahli Sokolovsky (Israel) and Lei Tingjie (China) to stay one point clear of Germany’s Vincent Keymer. Compatriot Leon Mandonca (3.5) was tied for the third spot. Aditya Mittal (3) was tied fifth.      Russia led with 100.50 VPs after seven rounds of Swiss league in the Team of four Gold event on the second day of the 18th HCL International Bridge championship being held virtually on the Real Bridge platform. Formidables, led by Kiran Nadar, followed a close second with 99.76 points. In the Team of four Silver event, the team of Dr. SSMC led with 98.07 VPs, and was followed by Jiya (96.32), MG Sports (96.13), Prayas (92.25) and Prabhav (88.93). In the team of four Bronze event, Urbane Gaming led with 131.30 points after nine rounds.    India’s Fidel R. Snehit lost to World No. 46 Kril Gerassimenko of Kazakhstan 6-11, 9-11, 3-11, 11-9, 6-11 in the singles final of the ITTF Kazakhstan International Open table tennis in Karaganda.      India’s Payas Jain won the boys under-17 title in the World Table Tennis Youth Contender here on Sunday with a 7-11, 11-4, 11-4, 15-13 victory over Tom Closset of Belgium in the final.    Tishant Dabla (46) and Urooz Rizvi (34) took R.D. Sports to a six-wicket victory over KEI XI in the R.V. Sports T20 cricket.  The score s: KEI XI 145 in 20 overs (Abhishek Kohli 34) lost to R.D. Sports 146/4 in 17 overs (Tishant Dabla 46, Urooz Rizvi 34).   S.S. Sports 162 in 20 overs (Pradeep Malik 42, Satender Thakran 3/23) bt Ambika Club 135/9 in 20 overs (Pargam Sharma 53, Lakshay Thareja 38, Ajay Yadav 3/28).    Dream Chasers scored a resounding eight-wicket win over Rajnish Gautam Academy in the Push Academy (under-13) league.  The score s: Rajnish Gautam Academy 154 in 38.5 overs (Rahul 3/13, Gorish Dahiya 3/21) lost to Dream Chasers 157/2 in 25.4 overs (Abhishek Chahal 58 n.o., Gorish Dahiya 48) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bccis-apex-council-set-to-ratify-2021-22-home-season/article36559780.ece
20 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Praggnanandhaa in the lead||Grandmaster R. Praggnanandhaa won all five rounds to lead the table after the first day of Hou Yifan Challenge online rapid event, part of the $100,000 Julius Baer Challengers Chess Tour on Saturday. In the 17-player round-robin event, Praggnanadhaa opened his campaign by beating Balaji Daggupati (USA), and then defeated elder sister R. Vaishali, Zhu Jiner (China), Yahli Sokolovsky (Israel) and Lei Tingjie (China) to stay one point clear of Germany’s Vincent Keymer. Compatriot Leon Mandonca (3.5) was tied for the third spot after beating Sokolovsky and Tingjie but lost to USA’s Awonder Liang, drew with Russia’s Volodar Murzin and got past Poland’s Oliwia Kiolbasa. Aditya Mittal (3) was tied fifth after wins over Jiner, Sokolovsky and draws with Tingjie and Awonder. He lost the fifth round to Murzin. Vaishali started by holding higher-rated Polish International Master Pavel Teclaf, then lost to Praggnanandhaa and recovered well to beat Russia’s Leya Garifullina and Balaji. She enjoyed a fifth-round bye.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/praggnanandhaa-in-the-lead/article36559784.ece
20 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Army Red & Gokulam make the last eight||Defending champion Gokulam Kerala FC and regimental side Army Red Football Team registered contrasting wins in their respective Group D league matches to reach the quarterfinals of the 130th Durand Cup football, on Sunday. Nigerian striker Chisom Chikatara scored a hat-trick as Gokulam Kerala FC (GKFC) overwhelmed Assam Rifles 7-2 at Kalyani Stadium. Goan forward Beneston Barretto scored twice while Rahim Osumanu and substitute Sourav added one each to complete the impressive tally. Assam Rifles reduced the margin through Soibam Roger Singh and Samujal Rabha. In the other match of the same group at Salt Lake Stadium, Army Red got the better of Indian Super League outfit Hyderabad FC 2-1 to become the second regimental side to qualify for the knockouts. Forward Liton Shil found the target for Army Red once in each half while Koustav Dutta scored for Hyderabad FC.  The results: Group D: Assam Rifles 2 (Soibam Roger Singh 36, Samujal Rabha 63) lost to Gokulam Kerala FC 7 (Chisom Chikatara 1, 52, 71, Beneston Piecton Barreto 3, 45+2, Rahim Osumanu 34, Sourav 61); Army Red 2 (Liton Shil 33, 70) bt Hyderabad FC 1 (Koustav Dutta 35) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/army-red-gokulam-make-the-last-eight/article36559786.ece
20 September 2021||London,||Ex-England striker Greaves passes away||Jimmy Greaves, one of England’s greatest goal-scorers who was prolific for Tottenham, Chelsea and AC Milan has died. He was 81. With 266 goals in 379 appearances, Greaves was the all-time record scorer for Tottenham, which announced his death on Sunday. “Throughout his wonderful playing career, Jimmy’s strike rate was phenomenal,” Tottenham said. Greaves suffered a minor stroke in 2012 and his family thought he had made a full recovery until he was admitted to intensive care after a more severe stroke in May 2015. An all-round striker equally adept with either foot or his head, Greaves scored 44 goals in just 57 matches for England. But even though Greaves was the first player to lead scoring in England’s top league for three straight seasons and hit a record six hat-tricks for England, he is arguably best known for one game he missed — the World Cup final. Greaves was England’s star striker going into the 1966 tournament on home soil but was injured in a first-round match against France and surrendered his place in the lineup to Geoff Hurst. Hurst scored the only goal in the quarterfinal win over Argentina and kept his place in Alf Ramsey’s team at the expense of Greaves. Greaves famously sat impassively on the bench as England celebrated at the final whistle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ex-england-striker-greaves-passes-away/article36559798.ece
20 September 2021||Hyderabad:,||It’s Mystery vs. Days Of Reckoning in main event||Mystery and Days Of Reckoning should fight out the finish of the S. Rangarajan Memorial Cup, the chief event of Monday’s (Sept. 20) races here.  MOUNT PLEASANT PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.00 p.m.: 1. Ambitious Star (3) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Bruno (4) R. Ajinkya 56, 3. N R I Sport (5) Mukesh Kumar 56, 4. Star Cruise (12) Aneel 56, 5. Unsung Hero (9) Kuldeep Singh 56, 6. Able Love (16) B. Nikhil 54.5, 7. Burano (2) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 8. Key To Time (1) Md. Ismail 54.5, 9. Miss Little Angel (13) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 10. Morior Invictus (7) Rafique Sk. 54.5, 11. Reining Queen (14) Gaurav Singh 54.5, 12. Sally (8) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 13. Shelly Anne (10) G. Naresh 54.5, 14. Spectacular Cruise (15) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 15. Thanks (6) P. Trevor 54.5 and 16. Total Darc (11) Afroz Khan 54.5.  1. ABLE LOVE, 2. N R I SPORT, 3. REINING QUEEN   POP MARCOOLYN PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m). 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 1.30: 1. Art In Motion (2) Afroz Khan 62, 2. Southern Lady (4) Santosh Raj 62, 3. Sun Dancer (7) C. Umesh 62, 4. Sputnic (11) Gaurav Singh 61, 5. Team Player (10) R.S. Jodha 61, 6. Forever Bond (5) P. Trevor 60.5, 7. Hip Hop (13) B.R. Kumar 60, 8. Winning Player (14) Ashad Asbar 59, 9. Bedazzled (6) Kuldeep Singh 58.5, 10. N R I Gift (9) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 11. Acadian Angel (12) G. Naresh 57, 12. Minnelli (15) Surya Prakash 57, 13. Felix Flame (3) Ajit Singh 55.5, 14. Cephalonia (8) N.B. Kuldeep 53.5 and 15. Hopscotch (1) Abhay Singh 50.  1. HIP HOP, 2. FOREVER BOND, 3. ACADIAN ANGEL   MOUNT PLEASANT (Div. II) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 2.05: 1. Bandit King (10) A.A. Vikrant 56, 2. Cosmico (12) Rafique Sk. 56, 3. Divine Chakram (15) B. Nikhil 56, 4. Gurbaaz (9) Afroz Khan 56, 5. Sea of Class (5) Mukesh Kumar 56, 6. Tales Of A Legend (4) Md. Ismail 56, 7. Aarya (2) C. Umesh 54.5, 8. Bold Bidding (14) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 9. Furious Fun (3) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 10. Hot Seat (8) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 11. Inside Story (6) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 12. Isra (7) Aneel 54.5, 13. Joy O Joy (11) P. Trevor 54.5, 14. Precious Gift (1) Santosh Raj 54.5 and 15. Rivadavia (13) Ashad Asbar 54.5.  1. JOY O JOY,   2. BOLD BIDDING, 3. BANDIT KING   KUNIGAL PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.40: 1. Rapid Fire (9) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Red Snaper (5) C. Umesh 60, 3. Mind Reader (2) B.R. Kumar 59.5, 4. Star Racer (1) A.A. Vikrant 58.5, 5. Blazing Jupiter (7) Kiran Naidu 57, 6. Green Turf (6) Gaurav Singh 57, 7. Gusty Note (8) Md. Ismail 56.5, 8. Explosive (3) R. Ajinkya 54.5, 9. Aibak (10) Aneel 54, 10. Dillon (4) Kuldeep Singh 52.5 and 11. Hashag (11) B. Nikhil 51.  1. GREEN TURF, 2. STAR RACER, 3. RAPID FIRE   MAKE WAY PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. Maximum Glamour (15) Akshay Kumar 61, 2. Blickfang (3) Md. Ismail 59.5, 3. Horse O’ War (12) Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 4. River Song (7) P. Trevor 58, 5. Star Dancer (5) Kiran Naidu 57.5, 6. Catalina (4) Gaurav Singh 56.5, 7. Look Of Love (2) Rafique Sk. 56.5, 8. Solo Winner (1) C.P. Bopanna 54.5, 9. Artemis Arrow (8) Aneel 54, 10. Berkeley (10) N.B. Kuldeep 54, 11. Exponent (9) Nakhat Singh 54, 12. Thunder Road (6) Kuldeep Singh 54, 13. Armani Candy (11) Surya Prakash 53.5, 14. City Queen (14) G. Naresh 52 and 15. Healthandhappiness (13) S.S. Tanwar 50.  1. RIVER SONG,   2. MAXIMUM GLAMOUR,   3. STAR DANCER   KUNIGAL PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.50: 1. Angel Tesoro (10) B.R. Kumar 60, 2. Four One Four (1) Deepak Singh 60, 3. Linewiler (6) Akshay Kumar 60, 4. Sublime (9) Ajit Singh 59.5, 5. Curcumin (12) A.A. Vikrant 58, 6. Dunkirk (11) Mukesh Kumar 57, 7. Soul Empress (7) R. Ajinkya 57, 8. Loch Stella (8) Nakhat Singh 55.5, 9. Hurricane (2) Abhay Singh 53, 10. Sacred Lamp (4) Gaurav Singh 53, 11. Flamingo Fame (5) P. Trevor 52 and 12. Sea Wolf (3) B. Nikhil 51.  1. FLAMINGO FAME,   2. LINEWILER,   3. FOUR ONE FOUR   S. RANGARAJAN MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 4.25: 1. Her Legacy (11) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. Maxwell (9) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 3. Full Volume (4) R. Ajinkya 56, 4. Sporting Smile (6) C.P. Bopanna 56, 5. Xfinity (3) Afroz Khan 55, 6. Days Of Reckoning (10) Akshay Kumar 54, 7. Incredulous (1) A.A. Vikrant 54, 8. Mystery (2) P. Trevor 53.5, 9. Mark My Day (7) B.R. Kumar 53, 10. Chuckit (13) Aneel 52.5, 11. Just Incredible (8) Ajit Singh 52.5, 12. Shaquille (12) Md. Ismail 52 and 13. N R I Magic (5) B. Nikhil 51.5.  1. MYSTERY,   2. DAYS OF RECKONING,   3. MAXWELL   POP MARCOOLYN PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 5.00: 1. Red River (7) R.S. Jodha 62, 2. Stark (1) Akshay Kumar 62, 3. Lorena (2) Deepak Singh 61.5, 4. Air Salute (12) N.B. Kuldeep 61, 5. Royal Girl (9) Gaurav Singh 61, 6. Astronaut (10) Surya Prakash 60, 7. Sheldon (13) P. Trevor 59.5, 8. Lightning Pearl (3) Rafique Sk. 58.5, 9. Theo’s Choice (14) Abhay Singh 58.5, 10. That’s My Speed (4) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 11. Elmira (15) Afroz Khan 57, 12. N R I Flame (5) Kiran Naidu 56.5, 13. Turf Monarch (11) A.A. Vikrant 55, 14. Ice Berry (6) C.P. Bopanna 52.5 and 15. Royal Avenger (8) B. Nikhil 50.  1. SHELDON,   2. STARK, 3. LORENA  Day’s Best: RIVER SONG  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3, (ii) 3, 4 & 5, (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-mystery-vs-days-of-reckoning-in-main-event/article36559783.ece
20 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Syed Aqdaam sizzles||Syed Aqdaam Ahmed scored an unbeaten 121 and took seven for 40 to help Karimnagar score a 23-run win over Mancherial in the TCA inter-District (under-19) one-day cricket championship being played at different venues in the State. For the loser, A. Shitikanta scored an impressive 120.  The scores: Warangal 141 in 32.4 overs (Shiva Rama Krishna 51) lost to Suryapet 147/9 in 29.3 overs (Prabhu 42, Chakravarthi 32 n.o., Pardhipan 5/34).   Nizamabad 104 in 25.2 overs (Bharat 31, Bilal 3/13) lost to Adilabad 105/4 in 17.3 overs (Kasif 44 n.o.).   Mahabubabad 54 in 19.2 overs (G. Narender 5/16) bt Mulugu 37 in 10.4 overs (I. Vamsi 4/12).   Karimnagar 267 in 43.3 overs (Syed Aqdaam Ahmed 121 n.o.) bt Mancherial 244 in 46.1 overs (A. Shitikanta 120, Syed Aqdaam Ahmed 7/40).   Suryapet 225 in 42.1 overs (Mani 131, S. Surya Chakravarthi 4/35, S. Arvind 3/49) bt Mulugu 74 in 15.2 overs (Avinash Kailas 4/14).   Warangal 143 in 40.3 overs (Laxman 47, I Vamshith Arun 6/39) bt Mahabubabad 119 in 25.3 overs (Sk. Yakub Pasha 39, R. Rithwik 3/11).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/syed-aqdaam-sizzles/article36560065.ece
20 September 2021||MYSURU:,||Manjunath, Rahul shine||Manjunath Barve (85) and S. Rahul (81) helped Jaihind-A register a 113-run win over Mysore Underwriters in the KSCA Mysore zone II Division league at the SJCE grounds here on Sunday.  The scores:   II div.: Jaihind-A 267 in 49 overs (Manjunath Barve 85, S. Rahul 81, M. Naveen 4/47, Imran Khan 3/50) bt Mysore Underwriters 154 in 25.2 overs (K.M. Sharath 40, V. Akhilesh 37, Imran Khan 25, Rakshit Gowda four for 46).   Lucky Boys 262/8 in 50 overs (S. Raghav 57, Smaran Ramesh 35, D.S. Praveen Kumar 27, Sujit Kumar 25, Sai Somman 25 n.o., M. Ramesh 3/60) bt Star 240 in 49.2 overs (G. Anil Kumar 107, Muzamil Pasha 46, M. Naveen Kumar 29, Sujit Kumar 4/26).   III div.: Rising Star 323/7 in 50 overs (K.P. Prashanth 58, Piyush Bafna 53, P.A. Chandru 61 n.o., R. Natesh 49, Suraj Jain 25, N. Srinidhi 4/73) bt YMCC 209/9 in 50 overs (M.P. Thejaswi 47, N. Srinidhi 46, R. Natesh 6/35).   IV div.: New National 169/9 in 50 overs (Kishan 32, Md. Fawaz 32, T.P. Sharbin 3/30) lost to Garner 173/7 in 31.1 overs (Praneeth Shetty 62, Shivin Gowda 25) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manjunath-rahul-shine/article36559785.ece
20 September 2021||Christchurch,||‘Don’t blame players for cancellation’||New Zealand players shouldn’t be blamed for the cancellation of the tour of Pakistan as they were just following the advice of their government, said Kiwi pacer Mitchell McClenaghan. The 35-year-old pacer was reacting to a sarcastic tweet by batsman Mohammed Hafeez on Saturday. “Come now bro. This has a bad taste to it… Don’t blame the players or the organisation… blame our government. They have only acted on the advice they have received,” McClenaghan wrote on his twitter handle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dont-blame-players-for-cancellation/article36559911.ece
20 September 2021||Auckland,||No way we could stay in Pakistan: NZC CEO White||New Zealand doesn’t regret the decision to tour Pakistan but the cricket team couldn’t have stayed in that country after receiving a “specific and credible” threat against it, said NZC chief executive David White. The 34-member New Zealand cricket squad reached Dubai after leaving Islamabad on a charter flight on Saturday night. “What I can say is that we were advised this was a specific and credible threat against the team,” White said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-way-we-could-stay-in-pakistan-nzc-ceo-white/article36559912.ece
20 September 2021||Canberra,||Cairns gearing up for ‘greatest challenge’||Former New Zealand all-rounder Chris Cairns on Sunday said the spinal stroke he suffered following a life-saving heart surgery last month will provide him “with possibly the greatest challenge I've ever faced in rehab going forward”. “A long road ahead, but I’m grateful to be here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cairns-gearing-up-for-greatest-challenge/article36559795.ece
20 September 2021||Portland (USA),||Aditi tied 57th as rain washes out play||Aditi Ashok will be hoping for a low score in the third and final round as wet course conditions and more rain forecast forced the LPGA Tour to reduce the Cambia Portland Classic to 54 holes. Aditi had 77 and 72 to make the cut and was tied-57th. No. 2 ranked Jin Young Ko (69, 67) carded six birdies and just one bogey for a second-round 67 and sits on top at 8-under.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aditi-tied-57th-as-rain-washes-out-play/article36559796.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 07:26 IST,||Sudoku — September 20, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-20-2021/article36560397.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Rise of the independents||After the last year, much depends on the success of events like Watches & Wonders and the more recent Geneva Watch Days. “Everybody was smiling so that’s a good sign that business is up for most,” says Meylan, adding, “Looking at most high prices at auctions, that too shows a very healthy market. If brands are doing well, then they have the time and money to focus on more creativity.” Auction houses like Sotheby’s and Phillips have had cross-category sales, where watches are being presented with jewellery and contemporary art. Or watches are paired with sneakers. Collectors are getting younger too. In fact, Phillips’ fourth edition of Intersect, a mixed online auction, is currently under way till September 23. Independent watch brands like H Moser & Cie are also closely monitoring the secondary market. “It is a very important parameter to take decisions: what is the market looking for, what is successful, how many should we produce… they are important indicators when taking decisions on budget,” says Meylan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rise-of-the-independents/article36560151.ece
20 September 2021||September 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Edouard Meylan: Not stuck in time||I understand irony. This is the prompt to enter Pioneer Chronicles, the website introduced by Swiss watchmaker H. Moser & Cie as part of a campaign three years ago. Clicking on ‘I have no humour, let me out’ for those not feeling it ensures a quick exit. Much has been written about humour being employed recently as an effective tool to market luxury. But the irreverence you now see in Valentino and Gucci online campaigns was bravely explored much earlier by the independent watchmaker based in Schaffhausen. Edouard Meylan, H Moser & Cie’s CEO and owner since parent MELB Holding Group took over in 2012, is considered by some as a provocateur in the watchmaking world. The engineer and Wharton MBA made headlines in 2017 as the Swiss CEO who fashioned a fine watch out of cheese, an inside joke protesting the Swiss government’s legislation at the time to define what is ‘Swiss Made’. A year earlier at SIHH, he had launched the Swiss Alp Watch, a dig at connected watches (rather, the Apple Watch). It was Moser’s reaction to the big question — will smartwatches destroy the watch industry? The dapper and outspoken Meylan, 44, has since starred in many of his quirky campaigns and the Swiss Alp Watch, with its rounded rectangular case and high-end calibre HMC 324 was an instant success at $24,900. Over the years, several models followed, from the Swiss Alp Watch Minute Repeater Tourbillon to this February’s Final Upgrade. And therein lies Moser’s success story, a brand backed by fine craftsmanship, clean design, all movements manufactured in-house and only 1,500 watches made each year. A productive year When we speak with Meylan on video call during Geneva Watch Days earlier this month, he is upbeat about how the brand has navigated the pandemic — it grew by 12% last year, something not many watch brands can boast of during the crisis. They had launched the Streamliner Chronograph early last year and set up an online platform within two weeks of lockdown. There have been collaborations with successful independent brands. Like with Max Büsser’s MB&F (where F stands for friends), which resulted in two watches that were distinctly different and yet with a common DNA. As for the Swiss Alp Watch Final Upgrade, marking the end of the series, it came with a dial made from Vantablack— the blackest material ever known, which absorbs 99.9 % of light. What created a bigger buzz was the seconds display at 6 o’clock, a cheeky reference to the spinning wheel on the iPhone. At $30,800, the 50 units were sold out instantly — in an interview with Austrian watch journalist Alexander Linz, Meylan commented that the Final Upgrade was selling in the secondary market at double the price. Moser is also known for its April Fool’s Day announcements, and the Endeavour Concept Watch collab with Parisian artist seconde/seconde/ resulted in no numerals or logo on the dial, just their Funky Blue fumé with sunburst pattern and the hour hand in the shape of a pixelated old-school eraser. Limited to 20 pieces, it was yet another reminder of the brand’s obsession about keeping it deceptively simple. Code minimalist And then comes the Geneva Watch Days launch, the Streamliner Perpetual Calendar, another home run for Moser. “I am someone who likes minimalism and symmetry. As a lot of brands are trying to make watches look complicated, we want to create watches that are as simple as possible to use and to read. I want any watch from Moser to look like a three-hand watch, even if it’s a perpetual calendar, even if it’s a chronograph, even if it’s a tourbillon on minute repeater. That makes the decision-making process much easier,” begins Meylan. The watch takes design cues from the Flyback Chronograph and the original perpetual calendar. It was one of the most talked about watches at Geneva Swatch Days, thanks to the centre seconds display and clean design philosophy, with all the data for a perpetual calendar being well accommodated (months, date, power reserve indicator). Withan almost disappearing logo (call it the ‘ghost’ logo) in transparent lacquer, fume dial, the red accents and the movement powering it being HMC 812, it’s no wonder the watch already has a two-year waiting list. “We are at the beginning of this collection, so we need to create an identity, be consistent and stick to the same codes across the different models,” says Meylan. Lounges to connect While the brand is one of the most talked about among the independents, Meylan knows this is thanks to their engagement with the watch community. With an active social media presence, he also has plans to set up lounges in key locations, including Dubai and the U.S., and open mono-brand boutiques as well. “Meanwhile we have pop-up stores in China, and a lounge in HK. Who knows, there may be one in India soon. Supply is a big issue for us at the moment, so before we open many points of sales, including boutiques, we need to first increase our production capacity,” says the CEO who had mentioned to Fortune magazine last year that they had reduced the time taken to assemble a perpetual calendar from 90 hours to 30 hours. The sustainability card Moser has a strong, though small, following in India, where the watch industry market size is at Rs. 7,000 crore. Meylan was in the country two years ago for a promotion with Ethos, India’s largest luxury watch retailer, and has plans to be back later this year. In fact, in May he got on a video call with RedBar, the Mumbai chapter of the watch society, where he discussed the brand’s strategy and vision with Moser enthusiasts. The question of sustainability comes up often, he agrees, as it is something all luxury brands are addressing these days. “We are RJC-certified (Responsible Jewellery Council), and it took years to get it. We are one of the few small brands with it,” Meylan explains. We try to compensate our carbon footprint. We don’t have the resources to build a manufacture like IWC, which cost a fortune to be self-sustainable. But that’s the future.” Adding that the average age of his watchmakers is 27, he agrees that this generation is more concerned about the future of our planet. I see it with my kids as well. Even if they are very young they tell me, ‘Dad you need to have an electric car’,” says the father of four. That said, he adds in his customary manner, “We are not a brand that does the recycled strap type of watch. It’s a good way to raise awareness, and has been done many times, but we try to do things in the background.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/edouard-meylan-not-stuck-in-time/article36560149.ece
